Everyone warned me not to take this class, but the professors insisted they had made substantial improvements, so I gave it a shot. Do not make the same mistake. This course cannot work without major major changes. It is a frustrating waste of time and you will learn more if you read a book on soft matter for a couple hours.
The course material is interesting if very scattered. Writing the research proposal will be valuable experience.
Fantastic opportunity to work and receive feedback on a research project of your choice that involves soft matter. Professors are awesome, but sometimes busy.
Class is poorly organized, you are not told what is expected until the very last minute. The professors seem too busy to concentrate on the class.
A good course to take when you're doing research (wasn't too hard and didn't take too much time)
I would highly recommend this course.  It forces you to look at everyday objects with a renewed curiosity.  It provides a first exposure to soft matter and highlights some of the unresolved problems in the field, thus inspiring future research.  My favorite quote from this class exemplifies both of these points: Gillette Foamy shaving cream is one of the least understood forms of matter known to man.
This course was informal and fun.  I learned a fair amount, and would have learned a tremendous amount if I had had more time to put into it (I was taking two really hard classes at the same time).
Good mid-difficulty, mid-work load class where you will learn not only everything you ever wanted to know about jello, but where you will also get some insight into what it means to do good science (Manoharan emphasizes critical analysis of scientific research in his assignments)
you will ....get a good theoretical toolkit.you will not ....get it without working hard.
The course is currently being renovated from its previous organizational structure, so they are not quite as organized as they will hopefully be in the future.
This is a great introductory course for learning about the field of soft matter, the main topics that are researched, and the basic concepts required to understand the research. The course is useful for anything whose research and/or interests involve the properties of interfaces, polymers, systems of small particles, and Brownian motion.
Generally very relaxing and introductory. However, if you are an experimentalist and don't like thermal dynamics, you'll probably find this course not so attractive.
The teachers are super nice.
This class exceeded my expectations! The lectures were relaxed, and it was easy to ask questions or start a discussion. The focus was more on learning the material and less on rote memorization or blindly turning in HW. Prof. Morrison was very helpful and approachable. The class doesn't go too in depth in any of the topics, but you get a good sense of the subject matter.
Not quite focused. Didn't get to most of the promised materials. Too much physics and too little engineering applications.
In principle this class seems to be an excellent class if you are looking to get a broad overview to the soft matter field. All the major fields appear to be there (if you look at the syllabus). However, the class is woefully executed by the professor. So much so, that learning is often hampered by going to class. Furthermore, his disorganization leads to an incredibly slow progression through the  material - meaning much of the promised material goes uncovered.
Good class for basic introduction to soft matter topics, not a detailed understanding of the physics involved.
Interesting
It's not too hard and it's interesting, and serves as a good introduction to many topics, but leaves you with more of a vague sense of the field as opposed to specific details.
The class provides a simple survey of the principles essential to the field of soft matter physics. It is entirely up to the student to determine what he/she learns from the course, as an in-depth knowledge of the field cannot be obtained from lectures and assignments alone. The class does not require much time outside of lectures for studying and working on assignments.
It's easy enough to get through but you might not feel like you learned anything.
Easy, nice break from the grind. Dr Morrisons lectures are super entertaining, though not always the most useful.
This course is what you make of it. If you're willing to put some of your own time into it, it is worthwhile. Especially if you invest in interesting and relevant articles.
This course is a very good introduction to the fundamentals that drive the current field of Soft Matter. The course is structured as a true introductory course sampling numerous aspects of the field and how these 'basics' motivate current research, especially here at Harvard.
Prof. Morrison does not give the most organized lectures but he ended up being my favorite professor of the semester - very personable, understanding, and enthusiastic. The workload is not very heavy (and the deadlines are flexible), and while you won't gain an in-depth understanding of any particular topic in soft matter, you will get exactly what the class intends to give you - an introduction.
Great class.  Dr Morrison is a great teacher who is always there to work with you after class if you do not understand something.  The homework is not labor intensive but it is as intellectually stimulating as you want to make it.
Do not go into this course expecting to learn anything in great detail.  The course is good for something I didn't expect it to be, and that is to get you exposed to all the various areas that soft-matter physics is involved in.  It's a cute course that can inspire you to become more involved in such areas of research.  As a course to teach you the nitty-gritty details of the physics...it unfortunately falls rather short.
Be prepared to be largely responsible for what you learn; this course is not very structured. But if you enjoy open-ended discussion and thinking about physical problems that you can easily visualise, you will like this class.
This is a great class! Ian is an animated lecturer and the classes were both interesting and inspirational. I had never taken a soft matter class before and found myself wanting to do this for my research, just of the basis of this class. The homework assignments were perfect in that they forced you to think about the conceptual basis underlying the more mathematical constructs presented in class. Looked forward to the lectures every week!!
If you need an intro to soft matter, this is the course to take and I'm not sure there's an alternative. You'll learn a lot of new concepts but it might get frustrating along the way. Advice from the lecturer should be taken seriously - if a problem takes too long and gets frustrating, just don't do it!
Material is very interesting and you will be learning about topics that are current and relevant.
Ian is a friendly and enthusiastic instructor, and so I found lectures quite pleasant.  The material is scattered all over soft matter, so there is not really a coherent roadmap to the class, but as an introduction to the subject it does its job, and most of the material was interesting.  The class does not so much prepare you to start doing soft matter as it does give an overview of what soft matter as a subject is.
This class will cover a wide range of topics in soft matter. That's good to get a taste of everything. But be prepared that they will not be covered in depth. Also, be aware that Ian's lectures are very hard to follow. And the problem sets and readings usually have little to do with the lectures.
This class has great potential but it still needs to be honed a bit more to make it great.
Great as a survey intro course to soft matter.  You won't learn much you can immediately apply in the sense that the course is mostly information based and not skill based.  You don't do any rigorous math or physics that would give you the skills to solve problems.  However you do learn perhaps the more important part of problem solving: identifying the interesting questions in soft matter and their applications.
Dr. Morrison's class was a fantastic overview of what's going on in Soft Matter today, and where the interesting holes are in literature.
Great class to take early on in graduate school, to get a feel for what's out there, what fun and interesting problems have yet to be solved, how some great men have solved problems in the past.
This course is a must for students joining applied physics soft matter research groups, either theoretical or experimental.
You cover a lot of ground and learn the important questions in soft matter today.
great class for broad exposure to soft condensed matter, not meant to grill you with mathematics or proofs but instead to teach you how to think when approaching soft matter problems; also provides helpful exposure to current research for anyone considering this field or just interested in learning about it; might not have the level of mathematical rigor some people might want, but this also makes the course more widely accessible.
This course will bring you up to speed on a range of soft matter background material and current research. It was sometimes frustrating that topics were not explored in more detail, but that is the nature of the course.
Great class.  Perfect introduction to the material.
This is very good overview of this non-traditional field of physics and you could get a good sense through this course.
I would warn future students that this course covers topics that tend to be very confusing, but that it is generally accepted that that is the nature of the material and they should expect to find it rather confusing.  I would also warn students that the lectures and assignments attempt to cover too much over the course of the semester and the curriculum is likely to end up feeling rather scattered.  However, the wiki entries are particularly helpful assignments for getting exposure to current research in soft matter, and they will be exposed to a lot of different topics during this course.
This class is great for learning the language of soft matter and getting a feel for the field, but not an in-depth look at any topic.
I think it is a great course and recommend it to anyone interested in applied physics.
This course gives a good overview of the physics of soft matter that would, by itself, give the necessary expertise for someone whose research encounters a lot of soft-matter processes/materials, but whose focus is not directly the study of those principles/materials.
This course provides an introduction to the concepts of soft matter.
If you are looking for a rigorous course, this is not for you. If you want a course that is open-ended and allows you to choose how much you want to get out of it, this is a good course.
You learn how much you put in.
Great overview of topics in physics related to soft matter. Good for any SEAS G1 student.
It is good to take this course if you want to get a general idea of soft matter physics. But not good for learning things in proper details.
This class lacked cohesion, there was no clear story or goals.  Lectures were a hodgepodge of topics, often unrelated, with no motivation.  Often equations were written on the board without defining several of the key variables.  Other times, basic equations were talked about at length without offering any new physical insights.  More relevant to the course as a whole, expectations for final projects and assignments were NOT clear.  Until the drop deadline, we were told that the final project would be individual.  After the drop deadline, the professors told us we would have to do group final projects.  This made it very difficult to pick a topic that was interesting to everyone.
The course gives a good overview of topics in soft materials and points out groups at Harvard working in the field. The topics and homework is well accessible, but the course is not designed to focus on specific subjects.
If you want a broad overview of many topics, then this is a good class to take. However, it doesn't go into depth on any one topic. There was also a huge emphasis on physics and statistical mechanics which isn't applicable to most people's research interests. I wish that more of a conceptual understanding of the topics was given rather than mathematical.
There is good exposure to many topics, but the treatment of any one is not at all comprehensive. A good introduction to physical concepts, but don't expect to get anything terribly practical out of it. The project is a good chance to try something more experimental and was somewhat helpful in solidifying concepts.
