Professor Ham is the greatest physics professor that I have ever had.  He explains the material very clearly, and he distributes his hand-written notes to the class before lectures.  His problem sets were unique and genuinely interesting to solve.  Overall, the course material is a nice introduction to solid state physics, and Professor Ham made the course a particularly enjoyable one.
Ham is an energetic and thoughtful lecturer; I'm sure if he teaches the class again it will be less messy than it was this time around. Many of the topics are cool but the many assumptions and formalisms can obscure their coolness, as well as getting confusing.
If Donhee is teaching it, I will definitely recommend this class. It was 100% pset based only, so no stressful exams! Psets were challenging but you learned a lot from doing them.
The class is a lot of work but well work the effort you put into it
Take it if Prof Ham is teaching the course!
This is a fantastic course. It's a wonderful introduction to solid state physics and really teaches you a wide variety of topics in the field. It also sets you up to take more advanced courses in the future. Donhee Ham is a fantastic professor and gives out great notes. Problem sets are well-written and straightforward too. I pass/failed this course and learned a ton! Definitely recommended either letter graded or pass/failed!
Professor Capasso has an interesting style. He asks questions to the class and has us discuss the answer with each other before one of us goes up to present the answer. Even if you don't have the answer or don't want to go up, he will still have you go up to the board. It can be embarrassing & discouraging at times. It is still not necessarily a bad style, but it mostly works for the students who have the background to understand the material well without needing extra time to do some reading. You should technically come into lecture having read the notes previously, but the notes are not enough to completely understand the concepts and/or do the hw/exams. The material of the course is interesting and cool to learn but if the style is not suited for you, you will be unhappy in this class.
It is a fantastic fundamental course for physics, Chemistry and Engineering PhD student
Covers a wider range of topics than I thought.  Not applicable if you're only interested in one product such as LED's, transistors, etc.
the discussion in classes is interesting, try your best to participate
If it's taught by Prof. Capasso, go for it!
The more you are prepared, the more you get out of this class.
You can learn the true physics in this class.
It is an interesting course from which you can learn a lot. The interactive learning environment is unique and fun.
Read the chapter before coming to class, it is crucial in order to be able to participate in class.
If you are in physics, engineering, or even chemistry, I would highly recommend this course.  Gives a solid foundation in solid state physics with a focus on device applications that are the foundation of much of modern microelectronics.  The time commitment to fully complete and understand the homework is a decent amount, but if you really want, you can understand most of the material by putting in less effort.
While the class covers a great deal of material in solid state physics, the main focus is physical understanding of the topics introduced. This is the unique and most rewarding portion of the course.
This is a very fundamental course in solid state physics and could be a stepping stone in case you wish to take courses on device physics in the future.
Please preview the contents before every class.
Interesting and relevant course material. Get ready to do a lot of problem sets.
A must-take for anyone interested in condensed matter or semiconductor devices! Stat mech (Physics 181) isn't a formal prerequisite but it probably should be. Yes, Prof. Capasso requires a lot of class participation... but in my opinion that is the most valuable part of the class. Too often in physics classes students just allow themselves to not understand what the professor is talking about because they're afraid that asking a question will make them look "dumb" in front of their peers. Prof. Capasso, by requiring participation and, yes, putting everyone on the spot, really helps to break the ice and turns the classes in to active learning experiences.
This is a very worthwhile class to take if you want to learn the basics of solid state physics.  Although Professor Capasso is demanding, the insights he give during lecture regarding physical intuition are wonderful.  Also, his stories from Bell Labs are interesting.  All in all, if you don't let the class intimidate you, you will learn a lot.
This class is a bit frustrating going through it, but I learned a TON and developed an excellent physical intuition regarding the solid state. Capasso is a bit hard to deal with sometimes and lecture slides aren't always clear but you will come out of this course having learned a lot. It doesn't feel that way day to day, but at the end of the course, all of the material fits together in an "aha!" moment and it is totally worth it. Also, you learn a lot about modern electronics, solar cells, and research, etc., so this class is certainly relevant to those of us interested in cutting edge technology. Be sure to go to class. Capasso shares little flashes of insight every once in awhile which you can't get from the textbook and are totally worth the time. The discussions you have in class, often based on Capasso's insights and "questions," are informative and fun. Getting called to the blackboard isn't so bad; if you can do it on the board, you can do it on an exam. And you'll never forget something if you have to do it on the board.
Prof. Capasso has a unique teaching style that does not suit everyone, but the material is very interesting and the intuition gained is valuable
This is a good course for developing intuition and conceptual understanding of solid state and device physics that are often not emphasized enough in textbooks.
You should shop this class.  If you feel like the lecture style suits your learning style, you will get a lot out of the course.  If you don't, you will probably be miserable by week 3.
The lectures go rather slowly, and you could learn the material faster by reading a book, except for about 5-10 minutes worth of wisdom and physical insight imparted by Capasso that you're not going to find easily anywhere else. These bits make the lectures worth going to.
learn quantum mechanics first
as compared to AP295a, Ap295 seems to be more fundamental than Ap195.
Solid class - lots of interesting material, and you come away from it with a good physical understanding of the phenomena covered.
although an introductory class, you do need to have some background in solid state physics! nice discussion questions during class, unique way of teaching
This is one of the few ways to be exposed to solid-state physics as an undergraduate, and I believe it is worth not waiting until grad school. I liked how the course weaved together the fundamental concepts of solids with their applications, and the Kittel text is pretty decent. If Professor Capasso is teaching it again, be prepared for a somewhat stressful lecture environment because he has the TFs cold-call students. But Capasso is also passionate about the material and can be entertaining when he wants to be, so the overall experience isn't that bad.
The content of this class is great. We used Kittel as our main book for the free electron model, energy bands, phonons and then at the end for magnetism briefly. We also used a lot of Streetman for semiconductors/device physics in the middle. I had a tough time getting used to the teaching style and was frustrated a decent amount, but in the end put in a lot of effort and learned a lot. You must be prepared for class as he will call on students to come down and answer questions/do problems on the board. Keep an open mind, read ahead of class, and ask questions if you don't understand. It wasn't the type of class I was used to, but looking back, I learned a lot. I really liked that the practical device applications were thrown in.
Good class, but be prepared to be arbitrarily assigned large tests and problem sets without warning.
The professor in this course is confrontational and aggressive, and future students should be aware of this. On the other hand, he takes as much time as it takes to explain concepts, and seems to very genuinely care about his students.
Lectures are not particularly useful for understanding the material, but it is worth knowing.
This course was not taught like an introductory course at all. Very difficult to understand unless you've had some Solid State before.
Lectures were not helpful and homework took a lot of time to finish.  I feel that the quality of the course would be depended on who your teaching fellow is.
The assignments are a pain, and not really adapted to the lecture material.
Inquire on the text being used before taking the class.  I heard the previous year used kittel and it went a lot better.
I have learned the fundamentals of solid state physics, but homework assignments are too time-consuming.
1. Be prepared. It's not an easy course.
