I think Prof Hu really taught us how to thinker deeper on problems. She also builds up each topic from the fundamentals all the way down to the state of the art very well.
Students should already have adapted the way of thinking in condense matter physics before taking this course.
if you know solid state well, this class acts as a good review.
good intro course for graduate students or undergraduates in senior year
Good class which will give a broad introduction to current research topics. Will encourage you to "dream a little" and to think of where one can go in solid state!
"Introduction to Quantum Theory of Solids" does exactly what its title suggests. The course unifies ideas of quantum mechanics with solid state physics. Background in both is very useful but not essential (if you are a fast learner, i.e. in solid state, take a book and read before class). As it is an introductory course you will find that details are not covered much in class (especially math) but, again, I would say that is the purpose of this course - the more advanced one is taught in spring. Professor Hu is a great lecturer when it comes to explaining the overall concept of a theme - you will definitely understand the idea of whatever topic is covered! However, when it comes to assignments, the questions may seem a bit vague and it may be difficult to figure out what is asked at first. Thus, problem sets can take a while to complete but talking to the instructor will help and save time. Be aware that the final assignment is definitely not easy and can be tedious - pay attention to 'impossible materials' from the beginning as you will be asked to find a feasible solution to make your own 'impossible material.' Overall, a class I would definitely recommend as it does what not many classes do: it tells you how undergrad courses relate to each other (i.e. quantum and solid states).
Style of teaching is focused more on understanding the concepts rather than going through the explicit mathematics, so just go into the course with this in mind.
This is a solid course! I highly recommend it to anyone looking for a good introduction to condensed matter theory.
requires a lot of work, but worth it if you want to understand some key concepts in condensed matter physics rigorously
The course description for this class was more accurate than most. It is evenly split between a survey of QM frameworks for describing solids, and a look at how the macroscopic electric/magnetic/optical/mechanical properties arise. Prof Kaxiras does a good job covering all the major topics without rushing. None of the topics is explored very deeply, but there is room to delve deeper in the final project. The homework can be time-consuming, but is appropriately difficult and well connected to the lecture/notes. The course notes are drawn from Kaxiras's textbook, and provide clear presentation of the material that matches the lecture. Take this course if you're interested in how material properties arise from QM first principles.
I would definitely recommend this class if your research has ANYTHING to do with solid state physics.  Just comprehensive, many topics, all in depth.  It brought me up to speed with solid state theory AND state of the art computational methods for analyzing solid state systems.
Professor Kaxiras' course is 'solid state physics from a physicists' perspective', as opposed to 'solid state physics from an electrical engineer's perspective'. This is to say that you put a lot of the 'basic' ideas of solid state physics (bandstructure calculations from LCAO, phonons) into a broader physicists' framework.
It gives a good understanding of the electronic structure of matter.
The course is very good preparation for future work in condensed matter, and especially useful to anyone interested in the sort of work Professor Kaxiras does.
Take this class if you need to know the material for your research. It is very much focused on techniques.
I would tell students to stay away from this course, even if their PI's are suggesting/requiring it. Particularly so if they are in the applied physics program, or are in their second year or later. There is SO much homework, and the marginal learning benefit beyond Kittel's solid state physics is SO low, that it is very difficult to justify the time spent here. That is, of course, unless they are planning to do DFT for research or work for Professor Kaxiras.
The lectures are very interesting, effective and easy to understand.  Professor Kaxiras is a great teacher, and his textbook is also fantastic.  You will learn about several components of solid state physics that are very important to understand.
The class is filled with long derivations of equations whose meaning and importance are usually addressed inadequately.
If you wanted to rigorously learn "quantum theory of solids," this class may not be for you. But if you are interested in learning more about the big picture of materials, this is a wonderfully taught class.
I learned a lot about the big picture behind solid state physics. Evelyn does a terrific job of getting us to see the most important parts, and seeing as if we were the initial discoverers.
This course is absolutely fundamental to the research of many graduate students.  But as presently taught, it does not teach what is necessary for developing perspective on solid state physics.
An important subject to learn, but should be taken as a physics course rather than as an applied physics course. Check that it will be taught as a physics class and not as a research seminar.
The instructor does a good job of tying together the many threads of contemporary solid state physics to motivate the material in the course, but needed to do a better job of giving insight on the theoretical framework of the subject.
I would definitely recommend this course to anyone who plans to study condensed matter physics. The course doesn't go in depth on any of the topics, but gives a broad overview suitable for an introductory course.
This class teaches the foundations of solid state theory and gives the tools needed to understand papers in fields from DFT to Raman spectroscopy.
Generally helpful for anyone who is interested in condensed matter physics. Prof. Kaxiras is a really nice and great instructor.
Whether you are a theorist or experimentalist, the course material is very accessible and will give you much more appreciation of how quantum mechanics can be applied to all sorts of problems dealing with materials in the solid state. Especially if you work on materials on the nanoscale, the quantum understanding of the material might end up being very useful.
Great introduction to solid-state physics.
The class is not actually that much work. Problem sets are well spaced apart, and splitting them with friends makes the process a lot less painful while still quite fruitful. I found I met up with my group for many hours discussing the problems with one another, and we had a lot of fun. At the same time, I felt that some of the problems were not that great, and were just "fill in the mathematical steps from line 217 to 218 in the book." Also, I somehow felt that some steps done in derivations in class were somewhat unjustified, and that made them harder to follow for me, but otherwise lectures were actually quite above average.
