An essential course to take if you are interested in doing future work with liquids or soft matter
learning to effort ratio is huge!
This class is a great opportunity to study some very interesting phenomena in a very informal setting. Content wise, it's similar to AP 225, but I think the small class/more focused setting makes AP 226 a much better course. I think I have a more intuitive sense for some things I knew very little about previously.
This course will give students a general idea about soft matters especially on capillarity and wetting.
Good course. Learned a lot.
This is an excellent course on the topic of surface tension and capillarity.  It is a good starting point for introduction to the topic and learning how to apply your knowledge of fluids to a particular system.
You'll learn valuable science in this class that you won't learn in any other class, since capillarity and wetting is a very interesting but for a long time neglected discipline.
I think the course offers a nice addition to research on phenomena related to wetting. Ian Morrison does a great job in keeping the class entertaining and happily helps students to understand any question.
Dr. Morrison is a great lecturer and his enthusiasm for the course makes it worthwhile.  The material in the class is quite interesting too!
this is a really good class if you research intersects area of wetting/capillary. Ian gives an overview starting from basic concepts. However, throughout the semester, the class covers topics that are not present in any other Harvard classes. Ian is really knowledgeable and his way of teaching is typical of a person who had spent long time in industry.
While this course does require some creativity on the part of the student to understand assignments and participate, that creativity is rewarded by Professor Morrison's willingness to respond to students positively and explore their interests.
Take it with Morrison!
A good survey of soft matter topics, but not a course for the student looking for rigor.
