This is not a typical lecture type physics course. You work in teams and you take control of your own education so this class can be as easy or as challenging as you make it. If you put the work and time in you will come out with so much knowledge and experience and fun. I took physics 11a fall semester then I switched to AP50b spring semester and the difference between the two courses is that AP50b is very hands-on and makes you think for yourself. You don't spend your time solving tricky problems on paper but how to apply what you learn to physically make something. You aren't pressured to get the right answer but you are rewarded for creativity and effort. This class is amazing if you are looking for this type of teaching.
This is a really good class. It definitely went through some growing pains this year but it was still a great course and I am confident it will only get better in the future. The teaching staff is very passionate and helpful
It was slightly frustrating to have a class where there are no lectures because you can never know what the Professors are expecting from you, especially when the book isn't that great and quite confusing. However, the RAA's were very low-stress, the psets were fair, and the projects were manageable.  Carolann was really awesome, and I think this is a much better substitute to Physics 11b or 12b or whatever they're calling it.
Dear Harvard students, you are fooling yourself if you think that you don't subscribe to the desire to achieve "results" in classes, even though you do not necessarily focus on the process by which you get there. This class will be unlike any class you've taken at Harvard, and it will, hopefully, shift the entire foundation upon which you've based your education. I truly believe everyone should take this course; prepare to take full ownership of your learning.
This is an interesting course because of the new way that it is taught!  Really recommend shopping it.
Be prepared to do the work and engage fully with your team. By doing so you will reap the rewards of learning for the sake of learning.
Really fun and engaging alternative to traditional, lecture based physics.
A very interactive approach to introductory physics
The group oriented nature of the class is extremely refreshing and useful. There is honestly no better physics class than one where you can learn from and teach your peers. Highly recommended! :)
AP50 will not make you feel pressured, but at times you'll wonder if you're wasting your time. Depending on who you are, you might be wasting your time. This class is neither difficult nor methodical, so I wouldn't recommend it as a way to really learn the basics of physics.
This is efinitely the way to go if you're considering physics 12 or 15. It is much less work and still counts as a calculus based physics course. The NB annotations can be tedious but the projects are generally pretty painless and psets are only due every couple of weeks. It can be a very rewarding physics course if you put some time and effort into it.
I really enjoyed this class as it provides a very different environment to learn physics. I am an engineer so I really liked how we applied physics principles to three separate physics projects. The class could be a bit more organized as grading was kind of confusing for p-sets and NB annotations. This class is based on learning from your peers so there is not a large lecture component but you mainly work on physics problems in a group setting. Overall a great physics class that will only improve in time, but definitely not the traditional approach to teaching physics.
TAKE THIS, it is a fun, interesting, and just great way to get rid of you Physics requirements.  It might not be as intense or go into full depth of the material that a regular physics class would cover...but this doesn't matter because this class still hits all the main points and its fun and interesting.  working with teammates > working individually.  projects>>tests
This class could be great, they are continuously improving it and I only see it getting better.
The class felt like a show. Everything seemed to be about making the professor look good instead of really focusing on the physics. I was disappointed with how little I learned
I would take this class in one or two years, when all of the kinks have been worked out. Seriously worth a gander, truly a unique course at Harvard. Learn how to engage better with the concepts of science.
It's much better than any other similar physics class, and the projects can be fun, albeit time-consuming. Overall, much easier, more fun, and more informative.
TAKE IT. It is hands-down the best physics class ever.
This was a great way for engineers to fulfill their physics requirement. It is interesting, hands-on, and the teaching staff really cares about your success.
This is a great course where the work load isn't painful even if it can be a lot. It overrides any painful high school physics experience you might've had.
This is an amazing course so long as you like to work in teams!
Great class. Learn on your own. Be very direct with your groupmates. You have to be a good team player. This class is a great way to get engaged with physics and is so much better than PS2 and PS3.
Make sure to start psets early and go into office hours if you need help
This course makes learning physics fun and it gives you an understanding of how physics is used to create useful tools. I really reinforcing and building upon what I already knew about physics in a way that blended physics and engineering.
Take it if you're not smart enough to do well in PS 2 and PS 3, but you want a good grade and you're ready to spend HOURS being miserable doing group work every week. It was worth it for me to take it because I'm doing really well, but I learned zero physics and lost all faith in humanity. Kelly is great, but Eric is totally oblivious about how much his class sucks and it's really frustrating.
A great way to learn physics and team skills in a non-traditional collaborative environment.
Take this class as the best way to fulfill a physics requirement, rather than PS12 or Physics 15.  However, if you want to learn a lot of physics or learn it in depth, do not take this class.
Definitely a manageable physics course - depending on the week, it can be very time consuming or pretty relaxed. AP50b is more difficult than AP50a.
Don't take this if you want to learn anything. They even sometimes play with your grade so don't take it at all. The flipped classroom could be great but physics is really not the best subject for this. There is no supplement at all so if you don't understand you may just remain lost. Only like two of the TFs were helpful. Many of them were smart but could not explain things for beginners which was the equivalent of being not helpful. Just suffer through PS3 if you can.
Amazing course!
requires more time than you think. some people had all-nighters working on problem sets. i started earlier but ended up taking a lot of time completing them as they are challenge questions and it feels bad/is obvious to BS problems. as for group work, get good groups or try to work hard in your group to make things work out so that you're not doing all the work. some people will try to freeload - this happened quite a lot in my groups.
AP50 is a way to explore physics by building rather than just conceptualizing, and by actively pursuing physics rather than passively absorbing it.
just try, and you'll do well. take advantage of Kelly, Marina + other great teaching staff.
It is a much better alternative to PS3 but the more premeds in the class the more the feel changes (I say this as a premed). The engineering kids really wanted to learn the material and the groups I learned the most were the ones who were curious about the material but didn't take the class too seriously.
A nice alternative to a "normal" (lecture + section + exams) physics class. Kind of felt like high school sometimes, though (ungraded busywork...). Your groups can make or break your experience in this class; I had two wonderful groups and one terrible one, and the month I was working with the terrible group was really, really unpleasant.
If you are looking for an easy A and need to take physics, take this class. Just know you'll have to spend some time dealing with a lot of bullshit- bullshit projects, bullshit homework, bullshit teams, etc. If you want to learn physics, don't take this class.
This class, like communism, seems like an incredibly good idea in theory. However, like communism, in practice, it isn't sustainable. Mazuer pretends to teach us and we pretend to learn. If you don't want to take the 15's, or the 12's, take this course. It is definitely the "easiest" physics course, meaning that it is mainly effort based, so if you try hard, you will get a good grade. However, you have to be very good at working in groups. Also, if you actually need physics knowledge in the future, for other classes, or for the MCAT, you might want to take one of the other classes. This class is incredibly frustrating, but in the end, worth it for the grade.
AP50 is truly a great course. The teaching staff is so supportive and the projects really make you feel like you've learned something. You'll definitely be putting in work for p-sets and projects (project proposals, build time, prepping for presentation), but it is such a rewarding course, especially when considering other pre-med requirements and other physics courses. Highly recommend taking AP50!
This class is so much busy work and by the second semester it is absolutely so draining and boring. Not sure that I really learned much and I felt like the teaching staff really didn't do much with the 3 hours of class time.
High school physics is more than enough to be able to breeze through the material of this course. The time spent in this class will be less physics and instead the tediousness of annotating the textbook, writing needlessly excessively for effort-based psets, and coordinating projects between 5 people.
This is a good alternative to PS2/PS3 for students that do not like physics as much. The projects are a cool laid back way to learn. But you have to be willing to work in groups and you always run the risk of getting a bad group and having to do more work than everyone else.
I would say that this class is a lot more palatable if you have some sort of basic understanding of most physics concepts. I would suggest trying to catch up on some concepts during the summer if you can, because it's going to be really hard to keep up in class if you don't have any experience with the material. It's not the best class to try to learn the material from scratch.
For people with no desire to build projects or do group projects, this class won't be any fun. I find it to be a great hands-on alternative to the traditional lecture classes!
Physics is not a happy-go-lucky course, but this class is the best way to get through it. There's power in having a group to always work with.
If you already understand physics it's a nice approachable review that is not impossible like other classes. If you don't understand, you have to put in a lot of effort to learn because you can get away without actually understanding stuff.
It's fun but also a lot of time. I liked that there were no exams and we were able to think creatively on the projects.
If you want to learn, you must take the initiative to do so.
Check the black book often!!!! (Hint: sometimes the problem sets are based off of these questions)
Great class, Do the work required, you'll get the grade you deserve.
It's a cool class! The structure is kind of weird, but I found myself making all sorts of wacky devices and learning real cool physics along the way.
If you need or want to take physics, take this course!  It's a great intro and it's all application-based so you don't have to struggle over millions of psets and exams.
If you're one of those students who do poorly on exams, but really enjoy/ are good at working in teams to solve problems together, this is the class for you
much better than a traditional exam-based course, and you learn just as much, if not more!
It is a great course for developing an intuitive feel for the physics around you. Taught in a fun, teamwork based, and unstressful environment.
Take this class! The education journey is hands on and interesting again. Be advised that you must be the impetus to your own learning/improvement by completing readings and class preparations on time and before class. Kelly and Eric are great as well as the TFs.
This is an amazing course. It teaches you the concepts of EM and optics in a very simple and easy way to understand. This class does a fantastic job of making the toughest concepts simplified and easily comprehensible. The group component of the class certainly goes a long way towards that, as I felt the group component is the most rewarding. I can honestly say I have never learnt so much so easily in a physics class. Recommended for everyone with an interest in physics, and no extensive physics or math background necessary.
I LOVE THIS CLASS because it's about how well you can work with a team and apply your understanding, and it mimics the real world because you have access to resources rather than only what you can memorize and regurgitate. Some aspects can be tedious but it's 30000% worth it.
This class is an amazing low-stress way to learn physics with your peers.
Try to have fun with the class and be a good team player. Be sure to do the readings because they really help during class activities.
This class is a great alternative to PS2 and PS3. The projects are much more fun than past labs that I've had. The teaching staff is also great.
If you are like me, a pre-med student who wouldn't take physics otherwise, then you have two options: PS 3 and AP50b. If you are also like me, then you've never taken a physics class before. This is where you begin praying and sign up for this course. To be blunt, the grading of effort over accuracy is nothing short of a Godsend and it would be foolish to try your luck at PS 3. If you are looking for a deeper true understanding of all that is physics, this isn't for you. If you are trying to survive and slide out of physics with an A/A-, then this class is your best friend.
This course is a great course to learn physics and also apply it to different projects such as building safes, instruments, and designing ways to better our world.
If you took AP physics in high school, this class is more of a review than new material, but the projects were very fun.
This class can be rewarding if you put in the time and effort to do the work. The class is entirely self- and peer-taught, so it is helpful to have some physics background coming in; students who hadn't taken physics before seemed to have a hard time with the material and with doing all of the work, and the team can't necessarily each you everything. The projects definitely force you to understand what is going on and apply it to building something. That said, the projects are awesome and this class is definitely unique to any other physics classes available. It is very accessible to people who are not in necessarily concentrating in engineering or the hard sciences.
This course was fun and interesting, but only some of the time.  The projects were a great opportunity to work with a group and develop something from start to finish, but there were also many components of the class that seemed to be more of a nuisance than an asset, such as the estimation activities and certain experimental design activities.
I found it to be a relatively rigorous introduction to physics, on par with the material covered in PS12, and ahead of PS2/3 in rigour. You should consider this course if you want to take a more hands on approach to learning as opposed to simply problem sets and exams. If you don't like hands on learning this course is not for you.
Take 15b, you'll learn more and be challenged more
If you don't mind sometimes feeling unprepared for projects due to no lectures, it is an awesome course. Not very hard. Don't feel as though I learned as much physics as I would have in the traditional Physics 15a.
Much better class than PS2/PS3! Only take though if you are okay with doing team projects, as this is a major component of the course. Effort also counts a lot, which I loved.
This class is great at forcing you to apply what you already have learned, but is horrible at teaching you new information. The quality and difficulty of the physics you are learning is on the same level as high school physics (not even AP level). The class covers a very cursory review of E&M, the textbook extremely verbose, the tutorial very basic, the projects not very applicable, and the training and preparation for the students to start the projects unsatisfactory and insufficient. Much of your time will be spent with frustration on writing up impossibly confusing and verbose problem sets, drilling and machining failed projects.The staff does put in a lot of work to make this class work. However, the idea behind this class is perfect in concept, but not so perfect in the real world. On the other hand, the class is great at forcing me to become better at working with others. It's more of an engineering class.
"The flipped classroom" is only helpful up to an extent.  First of all there was waaaaay to much work in this course particularly in the beginning. Some weeks had 2 reading and annotations (4 hours each),  study for RAA (2 hours), pset (10 hours), and project work (6 hours).  This totals 26 hours outside the classroom and since no one can work that much on one class discourages us to do this work effectively.  The readings were good, but you have to give far more time to allow us to read the material.  The material has to be re-presented in lecture so that everyone is on the same page because we don't understand the material just from reading it.  Then an in-person question and answer session should take place so that we all know the material.  Completely doing away with lecture is a terrible idea.  Some is definitely necessary.  The amount of math was nothing compared to what should be involved in a physics course.  I don't think I used calculus once....  Don't dumb down the material for the students.  We need to learn it.  Psets were unhelpful.  The rubric was horrid.  I'm supposed to be doing problem and math on these psets and definitely not writing essays which the rubric makes you do.  This was probably my biggest pain point.  Psets should be like in every course -- graded on correctness and have the option to work together.  Provide evening office hours (like physics night) where students can work together with TFs and instructors around.    Class was way too large for style it was taught in.  More guidance during final projects necessary.
Take this class!
You're not learning physics, you're learning to please the graders.
If you want a truly revolutional learning experience, take this course!!! You will learn from your peers, learning from teaching your peers, and have a blast while doing it.
Overall, AP50 was a positive experience because one of the professors, Carolann Koleci, was a saint and offered so much support and guidance throughout the year. It made the class feel personal and manageable. However, The head professor, Eric Mazur was only there when there were people coming to film the course, so it seemed like he didn't care about the development of the actual students taking the class. AP50 was awesome in the sense that you were never really stressed out about your grade, but it was very frustrating because it often felt like no one was learning physics and we were just set out to do a lot of busy work. If you need to know physics for the Mcat, save yourself and don't take this course. You'll get a good grade, but that's a tradeoff you'll have to make if you choose AP50 (good grade in exchange for a lack of fundamental understanding). I think there definitely needs to be a lecture component of the course. I understand that the whole point of ap50 is to move away from that model, but I think the current approach is too extreme- it is unreasonable to expect students to teach themselves a year of physics with no guidance from the professors or any real incentive to learn how to problem solve (ie. exam grades). Additionally, the grading system needs to be tweaked as it felt very arbitrary and unfair at times - for example, when 80% of the class got a 0 on a problem set...that didn't make sense to me and just made everyone angry. This course was a positive experience in many ways, but there needs to be a lot of improvements in order to ensure that students are actually learning to solve physics problems. That is the biggest critique. I don't think many students walked away with a better idea of how to solve standard physics problems. Most students relied on prior knowledge to get by. The course material was too advanced too quickly and therefore people didn't learn to do the simplest versions of problems.
Think very carefully about if you want to learn to do physics problems (take another class) or to understand concepts and learn about teamwork.
AP 50s nontraditional style might appeal to you, but I strongly urge you to not take this class.  The class takes a lot of time, as there is substantial work  mandatory readings, problem sets, and group project meetings  outside of the 6 hours per week of organized class time.  However, if your learning style does not perfectly match the textbooks, you then face the prospect of spending even more time trying to learn the material.  In the end, I felt that it was not worth it for me.
unless you like to learn by reading the textbook, dont read the book.
Make sure to go to office hours, Carolann is extremely supportive and will work with students in order to make sure they understand the concept before even tackling a problem. In addition, communication with your team is crucial, this is ultimately a class that revolves all around the team formations.
This is a great course, with a few kinks here and there (as with any new course). Carolann is a great professor, and I really hope she's around in the next AP50 iteration. If not, I'd hesitate taking this course, because she was such a huge part of making it run.
This class does have a bit of a high time requirement, but Ive had more fun with these projects than any other classwork Ive done here. Its an awesome growth experience that requires effort but helps you better understand how you learn and how you work in a group setting. For that, it is an invaluable course.
You have to put Extra efforts to further your knowledge in physics
Be prepared to teach yourself physics. If you really put effort into learning it on your own, you can learn a lot. If not, you will not learn much. The projects and team aspect are great and teach you a lot of skills. You will learn more about working on a team than actual physics in this class.
Only take this class if you like the idea of taking ownership of your own education, If you already know a lot of the material, you will be a great help to your team. If you do not, like most people, you have to actually want to learn it or else you will bring your team down. If you are trying to get by with as little work as possible you will but it will be a much less enjoyable experience for your teammates. The projects are very cool and fun. It is very nice to have the class contained to two meetings- no labs or sections or necessary OHs. If you like the people you are with you will love the team model- you learn a lot from your teammates! The teaching staff really wants you to succeed in the classroom model they have- it is very supportive.
If you are self-driven, you will learn Physics. Expect to take control of your learning.
You'll cram the projects and the pset questions are often asked poorly, but it's better than standard physics classes and you'll definitely remember more than people do in other classes.
If you're considering to take this course, you must realize that it is very different from traditional courses. You must be willing to put in the time to learn for yourself in order to get a lot out of this course. If you fall behind on the readings, it'll be hard to maintain a desire to learn.
Great course, you'll need to be self disciplined
This class is a gameshow.  The professor appears periodically, usually flanked by important-seeming consultants/educational professionals/high school teachers/university professors, to show off you, his guinea pigs, to his audience.  There are a bunch of questions whose answers don't matter for credit: it's more about going through the motions.  You will be asked to help with research on teaching methods.  You could easily get through this course without learning anything new, especially if you took any physics in high school.     Yet, this class may be your best option for second semester physics, if you fall into any of the following categories: A) You have no time on your hands and need to fill a requirement (my situation); B) You hate learning physics (i.e. you hate exams), and much prefer working on things with your hands in teams; C) You do not care how much you learn about physics and just want the easiest way possible out of this semester.  Of the people taking this course, most were a mix of B and C types.  Ultimately, the projects are a lot of fun and you do learn about being a good teammate, which is a stated goal of the course.  So while you aren't learning much physics, you are learning other, less academic things.    Watch out for the psets though.  They have the most frustrating grading scheme I have ever seen in all my years of taking classes: they actually discourage you from working hard to get the answers right, as long as you write a whole lot explaining why you were wrong/confused.
This is a great class to take if you want a general background in physics for future classes.
If you did not come from a strong science background, yet are still premed or in the STEM fields, this is a great way to take physics. It really allows you to learn the material, and tests how you grow.
AP50b was a great, unique class! I switched in from PS2 and I definitely recommend this course for those students who are hands-on learners. For me, it was a much more enjoyable experience to learn the physics and apply it through the projects in AP50 compared to doing numerous psets and exams in the PS2/PS3 series. I became more confident in my ability to approach physics problems, even though I did a lot less textbook work than I would have done in a different physics course. The six hours of class a week is not that bad, and it is definitely a less stressful way to complete your physics requirement compared to other courses. Please shop the course and see if it is a good fit for you!
This course has a lot of potential but there are still a lot of kinks to iron out. It was often a lot of fun but also often very qfrustrating when you arent sure whats being asked of you.
this course will not give you an extensive background in physics. there is pretty much all self directed learning, so if you are not good at teaching yourself, DONT take this class.
It's very easy, but just tedious. If you take the time to go through the motions you'll do fine, but if you actually want to learn something I would recommend looking elsewhere.
This is the best way to get a physics requirement done because it does not have really tough math-y problem sets or exams. Instead, it is project-based and team-based which I really enjoyed. However it is very self-directed in terms of reading and learning.
This class will sound very appealing at first - but make sure you really think things through and understand what you're getting yourself into. Expectations are very unclear and it's hard to know what you're supposed to do. Problem sets are very hard and they make you painstakingly write out every step in great detail and write explanations for everything you do. That being said I really liked how this course gives you a chance to get to know other students and work together in small groups. I got to know other students really well which was a definite plus. Carolann is the saving grace of this course.
If you want to not learn physics, this is the class for you. Also if you want a compassionate course head, again not the class for you. Because even if the mother of all bombs dropped in your province and you are worried your family is dead, "for the purposes of this course, we do not care."
It's a great way to learn physics if you don't think you are great at it. Your grade doesn't entirely depend on your knowledge of it but rather on how much effort you put into it which is a great way to relieve the stress while being an incentive to do the work.
By far the most painless way to complete the pre-med physics requirement. You learn pretty much all of the physics for the MCAT (except fluids) and with a fraction of the stress of PS 2/3.
easy enough to get an A
Solid course!  You'll get out as much as you put in.  You won't have to worry about grades (you'll get an A) but if do the readings and try your best you will learn!
This is an easy way to boost your GPA and meet your physics requirement. Don't expect to learn much about physics though.
Great class however time consuming. You can learn a good amount if you put the time in.
This course is a good introduction to physics. The projects are very lax and the course staff is very helpful. Pretty chill course overall.
This class is low stress for your GPA, but requires a lot of time and frustration when it comes to the group work assignments and project. Sometimes you get great team members and sometimes you get team members that don't even attempt to help out with anything.
AP50 is a great way to satisfy your physics premed requirement, but at the same time, learn a lot of physics and become a better team-player and communicator. The course does not meet for any outside lab time, which is very nice.
AP50 is a fun and accessible way to fulfill a physics requirement.
It's a very easy class grade-wise. Be prepared to work a bit outside of class on projects. Otherwise, the psets are all graded on participation, and there are no finals or midterms (in-class quizzes are pretty easy). I didn't learn much new material outside of high school physics but did learn how to use workshop tools and see some cool demos. I just wish we used a better textbook because the one they force us to read is very wordy and hard to follow.
The class feels very long, as it's a 3 hour stretch. It's hard to focus that long and the lectures are a bit hectic.
if you are premed and need to take physics, take this class. guaranteed A if you do the work.
If you are looking for an easy A to fulfill a requirement, take this course. You will learn no physics though so you will likely still need to self-teach for the MCAT or any other test that requires physics knowledge.
Take this class if you would rather do hands-on projects than learn equations and do problem sets. Although I enjoyed the AP50a a lot more and learned more from a and than I did for b, 50b was still fun. The projects took more time and the topics were more difficult to get intuitively but it beats any other introductory physics class
AP50b was great- like in AP50a, everything is modeled in the flipped classroom style so if you like the system, take this course. I think this teaching style worked well for electricity&magnetism topics as the hands-on activities in class (ex. building an electromagnetic motor) solidified my understanding of topics better than the textbook did.
I am unable to recommend that students planning on pursuing a concentration in any engineering related fields take the AP50 track. While particular members of the teaching staff are exceptional (shoutout to Kelly) the "innovative" curriculum (e.g. no formal exams, five short psets per semester) is simply not conducive to learning physics. The projects are genuinely fun to build, and this teamwork aspect of the class is easily its best quality. While seeking out alternatives to lecture-based classes is a noble, essential, and worthwhile endeavor for educators to undertake, this class is just not where it needs to be in terms of rigor and depth to effectively prepare engineering students.
This course is for a particular type of student.  Those students who like/learn best in a traditional classroom with organized assignments and exams on the content you learn would hate this course.  Those students who like to work with their hands, would rather learn through projects and activities, and do not mind devoting their time outside of the class to work in the woodshop would love this class.  Also pre-med students would hate this class, they complained the whole time about it.  But engineers and physical science majors may very much appreciate this course.
AP50 is certainly the better alternative to PS3 in my opinion for the following reasons:The time you put into the two classes will be equivalent or comparable but in AP50 you'll be building a project or reading a chapter rather than cramming formulas and worrying about being able to solve every problem to get an A. It's the same amount of time, but less pressure.The teaching staff is small and cares. You'll get to know the professors and TFs well and they'll come around to make sure you understand and take time to explain in class.The projects are cool! A little bit of a pain in the ass the weekend before they are due but generally very do-able. You learn how to work as part of a team and become more cognizant of what you bring to the table.
If you're okay with a little creative learning, this course is great! I loved not having the stress of exams and psets and it made physics so much more enjoyable.
Be prepared for ambiguous grading and unfair assessment.
I really enjoyed this class and got a lot out of it, but I definitely think there are a number of people who might not have a positive experience with this class. This class is really designed with a focus on learning, so if you tend to do well focusing on a learning-based approach more than an exam/evaluation approach this class could be for you (some people seem to be frustrated because this course isn't structured like many other Harvard science courses).1. If you don't like working in teams, this class is NOT for you. The course requires tons of collaboration in teams, and if you aren't someone who is going to be able to work well with others, pull your weight in a team, or be comfortable with your grade depending on other people's efforts as well as your own, you might not want to take AP50. 2. Pre-meds beware...if you are just taking this class for an "easy" physics option, I'd potentially reconsider it. This class requires quite a bit of work (though the work comes in different forms from other typical pre-med classes), and really is aimed at people who are enthusiastic about engineering (building projects, being creative with designs, spending lots of time in the lab, etc). You can somewhat get by in this class without doing a ton of work consistently during the semester, but then it will require tons of time from you all at once if you put the projects or project write-ups off (and you might not do as well on them if you haven't been working consistently).
If you actually want to learn physics I would not recommend taking this course. If you just need to fulfill requirement, then this class is easy and low-stress.
This class is great if you're looking to fulfill your physics requirement in a painless way. If you don't mind group projects and are okay with a non-traditional style, then this is a great choice over PS 2/3. There is way less stress over grades, but you do have to be really self-motivated in order to actually learn anything instead of just getting by.
you are expected to learn from textbook as they do not teach in class so keep that in mind
It's easy but you won't learn any physics and you wont get a good grade either so no idea why you would take it.
I love this course because it was project-based which was super cool and a refreshing break from just long boring 3hr labs. It's hard because your enjoyment depends a lot on how good your group is, but it is what you make of it. I had groups where you have to do all the work, and groups where everyone is into the course and works together- and those are the groups that make this class amazing. Kelly is an absolutely amazing teacher, and an even better person. Try your best to learn all that you can from her because she is the heart of the course and really knows her stuff- it's amazing. Don't take this course if you just want to pass a physics requirement by- yes it isn't that bad of a course, but you ruin the course if you don't come in with enthusiasm - and that may result in the course being cancelled. So, in short, awesome course, take the time to learn from Kelly [and the TFs! although it really depends on the semester]
If you're looking for a painless way to fulfill premed requirement, take it. If you're actually interested in physics, don't, since there will be very little learning in the class. This class trains you well to succeed in the class, but not to actually understand physics.
A lot of group work.
You get out of this class what you put in. If you aren't willing to put in the effort this class will be a waste of time. If you put in the time to learn the material and spend time on the chapter readings you will find that the class is rewarding.
It's not anywhere near perfect because of the often insane workload and inefficient groups you might be placed in, but it's a far better premed requirement alternative to PS2 and PS3.
Do your share of the work.  If everyone does their share, you will all learn the most, as well as learning the most effectively and having the most fun with it.
AP50 is a great alternative to PS2 or PS3. It is low stress, but you may not learn as much if you aren't as motiviated. However, the amount of time spent on work is comparable.
It is a good class if you are trying to learn Physics in an interesting and applicable way. It is also not difficult/overwhelming and is therefore good if Physics is not your forte.
If you want to learn physics in an easy and fun way, this is the class for you!
Take AP50b for your premed physics requirement! It's a relatively stress-free class that really teaches you a lot about physics and prepares you well for the MCAT. You also get the opportunity to work in groups, which is a very important skill to learn.
Great course to take for physics requirement for engineering. Emphasis is on applying physics concepts to group projects.
You get out of it what you put into it.
Takes much more time than expected. Focuses on conceptual understanding and collaboration. If you are not okay with either of those, take PS2/3.
IF you are a pre-med and are considering the PS series or the AP50 series, I would recommend you shop both classes to get a better feel for your learning style. If you a traditional lecture learner who needs to be taught (without self-directed learning), definintely go for the PS series
This course is not very difficult, but it has LOTS of busy work and you have to invest time into the team projects. At times, because you self-teach much of the material, you may be frustrated about not understanding some concepts. The best part of the class is group work. You surprisingly make lots of friends in the class through these projects! I didn't have much physics prior, and I feel like a learned some interesting concepts and could orally explain real-world physical phenomena! Overall I enjoyed AP50.
you probably have to take physics and this is better than other physics options. you can get by without doing an exorbitant amount of work but choosing not to work means you'll probably get rekt on peer evaluations. You'll get out of it what you put in.
Stay on top of the readings, projects, and reports.
This course was rather poor at actually teaching students physics in a memorable fashion.
Definitely would recommend if you're looking to fulfill your pre-med physics requirement in a low stress environment. Kelly is the best so get to know her and go to office hours! Just be aware of the fact that there are 3 major projects and the success of the team depends on how engaged your other group members are. Also the TFs mostly suck and don't really know what's going on in class.
This is a great way to take physics if you are more interested in building things with your hands (aka if you are an engineer) or if you want to avoid the theoretical. You may not get a super strong grasp on the theoretical basis of physics, but you will learn a lot of practical skills in terms of ways that physics really interacts with real life through doing the group projects.
This course will give you the requirement credit you're trying to fulfill, but take something else if you're trying to achieve physics mastery
this class is frustrating if you want to learn physics!
This is a great class to fulfill the pre-med req: for PS3 vs Ap50, Ap50 is a lot more chill but has a lot more annoying busy work that doesn't make you feel like you're learning (but there isn't much electricity on the MCAT anyway)
This course is really great if you enjoy working with teams and learning about making projects! You must be self motivated to learn the material as there is no lecture component to this course. However, I really enjoyed it overall.
This is hands down the most painless way to do the premed physics requirement. I also had a lot of fun at times, some of the projects are awesome. But beware of getting a bad group, because if you don't get along your grades and projects will really suffer.
You'll have to put a lot of time in outside of class to build your projects and to go to office hours and to prepare for the RAA's but you'll end up doing well if you put in the time.
Make sure to stay up to date on the annotations and you'll be fine. Attend office hours if something confuses you but the open note quizzes in class are usually very doable.
The team dynamics of this course can be an advantage or disadvantage depending on how you work in groups. Every member must do their part, but occasionally this doesn't happen and you may find yourself needing to compensate for other group members.
It's okay, especially if you need an "easy" class with no lecture component.
This is a great option to complete the physics requirement. Your grade is basically based on effort, there's group learning and hands-on building projects. No labs or sections outside of class time!
There are many flaws with how this class is run but at the end of the day, if you just need to fulfill a premed requirement, it's the most painless way to do it. However, if you want to actually learn and understand the subject, this isn't the way to go.
You take out of this class, exactly what you are willing to put into it.
I think this course is a great alternative to some of the more traditional physics classes.
If you want to get an A, take the class. If you want to learn about physics and actually remember it, take something else. May be a good course for pre med students looking for an A but not for STEM students or engineering students who actually need a physics background for more advanced courses.
AP 50 is an amazing course. Unlike typical lecture based courses, I've learned much more through the project based learning design AP50 has. Additionally, this is one of the few classes I've taken at Harvard that actually allows you to make a lot of friends during class. Since you are put into groups and work with the same group for approximately a month, I've made more friends in AP50 than I have in any other course. Definitely take this course if you like building things (or want to learn how to build things), enjoy working with others (or want to become better at working with others), or if you want to test out a new and easier way to learn physics. The class environment was also always very relaxed and enjoyable, and honestly I never once felt like it dragged on.
If you prefer non-exam based evaluation and more collaborative learning, this is the physics class for you. If you like getting stuff done on your own, being accountable to no one but yourself, take another physics class. The class is based on a flipped classroom model, which is cool generally, but also fails sometimes. It's not easy to learn the material outside of class and then apply it in class. That's what's expected of you. No one will be teaching you in class really.
This class is disorganized, frustrating, and doesn't teach you really anything physics. You will be unprepared for future classes. Engineering students in the class frequently expressed that they felt "screwed for what's next." There is a constant flow of work, much of which is really useless in terms of learning. For example, for each problem set, there is a structured approach you need to follow. It adds 30 minutes per question yet doesn't help you learn the material. Also, the problems sets are really difficult, and have no relation to any of the other work we do in the class. Ugh. As long as you keep up with the material, you'll get a good grade, but you'll be in for a semester of frustrating work with TFs who barely speak English in a class with a "revolutionary teaching style" that gets a lot of press but doesn't actually work at all. You will not learn much physics at all.But Kelly (head TF/runs the class because Mazur is MIA) is really nice and cares a lot, so there's that.
It is a great class to introduce you to the basics of physics.  It will give you a decent understanding of physics qualitatively but problem solving quantitatively is lacking.
Most fun of any physics course. To really grasp the material you have to desire to, and self teach. But the project oriented class structure is unique and helps apply what you're learning.
Be prepared to have to learn the material on your own so go to Office hours and utilize the TF's for help! Try to work well with your teams cause that it crucial for getting the projects done well!
This is a good class if you want something more low-key than PS3, but have to take physics. The teaching staff is really dedicated/available whenever you need them/help. I went to office hours for every pset and finished them pretty quickly. That being said, I had no introduction to electro-magnetism before taking AP50b so was pretty confused on the material throughout the semester and never was REALLY assessed on how well i knew it
This course is very time intensive but if you put in the work, you can learn a lot. The teaching staff is incredibly dedicated and truly wants you to succeed!
It's a great way to learn about physics
Yes AP50b is an easy course, but it is very frustrating spending a whole semester in a class and not feel like you learned anything at all. So definitely know that going into the class. (i.e. don't take this course as prep for the MCAT) The nice thing about the course is that you get to meet new people because all the assignments are group projects.
If you are a pre-med student trying to decide between PS2/3 and AP50 here's an overview: PS2/3 will actually teach you the physics you need to know for the MCAT(but will include much more physics than is necessary and a lot of stress). AP50 will not teach you the principles you need to know because this class does not require you to memorize any of the formulas or anything. It's much easier and much less stress, so saves you time and energy, but you will have to learn some of the physics on your own if you plan on taking the MCAT.
This is the most painless way to fulfill a physics requirement
This class is a constant stream of hard work but you will get good results from it if you put the work in. It's an incredibly fair class in terms of what you put in and what you get out of it.
Great course if you want to fulfill physics requirements -- be warned you won't learn the way you are used to learning. But at the end you will have learned about physics and gain a good intuition for how to solve physics problems. In long run- like 5 years from now- you'll probably remember more from what you did here than in PS3.
Best physics class at Harvard hands down.
If you like to work in teams, take this class. It's so much fun, you make tons of friends, and you complete a requirement in a relatively painless way. I enjoyed this class a lot, even thought at times it could be frustrating. The workload varies week to week, depending on what projects are currently going on or if there is a problem set. But overall, good class. Take it.
This class is easy but you won't learn that much.  Probably the most painless way to get your physics.
If you do the work you'll get a good grade. The class is entirely group projects, so if that bothers you, don't take the class. Working with partners who don't do their share of the work is always annoying, but sometimes the groups actually work very well.
This course is great for people who are not looking for an extremely technical or quantitative physics learning experience. I really enjoyed the innovative and collaborative aspects of the class--I was able to form great friendships with new people and figure out how to complete group projects with extremely busy people. The projects also gave me firsthand experience with using power tools and empowered me to not be afraid to experiment and be hands-on with building. However, I don't think I left the course with a strong understanding of the physics concepts. This is the only regret that I have about the course. I am a bit worried about how my weak physics skills will affect my performance in future engineering courses.
This is a time consuming class, especially if you don't really care about physics. Assignments aren't hard, but they can be tedious or annoying. Don't be intimidated by the group project aspect. I personally hate group projects in general, but working in groups for this class was fine in both semesters. You'll earn an A if you complete the work with a descent amount of evident work ethic. There's no midterms and no finals, but there are RAAs which are like mini tests. That's the only thing that may bump you from an A to an A-.
Not as intensive in physics learning but great way to learn and apply concepts in low-stress environment throguh project-based work.
