Enjoy the talks and use the final presentation to do the literature searches you have been putting off.
Ph.D. students take the chance to learn all groups! If you are not taking, at least auditting.
There are some good projects in this class, and you will learn about as much as you are motivated to learn.
Fun class and good chance for you to learn what other researchers around SEAS are working on.
You will get out of it what you put it.  It can be very fun and a great way to get to know research in the department.
I really enjoyed this course because the primary requirement is to be curious! You get to wrap your mind around three different, important topics in science. You get to explore with very little risk (no pressure to publish, so exams).
You'll get as much out of this class as you put into it. It can be a great opportunity to do a mini research experience from start to finish. Way more fun if you figure out a way to get to design and do experiments too, don't just read a bunch of papers.
This course is going to be moderately intense for four weeks, and extraordinarily light for the other eight.
You can enjoy the joy of cooperation, which is really great!
you get to know and work with students and professors from various academic backgrounds
use this course as a way to explore your creative side... it gives you an opportunity to apply design principles to interesting problems that may be outside your field of research
Students will learn about the projects of each faculty member.
It's worth it to go to the talks even if you aren't enrolled in the class..
This is a great class, painless, fun, and interesting and you learn a lot. Prof. Westervelt is really nice and the final project is fun!
Prepare the lecture beforehand.
This class is a great introduction to the various types of research that are being done in the field of nanoscience.  You won't get an in-depth explanation of any single topic, but you will be exposed to many different areas of physics.
Fantastic class.  Every experimentalist should take this class.
