Prof. Manoharan is a very good lecturer and I would recommend taking this course when he is teaching it.
The course is difficult and requires a large time-commitmend, but it is very well taught and teaches a lot of background.
Great self-contained overview of stat mech, especially for experimentalists - with a focus on phase transitions (last third of course) and connection to experimental results (including recent results).  Covers all the fundamentals but not in full mathematical rigor - serious aspring stat mech theorists might prefer a more mathematical course.
Great class, very practical and with an emphasis on physical intuition it will benefit you in any area of research.  Much, much better than other versions of the course I shopped in the past.
Of all the physics department courses I've taken, this one had the most applications for people working in experimental physics and applied physics. This course takes a good amount of time. I wouldn't take more than one other time-intensive physics course with it or more than two other less intensive courses, especially if you want to get any research done. This course covers a wide base of material, but covers each part in enough depth for it to be useful. Go to office hours more often than I did.
The course is a great overview and review of statistical mechanics. It can definitely get you excited about the many ways statistical mechanics is applied to different types of problems.
I had some experience with the physics version of this course. The material was presented much more clearly by Vinny. I also enjoyed the problems that linked the material to actual experiments and papers.
The lectures are great but the problem sets could be confusing.
Very well taught, Vinny is a great lecturer.
Very comprehensive, thorough course on statistical mechanics with fantastic connection to experiment and various different systems.
An excellent course; theorists enjoy it more than experimentalists.
Professor Sachdev presents statistical mechanics with incredible insight, beauty, and clarity.  This is the best physics class I have taken at Harvard.
It is a necessary course for one who is a theoretical scientist.
Very good introduction to statistical mechanics.
Work hard and read at least Pathria and Huang in depth!
Professor Sachdev is a very good lecturer and friendly person.  The material and presentation are both interesting.
I would recommend but it takes  a lot of work. Sachdev is very good- so I would strongly recommend him.
It is a course that was taught very well by Professor Sachdev. He was very good at explaining certain topics. His handwriting wasn't always easy to read, however. And sometimes he would drop constants or make approximations in equations that weren't always clear. I personally find the topic of stat mech to be boring. The course did teach me a lot though, about modeling and mathematical methods.
Essential for a physicist in any field.
There are a lot of homework, but it helps you to understand how to use equations in real system.
Assignments and exams are very difficult and much effort is needed in keeping up with the course material.
challenging course taught exceptionally well
This course is a good review of many important features of statistical mechanics. In-class derivations and interesting problem sets leave the student with a nice understanding of the key concepts.
It is worth taking. A necessary requirement for any field in the physical and life sciences
There will be some work involved and you have to go to class. The amount you will learn is well worth it.
Tough class, but important material. Buy supplemental textbooks and go to section.
The topics are absolutely fundamental to modern physics and are taught clearly and effectively.  For advanced topics, however, I would suggest other courses (phase transitions, etc.).
This is a good course for people in all aspects of physics. The professor worked hard to try to make the content relevant to everyone's interests.
great lecture but fairly long and hard assignments
lectures can be fast paced.  there were classes to attend and an assignment due on the week of the final exam.  the final exam mostly covered material from the end of the course for which we had not solved any problems in assignments.  although this was advantageous for me, it wasn't very fair for most students.
David Nelson is a superb scientific storyteller and clearly explains the content: you will learn a lot and walk away with a deep understanding of what was covered
Thermodynamics, and some preliminary Statistical Mechanics are prerequisite.
Good solid class in statistical mechanics.  Rigorously treated.  I recommend it strongly.  The course is moderately difficult but not too hard to understand.
It's a well-taught and worthwhile course, but may not be relevant to every student's discipline.
Great class, try to take it with Nelson if possible.
Good lectures
A fair bit of work, but generally worth it.
The course was hard, but worthwhile.
Consider this one of the hard classes you take. It's not impossible to pass this course in parallel to a heave workload, but you'd be missing out on some very beautiful content.
Even if you have seen most of this material in an undergraduate class, it is instructive to have a more in depth presentation.  Additionally, if Professor Nelson is teaching the class, it is well worth your time.
Definitely take this course with Professor Nelson - he is very clear and funny! It is not difficult or time-consuming (for the most part) and you will learn basic stat mech at the graduate level.
Nelson is a top-notch Professor. If he's teaching it, take it.
David Nelson is an very good instructor for this class- he really motivates the material, not only in terms of relevance but also historically, and really makes the material interesting. You should take this course if he is teaching it!
Professor Nelson is an extremely good teacher and he covers a lot of material without ever making it seem difficult. It was a lot of fun learning from him/
Just take it and study hard! Great course!
David is awesome!
Find a book that works for you. I ended up reading Stat. Phys. by Amit Verbin more often than McQuarrie
Very important topic for anyone doing physical science or even bio-physics/quantitative biology. May be challenging for those without at least a physics undergraduate background.
PROFESSOR NELSON IS HALF-GOD HALF-WIZARD!  When he says something I actually get it.  I didn't learn stat mech properly in my undergrad, and this course completely changed that.  TAKE ANYTHING WITH PROFESSOR NELSON!
Professor Nelson is awesome but class is difficult
Overall, great course.  If Prof. Nelson is teaching it again, don't miss it!
David Nelson is a very good lecturer. Be sure to expect plenty of math.
