This is a great course! Lots of projects and team work, makes you think about physics on a deeper level and really understand the concepts!
This is an amazing way to fulfill a physics requirement: it is fun, you make a lot of friends, you learn a lot about the way that things in the world operate from a physics standpoint. No exams and no lectures is LIFE SAVING.
If you need to take a physics series, you're doing life wrong if you're not taking AP50. The most enjoyable and painless way to take physics by far, especially if you're someone like me who has never taken physics before and was very intimidated by some of the other physics series. Some of the work is definitely busy work, but you will form bonds with the TFs who are wonderful, and you will get a lot of hands-on experience that you wouldn't get in any other class.
Take this if you're debating between AP50 and PS2. Your semester will be low stress, and you usually end up with a good group for the projects. There was a girl in my last group that was terrible at managing stress, so that was annoying. But other than that, it's a chill class.
If you're debating between PS2 and AP50 and care about your grade, take AP50 - as long as you do all the work, you'll be guaranteed to do well, and it has a fraction of the stress that PS2 might incur. However, AP50 cares more about you having a general outline of the concepts that you can think back to later in life than the nitty gritty details of certain problems. If you're using Harvard physics to prepare for the MCAT, PS2 might be better.
Only take this class if it's a concentration requirement.
Really fun class because you get to build cool things from scratch. You learn the important concepts in physics without the stress of exams and grades. What you put in is what you get out. Challenging. Glad I chose this course over ps2/3.
Awesome alternative to PS2. Projects are really time intensive but overall a good experience
The ideology behind the class is really awesome and inspirational. I feel like that alone is enough reason to take the class, as you're treated like an engineer and spend most of the class applying concepts instead of memorizing them. No midterms, no final, not too much homework. It really does feel like the amount of effort you put in corresponds with the grade you get. There are still kinks, as this is a relatively new class. Class time can feel slow and the readings can be kind of tedious. A couple of the projects felt rushed. But, nothing too much to complain about.
Be prepared to actually work for this course and do a bit of reading. Won't necessarily learn anything unless you want to.
You can take a science class without stressing about crazy hard exams or assessments that will be impossible to do no matter how hard you try at learning the material
If you've taken physics in high school, then take this class - it'll be way easier than any other intro physics class. The homework is really easy (just reading and annotating book chapters and only 5 problem sets per semester), and the group projects are fun. If you've never taken physics before, I wouldn't recommend this class. Sure, it has the perks of being low-time commitment and low-stress, but that's only if you already know intro physics. They expect you to teach yourself all of the concepts from the textbook. There are no structured lectures. The only way that you will learn from the teaching staff is if you go to office hours, or if you ask them questions in class or over email.
This is a good class to take if you want a more hands on and collaborative way to learn physics. But don't slack on this course as your performance affects not only you but your team members as well.
great way to wrap pre med req
You learn no physics, but you meet new people. Just know this going into this course.
If you are a premed student choosing between this and PS2- take this class. Sure, you might not learn as much of a textbook understanding of physics, but it is a lot easier to handle and it is fun and there are a lot of premeds. As long as you put work in, you will get a good grade. This class completely eliminates the stress of psets/exams.
AP50 is what happens when you take a humanities approach to a physics class.  It's kinda dumb most of the time and you get out what you put into it, but all of the annoying parts (i.e. annotating the textbook and dealing with teammates who don't put in as much work as you) are 110% worth not having any midterms or finals.  For a pre-med senior writing a thesis and doing job recruiting, it's infinitely better than PS2/3.
This class was a great introduction to physics, and much easier than the alternatives. I took it as a pre-med requirement, and I really enjoyed it. The professors really care about students and want them to learn a lot. The projects are interesting, but don't always seem super relevant. if you like group work then this class will be good for you. Don't take it if you want to learn a lot of physics and then be tested on it.
AP50 is a fun and relatively painless way to take physics at Harvard. You work in groups, which in my opinion was tons of fun and a really great way to engage with the material. I met some wonderful people who are now good friends of mine because of AP50, and I learned physics in the process. it was a win win. Oh, and the course staff are super helpful and supportive and really want you to do well - which make the class environment fun and not stressful at all.
This is a great class to take for pre-med or life science concentrators for the physics requirement. Although time consuming, there are no surprises and it's really manageable no matter what your physics background is.
This course is great if you have to fulfill a physics requirement. The team-based projects are good things to talk about in interviews and the estimation activities prep you for interviews as well. In order to make sure you remember what is covered, there is a lot of repetition and fewer topics covered. IF you have the time, this class is not bad.
Take this class to have a more broad and real-world understanding of how physics operates in our everyday lives; however, the structure of the class may not be completely amenable to having a very good and comprehensive grasp of physics equations and problem solving
Non-traditional style of teaching physics. Make sure you stay on top of online reading assignments and the small tasks that add up. Grading scheme is super confusing. Depends a lot on your group (assigned) but team work is a valuable skill to practice and is definitely more interesting than lectures. It is helpful to have experience in engineering before this class but if you don't have any then this is a great way to gain exposure to engineering-style classes, learning, thought process, etc.
Take this course if you are not super comfortable with physics but willing to put in the time to learn it. This class is mostly based on effort, which means you actually have to put in effort! Don't be misled by the lack of exams--because your lowest grades in each area of the class matters equally, this class demands a sustained level of effort throughout the course and you must be willing to invest time in order to succeed.
It is a great class for motivated students who are looking to learn about physics but also apply what they learn. It is a class where you will have to do a lot of self-learning, so you are responsible for what you learn from the course. You get out as much as you put in. The teaching staff is super supportive. If you take advantage of the resources that are offered, you will do well and learn a lot from the course.
Some good things about this class: no exams, only a few problem sets (graded on effort/completion), and great opportunities for fun group work.  Might not be good for people who do not like team projects because this class is entirely team projects.  Also you will learn only as much as you want to learn, as far as physics is concerned.  Probably not a good idea if you're taking it to prep for the physics section on the MCAT, for instance.  Unless you're very motivated.Personally, I took the class for SPU and because I did want to refresh my physics concepts from high school.  I was able to do so, so I'm happy with the class!
I was skeptical of the structure of the class, but learned more than I expected to learn. It's also a nice break from other classroom settings, if you are not engineering.
This is a great class: you learn how to work in a team pretty well and I would definitely recommend it. However, I'm not so sure if you learn any physics very well. Honestly, if you actually want to learn physics, take 12 or 15. In this class, almost everything is based on effort, and you can do very well in the class with knowing 0 physics. But, I will say, if you put in the amount of time you would put into 12 or 15, you'll probably learn the material. But trust me, if you really, really want to learn physics and can't put in significant time into this class (you probably say you will and won't), then take 12 or 15.
Novel group project based curriculum that works really well if you consider yourself a good team player. If not--you're likely better off taking the PS route.
You'll have to know what your goals are for taking a physics/engineering class before taking this class. If it is to efficiently learn physics, this is not the class. If it is to gain some exposure to engineering, yeah maybe take it. If it is to get the pre-med requirement out of the way without having to deal with the typical pre-med setting (ie. exams, lectures etc.), take it but be aware that you wont' actually learn much physics that might be valuable to know for the MCAT. But if you want to learn how to work better with different people, improve your team work skills, and have practice solving eclectic problems, then take this class. As a pre-med, I'm not sure I would entirely have chosen to take this class had I known how much time and work goes into it without much payoff in terms of learning physics. People say it's easy to get an A in this class but due to the lack of practice materials and the fact that doing annotations on Perusall never really helped me learn, I thought the RAAs were actually quite challenging. Sometimes, the assignments just felt like busy work (especially annotations on perusall) and I really wish they would provide more concrete and practical assignments to help us learn the material (ie. recorded lectures to watch at home, and plenty of practice problems...). In class, it really depends on the group you get that will determine your classroom experience. If everyone is collaborative and willing to help each other out, then group learning in class is great! Otherwise, it can be tough. Especially when there are group projects and some of your teammates might not do their fair share of the work, it can be tough to get the project done efficiently so group projects end up taking a lot of time! In class, because of the flipped classroom, there isn't a lot of teaching so if you want to learn the material, you might have to rely on having one really knowledgable team member to help the group move along. Otherwise, asking the TFs for help and going to their Office hours is another way to learn the material. I say this all as a warning so that you know what you're getting yourself into. But there are also positive aspects in terms of learning to work in groups and enjoying the creative and collaborative aspects of making a final product. It's pretty cool that you can say that you've built a car, a rube goldberg machine, and an instrument by the end of the semester. But then again, know what your goals are for taking a physics/engineering class and think hard whether this is really the best fit.
If you like to spend time in the shop and apply what you have learned this is the class for you.  The teaching staff is great and they do their very best to help you succeed while challenging you at the same time.
Take the course. Yes, it does feel like a lot of work sometimes, but the projects are great and you really do learn a lot.
This class has a lot of merits. The teaching Staff very much cares for its students. The projects each section of the course revolves around is an interesting way to apply physics concepts. Class tiem is used effectively as each day brings either some experimental design activity or online workbook problems. The major issues with this course however stem from the time you will be working on projects or doing readings OUTSIDE of class time. There is no lecture component - so you're essentially forced to read the textbook to gain a knowledge of physics. If you were hoping to be TAUGHT physics, this is not the class for you because most of the physics here will be SELF-TAUGHT (with problems/activities to reinforce your learning in class). Also, the projects can take a significant portion of time outside of class to perform. Part of your grade is determined by your peers and your contribution to the project, so be prepared to work not just to satisfy the expectations of professors but your group members as well.
The layout of the course is pretty straightforward, but the content gets a bit more challenging towards the end of the semester, so it does help to be placed into a strong group (the group dynamic survey for the second project led to being placed with more members who did not communicate well together
Although this class was oftentimes frustrating for me, in the end I came out of it appreciating the critical thinking skills I learned and the friends I made, even if I'm still not completely sure how much physics I learned.
Most painless way to get a physics requirement done. The group projects are fun and psets and tests aren't too bad. Just make sure to stay on top of the reading and the class activities, they are super helpful when it comes to psets and tests. This class is pretty low stress, definitely some busy work, and you will get out as much as you put in in terms of actually learning the physics.
It will be a lot of work at times but it is a very fun and interesting class
This course is great for people who are not looking for an extremely technical or quantitative physics learning experience. I really enjoyed the innovative and collaborative aspects of the class--I was able to form great friendships with new people and figure out how to complete group projects with extremely busy people. The projects also gave me firsthand experience with using power tools and empowered me to not be afraid to experiment and be hands-on with building.
Great course. Annotations sometimes take too long and lose learning value after about 7 comments. The last 3 comments are forced almost always. This class will help you develop teamwork skills and if you look at it like an intro to engineering/ a building course it is fun. I'm sure you will hear from others the difficulty of learning actual physics
AP50 is one of those controversial courses at Harvard, one that gets both praise and derision for what it is. For me, unfortunately, I'm largely on the latter side of the two, although it does have some redeeming qualities which I'll talk about.AP50 follows the "flipped classroom" method often called the Montessori method for learning, where notes, homework, and essentially all learning is done at home and the knowledge is applied in the classroom by demonstrations, experiments, and sometimes evaluations. For this class, that means annotations, problem sets, and other prep happens at home, while evaluations by Learning Catalytics/RAAs, lab activities, etc are done in class. The benefits of the method are that there are no exams to sweat over, only five problem sets to worry about the whole semester, and apparently a lot less stress for students. It sounds too good to be true, even. It's all true, but after going though AP50a, I can say from my perspective that it's not the educational silver bullet that it makes itself out to be.The most glaring feeling about the course is that for many people, they still don't truly understand the material even after all the Experimental Design Activities and Annotations and all those other color coded activities on the schedule. The thing is, that after the Problem Sets and RAAs are over, there's no incentive for learning what you missed. The grading system is way too generous to the point of redundancy. Exceptional mastery of the material is not rewarded highly; instead, those who best adhered to the tenets of the complex grading tree get the full marks. Getting an A without really grasping much of the material is possible, but will largely depend on having good groups to carry you through the class, a topic in itself.The project groups are this class's biggest boon and it's greatest flaw at the same time. Your group may be great and get the material, or you may be stuck with a group that aggravates you to no end. I liked my groups, but I hear horror stories of other groups. There are evaluations meant to curb slacking and other tomfoolery, but I question their effectiveness.My main disappointment about the class is that it's called Physics as a Foundation for Science and Engineering. By how easy the class is, I couldn't recommend it as a foundation class for a science or engineering degree, and from some talks with faculty, they wouldn't recommend the class for those areas of study either. Why the class is offered so prominently on department Plans of Study and other areas is a mystery I was told all comes down to politics, something that course head Eric Mazur apparently plays very well.The class's concept isn't the problem over all, the problem for me is that the course is too easy for diehard physics nerds and people who have a background in physics already. If you're one of these people, don't disservice yourself by taking AP50, you'll be bored and wondering how much more you could be doing. If you're going to need a strong, tested physics background later on, AP50 will not give you what you need and you'll be playing catch up later on, as some of my peers right now are. If you're just looking for a basic intro to physics that's low risk and painless and you don't need physics later in life, ie fulfilling the SPU Gen Ed, then you may find the class a good fit.
Great class, educationally revolutionary, and you learn physics in a different non-traditional way!
If you put in the time, this is a fun course! Be sure to keep up with the readings if you want to learn the physics. Try hard to get along with your group mates. Office hours are very helpful
The class has a reputation for being easy but not rewarding academically. I'd revise that and say that you get out of this class what you put into it. If you do all of the assignments and really use the class resources, you will come out with a great understanding of basic college physics.
Projects are a lot of fun but the readings can be long(as are the classes)
I thought this was a fun, unique way to satisfy the pre-med physics requirement. I definitely spent a fair amount of time in the lab working on the projects, but there isn't a lot of other work outside of class time. If you don't mind group work, I would definitely recommend this class for any pre-meds trying to decide between all of the physics options.
You will not learn physics in this class. It is a good way to make friends because everything is done in groups. At the beginning of the semester, you will tell yourself that you're really going to try, and that you're really going to do the readings. Then as time pases and you realize that other people are skating by with 40% of the effort you are putting in and getting the same grades. You will eventually succumb to the trends of the masses and simply strive to BS your way to a grade that you would have otherwise had to work really hard for in PS2.
I have no regrets about taking this over PS2.
In my opinion this course is more like an easy engineering class than a physics class. You won't learn/retain much physics. There is a constant flow of work between textbook reading, psets, projects (which require building stuff and writing up a report), RAAs (group quizzes, and more. If you keep up and do the work moderately well, you'll get a very good grade in the class. It's not hard to do well (looking at all you pre-meds out there!). If you're between PS2 and AP50, PS2 will be your "classic" physics class with lots of exams and stress that goes up and down based on when the psets and exams are. AP50 is low stress and will consistently require moderate levels of effort. However, the course itself is frustrating; you do a lot of work that takes time but doesn't teach you all that much. Undoubtedly there are people in this class who do not care at all and pass of all responsibility to other team members. If you know that you're one of those people who actually gets stuff done, you'll be doing the bulk of the work for your group each go around.
AP50, unlike traditional Physics courses, provides a project based learning scheme that will leave you feeling both accomplished and ready for future physics applications. I never dreaded going to class and always looked forward to lecture because of the interesting activities we did. As long as you pay close attention in class, and do the readings on time, there is absolutely no way you can do poorly in this class. It is completely effort based, and if you put in the time and energy, you will find it both enjoyable and rewarding.
Pretty fun and hands on course, with a solid intro to group learning and working in the machine shop with teams. Does not go super deep into solving complicated physics problems unless you really try to learn it on your own. More work than you might want when it comes close to deadlines for projects, but overall a good experience.
This class will get the requirement out of the way in a relatively fun way but you have to be incredibly driven to learn from the class.
Most painless way to kill the physics requirement if you're premed but don't expect to have much real knowledge of physics afterward, unless you work extra hard. I recommend that you start assignments early and seek out extra help/resources if you want to really learn. The projects were pretty fun. Kelly is super helpful. The TFs were pretty hit or miss, find a TF that is really helpful and cling to them, even if they aren't assigned to you.
Definitely take this course if you want to try working in teams and physically building tangible things. In terms of learning physics, not everything will stick (so if you're premed, maybe this isn't the course for you) but if you're interested in learning real world applications of physics.
It's great to take if you aren't sure how strong you are with physics and is a nice alternative to the other introductory physics courses. That being said, the course is sometimes hard to manage when they have multiple components (quizzes, psets, group projects) with close deadlines, and some of the organizational issues can be frustrating. It's hard to tell how well you're doing in the course, and it's a lot of independent learning/work to grasp physics concepts.
This course has a good heart, but is incredibly disorganized. I would wait a few years for the course to cement itself more before taking it.
The project-based teamwork component is the best part of this class and should honestly be a more common feature across all college courses. You get to learn a lot about yourself and working in a team. The 3 hour classes where you just work through problems at a glacial pace can be frustrating. But feeling like you walk away with very little new knowledge is rather disappointing, even if you got an A. This class is too easy to be good.
The positives are: no final or exams, easy to get a good grade
The negatives are: you probably won't learn a lot of physics, group projects can be brutal
If you're the type of person who likes group projects and doesn't get stressed about getting thing done last minute, this is a good class for you. If you are a typical pre-med (like me) you will find this class frustrating.
You'll learn a lot in this class as long as you're willing to put in the effort!
This class is horrendous. 

It focuses on the development of new teaching methods ('flipped classroom', 'online learning', 'applications focus'), under the assumption that they will be better and help students learn. The reality is that the new methods are ineffective and frustrating for us. The technology solves no problems, and instead creates new issues.

Meanwhile, Eric Mazur uses his students as guinea pigs in a flawed experiment, and you even feel like you are being watched as observers frequent the classroom. He collects data that makes his methods look good and seems unwilling to adapt the dysfunctional pieces of his course. 

As for the course's content, understand that this course will not teach you physics. It will not even kind-of teach you physics. This is a remedial course for people who didn't do any kind of science in high school. There is no math. The textbook is atrocious, but the primary way you're supposed to learn in the course.The reality is that the one student in your group who took AP physics in high school will save your entire group, and the rest of students will leave the course as clueless as they came. 

And work? Well, that is the one redeeming thing about this course. You cannot fail to get an A. The work is extremely light, and doing it in groups guarantees that you never dip below an acceptable standard. A non-standard (3, 2, 1, where 2 is an A) grading system inflates your grade substantially. As a result, this class is filled with premeds.

If you care about learning physics, dislike group work, or hate premeds, do not take this course. In any other case, this class is harmless but a tremendous waste of money. 

Eric Mazur should not be hailed for his teaching methods. They are a sham.
If you want a good grade and you're willing to put up with a LOT of annoying group work, you should do it. It's worth it if you put in the effort, but it's a huge pain if you go into it thinking it will be easy or that you can do it on your own. You have to really buy in to what the instructors believe to have a good time.
A great way to fill the Physics requirement if you don't want to get deep into the math behind it.
This is the best physics alternative if you want a fun class where you learn a good amount and is very easy grade-wise. Don't take it if you don't like working with teams or if you can't learn on your own.
Don't take this class if you really want to learn physics. The fact of the matter is that when you have three other classes that demand a lot from you, you aren't going to put the effort into this class. It's also so unorganized, which is frustrating.
very different class structure, but extremely enjoyable, and a greater emphasis on learning
Don't take this if you don't want to spend a lot of time working on group projects outside of class.
NO EXAMS NO EXAMS NO EXAMS. If you're like me and hate the usual memorization/regurgitation based learning that goes on in science, this is the class for you. It's far more focused on actual learning and application than useless facts. <3 I LOVE THIS COURSE
It's definitely better than learning physics in a lecture based way, but it's still a physics class.
To be honest, this class has a great concept and I was really enamored with the philosophy behind it - that we could actually learn physics through actual physics projects. However, the execution wasn't the best. The readings were not helpful, and we didn't really learn much in class. I would shop the other options, but it's likely that AP50 is the best option for pre-meds trying to fulfill the physics requirement.
This class is a fun way to explore physics concepts through projects designed to apply these physics concepts to real-world situations.
This is the best way to complete the physics requirement with one caveat: if you really like physics or really want to know  great deal of physics, this is not the class.
This is a different alternative to Physics 12 or 15. Students need to be self-motivated in order to succeed, and working as a team is essential to doing well. The projects are interesting but require substantial outside of class work, but for people who prefer hands-on learning or want to get into a design shop, this class is awesome.
Easiest perhaps most enriching way to get that physics credit
If you are looking for an easy way to learn physics as a premed, take this class!! The projects and assignments can seem dumb at times, but if you do the work you will for sure get an A. Like I would be pissed if I got even an A- in this class. Honestly, I feel like I'm learning enough physics for the MCAT which is all I'll ever need physics for anyways so I don't really care that I'm not learning more advanced shit. Also you will not ever do hard math so don't worry about that.
This course can be difficult to schedule due to all of the group-based aspects. Regardless, it was such a great, low-stress, and straight-forward way to learn physics!
This is a fantastic, hands on, project and team based course that is an easy time for both science concentrators and gen ed seekers alike. The course work is not difficult, but you learn a wide range of things, and traditional learning is thrown out the window. You really take control of what you learn, spend more time on doing than passive learning, and there are no lectures or section.
I would tell them that it is a great course to take if they are very self-starting learners.
If you put effort in on the readings and problem sets, it is not a difficult class.
When it comes down to it, if you are pre-med and have zero physics background, like I do, then you have two choices: PS 2 or AP50a. When narrowed down like this, the answer is pretty simple: AP50a. While the amount of time you will have to commit to this class can be downright daunting at times (~4 hours a week reading, many hours on psets, and group work), the grading system makes it all worth it because you are graded on effort and not accuracy. This takes the pressure WAY off and allows you to sit back and learn something for a change, which is nice. That being said, prepare for some tedious amount of reading and annotations, annoying teammates, and confused TFs. My best piece of advice for this class would be to just keep moving forward and not fall behind on reading annotations, be present during pset and RAAs (the closest thing to an exam in this class), and pray during the Expos that you don't look like an idiot.
If you enjoy following orders or else being marked off because of it this is your course.  Yes you get to design projects, but that is such a small and easy part of the course that it does not dominate my view of this course.  Perhaps if there was an actual structure to the grading in this course rather than an arbitrary grading that you don't know what you will get on anything until it is returned this course would be more enjoyable.
Take this course it is unlike any other course you will take. You will enjoy learning and growing in your physics understanding.
Take it. It is much better than any alternative to fulfill recs you have and it is such a supportive environment. You'll have to self teach a bit, but you will learn. you will also have the satisfaction of building things with your bare hands and being proud of yourself.
Keep up with the readings. Find a method and stick to it.
If you're reading this post trying to decide between PS2 or AP50a I'll break it down for you real quick. If you are a "physic/engineering" person take PS2. You will not get the foundational physics you need in AP50a in order to excel in upper level physic/engineering classes. If you are pre-med trying to get a good mark... take AP50a. It's honestly an enjoyable class. You will learn a bit about physics if you choose to and you will work on three cool projects. No exams. Problem Sets are graded on effort. Profs and TFs are really nice and cool. But you will not come away with the same physics foundation at PS2.
Great class, the best part is learning to be a productive member of a team and have fun creating practical physics projects.
It is a great course to broaden your physical knowledge and also to develop your teamwork skills.
I think that this is a good class for kids not very interesting in physics but either need to take a physics class or enjoy working on projects. I think for students actually interested in physics, the 12 or 15 tracks might be better.
This is a great class if you are okay with working in groups! By far best way to fulfill physics requirement.
You need to be willing to work
This class was great. However, the material is difficult and even though I put in a lot of effort, I don't believe that I really learned much of the material, or could apply it outside of this class.
great class take it
AP50a was an absolute joy. The teaching staff is fantastic and really makes this class more than just than a course, but an actual pleasant and enjoyable learning experience. The work is quite manageable, though some weeks are busier than others (there were some weeks that you had two reading assignments and the project proposal and contract due, and then a p-set due the following week; whereas other weeks, there were no assignments) so you do need to plan ahead (but this info is clearly detailed in the course syllabus-- including what activities we'll do in class for the semester). In addition, some of the work can be a little complex and not having lectures means that you need to do the learning by yourself. This is where office hours (and there were so many of them!) will come in handy but it's certainly the kind of thing that you will get out of it what you put into it. It really is worth putting in the time and if you do take this course, you should really strive to put in your full efforts!
From my experience, the majority of the students in this class cared only about their final grade and not about learning the physics. This is not the best environment for learning and as the course is still under development it is difficult for me to recommend this course. Carolaan puts so much into this course  but if you can indeed learn physics independently, you will not need to take this course and if you can not this course will not help you very much.
Be aware of the fact that there is no lecture component in this course, and the textbook is dense. This is for sure what the 21st century classrooms will be like, but having been born in the 20th century, I found it hard to adapt to a learning method that required me to be my own teacher.
Use office hours. Carolann is great! The hardest thing was not understanding expectations and the lack of instruction. I enjoyed working in groups.
This course is a mix of things; if youve done physics before, it still approaches it in a novel way, but in a way that is too time-consuming. Dont take this course unless its capped to around 50 or 60 students max.
It's very unstructured. Take 12 or 15 if you want significant guidance.
Just a waste of time to be fair. You think you want to take this class because it is supposedly easier, but in the end it just turns out to be frustrating and I am not sure how much I actually learned.
This class takes a very specific type of student to be successful. You need to already know physics or be able to just read a textbook on your own and teach yourself (far easier said than done). You need to be great at working in teams. You need to be very willing to jump through hoops, do busy work and  also be treated vaguely like a preschooler.The class runs something like this: Read an online pdf textbook. Annotate the textbook and get graded on your annotations with no explanation on your mark. Come to class. Work in groups on an online multiple choice quiz. Work on rather unrelated (but super fun) shop projects. Occasionally get slammed with insanely hard problem sets. Go to office hours and copy down the answers to the P set. Never actually get taught anything. Admittedly, They are still working out the details of the course but this should not mean you should have to waste your time and money on it.In short, if you are looking for a fairly easy class to fill a physics gen ed requirement, don't mind jumping through tons of hoops and really do not actually want to learn anything, this is the class for you. If you are actually at all interested in learning physics, please take something else.
The instructors of this class are great, the assignments are fun, and the textbook is well written, but the grading seems almost arbitrary, and a complete lack of lectures might be a problem for non-physics students.
This is a good class, but it's weird. You get to the end of the semester and wonder what you really learned. It was fun, though.
This class is very often frustrating in its design and lack of organization, but the material it covers is actually very easy. But doing everything in the specific way they want you to do it makes this class annoying. But if they are generous with the final grades then it will have been ok.
Make sure that you understand the problem set rubric
This course made me like Physics and I am not a science person.  Couldn't have asked for a better environment. Also AP50 has the most caring faculty.
Even though you get an A in the end, you got through hell because the grading system isn't fair and the teachers are not organized, so they don't tell you everything you have to do, yet they expect you to do a million things and you stress out way too much because of it.
I would tell the future students that the class is very enjoyable and it is also very rewarding.
AP50 is a really great course for people who enjoy working in groups. It is nice not to have the stress of midterms of finals looming over you throughout the semester. At times, the course was frustrating because it was easy to feel like you weren't really learning much physics in terms of problem solving etc. since the course was mostly focused on the projects (which didn't have much to do with what we were actually learning in class). I would do it again, however, because I think I learned much more valuable skills about working with my peers and communicating effectively. This is the type of class you talk about when you're in an interview. It was so much different from any other academic experience I've had at Harvard, and I think everyone should experience the model of teaching and assessment that AP50 uses.
Only take this if the organization improves 100 fold. The idea of it is cool but I'm not too sure if I learned any physics.
This course was definitely different from classes I've taken in the past.  The fact that it focused on project-based and hands-on learning was nice, but some of the ideas could've been implemented more effectively.  I think I would have learned more if I had taken Physics 15a, but this course was much easier from everything that I've heard.  Take this over another physics course if you already have a background from high school but might be taking some other tougher classes in your schedule.  Also, keep in mind that a three hour class can seem to go on forever at times.  Overall though, I would still recommend this course.
AP50 is a nice alternative to have from the normal Physics courses (12, 15) but it is still very new and quite disorganized at times. The teaching style that they are trying to accomplish with this course is very interesting and works a lot of the time. You really see yourself growing as a team member and you learn a lot by working with others rather than on your own. It forces you to learn how to work well in groups and the hands-on projects were a nice touch. But if you prefer a classic lecture/section/lab course, this is definitely not for you. It is extremely different. Much less stressful than a normal physics course though because there are no major exams, just small quizzes that you work on with your team, no final, and three major projects.
AP50a provides a unique opportunity for interactive learning and working with your peers on three month-long projects. Because class time is used for hands-on activities rather than lectures, it is expected that students come prepared having read the text. Such discipline works for some, and these people can get a lot out of the class. On the other hand, I found that I personally need more structure in learning the material (i.e. through lectures). Projects can be fun if you're in a group of people who are equally motivated - that said, at some time during the course, you'll probably work with some classmates who can't commit as much time to group projects. But the experience of teamwork/team dynamics is a good one, and AP50a encourages you to reflect on these experiences.In terms of teaching staff, Carolann is wonderful and has a lot of availability for office hours.
The readings are annoying to do and you won't feel like you're learning. Low stress though.
I took this as an alternative to the PS2/3 sequence, and I am so glad that I made that decision! You have to be very self motivated to keep up with the material, since each night you are required to read and understand a chapter of the textbook. However, I really enjoyed the structure of the course; there are no lectures or exams. Rather, you teach yourself the material, work on problems and activities to reinforce your learning of the key concepts in class, and apply these principles to build a product! It was one of the only classes at Harvard where I felt like I was gaining skills that I could use in the real world: working in teams, designing/building a one of a kind product, and trouble shooting when problems came up. Definitely recommend!
The class is annoying, but not hard. The assignments are mostly group projects, and as long as somebody in your group is pretty good at physics you will be ok. The psets are not totally intuitive, but office hours are a huge help on them. No exams whatsoever, so its a low stress course. Much better alternative to Physics 12
I loved this class because it was cool. You don't have exams where you need to regurgitate equations, but instead get to BUILD things! I also loved the group aspect of it, though sometimes it was frustrating. Definitely takes up a lot of time around the projects, but no more than any class would require for exam studying and it's much more fun. TAKE OVER PS2.
You have to learn everything on your own in this class, unless you have the extra time to go to office hours. It does not feel like you are learning very much throughout the semester, and this can become very frustrating when you feel like you are spending hours on projects that you get very little out of.
This is a great class! The teaching staff is amazing and are always willing to help you if you don't understand something. It is helpful if you have some Physics background before taking the class because you essentially have to teach yourself (no lecture component). The projects are fun, but pretty time-consuming if you want to do a good job. Be prepared to put in a lot of time for this class, but other than that, highly recommend!
Make sure you read the material and understand it well ahead of the class schedule.
Since this is a fairly new class, I'll try to comment on each of the course's aspects. The projects: I generally really liked these. Beware that the time commitment of the course peaks during the three projects, and that some of your group members may leave the class during the first few weeks. The problem sets: Honestly, these could be amped up in frequency, length, or difficulty to better cement the material. NB system: Weird at first, but actually pretty helpful as the course goes on. The RAAs: definitely not impossible, although I think the individual portion is rushed sometimes. Grading can be a little opaque regarding these, too. Anyway, Carolann is an angel, and, although I already liked this course, I think it has potential to be even greater in the future!
This is a fun class to be in, but be prepared to teach yourself the material from the online textbook. If you can learn and understand from the textbook, the class will be smooth. If not, you might struggle a bit. If you can get past the material, the projects are a lot of fun and make the class worth taking.
When I enrolled in this class, I liked the idea of teaching myself the material and applying it to problems in class in a team setting. Unfortunately, I do not think that this class fits anyone very well. Personally, I had two years of high school physics before taking this course freshman year. The problems on the in class assignments and assessments were too easy. However, I imagine that this class would be extremely difficult for someone with no physics background. If you have a strong physics background, like I did, this will be an easy course but it will require a lot of "busy work" time in which you will not really learn anything. I did not enjoy the projects because I did not feel like they applied the physics that I had learned.If you do not have a strong physics background, be prepared for a very difficult course. You will not be taught the material in class, and you will have to read two chapters in the textbook (which was not good) each week. Office hours are helpful. Overall, I am unlikely to recommend this course, unless it is to someone who has a strong physics background and is ok with not learning much new physics. It is definitely an interesting format for a class, but I am not certain that I will take AP50B in the fall. For a more challenging physics course, take 15a.
Some parts of the class namely, working with other students and not having lectures, seems nice, but it is not worth it. The class's staff is very disorganized and most of the time I felt like I was enrolled in an online class. You definitely don't learn better in this kind of environment, and I ultimately felt as though I learned very little in the end. If your goal is to just satisfy a physics requirement the most painless way possible, DO NOT take this class. Take some other physics class instead. If you want to actually learn physics, DO NOT take this class. If you want to spend two 3 hour blocks a week learning pretty much nothing and slogging through ridiculous projects, have fun!
It can be hit or miss with the group work. You could have a great group and develop many good friendships from the class like I did. Or, you could have terrible groupmates and end up making more enemies than friends.
If you are looking for a terminal physics course and dont mind working in group projects, you should certainly consider AP 50a.  The course had teething issues, however, even in its second year, and so you should look carefully at the syllabus and talk with the course staff before deciding to take it.  Areas to look at in particular:  general course organization (hopefully not an issue in year 3 and beyond); the NB system and textbook can be really annoying (try it before you buy it); and zero-sum peer evaluations can be nerve-wracking.  Keep in mind as well that the course philosophy is that you will have to teach yourself most of the material  but if you dont mind that / think youd have to do that anyway, thats not an issue.
This class is a completely different learning experience, but a relatively painless physics. Not to be taken if you'd like experience in calculations to take onto other physics classes.
This class was a huge disappointment. I was really excited about learning physics at the beginning of this course, but that really changed as the semester progressed. This course took up loads and loads of my time, but I hardly learnt anything. The course is built on the premise of peer teaching, but if all of your peers are just as clueless as you are because they're not really learning themselves, then peer teaching kind of falls apart. Of course there were a few people who had a solid high school physics background, and they were able to help, but that's just not enough.In the end most of the learning you do is from the textbook - you can hardly call a course that has its students learn most of the material from a textbook revolutionary.
You must be self-driven because they won't teach you well enough.
This class is a great way to get a physics requirement done because the professors are awesome and the projects are really cool. If you like structured lectures don't take it.
Be prepared to do lots of learning on your own time, since this class is very focused on individual and team learning. You must read, do not skim, the textbook in order to understand and fully engage yourself in class activities. Office hours are also very helpful!
This course can be fun, but it also has some major flaws
This course requires a previous knowledge of mechanics and rotational motion. I found the class to be weary and academically unstimulating. I do not feel better prepared to tackle a physics problem than I did before the start of this class.
It's easy, or I think it is. You just need to know how to do the pests; they have this unique style of "grading".
Don't expect to learn anything if you are not motivated beyond tests. You also must enjoy projects and working with other people to enjoy this class.
This class is not well run. I would recommend avoiding it, or waiting at least a two years more before taking it. The teaching staff are all well-intentioned, but it's really just more stress than it's worth. It's actually quite difficult to learn physics from this course. The textbook is useless, so I recommend finding a good physics textbook to read instead. My grade for this course was based on annotations I made to the textbook via an online tool, so I ended up having to read both the awful textbook for a grade and another textbook to understand it. I got better at team-based project work for sure, but that's mostly because I spent most of my time badgering teammates to do their fair share or dealing with ridiculous team problems. (The hallmark of all team-based work) I would say this is actually a strength of the course, but all things considered, there are many courses in the engineering department that could serve better for this kind of experience.
This class is very free form and a great way to learn physics. The support system is fabulous and as long as you keep up with assignments everything will go very smoothly.
This course uses a slightly different format than what most students are used to. There are no long boring lectures. This style will benefit most students. however if you in the minority of students who like long lectures you may not like it as much. I found it to be all around great. I would recommend shopping it to see if you like it, if you are looking for a physics class.
It's really time-consuming, but in hindsight it asked us to do pretty cool things.
This course is great in terms of showing students how physics can be applied to real world problems. It promotes group work and builds some great skills in that regard. However, how much this course helps your knowledge of physics concepts depends on how much effort you are willing to put into the coursework and the readings. If you have a greater interest in theoretical physics, Physica 15a or 16 may be better.
AP50 seems like it will be a gem class (no lectures, no exams, no psets) but it's not all that great. The class is not well-run enough to achieve its goal of being interactive/innovative, and you'll spend way more time than you'd like working on the projects, which then are graded in the span of 5 minutes at the project fairs. There is little to no grade transparency, which is also not great.That said, the professors are super nice and it's clear that they care a lot -- maybe in a few years this class will be better once they work out the kinks!
--Don't underestimate the effect of no lectures.  Even if you are a motivated student and think you will always do the reading for the class, the reading is dense (it's not like a humanities class!) and often comes at the same time as psets are due.  --Take problem set reflections seriously, even though they may seem like a waste of time.  They're worth a lot. --You had better like building stuff! --You may have (or at least feel like you have) gaps in your mechanics knowledge upon the completion of this course.
IF you want to get a deep understanding of physics, this is not a good course. but it is fun and light work load to get a light understanding of physics.
Content is good, team work can be hard.
Fun and a very moderate workload.
Eric Mazur does not care about you. This class is actually his project. Carolann does keep the class together and functional, but prepare for the teaching staff to always be a bit confused on the instructions (which is unfortunate, because all of your time is spent on these "assignments" with very little idea of what you are supposed to be doing)
This class has SO much potential, but unfortunately it falls short. If you are premed or engineering, or otherwise will need knowledge of physics later, I can't recommend it. If you have already taken physics, you might like it, as long as you remember your old physics and have your high school notes to go off of.  If you have never taken physics, you're out of luck, unless you have the time to read the book cover to cover and self-teach, and then also heavily depend on the kind-heartedness of group members who have had physics to teach you. I do have to say that the teaching staff is outstanding, and that they are really trying. Also, physics aside, I did learn a lot about myself and my abilities as a team-member. I met a ton of extremely nice people and many friends that have outlasted the class--even if nothing else, this class teaches invaluable team skills. There is a lot of potential for this class, the teaching staff is brilliant and kind, and I can only hope it gets better from here.
FOR ENGINEERS AND THOSE CONSIDERING GRADUATE SCHOOL IN PHYSICS, BIOPHYSICS, PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY, ANY PHYSICS-RELATED DISCIPLINE:AT THIS TIME, BE VERY WARY AND CAREFUL ABOUT TAKING THIS COURSE - this semester's iteration is NOT RIGOROUS enough for your career and studies. My dad is an engineering professor at a major research university and based on my discussions with him, the class does not instill the required quantitative and problem-solving intuition in students needed to solve engineering problems. While the course is relatively easy and much less stressful than other physics alternatives, it would do you a SERIOUS DISSERVICE to take this class. I know there aren't many alternatives. Physics 16 is much too hard for most people, Physics 12 has a bad reputation for being MATLAB-heavy, and PS2/3 is full of premeds. That said, you have to bite the bullet and I would suggest that most people take Physics 12 at this time unless future iterations of AP50 are of necessary rigor.NOTE: Depending on how much they change the course, AP50b (Spring) may be much better and nullify any of the concerns I have above. Look to the AP50b comments to see if the rigor has increased to a necessary and satisfactory level.
This is an unbelievably frustrating class- do not take this unless you know this going into it. The grading is arbitrary and confusing, and you will never know how you are doing in the course. The TFs don't know the material nearly as well as they should, and the material is never clearly explained at any point so you can go weeks without having any idea what is going on in the class yet being expected to know it very well. It is very time consuming in the most annoying of ways.
Please, please, please do not take this course unless there are huge changes in the way the course is organized. When you work on projects, you don't get to choose your group members, so if they don't do their share of the work then you are screwed. Also, the guidelines for the project are very vague, so you don't really know what you're supposed to be doing, and you're never really taught how to do the calculations to actually make a project with good, rigorous calculations. Even if you're taking the class to get an easy A, the class isn't worth the stress from having bad group members. If you are taking the class because you actually want to learn physics but through experiments, as the class is advertised, you should DEFINITELY avoid the class. I thought we'd be learning multivariable calculus but we pretty much did no calculus throughout the course. You won't gain a good understanding of physics through this course. No matter how much Prof. Mazur makes the course sound amazing, DO NOT BELIEVE IT. Do not get sucked in.
Stay on top of your reading, and go to office hours to clarify questions that remain unanswered.
Take AP50 before seats are full.
This is a very time-consuming class, so do not take it with other classes that have heavy workloads. I would not recommend this class to students who don't enjoy working in groups because almost all of the assignments are group projects.
If you want to learn physics, take 15a or 12a. If you want an easy physics class, take ps3. If you want to not learn any physics AND feel frustrated about the material and the class, take AP50a.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Great learning environment with professors who really care about you and your success! I think that it offers an approach to physics not found in PS2 or Physics 12/15/16. This class is great for those who are self-directed learners and want to work in a team. I learned a lot not only about physics but also about my ability to work as a team member!
Take it if your gung-ho about building things and you don't need that much direction. Take it if you don't care that you have to spend a lot of time to navigate the disorganization of this class because you like physics that much.
This class tries too hard to do 'new age teaching' and actual learning tends to fall through the cracks.  If you are good at teaching yourself material out of a book or enjoy learning from your peers this class is perfect. It is not very difficult, but you should be prepared to put in a lot of time for the projects.
This course is a WASTE OF TIME! The physics that they teach for three-quarters of the course is like REALLY basic physics. Furthermore, all the projects (such as building Rube-Goldberg/ Musical instrument) can be done without using ANY physics at all (you only need some physics for the report)! It's like playing with toys. The book used in the course is awful, and they don't even have lectures from which you might feel you can pick up something new. Furthermore, the course is new, so it's very disorganized, and there are so many things the course instructors themselves aren't sure of (like they changed some of the grading criteria and evaluation stuff, DURING our course). Only pre-med kids can seriously consider this class, because all they need to do is fulfil their requirements. For those, who are seriously passionate about physics/engineering, this class will turn out to be an absolute nightmare. You'll be surrounded by students with hardly any knowledge of physics. And if you think you can simply ace this course because you already know most of the physics, well you are wrong. The grading of the pset does not depend on the correctness. You don't have any exams, just these short quizzes, in which you have to share your answer with your(possibly ignorant) team members. Also, the whole concept of the working in a team might sound cool, but the way it works in this course is horrible. So basically, at the end, your team members evaluate you and your work. This means, that constantly, you have to suck up to them, because they will be the one shaping up your grade! That's really messed up, in my opinion.All in all, it is definitely the worst class I've taken at Harvard. Please consider something more serious such as Physics 15a, or Physical Sciences 12a.
If you are ready for a totally new learning experience, take AP50. You will learn teamwork skills that you wouldn't learn in any other class, and you will learn physics well if you put the time into the assignments.
This course has some major downfalls.  The fact that you can't search the text online is really, really frustrating, but it doesn't really matter because the text itself is makes things much more complicated than they need be.  While I like the Rube Goldberg and Musical Instrument projects, the astrophysics project was just not reasonable for all that we had covered in the class.  The expectations were at once really high and not clear.
