Take it if you do research which involves a TEM.
Excellent course to gain experience on TEM!
You can gain a lot as long as you input enough time!
This is a great class if you are needing to learn about the TEM, but they will not teach you optics or any physics presented in lecture.  You are expected to allready know it.
This class requires extensive learning outside of class and is not recommended for students who primarily learn through lectures.  The laboratories are most useful for students who are already familiar with the transmission electron microscope.
The reservations I have regarding this course: not well organized this year, the lab was a bit more advanced than the lecture--a lot of materials science involved.
This is an excellent course but you need to have a sound background in physics with some knowledge in biological science.
This course would be recommended if the teaching fellow is responsive and the instructor is more engaged. The assistant (Ellen Hodge) is very nice, she is majored in biology, students need biology operation could consider to take this section.
Avoid this course like the plague, or if you must take it, skip lecture and be sure to get the lab section later in the week (when they know what they're doing and have the bugs worked out).
a hands-on opportunity to learn cutting edge microscopy with a world leader in the field...for course credit!
It would be nice to learn the basics of TEM and the lab classes are really interesting
Excellent course if you will use TEM in your research.
If you are motivated enough you will gain a lot out of this class
I am glad that this course has a significant lab component, and I actually learned how to use a TEM, which was my primary goal. Plus, it's great to have access to so many knowledgeable people and to be able to use CNS facilities for free!
This is a very practical TEM course that I strongly recommend for people who need a thorough understanding of HRTEM/ED/STEM/Cs-corrected TEM etc.
The experimental section is pretty good, but the theoretical part is just so-so
Take this good opportunity to practice your experiment skills.
need a lot of outside of class lab practice and reading.
Please be hard working even the teacher does not require that.
Learned a ton in this class. Labs are a big time commitment and often a bit disorganized, but you really do learn a lot of valuable techniques which are very applicable to modern physical/materials science research. The professor, David Bell, is also a world class expert in the area of electron microscopy. Take advantage of that!
Great way to get a lot of hands-on time with the TEM, see a few sample prep techniques. I would highly recommend this course if you plan on using TEM in your research.
good for learning TEM operation
If you plan on using a TEM or advanced microscopy techniques, I would highly recommend taking this course. However, if you don't plan on doing microscopy extensively in the future, don't take the course
I would recommend to take the class if your research requires SEM or TEM imaging. You will learn on how to operate these tools.
free instrument time and great training! take advantage!
If one is interested in TEM characterization I would definitely recommend.
It is a very interesting and useful class especially if your research project requires the use of TEM or SEM.
It's a great class to take to learn and get trained on the TEM and SEM. If you're research requires TEM/SEM I would highly recommend the class.
This course was very useful if you need TEM or STEM for your research. The conceptual knowledge may seem like overkill if you just need to take some images of your samples, but it's good for understanding the limitations of the techniques and issues with imaging.
the final project takes quite a lot of work
Very practical course, TAs are great, very patient and understand all the Electron Microscopes really well. A great resource.
This is a practical course on electron microscopy.  The course is not heavy on theory.
This was a very good class to get an introduction to TEM for your research.
If you are going to use TEM in your research, take this class. In this class you get comfortable with the basic theory and practice of TEM. You get a good exposure to the various techniques that are out there and the resources to get started learning them.
lectures aren't that great and TA's are hit or miss (try for a section with CNS staff, they're great!!) but it's totally worth it for the free microscopy time
I've recommending this course very highly to most people I know who might be able to use it. It's a very low pressure course in which you can learn some extraordinarily useful experimental techniques and gain an important resource at Harvard.
na
This is the most useful course I've taken in grad school so far. The lab sessions start of slow, but add up to a lot of exposure with different instruments. The course is also great for establishing a working relationship with most of the CNS imaging staff, all of whom are very nice and helpful. David gives very enjoyable lectures.
