This is an excellent course and you will learn a ton, just be prepared to put the time in to learn. Professor Spaepen sets high expectations for his students, but is generous with his teaching time and energy.
It's been a long time since the last time I found a course which taught me so much.
As they said at orientation, think hard about taking this course.  If you decide to take the plunge, make ample room in your schedule and be prepared to dedicate your semester to learning a lot in this course.
if they want to work really really hard and learn a lot. If you not motivated, it will be painful.
Make sure that you are taking this course with a light load of other courses.  This course will take almost all of your time.  Do not get overwhelmed.  It may seem like everyone in the class knows more than you do at times, but if you try to understand what is taught in the class you will be ok.  Also, buy some of the more helpful books in the course.  You will really need them more than you can get them from the library.  One of the most helpful ones was "The Structure of Materials" by Allen and Thomas. During the midterm, make sure that you realize that the key concepts are being tested.  If you understand those, you will be fine.  Finally, I would say good luck.
Lots of work but you'll learn applicable physics
It is very good for obtaining the knowledge of material science but it's a lot of work so be prepared for busy work.
A fantastic graduate-level class, but only enroll if you are seriously interested in the subject matter and have a significant amount of time to devote to the course.
Very good course for anyone working in materials. A lot of work.
Don't let up during the semester or else you are unlikely to catch up later
Be prepared to work extremely hard but get a lot out of this course.
It's an awesome class and you will learn a lot.
Homework is hard, but really helpful to understand the course material.
It will be very hard, but you learn a lot of useful things.
Really difficult
This course is great in that you will cover a wide variety of topics in material science. If you have never taken a materials science course before then almost all the material in AP282 will be brand new to you. If this is the case as it was with me this course will be very difficult for you. My number one advice is to work in groups from day 1. Don't be shy meet everyone and work together on the homework, the amount of material is too much for any one person to complete by themselves. Also speak up in class if you don't understand something, Frans is very approachable and will gladly answer questions. He has such a command of the material that these topics are easy for him and he can move too fast sometimes. Finally don't take this course with a heavy course load, if you don't have the time to invest in this course then you won't learn much.
It takes a lot of time, but if you are interested in a broad but deep introduction to material science, this is a very good course.
It will be very helpful and very hard.
Be prepared for a lot of work ahead of you, but it's definitely a course where the more you put into it, the more you'll get out of it.
This is really a very good course, and the professor is very nice. Although you are required to spend a lot of time on it, you will benefit from it.
Class moves fast so it is hard and a lot of work, but it is worth it in the end. I learned so much from this course! Homework is usually hard (and comes once a week in the beginning) but does tend to get a bit easier as the class moves on. Crystal structure/symmetry and diffraction are the first big topics and then thermo and finally dislocation theory. Two week take home midterm is hard because it is like doing a homework but using only your class notes/books and no collaboration with other students which is key on the homework. Try not to fall behind because it moves fast and it's hard to catch up on what you did not understand that week. Reviewing notes after class to fill in more details really helps. Final was a one hour oral exam with a half hour to prepare. You will learn a lot by taking this course, but be prepared to work!
This class takes a lot of your time, but it's worthwhile
In this course, you are given all the tools to learn a great deal - a knowledgeable and patient professor, good homework assignments, and an array of supplementary reading material.  The emphasis is on actual learning over perfection, which makes for a comfortable classroom environment.  By no means does that mean the course is easy.  If you want to get the most out of this class, you'll have to work hard.
be prepared for the workload
Everything I had heard about AP 282 was true; it is simultaneously lots of work and a great learning experience.  I spent more time than I really wanted to on this class, but I learned so much that I ended up loving the course.  Furthermore, Dr. Spaepen is an amazingly intelligent professor who cares deeply about teaching the course well.
This course is time consuming. I personally felt that the material learned through homework was too little for the enormous amount of time spent. I do not recommend this course for people who have taken solid structures, dynamics, solid state, and thermodynamics.
You need to read a lot and work a lot. This course is very broad and is very time consuming.
its a very tough class! tons of work to do and is definitely the toughest class ever in SEAS! never take this class with another heavy one! but surely you will learn alot from taking this class
This is an extremely difficult course, but I definitely believe that it is worth taking.
It is a difficult course but the amount learned by the end is very rewarding.
It's very hard. Be sure you have enough time to finish the homework.
You really should take this class if you're interested in materials science. It's really quite a bit of fun if you aren't too pressed for time this term. Professor Spaepen is an excellent professor who has obviously put a lot of time and energy into the design of his course.
Should be aware of the large amount of homework.
This class is amazing! You will learn so much and come out of it being more confident about materials.
this course requires a lot of time commitment and is quite hard. however, it's rewarding in the end.
If you put the time and effort into this class, you can really learn a lot from it.  However, this class is very time consuming so if you have many other commitments, it will be hard to really learn all of the material covered in the course very well.
Take the course because you will learn a great deal, but be ready for the most difficult course you've ever taken.
Be prepared: this course is very demanding. Plan which classes you want to take with this in mind. There is a 86.9% chance this class will make you doubt your decision to attend grad school.
Keep up with the hw, reading, and make sure you understand each section before the class moves on. The subject matter is so diverse that there is little time to make up for confusion later.
You will work very hard in this course but learn a lot and get a good intuition about how to solve problems.
The most rewarding engineering class I've ever taken.
This course can be incredibly useful to anyone strongly interested in materials science and research in a related field. In that case I would strongly recommend taking the course. However, it requires a very large time commitment.
It is an extremely thorough course that is very demanding. It covers a lot of material, and you really have to stay on top of it from day one if you don't want to get overwhelmed down the road.
Although the workload was a bit large, it was the most time-effective course I've taken. So I highly recommend it to anyone who had some previously knowledge of material science and want to learn more :)
Be prepared to spend a lot of time outside the class in order to fully absorb the incredible amount of material covered in this class. A lot of material is covered in a lot of detail in the  undergraduate guide, so definitely use that (especially before doing homework problems). Use the reading lists, especially the books that Frans recommends! I didn't realize until later what a great resource it was. The oral final sounds scary but it can also be a lot of fun -- I think a lot of things really came together not only as I was preparing for my final and also during my final.
This class is really wonderful. Frans does an incredible job lecturing and covering a huge amount of material. You will leave having learned a ton about structure/defects but you will also have gained good tools that I think are transferable to almost any research. Just all around good critical thinking skills.
