unless you are so completely enamored with AMO topics that you wouldn't mind a prof. with no interest in teaching, I would not recommend this course.
Get fully prepared to take this course
work hard
Fantastic class.  Should take it to gain a physicist's perspective of optics.
This course covers a lot of interesting physics and applications and does a good job of providing physical insight without bogging you down in excessive math.
Unless you need this course, I would not take it. It is a good survey course to see what interesting optoelectronic devices are available, but it is a little more difficult than just a survey course, however not difficult enough that you retain all the details for what you just spent hours working over for the homework assignment.
I would strongly urge you to not take this course if Prof. Majedi is still teaching it. He often literally takes screen shots of the textbook for his slides, though sometimes he does make the effort to rewrite the same equations from the text instead. The problem sets don't really relate to the course, are taken from problems from other sources without referencing them, and the only way to get enough detail in order to actually do them you need to use external resources (that aren't ever provided or suggested).I've done very well in the course, but have really not learned a thing. It's really been a waste of my time.
It is a comprehensive introduction course to photonics and optics.
This course provides a great overview of optics in all its forms and the critical ways to manipulate light in laboratory experiments and devices.  I highly recommend taking it for the knowledge you will gain, but I have reservations if you are not willing to put in the work to stay on top of the material.  You will get much less out of the course though still something.  Just take into account how much time you will actually be able to devote to the course before you take it.
You will learn a lot about facets of optics and light that you didn't know were possible; and ways to work with them in practice; but will need to do a lot of outside reading to learn how to apply this in your own lab.  Take this as part of a larger cours of study and work, and you'll get pointers on where to go next for inspiration.
The material in this class is very interesting.  Photonics is a beautiful subject.  Also, make sure to read the textbook, as it provides a more detailed derivation of results than is given in class.
It's a good course for students who just start in the area of optics and photonics.
Time-consuming but interesting homework, be prepared to do lots of calculations.
You could learn a lot of topics in Optics in this course, although you won't be able to learn them deeply.
The course gives a good overview of the fundamental principles (ray, wave and electromagnetic optics) required to understand the working of modern photonic devices. But the course material is so vast that most material is often glossed over and lacks an in-depth treatment. It is a great course to take if you have no exposure at all to photonics.
If you've taken EM classes before and would like to learn how the complicated math and models are utilized in the real world (technology, experiments, medical equipment, etc), then this is the class for you. Also lots of fun stories about how scientific discoveries were made. If, however, you're hoping to learn all of the math and the theory, this class is probably not the one for you.
Prof. Golovchenko is extremely supportive in answering questions about the course material.  He seems to really enjoy his work and has a lot to teach in terms of his approach to problems.  He takes an interest in assigning homework and exams that are relevant to students' interest so that they can, to some extent, direct their own learning.  As with most courses, students who are self-motivated and curious about the subject will benefit most.
As an experimentalist, you can either take the hard, very theoretical but better taught EM, or the experimental EM where not much will be learned.
Depends on what the student is looking for in a class. If they want to learn more math methods in addition to EM then perhaps this isn't the right class. For interesting aspects of EM and final projects that will make you utilize your skills, then this is the right class.
This course is good if you have the motivation to ask questions and explore topics that interest you.  What you get out of this course depends on what you put in.
Very good E&M course; especially for those who don't have a strong background and for those with practical aspirations. Be prepared for Gene to talk a lot though.
Overall, this class was an enjoyable experience. Professor Ham was very enthusiastic about the course material, and his lectures were very effective.
you'll learn the concepts very well
AP 216 was great with Prof. Ham. Gave a good overview of both the theory and the application, with the emphasis on matter interaction.
If you'd like to know about NMR, Laser, and the governing quantum/semi-classical physics of them, this is the course you are looking for.
The course will not teach you the basics of E&M; it is expected that you already have a solid foundation in E&M and QM. However, Jene is a professor with a unique point of view, and learning from him was eye-opening and gave me to tools to connect abstract E&M concepts to real-life pictures and ideas.
If you have studied a lot of electromagnetism and quantum mechanics before, you might really enjoy this course. However, if you are a beginner, this course can be really challenging, like it was for me.
This is a very good class to take if you're an experimentalist who wants to learn about how to approach science in general, with a focus on concepts. Not ideal for someone who wants to memorize Jackson
This class gave me many spirits which is beyond text book. If you want to have tons of homework and mathematics training to force yourself, studying the material, this may not the class. However, if you can read the distributed materials by yourself and appreciate professors comment during class, you will certainly enjoy it!
