This is a great course to review your chemistry. If you work with chemicals as a non-chemist, I highly recommend taking this course.
You will get what you put into this course. Weeks where I had time to dedicate to this class were very interesting and informative, while other weeks were less so. Sometimes Professor Aizenberg doesn't lecture very comprehensively or skims over topics within the lecture slides, so I would encourage you to read the slides outside of class and go to office hours. If you are a more chemistry focused person this class is fairly straightforward but very interesting, presenting some interesting applications of properties or interactions you might already know.
You will learn about a broad range of interesting chemical phenomena!
If you already have a reasonable background in materials science and chemistry, do not expect to learn too much from this course. It provides more of an introductory survey of several topics within the field. Be prepared for weekly problem sets and quizzes.
The class set out to give students an intuitive understanding of materials and the ability to estimate and predict material properties from structure. It did not accomplish this goal, because I don't have sufficient chemistry background. Having taken this course, I no longer believe it is possible to gain such intuition without extensive chemistry background.
Pay attention to the examples during lecture that don't necessarily have lots of text on the slides - they're often relevant on quizzes, but if you don't have good notes and the lecture materials are sparse, it's a lot harder to succeed.Also, having a method of building 3D structures (chem model kits, geomags, toothpicks and marshmallows, etc)was really helpful to me for the symmetry topics - might not be necessary for everyone, but highly recommended.
For students who studied chemistry a long time ago, this course is an excellent refresher.
Useful if you want a very broad overview of chemistry as it relates to materials, but overall not a very focused class. I don't feel I learned much of relevance that I can relate to my own work; we spent about a month going in extreme detail on crystal symmetry which was probably the least applicable part of the course.
Very high level material is presented, so you will not necessarily be an expert in particular topics at the end of the course.
Take this class if you want to develop practical chemical intuition.
