The course is incredibly time-intensive. In addition to a very heavy reading load, it feels at points like you will be presenting in class practically every single week. It is not uncommon to spend literally the entire weekend working on these presentations.
Pynchon is such a fascinating author, and by taking this course you will get so much insight into his work that you would have missed entirely.
This class was fantastic. Peter creates an open and engaging intellectual environment. The texts are fascinating. The class is really flexible, and you can approach the material from pretty much any angle you're interested in  especially because Peter seems to know something about everything.
/How/ to read the material is not always clear. I would recommend speaking with Peter directly if unsure. Set up meetings with Jilian.
If you like Pynchon very much, you might want to take this course.  We based much of the class on a fairly simple thesis, which was that rigorous science can potentially help us understand Pynchon.  I don't really know if we confirmed that thesis.I do know that you'll do tons of reading, you'll often feel frustrated because the course is disorganized and can neglect the literary aspect of Pynchon, and you'll do much (or most) of your learning outside of the class.  As a seminar on Pynchon, it's just an okay course.  Most of it is taught (and, once we insisted on more discussion, designed by) the students.  On a seminar on "how to read Pynchon" -- how one might go about it in an ideal sense -- it teaches you a lot.  Generally, I was left wishing for more, but I don't really regret taking it.
If you can handle the amount of reading, this is possible the most interesting class at Harvard.
Great books and great professor.
If you think that ideas should be both adventurous and rigorous, you'd find this course interesting.  It was also a great way to get to know Peter and how he thinks through things.  If you're anticipating a busy semester, I'd recommend that you find out which novels will be covered and read them BEFORE the semester starts, because they are very long.
Diving into Pynchon demands considerable patience, but with some hard work and creativity and by listening closely to Prof. Galison's singular take on issues, you can come out of this course with fresh perspectives and perhaps an unexpected project in tow.
Professor Galison is serious when he says this class requires a serious level of work -- the reading is extremely time-consuming. While the class is not useful and not worth taking for those uninterested in this sort of serious commitment, it can be extremely rewarding.
