This course is chock full of fascinating readings and information, taught by probably the most renowned scholar in the field.  It is deeply interesting and will make you righteously angry (if you aren't already), but be prepared to deal with a fair amount of ambiguity regarding assignments.
Professor Hammonds is an amazing person in Hist of Sci to get to knowshe has a breadth of experience in history of science as well as the hard sciences. This background becomes incredibly useful in her teaching and explanation of how racial bias seeps into science and medicine.
Please do not take this course.  This was the worst I have taken at Harvard.  The material is incredibly important but the class will be frustrating.  The assignments were incredibly vague (answering questions about the readings -- this may seem simple, but the questions are misleading, and if you miss the point or give a different perspective forget about it.Feedback was absolutely terrible -- often just question marks if I got something wrong or small marks and a word -- not to mention that assignments were handed back in bulk on the last day of class, rendering feedback completely useless.  Professor Hammonds did not engage and frankly did not seem to care about the organization of the class or about the students.  So disappointing from such an intelligent and respected person.  Not at all representative of the amazing History of Science department.  Again, the worst class I have taken at any college.
I hope this class improves with time because it has so so much potential. It was great to take a class with Professor Hammonds and would recommend it for that reason alone. The workload is light  and the assignments are straightforward. Overall, however, it was pretty disorganized and a little disappointing.
This class was a really interesting class that taught me so much about the history of race and how it came to be so ingrained in our society, despite it being based in nothing other than prejudice. It's an eye-opening class that truly changes how you approach race.
Great professor, amazing topic, but at times when assignments were due or what topics you would be learning about were unclear. It was a privilege to learn from Professor Hammonds and to hear her thoughts on historical topics that have so much relevance for today. I feel that I can better understand discussions about race that happen today.
This class presents a lot of information and is worth taking. At times it was disorganized, but it didn't detract from the class overall.
I loved this class and Hammonds is a great professor who really keeps you on your toes. I learned alot in this class and gained a greater appreciation for the role of race in America
While this class is very easy, its also very frustrating. There were many assignments listed on the schedule that we never did (i.e. blog posts and midterm exam) and many assignments that were not listed in the syllabus at all, but assigned later (i.e. reading notes and an oral presentation). While its clear that Prof Hammonds knows what she's talking about, I found the lecture component of the class to be fairly disjointed. Her lecture slides would consist of large blocks of quotes that she sometimes wouldn't reference at all. In addition, my frustration at the lack of clear deadlines or expectations was pretty high by the end of the semester. All of this being said, its an easy course with few assignments that got me through a rough semester.
Prof. Hammonds is incredibly knowledgable and is one should definitely take a course with her. She is compassionate and one can tell she is a leader in her field.
