take it! it's awesome, Lunbeck is a fantastic lecturer
one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Lunbeck is among the best lecturers I've ever had at Harvard, and it is worth taking the class just to be able to visit her office hours and talk about anything from child development to Mad Men. the readings and class/section discussions raise so many important and valuable questions about conceptions of identity, normality, and pathology, and the assignments are rewarding and very, very forgiving. do NOT let a lack of knowledge about Freudian history or theory stop you from taking the course - the class is centered much more on the responses and developments following Freud than it is on specifically him.
Gem. Good lecturer, low work load, very interesting subject matter if you are in the field of psychology
TAKE THIS CLASS! YOU WON'T REGRET IT! Professor Lunbeck is a really kind, brilliant, and funny professor. You will learn a lot and the workload is very light.
Loved this course! Very manageable and you learn everything Freud-related you would ever want to know.
This is a great course! Try to start thinking about the final paper early!
This class is so wonderful. TAKE IT. It's incredibly interesting, the coursework is not very hard (but I wouldn't really put it that way exactly - it's more that it's empathetic - Professor Lunbeck respects you as a human and wants you to learn without being tortured), and the satisfaction level is high.
This class is amazing. Everything you learn will be fascinating and really applicable to your life. Professor Lunbeck is a great lecturer and the nicest woman--with a great sense of humor (and great taste in TV shows). The class is low stress, just a couple papers and response papers, but you actually learn a ton because the readings are so good (you will want to do them) and lectures are interesting. I wish every class were like this one and that I could take Lunbeck again.
There are a number of interesting topics and materials.
Everything you want to know about Freud, Psychoanalysis and, believe it or not, how it all (often) relates to pop-culture is in this course. Very interesting and engaging.
This was a fun and easy course with a good reading list. I liked Prof. Lunbeck as well.
This course tackles a wide array of topics and themes, yet definitely feels unified. The workload is certainly manageable, but you do need to keep up with the readings if you want to make valuable contributions to the discussion. This course is formatted as a seminar, so you need to realize early on that much of the learning you will do will come organically from discussions rather than just a strict "reading and lecture" format.
Pretty good class. It's psychoanalysis with a grain of salt: you get to read and seriously engage with freudian concepts while always keeping a critical/historical distance. Lunbeck is nice and smart, in touch with college life, clearly interested in teaching, and has a great context-appropriate sense of humor. Would strongly recommend to anyone interested in psychoanalysis.
A great intro to Freud and related psychological topics. The workload was very manageable, and the class discussions were always engaging.
This course was great and Professor Lunbeck is AMAZING! I would definitely take it!
