This class is FABULOUS! It is informative and fun at the same time. Lecturer Greenslit selects material for the course that is so interesting--and really changes your perspective about neurology over the last century!
I highly recommend this course! Nathan Greenslit is a great lecturer and the sources we studied were fascinating.  I looked forward to every one of our weekly class discussions.  The group presentation component of the course was a lot of fun.
This class is a really great experience. It's easy to do well if you put effort into the work and really engage with the material!
Really relaxed course. The teaching staff wants you to find the material as interesting as they do, and you will, as it's inherently interesting. Engaging discussions.
As a pre-med student, this course shows a different perspective of medicine. Most pre-med and science course requirements are memorizing heavy and does not relate the curriculum that much to exactly what it would like to be a doctor. Especially those who are interested in medicine and neurology, this class is I think very important for understanding some of the components of patient care. The case studies that we looked at were very interesting and important in understanding the history of medicine.
This course is fantastic. The reading list is amazing and the course is extremely well structured. I legitimately enjoyed doing my work for this class. Professor Greenslit and T.F. Elena do great work to make sure discussions are interesting and informative. Easily my favorite class this semester.
This was an amazing class and Greenslit is a very informed, yet laid back professor who really wants you to learn and enjoy the class. He also inserts his own humor into his presentations sometimes, which was great. Elena is also very accessible and willing to work with you. The first half was tough with scientific primary source reading, but the second half was full of neurological novels and great discussions!
Take any class with Prof. Greenslit
Remember that this class is a History of Science class so it's going to be more about the author's depiction and literary style and things like that rather than the actual scientific content of the papers/books.  But, still it was a very interesting class and made you think about a patient's role in their own story if they are unable to talk or think differently than most "normal" people do.
THIS CLASS IS AMAZING! DEFINITELY TAKE IT. Nate is one of the best teachers that I've had during my time at Harvard (and I'm a senior).
This class is really interesting, and I'm glad it counts for MBB for neuro!
This is a great course with interesting readings, engaging teaching staff, and a great structure as a two-hour seminar: 1 hour of lecture and 1 hour of discussion roughly.
This class came out of nowhere as one of the most enjoyable courses I've taken at Harvard. If you want to take this class, you should definitely be interested in the topic, but even if you're only moderately interested, Professor Greenslit will surely delight you with his authenticity, humor, and intellect. The topic is fairly narrow, but I found this to be a good thing ultimately since I didn't feel there were many loose ends at the end of the semester (sometimes with broad survey courses, there are tons of loose ends).
