A gem of a class in the Hist of Sci dept. Don't let this one pass you by. You'll think about medicine and modern biology in a totally different way.
Professor Roosth is a exceptional instructor with an infectious enthusiasm for her subject, and a staggering level of competence. Additionally, the course material is riveting, relevant and really well organized.
Go to lecture, become friends with the TF, and email the TF or Professor with any questions, especially for the final paper.
Wonderful class.  I took it with not History of Science experience and never felt left behind.  Really great lectures and material.  No required books with very reasonable reading and test expectations.  Not necessarily easy, but if you put in the time you will be pleased with how much you learn.
I can't speak for concentrators, but this is a good course for anyone looking to take a Hist of Sci elective. Professor Roosth is a great lecturer, and the readings are varied and interesting.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. This class is an example of why History and Science is so great. Professor Roosth is intelligent, prepared and organized, very nice, gives fantastic lectures, and most of all has a great selection of material and readings for the course.
start thinking about the term paper early on
This course was great! Often new courses need to improve a lot, but I really enjoyed Darwin to Dolly. Professor Roosth is witty and entertaining, but also makes sure her students know the material. We covered a lot of material, but it never seemed boring or overwhelming. Overall there wasn't too much work and I felt like I had learned something at the end. Although there was a final and a term paper, there was very little else due throughout the semester.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard!
Amazing lectures-- Professor Roosth is really brilliant and engaging. Take the exams seriously-- even though you are given the answers beforehand, the grading can be tough and you are expected to provide very well thought out responses due to the format.
The class focuses on way too much material and so even when you find something interesting, it doesn't matter because you immediate move on from it and never talk about it again.  There are also too many readings, considering the fact that each section is dedicated to two completely different topics, so the readings are rarely discussed in any sort of detail.
The class is really fantastic. The lectures and course material are so relevant. I loved doing the reading and attending the course. It was just the grading that threw me off a little, as I don't think we got enough assignments to understand our progress in the course before reaching the end of the semester. Regardless, however, both Professor Roosth and Dani were great, and I recommend this course!
This class was my first history of science class at Harvard, and it was a great introduction to the department. For people interested in the development of certain ideas in the history of biology (for me, that was molecular biology and genetics), this is a great course. The readings are very manageable, and Prof. Roosth is a dedicated, knowledgeable, and witty lecturer. Dani is a great section leader; she encourages participation and carefully explains everything, so hopefully she'll TF again. Be sure to understand and explain concepts effectively for your exams, and pace yourself when preparing for the term paper. All in all, if you are interested in the history of ideas in the life sciences, you should definitely take this course.
The course material itself is fascinating, though you need to be pretty determined to keep up with the quick pace.
