It is a significant amount of work because of the video and reading components. It's not a class you should take during a busy term.
If you're serious about history, science, philosophy, or film, you'll find this class rewarding and intensely challenging. The challenge primarily comes not from the instructors, who will urge you on in a constructive and familiar fashion, but from yourself, as you struggle to exceed your own expectations of what you can accomplish. It is a tremendously valuable course, but not for the faint of heart.
it is a lot of work but rewarding if you are interested and willing to put in the time
Working in the editing room is strangely invigorating...unlike spending hours  working on a paper, I don't feel drained after hours in the editing lab, but excited about what I've created and what I can change to make it better.
Approach science critically, via words each week and through your and your fellow students cameras overall -- what you put in you take out. Take it.
As long as you are willing to take on the heavy workload, this class is one of the best I have ever taken.  The dynamic of having two professors is very productive, the reading materials are interesting and chosen so that they resonate with one another, and the combination of seminar and video practicum necessitates that one approach the same subject using two different methodologies.  Peter Galison and Rob Moss have an extraordinary grasp of the academic and filmmaking issues at hand, and one is compelled to probe those areas where these practices can become intertwined.  I don't know about other TA's, but George Olken made himself really available outside of class and gave instructions on filming and FCP that could be readily understood by beginners.
This is by far the best class that I have taken at Harvard. The course format, assignments, professors, and teaching fellow provided an unrivaled education experience. As a senior about to graduate, this is one of very few courses from which I have gained such valuable skills that I will surely apply to my future education and career. Despite the time commitment, I would retake this course every semester if I could.
Take this class if you have the time! Be prepared to give at *least* 10 hours per week, but it's completely, utterly worth it. You'll learn a ton about film and start to see the social and material in scientific practice. Also, Robb and Peter give intelligent feedback to your work, which is invaluable. This may be the best class I've ever taken.
Be prepared to work hard!
it is a time-consuming class no doubt, between classes, filming, editing, and reading, but it is so so worth it! one of my favorite classes i have taken at harvard ever!
Be ready to dedicate a lot of time to this class. If you get into it, every minutes worthwhile.
I feel so fortunate to have had the opportunity to take this class. Peter and Robb are simply phenomenal --incredibly kind, supportive, and insightful-- and the dynamic between them is wonderful.  Luis may not be TFing when you read this, but try to take a class with him if you can (never had a more dedicated TF). It's an unbelievable experience to work on a creative project surrounded by classmates so eager to share their thoughts and criticisms, and so excited to see your film grow, all the while guided by two so experienced and caring professors. The readings and discussions were really compelling and changed the way I thought about both filmmaking and science. All in all an unforgettable class. I wish I could be in your shoes again, just now discovering it.
This is probably one of my favorite courses I've taken at Harvard-- it engages with science, film, history of science, and broader questions about what it means to document things. Peter, Robb, and Luis are all fantastic and I feel like I came away as both a better creator and a better thinker. It is a lot of work and I think you get out what you put in, so be willing to put in the work and to engage fully.
This course uses an interesting lens--science--to approach filmmaking. The course staff is great--Robb is an amazing human, Peter is very knowledgable of scientific history and how it fits into visual media, and Luis was so helpful. It is definitely a filmmaking course--as all VES filmmaking classes, it is time consuming. But worth it in the end, and you will learn a lot.
Fun! You learn how to make a film, you make a film, and you think critically about various themes in the scientific enterprise.
You do not have to have any experience to take this course. It's been one of my favorites here so far. Robb and Peter are incredible teachers, and I loved sitting in class listening to and learning from them. They give helpful, constructive criticism on your work and always make themselves available to discuss your work further. Amazing class, I highly recommend it.
