Be sure to define early on what your responsibilities in the final project will be, because if you don't you will get stuck with lots of unrelated jos that no one else wanted.
The course is very exciting and a lot of fun.  It is very hands-on and it requires a lot of self-motivation to get interested and participate.
give yourself a break and explore some of harvard's treasures with a true jewel of a professor.
Simply one of the best classes you'll ever take!
putting together an exhibit was very interesting and rewarding, and i learned a lot about what goes into museum displays
That it is fun, relatively easy and if you do the reading can be very interesting.
This class was amazing!  It was interesting and dynamic and creating the exhibit at the end was a great experience.
I loved the course because it was so unique-- we got to make our own exhibition and it will be on display for an entire year. It was nice to study the history of natural history and the history of visual displays in this field, and to then put that to work and make our own. In many ways, that makes you understand the material you are learning about better than doing 50 more readings or writing 10 more research papers.
This course offers a thoughtful general overview of a fascinating subject.  Professor Browne does a wonderful job explaining the material and fostering enthusiasm.  Reading is light/moderate and are usually interesting histories or case studies, not too theory driven.  Active participation is encouraged.
This class is pretty easy, and fun because of the unique exhibit component. The only problem is that Professor Browne seemed to have some favorites from previous classes, and it was hard for others to connect with her.
Unique course which really engages you in the process of conveying the history of science to the public.
Take this class, if only because we tend to take for granted all the amazing museums and resources around us. You'll really think about some interesting things, and it also isn't offered every year - you should totally take advantage of it if it's offered. Also, Professor Browne's brilliant, and you don't any particular background to take this course.
This may just be the best class I have ever taken at HArvard. Professor Browne is extremely knowledgeable and an amazing person to learn from. if you have the opportunity to take this class, I strongly suggest you do so, you will not regret it.
Janet Browne is an excellent professor. She praises everyone's efforts, which seems to have really made a difference for good. You visit all sorts of museums at Harvard, ones that you might otherwise never have a reason to see. The class met once a week, which is no time at all and awesome therefore. However, the discussion was always rich. I took some of the best notes in this class.
I really enjoyed this course! Janet Browne is delightful, enthusiastic, super knowledgeable and supportive of student opinions. We had interesting readings and discussions and very cool field trips to different museums, archives, etc that are helpful if you want to do research in the future. The workload was manageable, but it's best to start on the final project early, get your sources and research done earlier rather than later so you aren't scrambling. This was such a fun class :)
Take this class! You won't regret it. Do the readings and don't let the few major assignments sneak up on you.
This class covers fascinating material, and exposes students to many of Harvard's incredible (and often overlooked) resources!
This is an interesting and relaxed class. It is a seminar where discussion is encouraged-- so just make sure you like that sort of format.
An incredible and rare opportunity to explore Harvard's wonderful resources! This course is a truly exciting journey with a dedicated and accomplished Professor as your tour guide. You will learn so much without being stressed or overburdened by cumbersome work/assignments. Not to be missed!
This is an amazing course, one not to be missed. Professor Browne is an incredible teacher and takes a tremendous interest in her students. She is truly a gem, and the field trips and hands-on learning made this class incredibly enjoyable.
There is no other course at Harvard like this one. Every other week or so, you go on an expedition to a Harvard museum and explore it in a historically critical manner. The workload is relatively light, and the discussions, lead of course by the brilliant Janet Browne, are endlessly thought provoking.
This is an absolutely fantastic class. If you are thinking about taking it, just take it. Readings are light and enjoyable, the discussion is fantastic, and the midterm paper and final project are both VERY manageable, as well as enjoyable to complete. Professor Browne is an absolute delight. TAKE THIS CLASS.
Even if you're not a History of Science concentrator, do not hesitate to take this class! It's extremely interesting and accessible to people of all backgrounds, and you'll be introduced to fascinating issues on the interaction between nature, science, and material culture.
best class you'll take at harvard!
Extremely interesting subject matter and a very manageable amount of reading and written work. Professor Browne has so much enthusiasm for the subject and it makes for great group discussions.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! Prof. Browne is amazing and so thoughtful. This class was also crafted so well. If you have any interest in the history of the intersection of Humans and Nature (you talk about everything from national parks to museums to botany), take this class. Especially if you have interest in human/wildlife conflict, relations, pets, zoos, trophy hunting...basically if you love talking about humans and animals, this will be the best class you have taken at Harvard. You also get to travel to so many different cool locations on campus: the natural history museum, the botany library to name a few. The best part is you don't have to be OEB or science-minded. I took this class as an English major and it was probably one of the most compelling and thought-provoking classroom experiences I have ever had. And the readings are entirely doable. Seriously. Take this class.
This was a fascinating and fun seminar taught by an excellent professor. I would recommend it to students interested in museums, animals, and natural history whether or not they are concentrating in the History of Science.
This is an absolutely fantastic class that will not require very much from you.
Great class. Valuable for HS concentraters  and people who want to explore the field. Also Janet is the best!
good course, interesting material
The class requires little work, but what work you do will likely be interesting.
