Prof. Mauck is one of the best lecturers I've had, and the material and arc of the course was fantastic. I feel like an expert in global health.
I felt like the assignments and the website often felt unorganized and, particularly with assignments, haphazard and last minute. I think that with a little revamping and a stronger organizational thread this class will be a lot better. I think because it was an all new team teaching this year, the organization was probably still being tested out.
This course provides a lens into the cyclical nature of global health and its antecedents.  If you're considering taking this either this one or another global health course (SW25, Ec1389, SLS19, etc), they're all worthwhile and use different approaches - but this one is a must to understand the history.  Also, the professor is one of the best I've had.
i would tell them that you will come away with a more comprehensive and perhaps even alter perspective on health and the Western role in global health delivery. The professor is great too! The way that you want to showcase your knowledge of the material is also really flexible.
The course is slightly disorganized, but the material is fabulous.  The professor and TF definitely encourage challenging and wrestling with the course material.  However, I do have reservations with the organization of assignments and grade determinants.  Hopefully, these reservations will become unfounded with time.
Very interesting class, and worth taking if you are remotely interested in Global Health!  Mateo and Professor Mauck are great!
Great class but is fairly loosely structured.
The material for the class was fascinating, the class was small, and Professor Mauck was a lot of fun while also very knowledgable. Although there is a lot of reading, the weekly assignments are manageable and ensure that you stay caught up. Definitely a good way to fill a History of Science requirement or simply to learn about global health.
I already had my courses planned for this semester, but once I shopped this class I knew I had to take it and I added it in. I was not disappointed; Jeremy Greene is a very compelling lecturer and this course was everything that I hoped it would be.
The course material is interesting, but the reading load is heavy, and a lot of the history is centered around the colonial period, so if you're interested in more recent stuff, you might want to consider SW 25.
it's a great class! I enjoyed the professor and his lecturing style and his voice. He's very knowledgeable on a variety of subjects and was a great person to learn from.
Jeremy Greene is a genius. Funke is really intelligent as well. I never got anything out of lectures. Jeremy Greene has amazing public speaking skills but I find lectures full of facts, dates, and names and would have liked a more conceptual lecture instead. Sections were also pointless, but required... which made going very annoying. If this class were a seminar, I think it'd be better.
Be prepared for lots of reading, but an overall very good course.
The teaching staff is fantastic, and if you are interested in the material, it's a lot of fun.
Ambitious and fast paced. You'll do a lot and you'll probably get a lot out of it.
Great introduction to the field of global health!
There is a lot of reading and much of it redundant.
The lectures are interesting, but the course is very content-filled. It's balanced out by the fact that we only need to really know themes and underlying concepts for the exams, but getting a grasp on all the material is a formidable task.
I think this is a great course if you are interested in global health. Just make sure you keep on top of the readings and the paper and communication with your TF on your progress, like you would for any other course. And go to lectures because that's the best way to figure out what is most important to learn.
Too many assigned readings - additional readings are assigned at the last minute that are not on syllabus - primary source assignments are not unorganized and not followed up on so pointless.
There is a lot of reading required in the course.
Definitely take this course whether or not you are a history and science concentrator.
