This course provides a modern interpretation of sci-fi - we read some of the classics and some contemporary works, and the professors applied a very modern lens to the readings. The reading list was pretty good and the professors in general presented good lectures, but the course tried to address too many themes in too little time. The film series was appreciated, but we never had outside speakers. Both professors are very nice and good to speak with.
It's a great class if you like sci-fi and want to explore it more, but the lectures can kind of trail off into historical data or the professors' particular interest. But when the lectures were focused, they were great and both Ragab and Roosth are insightful, passionate teachers.
A lot of reading was assigned. Too much to actually keep up with. I tried to read every other book or so which worked pretty well.
excellent course! the professors are great and the material is very provocative! really good reading list.
Semi-interesting topic. Nice thing is the breadth of coverage so you can mostly pick what you want to look more closely at.
It's a pretty simple class that's really interesting and a lot of fun.
What an incredible class! Unbeatable reading list, fantastic lecturers (so witty, intelligent, personable), and interesting but not overwhelming assignments. Such a great find, would really recommend to anyone.
This is a really cool class that offers to a generally wide audience an intriguing peak into science fiction through the lens of critical/queer/feminist theory and the history of science. If you are particularly a historian of science interested in theory and such, don't expect this class to be a rigorous dive-in. Most of the secondary readings, which beef up the theoretical frameworks/analysis used in lecture, are totally disregarded/not discussed at all in section or class. Nevertheless, the lectures are really cool and interesting, and of course you can be a nerd and read the secondary readings on your own, knowing they won't be touched. Cool class, awesome professors and TFs (Wythe in particular), but not a ton of rigor.
Both of these professors are amazing -- funny, incredibly intelligent, and really compelling speakers -- so if you can't take this class, make sure to take something else they teach. That said, TAKE THIS CLASS if at all possible. In addition to great lectures, it's got great optional film screenings, and -- primarily -- a great reading list. Anyone can read Foundation on their own, but not everyone can get a chance to read through a well-curated selection of sci-fi from many cultures/times AND also hear about the historical and scientific context in which they were written and received.
If you like sci fi, take the class. If you like history, take the class. If you hate sci fi, take this class. It's that good.
While the reading is entertaining and the lectures interesting and informative, there is a vast amount of reading required and not very much effort is put into making specific connections to the literature.
This class explores the intersections of science fiction, religion, and society in the context of historical world powers (e.g., Soviet Union, China, the United States) and cultural phenomena (e.g., technology, religion).
So, so, so amazing. Excellent course material, great lectures, and a new way to think about science fiction, if you're used to reading it for pleasure or analyzing it in a literary context.
this course is a must take for anyone interested in the history of sci fi! interesting lectures, and fun to read subject matter.
This class is so much fun, it provides a broad knowledge of the history of science but in such a fun and exciting way.
This course offers awesome and enjoyable readings, illuminating and engaging (and funny!) lectures, and the opportunity to think critically about science fiction from the perspective of the history of science.
The professors alone are worth it, but the material is great, too.
You get into this course what you put into it. Assignments are very open ended. Overall, definitely one I'd recommend, especially if you're at all into science fiction.
This class is informative, fun, and will show you, through the lens of science fiction, so much you didn't know about the world, imperialism, and the complex history of human relations. The homework literally includes Asimov's Foundation, Frank Herbert's Dune, not to mention watching Star Wars, Star Trek, and District 9. It's both fun and incredibly illuminating. Most of all, this course had the best lectures I've ever had at Harvard -- well-organized within each class and spanning the whole semester as a clear arc, always interesting, interactive, and funny.
This course has a fascinating way of looking at the intersection of science fiction as a genre and the history of scientific innovation. The class is also just so fun (with amazing film screenings) and the two professors are so cool I just want to be friends with them they are amazing. Great course. Highly recommend. "With enthusiasm" one might say.
Incredible class, incredible readings.
A TON OF READING! Hard to get through all of it. Pay attention in lectures and take notes because they are necessary for exams and not available outside of class. Communication not always the clearest
Great and very manageable class! Awesome teaching staff and fun assignments. Definitely take if you're into scifi. I wasn't really, but still really appreciated the readings that sometimes were a lot (around a novel a week), but more than doable especially because they were fun to read. Take this!!!
This course is really awesome if you like science fiction. The class gets a little nerdy at times, but there is nothing wrong with that! Just expect it going in!
This class wasn't as interesting as I had expected. If you are already a fan of science fiction novels, much of it may be redundant. If you are looking for a gut course, look elsewhere, as the readings are time-consuming and very necessary if you want to gain anything from the course.
