History of Science is inherently interdisciplinary, so be prepared for hard science and analytical writing. There may be less science than in other gen-ed options, but you are expected to learn these concepts well in addition to their cultural/political ramifications. If you engage with the teaching staff you will find the course more enjoyable.
You would be crazy to take this time-consuming, unrewarding course.
Professor Gallison has obviously tried hard to make this experimental EdX course work well and he knows the subject very well. That being said, it was poorly structured and there was too much material. Despite the description, this course definitely assumes a physics background.
This experimental course could be successful eventually, but it needs to be improved. I never found myself engaging with the material, I found the assignments to be strange and random, and I never felt the need to actively participate. I took this course pass/fail because I didn't want my grade to be the result of an experimental class set-up, and I was ultimately happy with this decision.
This is the most poorly organized, frustrating course I have taken at Harvard. It was an enormous mistake to take it, and I sincerely regret it. The flipped classroom setting does not work - it essentially means you have to teach yourself the material, which was not addressed by the teaching staff. Class discussions were largely unrelated to material covered on the EdEx videos. The problem sets were unreasonably difficult, and there was no time in class for going over them. The class being filmed was deeply distracting, as the Professor constantly had to position himself to be heard and seen. Meaningful discussion was not fostered - the readings were almost never talked about in class (most were too scientifically dense to be understood by one's self). The course bills itself as being interdisciplinary, but that is not the case for the problem sets and early weeks of the course. You will be tested on your knowledge of PHYSICS, and there is very little understanding on the part of the teaching staff that some course members have no knowledge of physics. There is no set grading rubric - the course is now over and I still have no idea on what I am being graded.
This was an absolutely phenomenal interdisciplinary class.
If you are interested in Einstein's work and life and don't necessarily want to learn differential geometry or linear algebra, this is a good class.
They have been very willing to learn from the issues they have had,  but this semester there have certainly been a lot of problems.
Online courses have to be "your thing" for you to take this class and you must have strong interest in this subject matter to take it  really evaluate and talk to others before tkaing
Do not take this course. This course was a huge disappointment. The MOOQ does not work at all, and the professor did not care about the students at all. They were filming the course the whole time for edX and the course felt more like a performance than an actual course. The TFs are incredibly unhelpful and the professor is essentially unreachable.
Don't take it. It's not worth the frustration. Much more physics knowledge is assumed of you than you probably have, given the fact that you need to take a gen ed for SPU. And, the professor is utterly tiring and boring. He's also way too narcissistic to have to listen to online and in class, and doesn't even listen to students' questions when they ask some. Much of the class felt like a performance for the cameras instead of a real life learning environment, both on the part of the teaching staff and the students who spoke up in class. In other words, the entire class was completely disappointing: not what someone comes to Harvard for.
I think this course's material was super interesting, especially for a physics concentrator! I also think Professor Galison is an extraordinary teacher; he clearly really cared about the course, and this is really his area of expertise.  I found the execution of the course to be fairly poor, however... and not because Professor Galison didn't try, but rather because he has become entranced with the, in my opinion, completely silly "flipped classroom model."  Why flip something that would have worked very well left alone?
Very creative, not your typical gen ed, but interesting.
Of all the ways to fulfill the SPU requirement, I thought it must be one of the more painless, just because I am personally not a fan of large lecture courses or big exams. Others may disagree though because of the difficulty level of the problem sets, the dullness of the classes, and the strangeness of the experimental-ness (not because this class was formatted in a creative way but because we were always aware we were performing "test case").
This course is one of the worst I've taken at Harvard. Yes, it's in an experimental stage at this point, but it has horrible structure and is poorly taught. EdX is a travesty and, contrary to the belief of the teaching staff, does NOT serve as a substitute for teaching in class. Our class meetings are pointless and a waste of time. I learned very little and grew very little from taking this class. Would definitely not recommend.
This course is really a good SPU if you are looking for a not-so-difficult one WITHOUT a final. That being said, it is A LOT of work every week, so you will not be slacking. The reading load is uneven, and sometimes the online weekly assignments are, as well. However, Prof. Galison tries hard to create a convivial atmosphere, in which you can freely ask questions/request clarifications. Still, I felt like there was not much point in the in-class component, because they usually served to clear up confusions about the subject-matter (especially physics-heavy weeks); they did not really add much to what you learned in the online component.
This was a pretty miserable experience. If you enjoy summarizing wikipedia as your WEEKLY in-class activity, being lectured by a condescending professor ("Obviously," "Of course," and "as night follows day" must have been uttered 100 times), go ahead.  On the bright side, I didn't have to do a lab to fulfill SPU. But really, I do not recommend this. I felt like a 5 year-old.
Every student of every major should take this course
