There was only about 12 students in the class when I took it, so plenty of opportunity for discussion.  Lemov is really chill and laid back and the week-to-week workload is about as minimal as it's gonna get at Harvard.  And yet, the nature of the readings will make you want to do them -- they're really interesting.  Overall, an excellent course, a model for others, with a really nice professor.
It was fun, and not terribly stressful.  I enjoyed the reading and think Professor Lemov is an amazing teacher.
Professor Lemov is great - talk to her during office hours. She is so knowledgeable and incredibly friendly. I would imagine the title of course would explain a lot - history of the social sciences - expect breadth, but not too much depth (since that would be absolutely impossible to cover).
If you are interested in the social sciences this is a great overview that will put your interest in a historical context. It is fascinating to see how the social sciences have changed, evolved, and improved over time, and what the motivations behind its growth were. Do not need much previous knowledge for the course.
This course was really wonderful and provided the opportunity to learn about another side of the social sciences. It was exciting to see how fields like psychology, anthropology, and sociology really developed It was also exciting to read about people and events like the Kinsey Reports and the formation of focus groups and the immense impact they had on our modern conceptions of the social sciences.
Professor Lemov is absolutely wonderful. She truly cares about her students and makes an incredible effort to get to know them inside the classroom and out. She defies every stereotype about the cold, detached, and self-absorbed Harvard professor. Take her classes! She is a gem!
Take this course if you want to learn a continuous and thorough history of Social Science without busy work.
This is a great course for anyone looking for an overview of the history of social science.
Attend all lectures and you will really get something out of this course.
It has very interesting material, and Prof. Lemov is great. It was also very easy. It could work well as a 5th class.
This is a great class for anyone interested in the social sciences, not to mention anyone who reads the Op-Ed page of the New York Times, or anyone who is just interested in the world they live in. The social sciences are bound up in all of the social commentary today, and Lemov makes that point amply.
if you are even remotely interested in a fresh look at the intellectual history of the social sciences, then take this course!
I say that, but I also know that some people would not enjoy the way that this course encourages student exploration rather than precise assignments to go through in a pre-determiend fashion.
Professor Lemov is a great teacher and should not be missed.  This material is not being taught in other courses at Harvard, so if you are at all interested in the development of social science and the study of humanity, take it!
A great introduction to the history of social science, and an enjoyable elective.
Good HSCI class if you want to test one out, it's laid back with interesting and varied material.
This was a very interesting class, but the lectures were a little boring and unless you're in the mood to teach yourself you probably won't want to take this class.  But, on the bright side, the reading material is sometimes interesting and the section component was fun (except for the fact that it was mandatory and on Friday!)
A solid introduction to the history of science
Professor Lemov and Jessica very nice and knowledgeable! The course material is fascinating, the readings minimal, and the teaching staff caring. It's one of the best classes you can take at Harvard.
Lectures with Prof. Lemov were sometimes a little plodding, but the mixed discussion-lecture format is really great to hear other students' opinions. If Jessica is teaching, she's great and has a unique background to present topics in social science and relate them to current events. This is a really great, small setting for an introductory History of Science class, and while it wasn't quite what I expected, I am overall pleased with my experience with this department, and am planning to choose it as my concentration.
The "human sciences" is a very broad field, so be prepared to read about lots of different things that may or may not seem to relate to one another.
A great course for hist of sci concentrators or anyone thinking of maybe concentrating in hist of sci. Lemov is a really nice professor and Jessica is a great TF! I loved the readings and we get to watch movies and generally talk about ethics/meanings of different experiments that are useful to know if you have an interest in psychology. Really enjoyable, especially given the light work load.
It is a very interesting course and a good introduction to History of Science. The readings are dense and take a while, but is possible to skim (or skip) some of the readings. As with most courses, you get out of it what you put into it. If you read and participate you will learn a lot--if not then not but you will still be able to get a good/decent grade.
Prof. Lemov is fantastic, really approachable and endearing.  Interesting material, applied a lot of what I learned to everyday discussions.  Papers sometimes difficult, but overall a good and very manageable class.
The readings are really cool! especially the second half of the semester when we get into things that we relate to/remember, such as the Stanford Prison Experiment and the age of self-documentation. The assignments are infrequent and manageable. Definitely a great way to explore history of science!
