best class i've taken at harvard thus far!
be prepared for the best class you've ever taken at Harvard
Take a class with Sheila!
The course is wonderful to both get up-to-date on current topics in bioethics as well as to get a better understanding of the issues that relate to ethics, law, and policy. It is a great class for anyone interested in merging biology/science with (patent) law or policy.
Be prepared to invest a great deal of time; be prepared for Sheila to invest a lot of time into you.  This class was tied for first with a writing class I took, and I must admit, I've learned much, ranging from how to read texts analytically to how to engage well in class discussion.  Sheila may challenge you, and you may feel as if she had picked on you; however, the only thing she wants is the best from you.
be engaged with the readings and participate in discussion.  Try to express your position on the issues and then question why your position is what it is with the help of the course tools and classmates.  By actively seeking to know what you believe, why you believe it, and what others' believe, you will learn the most from the course!
Deeper understanding to policy issues with a set of critical and analytical perspectives on health policy and biotechnology issues.
Because of professor enthusiasm, peer participation, and fascinating subject matter, this is the best class I have taken at Harvard.
This is a really incredible class.  The diversity of opinions and background among students makes the class very exciting.  Neither the readings nor the assignments are very difficult and if you do everything diligently, you will get a lot out of this class.  Professor Jasanoff pushes students to debate and think very critically about the issues at hand.  The topics discussed are extremely relevant to current events and to our lives.  This is a fantastic class!
Only take this course if you are certain that you enjoy policy making and want to learn more about its processes.
This course was by-far the most relevant and useful course I took at Harvard.  It constantly challenged me to respond to real-life case studies and theoretical texts with a firm grasp of the material and my own sensibility of how things are and ought to be in the institutional regulation of biotechnologies.
This is a great bioethics course for those students who are interested in the effects of biotechnology on the human society.
This course is challenging but worth it. The readings are dense but so relevant to current events that it is worth the time to get through them. You have to be willing to put the time in, and do not be intimidated by Professor Jasanoff! She is a tough cookie, but a sweet one too. She will push you and you won't want to let her down.
It's a great introductory course into issues of bioethics, and the class is made up of diverse students with really interesting perspectives, which Prof. Jasanoff draws out very well. But if you have a background in STS or History of Science, you might be disappointed by the not-very-deep level of discussion / readings / assignments.
A great intro to bioethics and to how this issue is approached both institutionally and legally. This class isn't easy, but it is well worth it.
I enjoyed Professor Jasanoff's carefully crafted syllabus (e.g. reading list, assignments, course structure, etc.) and thoughtfully led discussions throughout the semester. This course challenged my views on topics in bioethics, law, and the life sciences and enabled me to articulate my own opinions on a variety of those contentious issues.
Definitely take this course if you have an interest in bioethics taught in a discussion-intensive manner. The readings can be dense sometimes, but they are very interesting and eye-opening. Sheila is a great professor who is very open to meeting with students outside of class if need be, and I am constantly amazed by her depth and breadth of knowledge.
This class is fantastic! Your view of how genetics and new scientific technologies have challenged our ways of thinking about ourselves/law/policy will definitely change coming out of the class.  Classes were always enjoyable, and there was really interesting conversation between members of the class.  There's a lot of discussion, and the class is definitely participation heavy in that sense; the readings aren't usually too bad, but some can be a little heady.  But the class overall was absolutely one of the most intellectually stimulating classes I've taken here so far.
Wonderful course! Probably the best discussions I've had in any class, prompted by extremely cutting-edge topics in bioethics. We benefited from having students of varying backgrounds: science, law, public health, sociology, history of science, as well as masters students with professional backgrounds! The readings are not bad, and generally engaging and accessible (with a couple heavier social theory exceptions). Papers are fair and interesting. And then there's Sheila, who is almost indubitably the smartest professor I've ever had. She can and will dissect your claims, but will hopefully make you a better rhetorical tactician in so doing.
If you are looking for a course that is dedicated to tackling the ethical and social issues genetic medicine has raised for our generation, then this is the course!
This class is a great intro to bioethics and STS. Although the focus is very much on biological science and debates, the methods of analysis you learn through the readings and discussions are highly applicable in any other science studies and/ or ethics-based settings.
This course should be required for any life sciences or history and science student. It changes the way you see science and its relation to power and democracy forever. Professor Jasanoff challenges everything you say, and eventually, you start hearing her voice in your head challenging any firm view of the world and bioethics one may have. Readings include both theory and concrete examples. Do not let Harvard without taking it, especially if you are a science student. I recommend taking it sooner rather than later, as well!
As an undergraduate, this has been my favorite course to-date. Professor Jasanoff is brilliant and engaged, many of the readings are perspective-shifting, the class attracts diverse and intelligent students, the workload is not particularly heavy (and graded kindly), and the overall content is fascinating. Class usually began with a 40 minute lecture by Jasanoff, followed by 35 minutes of discussion (generally led in part by a rotating pair of students).The material and discussions primarily focus on the legal and bioethical implications of recent developments in the life sciences: recombinant DNA, gene sequencing, pharmaceuticals, gene-editing (our semester had a particular focus on CRISPR-Cas9), reproductive technologies. Examples of readings include court cases involving issues genetic privacy and patents; dissertations on legal and bioethical theory; and media interpretation (New York Times, MIT Technology Review, etc.) of the aforementioned developments. The class met twice a week, with a couple hours of readings for each one; once a week, you are required to post a 300 word response the night before class engaging with one of several questions posed by Jasanoff. There were two options for the main papers: a midterm and final paper each 2,500 words, or a single 5,000 final paper with permission. The final class was a roundtable discussion.Your ideas and responses will be challenged and your understanding of underlying/overarching issues in the field will significantly expand. Avoid any sort of hasty generalizations or general fudging of ideas; Jasanoff and your classmates will pounce on any unsupported assumptions or undefined claims. There is a strong theoretical component to the course; if you are purely concerned with the concrete issues surrounding the development, distribution and immediate results of life sciences technologies, you may want to look elsewhere.
If you are looking to observe the delicate intersection between ethics, science, law, and religion, this class is perfect for you. The discussions are raucous and interesting. The professor is gentle but firm in deconstructing all of your assumptions.
This class gives you an STS framework that would be really useful for any History of Science or social science students. I wish I had taken this course earlier in college because it is foundational to how I think about everything in my concentration courses. Professor Jasanoff is also incredibly kind and insightful--she truly is an expert in the field. If there's anyone you want to learn about this kind of stuff from, she's the one!
