There is a lot of reading assigned, but lecture is excellent and thought provoking.
This class was superb. So interesting. The professor and TFs are also great and enthusiastic.
This is by far the best class I've taken at Harvard.
Great course that does not require too much work.  The title is a bit misleading, however, a more accurate title would be: "Evolution From a Feminist Perspective."
The topics presented in the course were all extremely interesting. The course challenges the methodology and authority of science in a profound and provocative way. I would highly recommend this course to anyone interested in evolutionary theory, behavioral psychology, gender feminist theory, or the way science plays a role in public life and in government.
It's really easy and genuinely engaging, so that's a good reason to take it. You have to be ready for a VERY skewed presentation of the gender assumptions which brings true all the negative stereotypes about WGS classes.  But I would still recommend it - it's interesting and easy.
This is a very interesting class. I definitely recommend it both as an elective and as a concentration requirement.
It is interesting, but gets repetitive after a while.
This was easily my favorite class this semester. The readings were really interesting, Professor Richardson's lectures were always really cool, and my TF was awesome. It's also a really flexible class (as you have to do 3 of 5 essay assignments and can do multimedia if you want instead) and I really appreciated that on top of a busy schedule. Take this class! You won't regret it.
This class is fun, engaging, and (unusual for a history of science class) also connects to present debates. Take it!
If you are at all interested in evolutionary perspectives on gender and sex difference, take this course!  Because it is so broad in its scope, you may not always be super interested in each week's themes, but you are sure to get a lot out of it in the end.
Give the visual assignments a shot! They take a bit of time, but are very fun to attempt. DO THE READINGS.
great class! definitely worth your while! not too much work and every interesting!
This course is not just feminism 101 like many gender-based courses get a reputation for. This course will make you question the validity of things you always took for granted to be true and will make you rethink why you believe what you believe. I loved it!
Do the reading; go multimedia over traditional essay; use tf's as they are great!!!
TAKE IT! TAKE IT! TAKE IT! It's the easiest A you'll earn at Harvard. I say earn, not get, because you'll actually want to work for it. The material is incredibly engaging and you'll learn a lot about yourself and the way you view humans society. It's a great course and you won't regret a single second of it. TAKE THIS CLASS!!
When you combine the subject matter with Professor Richardson's amazing lectures and the assignment options, you get one amazing HistSci course. Take this, really.
Lectures were often redundant and a summary of the readings.  In general, the topics and readings were very interesting and relevant to life.
This class is really great if you are interested in the topics and like to write papers
Really fascinating critical look at evolutionary theories of sex and gender. Take this class! It's pretty easy and a low time-commitment.
I loved this course. It's not for everyone though. If you're interested in issues of gender and sexuality, as well as evolutionary theory, then it should be great for you. The assignments were fantastic - 3 out of 5 essays, so you could choose to focus on topics that you were interested in, as well as blog posts and comments - which was a great way to question course material, link it to pop culture, or go deeper into ideas that interest you.
I always looked forward to Professor Richardson's lectures and left with tons of interesting information to tell my friends that was often times shocking or just very different! The assignments were usually enjoyable to do, especially the multimedia assignments. Although there is a lot of reading each week, most of it is enjoyable to do. Also, if you do the first three assignments, you are done for the semester and can just sit back, do the readings and enjoy it all. This course is not for those uncomfortable talking about sex, rape and eugenic policies.
Don't be late! Painless elective or history of science elective.
The lectures are interesting and the readings are fun.
One of my favorite courses I've taken. Really fascinating material, with flexible, creative assignments. This course has changed the way I look at sex, gender, pop culture, and politics.
I have recommended this class to all of my friends who will still be at Harvard next year.
Great class. You get more out of it if you do the readings, but they're not necessary since all key information is repeated in lecture. The attendance policy can be tough, but since it meets at a reasonable time, it's not too bad. It was somewhat difficult to balance this class, particularly the reading and papers while finishing a senior thesis at the same time.
The topics were thought-provoking, and most readings were interesting, but ultimately I have a few reservations about the class. The primary one is that it could feel patronizing--essay topics were at times constraining and the policy of including attendance/lateness in the grade felt to me a bit strange. At the same time, this course did provide me with tools to think about the intersection of science and society and, more specifically, the role of sex and race. It pushed me to think in new ways.Also, having a choice of when to do the essays was invaluable. Definitely try to get them done! Same with the blog posts!
Do not underestimate this class. I added it as sort of my 4th, lighter class and it actually demanding a lot in terms of writing (take that with a grain of salt though considering I did not expect to put a huge amount of work in). That being said, the topics are interesting and make you question psychology, evolutionary theories, etc. As a psychology major, that almost did a secondary in HEB, this class made me question the entire field, which I think is invaluable to be able to analyze.
The subject material is interesting, but it seemed as though the professor often presented research with her own agenda in mind
TAKE IT!
really interesting material, heavy reading load, relatively short essay assignments, no exams
This class is taught through an extremely feminist lens so be ready to take some things with a grain of salt. But it's so interesting, I highly recommend it!!
An interesting class but with a rather narrow-minded view and set of sources
Easy class if you have a good writing background and like writing papers. The readings are interesting, but you don't have to do all of them to write good papers. The multimedia options are also really fun but take more time to do. Overall, a great elective.
I loved this class. The professor was great and section was always a fun and lively time. The material is very interesting and a lot of fun to read. The assignments were also very enjoyable and not too difficult if you have done the reading and gone to lecture. You get to choose which assignments you do which I loved. You get out of the class what you put in. Overall, an amazing class where you learn about very interesting topics and have a lot of fun!
This was my first hist of sci course, and it opened my eyes to a whole new way of viewing science, especially as it relates to gender! I learned a great deal, and it's actually changed my perspective on certain issues and given better tools to grapple with controversial assumptions made in science. Professor Richardson is amazing and gives fascinating lectures.
Fun class! Do the multimedia options for essays
This class requires a lot of work - you have to do all of the readings to fully participate in section and write the essays. Although the topics you learn about are interesting, lectures are somewhat biased and section can be intimidating.
This is a great class to get you thinking about a lot of interesting issues. I came out of it feeling just generally more enlightened.  There's quite a bit of reading but it's generally all very interesting. I'm proud of the essays I wrote for this class, and they were well worth my while.
P Richardson sometimes lectures as if teaching a class of 4-yr-olds. It gets annoying. The assignments this year were occasionally just "barf up what I said in class" and proofs to Richardson's own ideas. That being said, the material of the course is inherently interesting, albeit controversial.
Awesome class! Really, really interesting material. Especially if you're interested in gender-related phenomenon. Professor Richardson is fantastic and section was really fun.
i liked this class, but i didn't love it. i think it tried to do too much. i would have preferred a more historical perspective than a gender one. i didn't come away with a lot of knowledge i could use in the real world. you will definitely see things we talk about in class all over pop culture though.
TAKE THIS CLASS!
This is a fascinating, fun class. Professor Richardson presents a rigorous critique of gendered Evolutionary theory. There are 5 essay topics and you pick 3 to turn in, so the class runs on a really flexible schedule. The lectures are great and the readings are engaging. Take it!
I loved this class.  It was one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard.  i thought that the subject matter was very interesting and very well presented and Professor Richardson really cares about what she is teaching.  I think that she does an excellent job.
Took this looking for a fairly easy and fun elective, and this course definitely fit the bill. I'm a guy, so this course was a little bent in the feminist direction for me, but if you approach it with an open mind you'll find yourself really interested in the course material and actually having a good time wrestling with it, even if it seems like a bunch of crazy feminists in the class are perpetually out to get you.
The class is fairly tilted towards a pro-feminist ideology. It isn't necessarily a problem but the faculty is entirely female and that can at times be isolating to the few men in class.
Great class, don't be scared off by all the rules - it is easier than you would assume due to assignment flexibility, and the material is really interesting.
Very interesting course! I loved going to lecture and doing readings for this class
Great class for anyone interested in the intersection of evolution and social constructs. Lectures are interesting, and the workload is incredibly light. Overall, an easy 5th or a fun 4th.
The readings are really long and sometimes, just boring, but Professor Richardson's lectures are great!
I am not a History of Science concentrator but thoroughly enjoyed this course. We discussed fascinating topics that gave me a new perspective of the interactions between science and gender. This is not a feminist course. We delved beyond stereotypical "gender relations" topics and covered relevant subjects such as Eugenics and modern genetics, homosexuality, etc. Professor Richardson is an incredible lecturer!
This was a super interesting course, especially if you are interested in gender studies and how that intersects with science.  There is A LOT of reading, though.
fascinating and eye-opening -- if you are interested in the role of science on gender systems and generally interested in science and society
This class is not as easy as everyone says it is but it won't be your most difficult class.  The assignment structure (5 essays but you choose 3) was great!!! Don't do the first essay prompt because they will grade it harder. Attendance in this class is very strict. Only take this class if you know that you will always show up.
This is one of the most interesting classes you will take at Harvard. The readings were great, the discussions were fun, and Prof. Richardson is amazing!
This is one of those courses that has a serious impact on the way you perceive the world around you, particularly as it pertains to scientific thought, gender/race dynamics, and the way that evolutionary theory informs our lives in ways you wouldn't imagine. Sometimes assignments are not the most exciting, but this is totally fine because Professor Richardson gives you 5 essay deadlines throughout the semester and you pick three to meet. It makes it easy to finish the course extremely early or generally skip assignments when you're more swamped. All in all, light workload (heavier reading, but not entirely necessary), semi-harsh grading, but extremely rewarding and informative!
This class was okay. Not thrilling, but not deeply disappointing. I ended up being pretty irritated with always criticizing theories of evolution, so I would take this class if you are actively looking for a course which does just that
take this class. Professor Richardson is phenomenal, passionate, and really got me excited for all the material we were learning. The TFs are supremely qualified. The material is something all women--and especially women scientists--should know. This is one of the most rewarding and interesting classes I've taken at Harvard, and I know that the things I learned will continue to impact me for the rest of my career and life.
Good class, but be prepared to put in some effort to do well on the papers.  Also, section is not a free ride- it requires you to do all the reading and participate a lot.
Great class, low amounts of stress. There is a decent amount of readings but honestly you dont have to do them all. Just try hard on the essays/multimedia projects and youll get an A
If you need a very easy, low time commitment course, this is for you.
Do yourself a favor and TAKE THIS COURSE. Seriously. It is very dry at the beginning talking about the Caveman and Darwin, but the last three units are so amazing that you wont want to miss a thing. Seriously. I walked out of this class a completely different person, a much better person, and I owe it all to Prof. Richardson who is an amazing lecturer!
Fantastic course--intellectually engaging and not overly difficult with interesting essay prompts!
This course is extremely interesting, fun and worthwhile.  Professor Richardson is an awesome lecturer so definitely go to class! Be aware that there are a fair number of assignments throughout the semester however.
One of the best classes I've taken here. Great lectures with very clear learning outcomes. Provides tools for many kinds of people to be critical of representations of gender and sexuality in science.
You've got to drink the koolaid for this class; there's a certain kind of paper that needs to be written (i.e. sensitive to gender issues/critical of science), and you've got to swallow your pride and churn that kind of product out...even if you think that evolutionary psychology isn't as evil as this course would have you believe.
This is by far one of the best courses offered at Harvard. It should be required. Lectures are clear and interesting. Readings are short and not too technical. Assignments are fun. This course overall teaches incredibly important topics in a cohesive and engaging way, and is something you should take.
I learned so much from this class, not just about history of science and gender theories, but also about the interaction between media and science, and how that intersection can together shape history and the way science is perceived. It's a course that makes you think beyond what is actually being taught in lectures, and I'm incredibly glad that I took it.
Great class! This class changed the way I think about science and made me very excited about the History of Science department in general. Although there is a lot of assigned reading, the workload isn't too heavy, and the paper topics are very open-ended. I definitely got a lot out of this class--highly recommend.
take this class!!! prof richardson is amazing. she is very organized and a great lecturer. the content is really interesting. it really opened my eyes to how i view biology, psychology, and sociology.
Take this course!!!! I can not stress how enjoyable, fun, and interesting this course was. Professor Richardson is amazing, and the teaching staff (Cara Fallon) is the best. I wish I had taken this class before senior spring, because I may have decided to do histor of science as a concentration. Wonderful class, low stress, and I learned so much!!!
This is by far the best class I have taken in my 4 years at Harvard; I am just sad I didn't find it earlier. It truly changes the way you see the world, especially if you are a woman/person in science. Such interesting material, and really changes the way you think about research in evolutionary biology/behavioral biology, especially in terms of gender differences.
This class will challenge you both in terms of the assignments and the content, but you will learn a lot and be happy that you took it.
Very interesting material and very engaging. Will not feel like work because it is fun.
Definitely try this out if you have ever questioned pop science views on evolutionary psychology. Such fascinating material. The reading is A LOT but the assignments are spaced out well and the multimedia essay option is the best. Highly recommend this course. Just don't be afraid to challenge Professor Richardson. The entire course is about challenging authority.
This class is awesome! Professor Richardson gives very interesting lectures and it'll really change how to view science. Loved this course! Definitely take it!
Great class! Really interesting topics and the professor is SO knowledgeable and passionate.
This class is really superb. The topics are fascinating, and Professor Richardson is a great lecturer who presents arguments that you've likely not heard before, which really challenged my perceptions of what I considered to be the "norm". This was a class that always had me engaged, and really made me think critically about relevant topics, but in the end did not require too much work. There's a lot of readings, but you generally don't have to do them all to get a good sense of the topic or to have a good paper argument. Basically, you should TAKE THE CLASS
Although the class has a reputation for being easy (indeed, it can be if you don't do the readings), it's well worth it to do the readings and be engaged in lecture. It's all quite interesting, and my views on science and evolution, especially as presented in pop culture, is quite different.
Take this class if you are interested in feminism and/or evolutionary biology/psychology. It helps you think critically about science that is commonly deployed to make social or political claims. There is not a lot of work and you gain a lot from it!
This class was great as a Pass/Fail option.  Professor Richardson and my TF worked with me so I didn't have to complete all of the assignments, which was awesome.
For those who've studied evolutionary biology it was an interesting look at historical and social effects of the theories. For everyone, it was an interesting perspective on modern gender issues.
Fantastic professor and teaching staff who are really enthusiastic about the subject matter. Relatively light workload but still a class that makes you think. Even if you don't think you're interested in this material, I'd definitely recommend finding a class to take with Prof. Richardson.
