Takes very little.
soo cool take this youll learn things you never knew about
Keep up with the readings.
Fine, but dry.
This course is a great way to learn about all the experiments every History of Science, Psychology, or Sociology concentrator should know about.
This class is interesting, has a pretty relaxed workload, and is relatively painless overall. Great senior spring class or great elective class.
Pretty dull at times, but generally a very easy class
If you're interested in the topic of 'critical experiments,' then you should definitely take this class.  One thing to keep in mind is that it is not really an "easy" class.  The course requires that you write several short assignments that are actually not that short... I felt like I was always writing a paper or doing a project for this class
I would tell them that while this course sounds appealing because of the subject matter, it is not presented in a way that makes it exciting to learn.
The lectures were not particularly interesting. They're quite dry, and mostly focus on historical background and biographies of the experimenters. The sections were entirely pointless.
Not only is the material incredibly interesting, but the course load is very manageable and the teaching staff is great. Choose to do the final experiment alternative, it's a blast
Lectures were ridiculously bland and section could not be more boring. I took this as a senior spring elective so I liked it in that it required minimal effort and attendance was options
Great class, keep up with the readings
Super interesting class that is low-stress. Take it!
Awesome class. Learned about some of the coolest experiments throughout history.
The class seemed interesting at first but lectures were dull and it was easy to zone out completely
This is a fun, easy class with interesting material.  A bit disorganized, but pretty fun and not stressful.  You may not learn that much, but if you put work into it you'll definitely get something out of it.  The final project was fun!
very easy, very boring
If you like the human sciences, you would enjoy the class, but only take it I it is a subject you are legitimately interested in.
Do the critical experiment!! It was a lot of fun!
It is kind of strangely run in terms of logistics, but it was interesting and fun to take as an elective.
Pretty good class: nice array of experiments were covered, the papers that he had to write were interesting and required some good information synthesis.  Though, some of the topics were much better and more engaging then the others.
Not too much work and very interesting
This is a very interesting class if you are at all interested in history or psychology. The readings and lectures are interesting and you learn a lot about the various types of scientific experimentation.
Pretty cool class. Lots of interesting readings and videos. Not too much work.
This was a class that seemed like it would be very interesting and I just didn't live up to my expectations. I found the lectures to be boring and sections weren't very stimulating either. The paper assignments generally weren't difficult, but the take-home final exam was pretty long and we only had a short amount of time to complete it. It was easy to get away with not doing much work in the class, and I think that it was okay because I wasn't as interested in the material as I thought I'd be.
It's a wonderful class - you learn a lot about a lot of interesting material, very different from other Harvard courses you might be able to take.  Great syllabus, great professor and just a fun course overall!
this is a good class to take for an easy elective
Look out if you don't like listening to your classmates take up lecture time by talking the whole time.
A fantastic introduction to a fascinating subject. Highly applicable to other fields, and to contemporary society.
I would tell them that it is a very interesting course, there aren't many like it at Harvard, the professor is great, and it's an enjoyable experience.  One of my favorite classes so far.
interesting material, laid back environment, manageable assignmnets
Should have a background in 20th century history and history of psychology.
The teacher is friendly, eclectic, and very personable. The course material is easy to grasp while providing extremely important keys to understanding how we live our lives today. The readings are short, and the assignments, while frequent, do not seem too difficult (I did not write the short papers). I would recommend this class to a friend.
A painless and actually creative way to fill an elective or Hist of Sci requirement. Prof. Lemov is great, and lectures and in-class discussions were involved and interesting.
"be prepared to see the skeletons in the closets of the most revered institutions of america - academia, government, and big corporations."
If you want a great survey of human experiments as well as a thought provoking course regarding the changing meaning and goals of experimentation this is the class for you.
Professor Lemov is great.  Sections aren't really necessary but a good way to get thinking about the material, paper topics and final assignments.  Reading can be somewhat mundane.  Overall though, painless course.
Interesting subject matter makes this course easy to get through.  If you don't mind the writing than this is the class for you.
Professor Lemov is very caring about her students, and the material she incorporates is really interesting. If you're at all interested in psych, you will want to do the readings.
This is a great class to take in the history of science department. The instructor is approachable and the class size is small and personalized. The topic is very interesting and I would definitely recommend the class.
It is a good class. But Rebecca is much stronger with smaller groups than with big ones. So if there are many students interested in the course in the first week then opt out if possible.
The material is great, and will be fascinating for people of any concentration. If you are really interested in these topics, you will do well.
It's relatively easy and the exerts we read are interesting.
This course is relatively low stress and allows you to use the study of history in a pretty interesting way... I also enjoyed the analytical techniques of learning about the science.
Great professor, interesting material, very manageable workload.
the course material is very interesting but lectures tend to be tedious
you get as much out as you put in
This class is cool because there is no midterm or final, and you can do your own experiment which can be really fun. The papers are a bit of a drag at times, but overall not too bad.
great class. very interesting material, great professor. not too much work, but challenging work when it comes up
The topics covered in this class are fascinating, and the resulting conversations between students, professor, and TFs are equally so.
This class offers a historical survey of psychology in the twentieth century from a perspective just scientific enough to keep you invested in the subject matter.
This is a good introductory course for human behavioral science
This class is a pretty easy and interesting elective for those who want to learn more about critical psychology and social experiments. Gives you a comprehensive review of the history. Readings are not too bad, and courseload is very manageable.
While a fairly solid course, it is not interesting as the title and course description might lead one to believe.
I would definitely recommend this course to a student concentrating in psychology.  It was enjoyable to learn abot all of the critical scientific experiments.
This class won't ask too much of you, but it's definitely worth it to take. The material is extremely interesting.
If you're interested in psychology or the social sciences, this is a great course to take. There's very little work- only some readings before classes. There are 4 essays, which seems like a lot, but the essay topics are actually pretty interesting and not too difficult to write about. The presentations aren't INCREDIBLE, but they still held my attention.
The class is not very difficult and the material is pretty interesting. You can really get what you want to out of this class because the structure is not very rigid and there are a huge amount of questions to be asked in the field of the changing nature of science experiments
i would recommend any class with professor lemov. definitely take if you are interested in psychology or doing history of science
