Too many readings. Also it was hard to understand what was expected of us for each assignment. I attribute it to the fact that this was the first year that it was offered- maybe it will be offered again. Also, it was bad when we caught the TF sleeping in class.
You should absolutely take this class. It was an honor to take a class with Professor Brandt, especially on a topic that he is so passionate about. You work on coming up with a de-stigmatizing intervention for a condition of your choice throughout the semester, which is a really unique project compared to those in my other classes. It teaches you how to think critically and analytically about the outcomes of an intervention, especially one that impacts so many stigmatized individuals.
I was super excited about this course but it wasn't the greatest. This course 'requires' a lot of reading, although you can get away with doing almost none of it (except maybe the theory). The course assignments are interesting and allow you to do a project of your own choosing. The lecture component of this course is REALLY boring and dry but it's only 2 hours a week so it's fine. Professor Brandt is the sweetest guy and obviously super super smart so it was awesome to hang out with him. Also really easy on grading!!!! (like the lowest grade on any assignment given to anybody was a B+)
This was a fantastic class! I would highly recommend any opportunity to learn from Professor Brandt and Jacob. The course was structured in such a way that you could choose a topic you were truly passionate about and each assignment would build on and compliment the others.
This class combines the scholarly with the practical.  Given that this was the first time this course was run, I believe it will grow into a very rewarding experience for students that overcomes the hurdles of early development.  Professor Brandt does a great job of elucidating the sticky topic of "stigma" and how it can be confronted in its many facets.  The combination of historical analysis and the application of it to real world problems provides students with a learning experience that can be readily translated to the real world.
Professor Brandt and Jacob were the dream team. Prof Brandt cares so much about the material and the subject matter that you will come away so inspired and having learned so much about theory and practice. The workload for this class is a perfect balance of reading about the theoretical, working on your own research, and developing something of your own in practice, and the class on the whole was a really cool opportunity to learn from your peers in addition to the teaching team. Take this class if you can, its truly a gem.
This is an interesting discussion course.  Professor Brandt and Jacob obviously care about the material and the students in the course
there is a lot of reading that you most likely won't go over in class; each session did not feel that structured; professor brandt is really kind though and passionate; just felt a bit frustrating at times
Professor Brandt is a fantastic person from whom to learn and the subjects are really interesting. However, class conversation wasn't the best. It tended to stall, I think because Professor Brandt would respond to most student's comments instead of allowing us time to respond to each other right away. If you're interested in the material I still think you'll enjoy the class and learn a lot from it.
This was a chill class that you didn't know was chill until the end. There is a LOT of reading (~500 pages per class), but it was a bit frustrating because we rarely discussed what we had read, and usually discussed one or so in depth and the others in passing. There was confusion regarding the projects since it was a new class, and we did not receive much feedback on the work so it was confusing as to how we were to proceed with the assignments. Ultimately there was little feedback because I think Prof Brandt and Jacob really intended this class to be a thought provoking one and they found all of our destigmatization projects interesting and meaningful, but having come into the class expecting an intense history of science seminar combined with the lack of guidance I think many were confused as to how intense our projects had to be until the end. I think in future years this class could be improved logistically, and ultimately was a very cool class that really allowed me to master one stigma in health and think about what could be done to effectively combat that stigma. If I had known the expectations of the class from the beginning I think I would have enjoyed it a lot more. Also, Dr. Brandt is the sweetest, most understanding professor you could ever meet, especially given how established he is in history of science so it was such a great experience taking a class with him.
