This is the only class I've ever taken in which every single student was interested and engaged in the material. Great class.
I highly recommend this class. Perhaps my favourite Harvard class so far. Very manageable workload, excellent teaching in lecture and section, and such an awesome topic.
A great, fun class that both satisfies your curiosity about the cold war and helps balance sometimes overwhelming course loads! Professor Baldiwn is approachable, organized, and an engaging lecturer, and Yvan led fantastic, frank conversations in section. Definitely worth taking!
This class is fantastic - really interesting material, well designed assignments, and a very enthusiastic and helpful professor. Definitely take if you are at all interested in cold war history or the history of science more general.
Definitely one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard! Great professor, fascinating material, interesting readings, fun assignments, knowledgable TF! If you have even the slightest interest in science or history, this is the class for you! Nothing but good things to say about this course.
122v is a great world tour of Cold War policies and practices related to science. I learned very much, and the teaching staff is superb. Be sure to be very thorough on exams, though, as they may dock you for not mentioning certain key terms or phrases (which is a little persnickety, especially if you overall answered the somewhat vague question).
It's very interesting material, and the teaching staff is great.
Not too challenging, but also very interesting. A nice combination for every kind of student.
THIS CLASS ROCKS. DR BALDWIN IS THE VERY BEST. She is a very, very high-quality teacher and, most importantly, is passionate about her subject matter. She is the most accessible professor i've had at Harvard. Yvan is cool and makes the class virtually painless. You get a TON out of what you put in (and that's not horribly much). I loved how it brought humanities and science students together to discussion. You will learn SO MUCH about mid to late 20th century world history. SO APPLICABLE to life, I can't even express.  This is a gem of a class. I'd take it again.
Learn about a very interesting subject that puts a lot of important events in the last century in context.
Fun class if you are interested in the course material. I really enjoyed it and the course load is not that high. I took it pass/fail for fun and I liked it.
This class was not only interesting but also extremely well taught.  This was one of my favorite classes in my four years here.  Definitely take it!
Professor Baldwin is consistently the best lecturer ever. Her lectures are super interesting and she not only really knows her stuff and is an incredible scholar, but she is also a great teacher. The course materials are very interesting and you will learn about all sorts of super cool stuff during the Cold War.
GREAT class! So interesting and I'm not even a huge history buff. Professor Baldwin's lectures are so organized and very interesting. She has a passion for the material that really shines through and is so knowledgeable on the subject. I highly recommend this class.
This course is wonderful. It traces in a really compelling fashion the trajectory of science beginning in World War II and ending with the dissolution of the Soviet Union, touching upon major themes throughout history. Fascinating, wonderful lectures, great readings, workload could actually be increased because the material was so interesting.
If you're looking for a fun, interesting elective about an incredibly interesting period in history, this is the class. It's not an "easy A" but is not incredibly stressful.
This class is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard and this is coming from a senior. It is so well organized and the lectures are great. Teaching staff is on top of everything and the assignments and reading requirements are completely manageable. I learned a lot! .
This class is a good taste of History of Science and will likely not be that difficult if you have a hard class load. The lectures aren't taped, so go to all of them and take good notes. It's really interesting though, and the section portion/lectures are great.
This is a GREAT course. I have learned so much and had so much fun while learning! Makes me want to take more history + hist/sci courses.
This course is really really great.  If you are at all interested in either science or the Cold War this course will definitely offer a new and fresh perspective on both of these things.  Assignments are very manageable with just two short papers and a midterm and final.
Not only is this course not unreasonably challenging, but it really blends science, technology, and history together in an interesting way. The lectures and readings are interesting, and discussions in section can get very intense, in a good way. The Cold War tends to bring out very different voices from different people and our discussions were incredibly interesting. I would recommend this course with enthusiasm to anyone interested in history, history of science, or even science in general, as it helps contextualize much of the science that we learn in other courses here and why our scientific establishment developed in the way that it did.
This was one of my favorite courses this year! I really enjoyed learning about all of this, despite myself not being a history of science concentrator. There were people of all sorts of backgrounds in this course, and the content was very interesting. Best of all, it was all very relevant to things happening in the world today, and so it felt useful to understand and learn.
This is an amazing class. Yvan is the best TF I've ever had. He facilitates amazing discussions in section and makes everyone feel comfortable speaking. Dr. Baldwin is also one of the best, most intelligent Professors at Harvard. She was extremely well-prepared and helped facilitate discussion in lecture. I absolutely loved this class.
Despite the focused title, this course is very much a survey course--most subjects receive a week's treatment. This has its drawbacks, since cold war science is only so big. The course's broad approach results in covering a couple of areas that are pretty loosely related to the cold war, which may not be ideal.
Very good course.  You want to take it
one of the best courses I've taken at H
If you're a histsci concentrator, I would highly recommend this course!!
This class is pretty easy and fun if you're interested in the Cold War. The period was such an interesting time for the development of science and technology in the US and USSR, ensuring that you learn something new every lecture. Like most hist sci classes however, the class really boils down to just reading a new wikipedia page every week. If you want an easy A go ahead and take this course but if you are looking for something more substantive to round out your schedule and add to your Harvard experience, I'd give this one a pass.
Such an incredible course! Dr. B is so insightful and caring. She was always willing to meet me outside of her office hours and provided me with great, thorough feedback even on reading response papers. I'm not a history of science concentrator, but I found this course accessible and enjoyable. I don't know when/if this course will be offered in the future, but you should definitely take this course (or any course taught by Dr. B) if you have the chance.
Loved everything about it! So interesting, great instructor, great materials and topics. Assignments are also interesting (the blog posts) and studying was more interesting than difficult and was almost enjoyable (first time I've said that about a class in awhile).
Absolutely!
The lectures were the highlight of this course. I think the readings/sections were weakest, but since it is a new course, can be ironed out in the future. The professor is an engaging lecturer, and although as it turns out, a lot of the science of the Cold War did not interest me (a lot about academia), the lectures were always very well done. Section was often lackluster in terms of discussion, and often the readings were dry and left little room for great or creative discussions.
This an amazing course for any Harvard student. Professor Baldwin gives clear, organized lectures and the readings and assignments are pretty manageable. It's definitely not a pushover class as there are quite a few assignments, but the feedback is great and it's fairly graded. Also section is amazing. You'll come away with a deeper understanding of the Cold War and of science in general. Great class, highly recommend.
It is certainly worth taking, especially if you're interested in the historical context of science in an era of unprecedented growth. I wouldn't recommend it to those outside of the concentration.
A thorough survey to the Cold War history
This is an amazing class. Nuclear weapons, spies, and a lot of "cool" technology is a prominent feature of the course. The Cold War is just a really neat time period, and Dr. Baldwin does an amazing job.
