This is an incredibly fun class that is very different in its approach and materials. The topic of cyberpunk is extremely interesting and fun to me, and the approach adopted in class - involving material that ranged from video games to short stories to journal articles to movies and second life(!) - makes the class exciting and dynamic. The class is extremely chill and the assignments are really great and open - with lots of room for creativity and the development of your personal interests. I think that in the midst of many labs/papers/lectures where the class could get boring, a class like this one is both fun and refreshing. Great class!
Take the class if you like scifi and want to talk about scifi with other people who love scifi. Be prepared to analyse the scifi movement a little, but it's great fun.
You'll love the class, but probably hate a couple of the kids in the class that were extremely attracted to the science fiction curriculum just for the sake of talking about all the science fiction they've already read.
This class made me fall in love with science fiction literature.  The discussions were very intriguing, especially with the way the professor probed the students with challenging questions that delved deep into the texts and weekly topics.  Both the professor and teaching fellow were passionate about the subject, which made everything very enjoyable.  With only two major assignments, you can't go wrong, especially if this is your first time getting exposed to hist of sci!
An amazing course, do whatever it takes to enlist!!!!
It's a fun time.  Do it!
Excellent literary coverage of science fiction, and the non-book based media (movies, a video game, "hypertexts") also very interesting.
this class was fun
This course is amazing. You'll definitely walk away with an appreciation for cyberpunk and science fiction and you'll learn a lot from your classmates. The readings are great, but if you're not a reader, set some time aside in the week to get them done (7-10hrs?).
Again, the class is all fun and games and creative projects and awesome and then they dump a real paper on you at the end. But your semester will be super fun.
BEST. COURSE. EVER.
Go for the cool professor and the amazing reading list - but it's portrayed as way more scifi-oriented than I think it is.  If you're looking for a class to nerd out in, this might not be it.
A lot of fun, and incredibly useful in getting a grounded in the field. A perfect confluence of the history of science and the history of communications media, starting from early-modern scientific print and ending with twentieth-century databases. The readings are illuminating, and Prof. Csiszar provides excellent suggestions for further reading.
awesome discussions. take it!
This course was extremely stimulating and unlike any other course I've ever taken. Professor Csiszar's enthusiasm is contagious, and the class discussions were informative and interesting.
Though a course such as this is naturally more interesting to HistSci concentrators, the texts are applicable and relevant enough to intrigue a wide variety of students, especially those who wish to explore modern trends in communication.
This is a great seminar to take whether or not you are concentrating in History and Science. The subject matter covers broad political and social issues that impact communication, so throughout the semester you will be exploring everything from how economic systems impact concepts of copyright to the similarities between hippie communes and Internet databases. Our weekly course blog developed very nicely and continued students' enthusiasm sparked during discussion. The final project is flexible in format and allows you to extend course concepts to an area of your own interests.
Professor Csiszar is great! He did a really great job of fostering interesting discussion in class and has designed a course that is interesting and provokes in-depth analysis of how science is communicated. There are also field trips to collections on-campus, which give you the opportunity to work with some amazing source material. Would highly recommend the course for science majors; it helps you think about current lab culture and how science is communicated today, and it's a really accessible course with a professor who actually cares about his students' emotional well-being and intellectual success!
This is a course with a relevant and compelling topic with one of the most brilliant and thoughtful professors I've ever encountered at Harvard. The delicious snacks he brings to class most weeks, though irrelevant academically, are like metaphor for the intellectual five-star dinner the course is.
This class is one of my favorite I've taken at Harvard! It engages with a fascinating and broad series of questions centered on science communication and the science of communication! Every seminar was engaging and really fun (and usually accompanied by fresh strawberries!) Prof Csiszar is a great teacher and cares a lot about making the class fruitful for everyone. In addition, he is incredibly supportive to each student individually, helping me to brainstorm resources for my final project and following up on things we discussed during office hours. The readings were manageable in length and so interesting that I actually wanted to do all of them for class! The class is designed to allow you to pursue your specific interests within the topic, and I was able to ponder a number of questions about intellectual property, media theory, big data, misinformation and merchants of doubt, the creation of scientific publics and experts, and cybersocieties. Strongly recommend to any one interested in this topic in hist of sci!
If you're interested in the topic, particularly in approaching all these really big questions from a broader historical/sociological lens, this course is a must. Professor Csiszar is one of the most passionate professors out there, and the course is such that you get to think about a wide variety of topics and synthesize ideas together as you move forward in the semester. The readings are really fascinating and not burdensome at all, and the only other assignments you have pertain to preparing for discussion and the final project, which is on a topic you choose yourself. Take this course!
The topic is fascinating and the readings are great, carefully-selected, and certainly the most readable ones you will ever have. Prof. Csiszar is caring, meticulous, and frequently brings treats. Sometimes it can feel like discussion hits on the same points over and over, but such is the pitfall of seminars. On whole, a rewarding, eminently manageable class.
Make sure you do most of the readings and really think about them; form an opinion about them. Be prepared to articulate your thoughts! Discussion is crucial.
He is a fantastic teacher!  He truly wants everyone to grasp each week's material and encourages student participation
