Writing a thesis is definitely a commitment but the history of science department is very supportive. Unlike junior tutorial this tutorial doesn't meet very often at all (which is good because you want more time to meet with your advisor, etc.) and the work is largely self driven (as a thesis should be).
Writing a thesis is very rewarding -- I would highly recommend it.
If you decide to do a thesis, you'll definitely have the support to do it. This took more time than a normal fourth class, but it's worth it if you have a topic that you love. Write early, write often, and be patient with yourself!
If you enjoyed writing the junior paper, I would recommend writing a thesis! Having your own project is challenging to say the least, but definitely rewarding.
Even if you are a bit nervous about writing a senior thesis, I encourage you to give this course a try if you are dedicated to the project and have found a topic that interests you.  There is a good emphasis on building community among the senior thesis writers and helping one another through the process.  The thesis is an intensive but very rewarding senior project.
If you're concentrating in History of Science, you should take advantage of this amazing opportunity to write a thesis. Yes, writing a thesis while balancing everything else is (very) challenging, but the Dept. does a great job in supporting and guiding its thesis writers.
Writing a thesis within history of science has been exciting and rewarding thus far. There's tons of support from hist of sci faculty!
Well-organized, well-led thesis course.
Writing a thesis is a ton of work, but the Hist of Sci department gives very sensical and reasonable deadlines and all the support you could want in writing it.
If you have a great thesis topic that you know you'll love digging into, definitely write one! The History of Science department is very flexible with helping you write a thesis on something you're really interested in, so it's a great opportunity to take if you know you'd enjoy writing a long paper.
Writing a thesis is like maintaining a romantic relationship: you love it to death but it can sometimes be filled with drama and stress. Your thesis advisor is like the relationship counselor.
The senior thesis process is the most challenging and stressful experience at times and the most rewarding and exciting at others. Remember that this is a race and you won't always be sprinting, but that's okay. Take your time, pace yourself, be patient with your ideas, and constantly write (even if painfully difficult to get words to page).
HistSci 99 provides a good amount of structure to the thesis-writing process, but does not overburden students with unnecessary deliverables or busy work.
Be prepared to make writing a senior thesis your top academic priority!
Hard but rewarding.
Great opportunity to do in-depth research on a topic of your choosing. Start early and sustain your work throughout the semester so that you don't scramble to produce your first chapter at the end.
i recommend if you want to write a thesis. If you are really busy outside of this class, it easily falls to the backburner because there aren't many deadlines. be careful of letting that happen.
I found the fall semester of thesis research/writing to actually be quite enjoyable. As long as you set deadlines for yourself and put in work on a consistent basis, producing the first chapter by December is not that stressful. Also, doing a bit of reading/research in the summer is helpful!
I love writing a thesis. It is not easy and at many points you are not sure how your argument will turn out. Writing so many pages and planning a narrative of such broad scope is daunting. However, it is very satisfying and intellectually compelling to identify and think through the questions raised by one's sources, and as someone who loves writing, the thesis is ultimately a very fulfilling exercise. I strongly encourage anyone interested in testing their analytic skills and contributing something original to the field to go through this process.
Writing a thesis is great but a lot of work. This class itself isn't really related to that, so write a damn thesis.
Write early and often.
If you're interested in pursuing your own academic research now or in the future, I 'd definitely recommend writing a senior thesis through History of Science - the thesis tutorial provides really great step-by-step help and Hist of Sci has great advisers, especially really excited and smart grad students, to help out
While time-intensive, writing a thesis is AMAZING. You get to study in depth exactly what you want, on our own time, but realize that it takes time. TOTALLY WORTH IT.
Great for thesis work!
The thesis process is quite individual in nature; you learn how to really delve into academic material with limited guidance. It's the first chance that you have at truly being a scholar--and I think it's worth doing as a History of Science concentrator! The department is incredibly supportive, and the advising staff is wonderful.
Professor Phillips provides helpful information and guidelines in getting the first chapter done, but no amount of advice from him or your thesis adviser means anything if you yourself don't do the research and planning/analyzing. If possible, try to have a vague idea of your topic before starting the semester and do some research and reading before class since its almost impossible to get any background research done once classes start.  But they tell us that this first chapter is the hardest part so its all downhill (or uphill? who really knows...) from here! Also, make sure you have a thesis adviser who you can talk to and provides helpful feedback. They can really make sense of blathering paragraphs or muddled topics.
Writing a thesis is tough. Be committed and truly interested in your topic or it will be hell. I can assume it will be worth it in the end if I make it.
By doing individual research you are actually contributing to the existing knowledge base in the history of science field- a difficult, but truly respectable accomplishment with which to finish your academic career.
Definitely write a thesis! It's difficult but so rewarding. Despite the stress, I actually enjoy researching and writing.
If you want to write a thesis I think the History of Science department is a good department to be in.
You learn so much about yourself and your likes, strengths and weaknesses. It's tough to push yourself and stick to your goals. I love owning a project. And it's got me thinking about a PhD.
Think about whether you want to do this and why.  Do you have long stretches of time?  Are you doing recruiting? Do you have the patience to sit and read books and books without knowing if they will eventually end up in your thesis?
it is a lot of work to write a thesis. make sure you are committed to writing a lot over j-term
Only do this if you are interested in writing a thesis. Not worth it if you feel like you are being forced to do so.
I mean, for a thesis tutorial its not half bad.
Undertake the task of writing a thesis only if you really feel like it will be intrinsically rewarding for you :) - it is a new challenge that is pretty stressful sometimes, so make sure you have a topic you're interested in and are willing to try something new and different!
writing a thesis is very difficult but definitely worthwhile
If you aren't sure about writing a thesis, do not take this course.  It is a tremendous commitment and will take up the better part of your senior year.  Professor Phillips makes light of it, but you will basically have no life outside of writing your thesis and trying to juggle the other work you have due at the same time.
