This class presented information with great depth and breadth. The discussion sections are exciting, and the assignments are all very useful.
The final project (we had to make a video) took up a lot of time but it was also a great way to re-cap everything we'd learned in class, so don't fret too much about it.
great class! I learned things that I have never been exposed to before. The assignments were really creative and fun
Easy class, really nice professor.
its fun!
This course is outstanding!!! Apart from what is superficially attractive about a course (relatively light workloads, etc.), this class is genuinely one of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Kim leads great lectures that he is extremely knowledgeable about (his expertise in the field comes through in the discussion section), and the readings are never extraneous or unnecessarily tedious. This class is perfect for anyone with interest in both East Asian history and history of science.
Not much work very easy.
Great class to gain an understanding of the major themes of science and technology in East Asia.
if you are remotely interested in East Asia, take it, it's a gem!!
I took this course as a fifth class and loved it. Interesting subject matter without a lot of work. Professor Kim is also very nice and understanding. Do speak up during class discussions.
This course is an AMAZING way to learn interesting material in the most laid back and easy fashion imaginable.  There is very little work outside of class, and very little class time... so unlike other courses at Harvard you can actually be interested in the course material and not have to worry about completely random busy work.
This was perhaps the most interesting elective I have taken, I highly recommend it.
I absolutely loved this class! It was not only very interesting and pertinent to current events, but the material was well presented and organized.
Very interesting course.
Not always easy to understand him but you pick up on his accent after about a week or two and it becomes much easier to learn.
The class is really great if you want to learn about modern East Asia.
This semester the course was structured in the following manner: Every Tuesday we had a lecture by the professor, and on Thursday's we would discuss the weekly readings for the full hour after submitting a paragraph response for each reading prior to the class. I personally really enjoyed the class.
It's a light course to take for fun. Prof Kim is nice and unintentionally humorous. The subject matter is interesting and you can feel like you learned something useful, as far as electives go!
Pay close attention to readings and try to come up with unique questions about them. The class encourages creative thinking in both discussion and writing.
Take this class! You will learn a lot about East Asian history and culture across different countries and eras. The workload is completely manageable. The response papers are not bad at all, and the longer assignments were actually quite fun to complete. Professor Dong is very helpful and extremely charismatic as well.  If you're looking for a low-stress class that also teaches you a lot, you can't go wrong.
Most of the readings are very interesting and well-connected to weekly lectures. The 1 hour lecture and 1 hour discussion both run by Dr. Kim is a great way to run a course, eliminating a TF. Dr. Kim is extremely knowledgable and really excited about the information. Sometimes he does focus a bit too much on what interests him, but that can be overlooked. There were only 2 papers, a final project, and a final take home essay (2 questions) besides the weekly discussions. But keep in mind in the discussions, you must be ready to talk. The class is small, and Dr. Kim calls on everyone individually to share something. You must be prepared. However, this was great practice for critical reading and listening on Thursdays. Not sure how grading on essays works, as I read a few friends' papers that were very well-written and argued that received poorer grades than my own, so keep in mind this is not a "gem" and that you will work to get an A- or A in this class. However, I recommend it!
The reading can be lengthy in this course, but many of them are extremely interesting. Only a handful are difficult to get through.
Definitely attend office hours in order to develop good ties with the professor
Great, accessible class that can refreshingly pair with a course load heavy with other topics.
Easy course and little time commitment, except when the final video project and final exam are due all at the same time around the start of reading period which is usually a difficult time for everyone. Shop the class and make sure you can understand prof's thick accent.
The video final project is so fun!  Professor Kim really encourages and responds to creative interpretations of it!
I thought the class was quite fascinating and entertaining. In terms of course load, each week consisted mainly of about 2-3 readings, except the one week we were required to watch two movies, one being Godzilla. There are two essays, and while I'm not quite sure how Professor Kim grades them, he seems mostly fair in grading the essays. At the end of the semester, there is a take home exam and a 3 minute video (you work in pairs).
