The readings are super interesting, but also very long. Also, use office hours to discuss essay topics with the TF or professor - they are very helpful to talk to if you have trouble outlining or organizing your thoughts.
The material for this class is fascinating and provocative. The paper assignments, however, are immensely difficult, not because of the length but because you are required to expound on two topics in one 8-page paper. I hope they change this component of the course, because it would really be improved by doing so.
I would tell future students to come to class with questions and to make the most of their experience in the course by doing the readings in advance. The readings and assignments are manageable. While some of the readings are absolutely great, the assignments weren't the most stimulating, but they fit into my schedule really nicely. I didn't have a lot of contact with Prof. Jou or Sean, but they seemed approachable and enthusiastic about the course. This was not the best course I have taken at Harvard, but it was not the worst.
Provides a comprehensive view of various topics in women's medicine.
This course was interesting but could be taught and organized better in the future.
Definitely take this course! Professor Jou is a great lecturer because she keeps you very engaged every time with pictures, video clips, advertisements, and other probing questions/materials throughout the lecture. I loved that the class was about 35 students, so small enough to engage in discussion yet big enough to remain silent if you didn't feel comfortable talking. The readings are all really interesting and yet never too much - same goes with assignments! A very stress-free course that will at least captivate your interest and make it worth the while. Definitely take the course if you identify as a woman and haven't taken any similar women's studies courses. There are important trends and nuances that are important to recognize at our that impact how we navigate through the world.
This class was very interesting and I really enjoyed it! The essays are fair and require that you actually do the readings, but they are manageable and interesting also.
Prof. Jou is extremely organized and her lectures are interesting.
It was very interesting learning about how the perceptions of women's bodies in science have changed since ancient times (and also how similar some ideas still are).
Great class, professor is great, class requirements are straightforward: 3 papers, TF is great too, learn a lot of interesting stuff
This class brings an interesting and nuanced perspective to history. I loved it. Professor Jou's lectures are engaging and just keep getting better over the course of the semester. I would do this homework while procrastinating on my other readings because it was all so interesting.
While this class has a low workload, it did not deal effectively with issues relating to any other women's group beyond white, middle class women. Women of color and socioeconomic diversity were largely excluded except for the occasional mention which was disappointing.  The class does not go in-depth on issues and tries to do too much which makes it hard to take away new and innovative information.  Additionally, lectures move very quickly which makes it hard to effectively take notes. This class sometimes oversimplified complicated issues, and I would have preferred to cover more depth than breath. However, the staff is very friendly and approachable.
Overall the material we learned in this class was pretty interesting. At times it seemed a little bit repetitive, but that is in part because the same themes are emphasized throughout the course.
So much fun, and incredibly fascinating! A good intro class but won't give you thorough knowledge about an individual subject. Take as a fun extra elective class!
I cannot provide enough words to express my dislike for this course.  This has to be one of the most disappointing courses here, period.  Boring, uncritical, white-washed approaches and materials.  History of science has so much more to offer.  Look elsewhere, preferably something taught by Sarah Richardson.
this class is super interesting and very manageable but the paper grading is pretty tough.
This class was very interesting and makes you think about how history affects the way we think about medicine and society today. Probably not for the conservative.
