Excellent class for any background! The lecture component could be a *bit* dull from time to time, but the teaching staff is phenomenal, workload is very minimal, reading is manageable, and the final project is actually pretty fun and gives you lots of room to research what is interesting to you. Dr. Browne is awesome plus she brings snacks every week. Would highly recommend to humanities people and scientists alike!
I really looked forward to this class every week! Professor Browne is extremely engaging and passionate and it is really interesting to learn about a subject that is so often overlooked. Final research paper was also really open and fun to write. Workload is also reasonably light so great to balance schedule.
Chill class a cool topics.  Nice class to take with a heavy course load or if you want to learn more about the history of animals and their relationship to humans.
This was one of my all time favorite classes at Harvard! It was exactly what I was looking for. I'm a huge animal-lover and learning about animals in a historical context was really cool. I learned so many interesting things and this class helped me reaffirm the fact that I want to do some kind of work involving animals in the future. I'm so glad I found and took this course!
Loved this class! Definitely a get-out-what-you-put-in kind of thing (and on its own not a whole lot of work) but really made me think about human-animal relationships differently.
great history of science class for those who wish to explore the concentration
The readings are incredibly interesting, if you have a high interest in animals I would definitely recommend this course.
The teaching staff are fantastic! The readings are interesting and are well summarized in Prof Browne's lectures at the beginning of class (when there is one.) The field trips helped expose me to areas of Harvard I would have not otherwise realized existed here.
This class is so good! Professor Browne and the Teaching Fellows were super knowledgable and insightful, and the reading is all pretty interesting and relevant. If you want to have time to really engage with the reading though, don't leave it for the night before!
Awesome course! Dr. Browne is fantastic, and if you're interested in animals' interactions with humans and role in our world, you will enjoy!
If you have even the slightest interest in animals, I highly recommend this course. All of the professors and TFs are incredibly passionate about the topics, which makes this class so much better. They really value your opinion. Professor Browne even brings treats every class! It was a heavy reading class, but that is usually expected in a once a week seminar style class. The teaching staff really does a great job making this class both enjoyable and insightful.
Professor Browne is extremely engaging and knowledgeable of the subject
Good course. Not a lot of assignments so its important to do well on the few things that are graded
This class was a lot of fun and definitely not too much work for a senior writing a thesis. You probably don't have to do the readings to be successful in the class, but they were all really interesting so I ended up doing most of them anyway. Dr. Browne definitely gets people excited about the subject matter.
This class is the gem of all gems. Super chill, you talk about animals and then break off into sections for an easy discussion about the week's limited readings. This two hour seminar was always the fastest two hours of my week, doesn't feel like a lot of work at all... And it really isn't.
it's pretty interesting and it's a lighter workload. readings can sometimes be a little difficult and long.
The classes are quite boring and are to sit through, especially since they are two hours long
This class was interesting and raised some good points about humans' relationship with animals. The readings are light and there aren't many assignments.
Very interesting class that covers a lot of different topics so you can find your interests!
The class is the perfect class to balance out a challenging workload - it's a relaxing, engaging way to think about society with a new lens.
This class was extremely enjoyable. Professor Browne is so wise and genuinely appreciates and values anything you add to the discussion. The topics were extremely interesting--from learning about the rise in chicken consumption during the industrial revolution to the history of zoo-keeping--and I always enjoyed going to class each week.
Excellent course on a fascinating and too often neglected topic.
Though the course lacks structure, the course and the materials are far-reaching so you do get a sense of the history of human - animal interactions.
I absolutely loved this class! It really challenged me to think about the relationship between humans and animals and I thought the course material was extremely interesting, relevant and engaging. Class was the highlight of my week.
I would recommend this course if you are really interested in understanding the historical and contemporary relationship between animals and humans. With that being said, it is a pretty chill course and could be a great balance to a difficult/heavy course load. It's definitely a "get out what you put in" type of course.
This is a great class to take to even out a heavy courseload. You get to read some really interesting lit and get a chance to go on fieldtrips that expose you to parts of Harvar dmost people never get the chance to see. Also: we watched a Panda Cam in class - that's reason enough to register.
Really fun class for anyone interested in human-animal relations. Professor Browne sone of those rare professors who loves getting to known students individually. She is also a phenomenal teacher, and she threw a great class party!
This course was great for senior spring, but definitely only take it if you find the material interesting (and why wouldn't you?). The readings were all fascinating and the majority of the coursework. The paper at the end was a great way to delve into the topic I found most interesting. Of course, the discussion is only as good as the people participating make it, but assuming you get a good group, there is absolutely no reason not to take this class.
This class was fascinating -- the readings spanned a wide range of subjects regarding animals and ranged from animals in film to the history of zoos to animals in the lab.
