The course material is really interesting, I thought Ragab was an excellent lecturer and Zoe was a great TF! I found myself disinclined to do the readings towards the end of the semester as they were long, and somewhat difficult to follow, but otherwise it was an enjoyable course.
This class was really great! The material may not seem that interesting to all but Professor Ragab MAKES it interesting. He is a great lecturer and the assignments in the class are all do-able. I would definitely recommend this course particularly if you need a histsci requirement.
Professor Ragab is absolutely phenomenal and really makes the lectures dynamic.  Anyone even with a passing interest in the history of medicine should consider taking this course.  Section was very enjoyable, and the field trips to the armory and museum were a ton of fun!  Assignments are very manageable and are pretty fun since you can write about what interests you.  Definitely one of the best History of Science courses, and there's a lot of great ones!
1. If you want to go into teaching and learn how to put a syllabus together, take this course with Dr. Ragab;2. Of all the courses I have taken at Harvard, this one taught me the most. I left it with far more "knowledge" on the subject matter, but more importantly much better thinking tools to address pre-modern objects and practices. This class made me a better scholar.
An enjoyable class! You'll get as much out of it as you put in.
Literally, take this class.  You will not regret it.  It is fascinating and so well taught and you will learns so much without having to do silly 'busy' work all the time.
This class is great! The professor is pretty funny, the TF is super understanding, and the material is really interesting. I had to turn in a paper late due to my computer crashing, and they were really understanding. Definitely my favorite class so far at Harvard!
This was awesome! Professor Ragab loves to teach and is incredibly knowledgeable on the subject area. There are many small assignments along the way, so just be on top of those and you'll be set.
Professor Ragab is a great lecturer and provides a lot of insight into medieval Europe and Middle East. Every lecture is exhilarating and we even got to take a field trip to Higgins Armory to look at armor. Zoe, the TF, is also great; she prepares very interactive activities during sections that really help people learn and is always quick to respond to emails and always available for meetings. However, you should keep in mind that the class is slight disorganized so it is important for you to be active in asking questions about expectations. Moreover, the lecture is very interactive, in which you have many opportunities to ask questions. Though because of the interactive nature, sometimes we go on tangents and time management could be improved.
This course is both fun and informative. While it could be slightly disorganized, the assignments are enjoyable and lectures are engaging! Definitely take it if you're interested in learning about medieval warfare or medical theory!
Go to the lectures; they are so interesting!!!!! And do not be afraid to ask questions and speak to the professor about the material!
Just pay attention in class.  Professor Ragab is a fantastic professor.  Just pay attention to the lectures and do the readings because they're fun.
You will come away with a newfound appreciation for the nuances of the Crusades and Islam. A good class if you are self-motivated to learn; but if you will slack off and not do the readings, this is not the class for you.
The class' title is a bit misleading, but the content is nevertheless interesting!
Very engaging lectures and interesting readings. The crusades are a very contentious historical period - makes for interesting study - and medicine just serves as an insightful crucible within that context.
