The way that the honors grades work within the department basically make writing a thesis irrelevant.  If you write one, the grade gets averaged with your overall department GPA to determine what degree of honors you get.  These are departmental honors and have nothing to do with the honors from the College that appear on the diploma.  So, do not write a thesis if you are only interested in getting an honors degree, since the thesis doesn't actually help you get that.
It is rewarding and not as scary as people think!
In the aftermath of the thesis process, I look back at thesis-writing as one of the best experiences I have ever had. Although it was absolutely miserable at times during the process, I found it to be incredibly rewarding. I recommend the senior thesis tutorial only if you are absolutely sure you want to write a thesis. A good litmus test of whether or not you want to write a thesis, I think, is your experience with junior tutorial. Did you enjoy writing a junior paper? If you did, then writing a thesis may be the right option for you.
writing a thesis can be very rewarding and gratifying as long as you really like your topic and get along with your adviser
If you have something that you are passionate about studying or pursuing as a career, take this course. This teaches you what it is like to really do something on your own, and is an amazing learning experience. it is not easy in the least, but you will learn more about yourself and subject than you could in any other class at harvard. once its all said and done, definitely worth it, but the key is keeping track of that notion over the course of an entire year.
Writing a thesis isn't for everyone, but if there is something you are interested in- DO IT. It's a ton of work, but it's so rewarding to have accomplished something in a field that excites you
You get to become an expert on a subject no one else has explored yet!
Writing a thesis expands your mind in ways you wouldn't predict. Bonds you with fellow thesis writers. Is a roller coaster ride emotionally. Challenges you. Helps you to see what a career in academia might be like. Makes you a better writer. Gives you a specialty.
The thesis experience in History of Science is undoubtedly one of the best there is.  While like with any thesis research the research and writing is largely self-directed, you really do have the entire department behind you and supporting you every step of the way.  Besides my advisor who was fantastic, I reached out to several faculty and admins in the department, all of whom were incredibly helpful.  My only word of advice besides starting your research as early as possible and having a balanced course load, is to make the transition from researching to writing sooner rather than later since the transition can often be a difficult one.  Overall, it was a fantastic way for me to end three memorable years in the department!
Write a thesis, you'll be glad you did.
Only do this if you have a topic that you are actually interested in.  If you are actually interested then this will be a ton of fun and very rewarding.
Writing a thesis is a peak academic experience.  You will be stressed and uncertain and confused, but ultimately you will learn so much about yourself, the art of academic research and writing, and about becoming an expert on a topic.  I'm so glad I saw this process through, and am really proud of what I produced!
Writing a thesis is one of the most challenging yet most rewarding academic experiences I have done. History of Science provides with you good support to complete it!
This is the final step to finishing your thesis! If you work very hard and get your sources and research done early, this semester will still be a challenge, but a bit less stressful and you will have done something to be proud of! My advisor gave me great advice: In the end only a handful of people will end up reading your thesis so make sure you write work you'll be proud of and enjoy because you're the one who'll read it the most and be connected to it later in life. You can do it!
This is a great opportunity for you in your life -- regardless of the outcome.
Find a topic that you love, then you'll enjoy the process!
Writing a senior thesis is one of the most challenging and rewarding experiences I have had at Harvard.  It is crucial to understand that it will be your top academic priority for the majority of senior year.  Setting early deadlines and meeting at least once per week with your advisor helped prevent stress.  Having previous experience with long-term and archival research is also helpful.  If you like to write, a thesis is for you.  If not, it will be significantly more challenging.
Great infrastructure and support for writing a thesis! So glad that the History and Science department made this an enjoyable process!
Writing a thesis for the history of science department is a great experience because you  have a lot of flexibility with regard to your topic and scope. I think the theses from this department were definitely some of the most interesting that I've heard of. If you think you are very passionate about a topic, definitely write a thesis about it. I love the experience even when it was stressful and busy. It is nice to have a piece of work that reflects your passions.
Write a thesis! It will be your most challenging, yet most rewarding experience here at Harvard.
Writing a thesis is hard work but it'll be the pinnacle of your academic experience at Harvard. Find a thesis topic you like and you'll love the experience - but beware if you're doing it just because you think you need to, and don't have genuine enthusiasm for the subject.
Take it! If you can, try to finish your thesis. There will be many moments when you might not think you can do it, but I keep believing in yourself and you'll make it.
Writing a thesis is very daunting but incredibly rewarding. If you have a topic that you are passionate about and want to learn more about, you should write a thesis. Be sure to keep a tight schedule and write regularly to make you that you meet the Spring deadline, and do your citations and bibliography early - they take longer than you would expect!
It's never too early to start writing.
It is advantageous to have an earlier startspend some time over the summer crystalizing a topic, so that when you arrive in September you are not starting completely anew!
I really enjoyed writing a thesis because I wanted to produce a sustained work of scholarship and challenge myself to express a complex and original argument clearly and rigorously. If that kind of academic exercise appeals to you, writing a thesis in the History of Science department is a well-supported and well-structured experience, and well worth your time. It is certainly challenging as a senior but I was still able to have a great senior year.
Write a thesis!
Very independent process - your experience depends a lot on your individual advisor
Writing a thesis was the most difficult aspect of my undergraduate career. It was also the most stimulating and rewarding one.
Necessary part of the thesis research, it's gonna be what it's gonna be.
Writing a thesis has been one of the most rewarding processes. Getting to work so closely with my thesis adviser has easily been the best part about the process; through my weekly meetings with my adviser, I really feel like my writing has grown tremendously, as has my thinking about the topics I am writing about. Highly recommend the weekly meetings with the adviser.The group meetings were a little more vague in their purpose, but it was generally nice to meet with my peers and discuss things. It was infrequent enough that it didn't feel like the benefits outweighed the costs.
Write more during the fall semester.
Really own your project, choose a topic that truly excites you, and meet with your advisor often. You'll look back at the experience with no regrets
Put in the work during J-term!
This course is essentially the scaffolding for the thesis-writing process in the History of Science department. The course itself largely consists of a coupe of meetings to discuss the writing/formatting/editing process of the thesis. If you are considering writing a thesis with the Department, it is an amazing experience that I recommend with the utmost enthusiasm. This course (the second semester of its more hands-on counterpart, History of Science 99a) takes an appropriately hands-off approach as you will be hard at work completing your thesis!
It is a lot of work, but if you love your project then it is super rewarding.
Writing a thesis was probably the most rewarding part of my time at Harvard. Learning to become comfortable working on one project for an entire year was challenging, but has taught me a lot about patience and the process of editing/refining your own work over and over again. I highly recommend writing a thesis in the History of Science department, as the faculty are also extremely interested in their undergraduates' work and are always willing to help!
the best academic experience I've ever had
A thesis is a lot of work but ultimately very rewarding
The class offers support, so take advantage of this support--go to office hours  as they are usually very helpful.
Think VERY CAREFULLY about whether you actually want to go through with this thesis thing. Fall semester thesis writing is not that bad, but spring semester is very intensive. Be ready to be constantly stressed, always writing and editing, and basically producing the whole thing this semester.
If you're reading this and considering dropping your thesis after first semester, I encourage you not to do so. I literally restarted my entire thesis over J-Term and ended up with a product I am incredibly proud of and that my readers were impressed with. You can do it!
The thesis process is undoubtedly challenging, but it is definitely worth it. Nadine creates a very supportive environment, gives valuable feedback, and the course helps break down the amorphous thesis process into actionable portions that you can get through with your fellow thesis writers and advisers. It's a great capstone experience; the proudest project of my academic career; I would definitely recommend it.
Writing a thesis is one of the most challenging, yet also one of the most rewarding experiences, at Harvard. The faculty and TFs in the department are all open to providing feedback and constructive advice on your topic which makes the process a lot smoother.
Writing a thesis will be one of the most fulfilling and rigorous academic endeavors you take on. It is worth every moment.
love what you're going to write about. also don't worry, everything will be ok
Make sure you pick a topic that you love and find an adviser who understands your work habits and work ethic! If you love your topic and you chose to do a thesis for the value of producing your own academic work, you will love writing a history of science thesis
Writing a thesis is obviously an ambitious endeavor and one that will really shape your senior year. That said, I am so, so glad I wrote one. It was by far the most rewarding academic experience I've ever had. Hist of Sci does a great job supporting its thesis writers and they really go out of their way to help you make it as good as it can be.
Set your own schedules!
Do not be afraid to write a senior thesis if you find a topic that interests you and are committed to pursuing research over many months.  The process allows you to develop excellent skills in critical thinking.  The teaching staff is wonderful, and they guide you every step of the way but do not overwhelm you with unnecessary assignments.  As a senior, it provides you with a great sense of integration into the History of Science department, especially during the spring semester.
Writing a thesis was incredibly rewarding, and I felt really well supported by the department and the tutorial!
If writing a thesis is the right decision for you, then the History of Science Department will give you the support you need to be successful.
Very helpful as you work through thesis writing!
Writing a thesis (and especially writing it well) requires a serious commitment to making the thesis your first priority for 5 or 6 months, if not more. Think seriously about different commitments you may have and where you want to direct most of your time and energy throughout your senior year before jumping into a project. Summer research would help a ton, and if not possible then the research process requires a lot of diligence throughout the fall semester. Make sure this is something you want to sacrifice.
