Learn a ton without any pressure or stress
As long as you're not a nerd-pickle you'll appreciate this class
This course inspired me to concentrate in History of Science, but I would recommend it to students of any concentration.
Super easy class - lots of people didn't go, but I'd encourage you to go because you get a lot from it if you engage with the material. Really interesting if you look past the "drugs"
Best course ever. You learn a lot, it's super interesting, and it isn't even that difficult. Take it.
Interesting topic, and pretty easy.
A great class that will give you the knowledge to re-evaluate everything you know about drugs.  Nate is a great professor and lectures were always engaging.
I would say that this is a great class in terms of topic. But it will be a better discussion to have in a small seminar course rather than a big lecture course.
Fun class with great lectures and actually interesting!!
This class is AMAZING. It is low stress but you still learn a lot and will truly enjoy going to the lectures. Nate is a total boss. He is so smart and funny and down-to-earth and actually cares about getting to know his students. The readings are not really necessary to do to participate in section but I recommend doing them because they're just really interesting. TAKE THIS CLASS. it's perfect.
Best class I have taken so far at harvard and definitely the most interesting
This was a very easy class! The professors and section leaders provide a wonderful atmosphere in which you have the ability to discuss issues and topics that you wouldn't necessarily have the chance to do anywhere else. This has definitely been one of my favorite classes at Harvard and I recommend it highly.
You get out of this course what you put into it! This class is amazing and presents a fascinating history of the US and what narrative is told. But, you need and should want to go to class and do the readings.
This class is awesome. It'll open your mind and make you think twice about the place drugs have in your life.
This class is super interesting.  The lectures are not recorded and lectures aren't posted online so if you don't go to class you won't be able to understand the history aspect of the class and won't be able to do a good job on the midterm and final paper.
Very interesting class that gives new meaning to the social and cultural lives of drugs around us
Honestly one of the most interesting classes I have ever taken in college.  The professor is amazing and super interesting.
This class was awesome.  Lectures are extremely informative and relative to today's society.  Section was also very bearable.
Do not take this class. On one hand the subject matter is interesting and light, on the other hand, half the TFs gave flat A's while other TFs gave out much harder grades. If you get a bad TF you're screwed.
If you have ever consumed a drug, legal or otherwise, check out this course. You will discover the interesting and often surprising cultural histories of some of America's most popular drugs.
This is a very fun and interesting class. While this year was new and there are kinks to be worked out, the course has a lot of potential and I learned so much more than I expected to coming into this course.
Best class ever. Take it. Interesting, NO work, great professor. Just make sure you don't get Marco as a TF. Definitely get Sean, he's awesome.
Participated and pay attention in section! The discussions were very interesting and revealed a lot about our own lives.
The lectures are intriguing and Greenslit likes to keep things light in lecture.
Take it if you are interested, check to see if the syllabus has changed to be more organized
This class is very interesting and I would highly recommend this class. Both section and lecture are enjoyable and interesting, and the subject matter of the class is important to the American society.
Definitely take this class to balance out a heavy schedule.  I wish there was a little more science behind the drugs and less history.  This is definitely a history class.
It is very interesting and well paced.
This class was taken in order that I might focus on my thesis. Unfortunately, it was was TOO much of a joke. I was hoping it would be interesting and low work...but the bottom dropped out and we started cutting the more difficult stuff. The class began catering to the lowest common denominator. Now, I know some of you might find this appealing, but it's actually worse than you'd imagine. This class isn't a gem...it's just a damn shame.
Little work, interesting topics.
Really fascinating topic and relevant to our understanding of drug-taking culture and society today; if taught in a big lecture format again, beware of possible organizational issues. Sections were highly inconsistent with their expectations.
This was a very interesting and super relevant course.  It gives students the chance to discuss drugs in a completely open and unbiased setting.
such a gem.
Very enjoyable class and interesting topic. Definitely a great elective and opportunity to explore a topic generally overlooked by academia/Harvard gen-eds.
This is an easy and interesting class. Professor Greenslit is really great and so was the head TF, Sean O'Donnell. I would definitely recommend this class to anyone who has room for it.
This is a great course with equally great teaching staff.
This is hands down the best class I have taken at Harvard. I have never taken a class where I was excited to do the readings and assignments because I found the material and the way it was presented so captivating. I think every college student should take this class because it is so important and informative to understand the history of drugs in America and how we got to where we are today with all these things that we interact with daily.
Incredible insight into the world of drugs in the US, please take this course. More people need to understand this history.
It's an incredibly interesting course with a light workload, which makes it even more enjoyable.
The class was a bit unorganized since it hadn't been offered before.  The papers were graded generously.  I enjoyed this class.  If you're looking for a class more about the science of drugs then you should take Psych 1701: Brain on drugs instead.
Great class, easy but I learned a lot as well.
Interesting subject matter with great lectures. Incredibly undemanding. Sections and discussion could have been better.
it's pretty cool but don't expect to be challenged
This is a very easy class with a fascinating professor; you get out what you put in.  Section is truly useless (and painless).  Still has some kinks to be ironed out.
super easy class with engaging content and a personable lecturer
The class is one of the easiest I've taken at Harvard.  Basically no readings, no exams, and only 2 relatively short papers at the midterm and final.  Also really interesting subject matter that is framed in a unique way that challenges you to think about drugs in a new way.  The sections are pretty dry, but if you're looking for an easy and cool class, take this one.
Awesome class, cool topic. Prof Greenslit is really smart but laidback - he makes the course material interesting by combining engaging readings with lectures that include youtube comedy clips, photos, relevant movie trailers, etc. Section is open and honest about course material and TFs are friendly and accessible.
This class was a fun and informative way to learn about a topic relevant to many current issues in America. It was a low key way to immerse myself in the history of science discipline, and I enjoyed the final assignment a lot! It's great to get to do creative projects alongside an academic component.
I took it the first year so it was pretty disorganized.
Very interesting course that you'll find explains the drug culture today, as well as give you the chance to make informed decisions on drug policy!
TAKE THIS CLASS. Low time commitment, and you learn a whole lot about the life and history of drugs in the US. So, if you have any interest in the topic, its currently the only class that can teach you about this stuff.
Interesting and not very stressful.
Nathan Greenslit is an amazing professor and the subject matter is fascinating.  However, I would only recommend taking this course if it is structured as a seminar next year.
Because participation is such a large part in this course, it would be beneficial to attend section.
The class is very interesting and you should actually go to lectures. They're funny and informative.
This class is very interesting and does not require a ton of work.
Nate Greenlit will get you excited about learning. This is by far the most interesting, engaging and intellectually stimulating course I have taken at Harvard, particularly in the History and Science department. This gets you to ask the right questions about drugs.
This is an amazing class with literally no work - TAKE IT
Take it, best class i've taken here so far. Interesting final and midterm prompts and great content in general
I think the lecture part of the course was excellent. Professor Greenslit is hilarious, knowledgable, and down-to-earth. He carried the course. That being said, the course topic changed from week-to-week, with no real narrative throughout. This actually didn't bother me that much. Two papers for the whole semester makes it a very manageable class. But I will suggest going to lecture, because that was definitely the best part (section was completely unnecessary).
Best class at Harvard hands down.
Fun class. You will learn a lot about drugs and it's very possible this class will change your view towards most of them.
