This course is certainly still in the process of evolving and taking shape, but is a great introduction into the world of psychotherapy. Professor Lunbeck is smart and super friendly and open to feedback, which means it will likely only continue to get better. Even if for nothing else, take this course for the awesome readings (there's not much coursework required of you above and beyond them anyways).
You have to really be interested in psychotherapy to fully enjoy this class, and if you are you will!  The teachers care a lot and try to make it engaging.  The readings can be long and very dull though.  Workload is very manageable, and some of the assignments are fun to do.  Take it as a nice elective that doesn't require too much time and will hopefully help you learn a lot about therapy.
It's a great course! It's not a lot of work and the material is interesting.
HistSci 178v was my favorite class of my freshman year. Professor Lunbeck is truly a gem and a very knowledgeable person. The wealth of knowledge that you genuinely learn in this class is unlike any other I have experienced. If you're interested in expanding your knowledge of Freud and therapy at large, consider taking this class.
If you are looking for an interesting, low-stress course, this is a good option!
The focus on some outdated forms of psychotherapy was heavy. It was certainly historical.
A very nice introduction to psychotherapy, dispelling misconceptions about the practice and delving into controversies in the field.
Professor Lunbeck is a character! Take the class just to get to know her alone. The subject matter is also incredibly interesting--you'll come out with real, tangible knowledge.
This course will provide you with a very unique perspective on psychotherapy for anyone interested in the subject.
This course is really interesting, and is a relatively low time commitment. Lunbeck is a really fascinating lecturer, and really engages the class in the material. I think that there could be a bit more variation between the readings, lecture slides, and lecture itself; sometimes it felt as if I would have gotten the same benefit out of doing the reading and not coming to class (instead of doing the reading and subsequently attending lecture). I also think Lunbeck wasn't prepared for this course to have as many enrollees as it did; I think she's going to accommodate the course to fit larger numbers in the future.
This class is incredibly engaging. The material is well-selected and relevant, the lectures are just genuinely interesting, and the smaller discussions are great and very helpful. It is a relatively light work load, and what the work there is, is very relevant.
You must be really interested in psychology already in order for this class to be interesting. Interesting in that we really have no idea what makes our brain work and this class shows that very well.
This is a great class. There's a manageable amount of reading each week, and the weekly assignment is ungraded. This class is super low-key, not stressful at all. I learned a lot and Lunbeck is great!
A wonderful class; the topic is very interesting, as is the variety of course materials (videos of psychotherapy, cases, journal articles, autobiographical works, etc.).  Professor Lunbeck is a great professor - an interesting lecture who cares about her students.  Workload is very manageable.
