This may be one of my favorite classes at Harvard, if not my favorite.  Every student should graduate with at least some background in STS studies, which I am confident will become only more important in coming decades across society.  Though the reading may be heavy, I have never taken a class where I felt I gained so much out of each one, and clearly there was so much thought put into their choosing.  I am not normally one to enthusiastically do reading, but this class so far has been the only one in my 5 semester that has changed that.
There is a lot of reading, all of which is very well chosen. It is rigorous and comprehensive.
The workload is a little heavy. But if you do the readings carefully, you can surely get a lot out of the course.
This was my favorite class that I've taken since coming to Harvard. It draws together analytical approaches from numerous fields to touch upon very important issues in modern society. The class is also incredibly time consuming, which can make it difficult to fit into your schedule. (This point is especially relevant for graduate students in the natural sciences, where coursework is generally discouraged regardless of the work load it entails.) That being said, for students interested in STS or related topics, the class is fully worth it.
I could not recommend this course more highly, though it will be a substantial investment of your time and mental faculties for the semester.  What will not take much effort, however, is to see the world around you through the lens of the frameworks and lessons from STS you will get through this course.  STS is intellectually fulfilling in that it examines what other disciplines would take for granted, but it is also incredibly relevant and applicable to today's world where science and technology have increasingly complex relationships to every other facet of our lives.  I will say this course was probably particularly difficult for me in that I was a complete newbie to social theories, so the initial learning curve was steep, so for me, it was like being dropped into the middle of a desert where I didn't speak the local language.  Fortunately, the local people (my classmates) were to be very friendly and welcoming--the type of people who want to study STS and that the professor attracts to the course tend to be so--and my guide (Prof. Jasanoff) was extremely generous with her time and ideas to help me understand as we went along.
This is a phenomenal, well-crafted course. It is an absolute must-take for anyone interested in STS, and a great complement to history of science coursework (courses in history of science will likely cover some of these concepts/readings, but even the way a given reading is read will differdefinitely in complementary ways). Do yourself a favor and take the course, but plan your semester knowing that it will take a substantial amount of work. If you do, and put the time into it, the course will be invaluable. Professor Jasanoff has incredible knowledge of the field and pushes all students to think in new ways. Even if you are already familiar with STS, taking this course will deepen your knowledge and grasp of the material.
This is a rigorous course that will make you believe in the intellectual power of the social sciences. It does precisely what Sheila promises at the beginning: to do for science what occured for religion with the "enlightenment" turn in Western thought. this will stretch your thinking in ways that far exceed any philosophy or mathematics class I've taken at Harvard--though Goldfarb's Godel class comes close.
If you're interested in how science, society, and politics interact, I would strongly recommend this course. It transforms what one thinks about their relationships and gives one the tools for thinking about this important trio in a comprehensive and critical way. For people interested in shaping science policy, this course provides an extremely helpful treatment of theories and conflict that feed science policy making. It is exciting every week.
Prof. Jasanoff's brilliance and encyclopedic knowledge is rivaled only by her deep commitment to her students. Every aspect of this course is challenging but the most interesting questions concerning the relationship between science and democracy are seldom easy.
This is an incredibly fantastic course, with interesting readings and discussions. STS provides an important of novel way of analyzing and theorizing modern society and the roles and manifestation of science and technology. This course is a rigorous introduction to the discipline and I would highly recommend it.
This course is not about science policy. It is about developing a critical approach to reading science and its role in government. This course is more about critical political and legal theory than it is about the instrumental use of science in politics and government. The class focuses on the way in which science could be made more democratic and how democracy may use science at the detriment of democratic values.
Jasanoff is a wonderful instructor. This course might feel a little abstract at times, but the arguments and readings were creative and subversive of the regular discourse of neoliberal efficiency, science-based policy, et cetera. New way of considering the role of the policymaker and science. Few concrete answers, but many important questions are raised.
SPP is a comprehensive, coherent, and well-composed course in STS. You get a great sense of the field and its relation to political theory!
If you are interested in STS, you must take this course.
SPP is an incredible course. You will have your thoughts re-oriented each week, not just about the topics immediately at hand but on how you experience intellectual life. It's fairly easy to get by writing so-so reflections, and I suppose you could float through and still right a passably good final paper, but that would be defeating the point of the course. SPP and STS become a new mirror through which to see the world, which is quite a nice thing to have. Take this, but do yourself the credit and work hard. Also, if you don't, drop the class.
I would tell them to take this course if they are interested in an intellectual challenge. I would recommend that they take it during a semester in which they have a lighter course load.
This course will push you and takes up a significant amount of time and thought.  It is fascinating material, though, and will change the way you think about knowledge, power, science, and politics.  You'll probably leave with more questions than answers.
This course is difficult, but I would definitely recommend it for any undergrads interested in going more deeply into science and technology studies and theory than you will in any 100s-level course! Although it requires a fair bit of reading (which you should definitely stay on top of), the class discussions are really great. This class changed the way I think about science, about History of Science, and about the world in general -- I am so glad I took it as an undergrad! If you have the chance to study with Sheila Jasanoff, you should definitely take it, and this class is the perfect place to do that.
Take it.  If you are interested in science policy, the history of science, or even how people in power "know" things, this course is for you.  It will make you a better thinker, more socially-conscious, and provide you with some useful analytical frameworks to impress your professors in almost any other class.  Finally, do not miss the opportunity to take a class with Prof. Jasanoff.  She is one of the most brilliant, articulate professors I have ever encountered, but she is also incredibly kind, patient, and nurturing.  She takes a great interest in her students, and treats them like colleagues.  Obviously, it can be a lot of work.  But, it will be good for you.
It truly is a terrific opportunity to work with and learn from Professor Jasanoff, and the students who gather for this seminar. The workload for this class is rather heavy, but certainly engaging and rewarding enough to be manageable.
