Very interesting material and very good discussions. Great classroom environment as well.
This course was excellent. For those who have already taken Harrington's other course (Madness and Medicine), it's also a welcome and more in-depth continuation in some ways, though initially I also had this class earmarked without realizing who the professor was. The best part of the reading list is the whole books to be discussed, and it's refreshing to be able to discuss these issues through multiple lenses (literary, historical, scientific) in a welcoming sort of atmosphere. If you can lottery in, take this class!
This is a really thought-provoking class led by a true expert in the field. You'll get to learn about the history of neurology in a way that really hones in on your personal reactions, which is so unique. Professor Harrington does a terrific job framing the narrative in the larger history of the epoch which is really exciting.
This is a great overview of several mental health disorders and their historical perspective! The readings are excellent, and it really gets you to see the universe, your own brain, and other mental phenomena in a wholly different light. Professor Harrington and Leena also really care about their students. This class re-affirmed my satisfaction in choosing to concentrate in HistSci. I would recommend, however, setting aside a big chunk of time to do the readings, and another couple of hours right after class to do the blog!
Broken Brains was a lovely course, and I hope it will continued to be offered. Professor Harrington is wonderful and facilitated all our discussions in a great way. We learned so much and explored such important themes, such as patients' roles in their care, their perspectives on their "broken brains," as well as the perspectives of their physicians and the rest of us who read about their stories. It was such an exciting class!
Take this class! Professor Harrington is the best of the best and it really shines through in this course. She gives these fascinating mini-lectures and then you have a discussion that is actually good because everyone there wants to be there and has actually thought a lot about the issues. The two hours fly by (and she always brings snacks!) and assignments are thought-provoking and not overly annoying/burdensome. Be ready to do all of the readings and participate--that's part of what makes the class great (it is not for slackers, everyone is really there because they care a ton about the topic and are willing to put the work in for the readings). In all, one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard!
LOVED this class! Prof. Harrington is a master of facilitating discussion and framing the week's subject material in a way that is not only accessible but applicable. It was such a fun way to delve into the subject of "broken brains" and the history of neurology--the class poses some really intriguing questions and dilemmas, which really stay with you and force you to think hard about any previous notions you've had about the brain and mind.
