The nature of the course as a survey course makes the material somewhat fragmented or unrelated week to week, but the readings were very good and the discussions intelligent and insightful. The attention to methodological strategies and wider applicability of the works were particularly valuable.
This course is a great way to cover some foundational themes in history of science. The undergraduate lectures are instructive pedagogically for someone who might one day teach this course, while the graduate section provides a great forum in which to become acquainted with key questions in the field. The reading list also contains newer texts so it allows one to read outside of what perhaps more standards lists might cover.
This is a fantastic introduction to and overview of the history of science. If you're a graduate student, you attend all the lectures and do the undergraduate reading, and then read roughly six extra articles per week for the graduate section, where you'll mostly discuss the historiography rather than the undergrad readings. Prof. Csiszar is a fantastic, enthusiastic, kind, accessible professor. Don't miss the chance to take a class with him.
Nice overview of the field and great lectures.  For a grad. student, too much class time (3x/week).
The course provides a very helpful grand narrative in which to place your specialized knowledge.
This is a good foundation in the history of science.
It has the potential to be a really great class.
For G-1's in this History of Science, this is a great course to help you get situated in your first semester.
A wonderful whirlwind journey through the major events that created an ever broadening separation between church and state and a corresponding union of science with nearly every other human endeavor.
great course taught by great teacher
Graduate students will want to pay attention to the methods, themes, and craft of the writings we read beyond just the claims being made. This is a necessary skill to develop and the materials provided are a good intro to this aspect of the work.
