A good overview, with some interesting ideas; a solid course, but it is just an intro course that surveys a chunk of material, it's not course that will change your life.
This is the best history class I've taken at Harvard! The lectures and readings taught me so much. The sections were actually useful discussions and debates as opposed the usual masturbatory fluff.
This class is a painless, well taught, interesting elective.
It's a very solid course.  The lectures aren't mind-blowing, and it's not a very involved course (which might be what you want if you are looking for an easier 4th or 5th class to fill out one's schedule), but it is consistently interesting and well-constructed.  The readings in particular are very good.
The lectures are fantastic, the material is interesting, and the class is not impossible to do well in.
This is an excellent survey course in the history of science, something that is rarely come by.
Those with specific interest in technology in society might find other courses that go in-depth more interesting. This is a survey course of the subject matter. Some of the ideas are new and provocative, but the trajectory  moves on too quickly to linger on any lasting specifics.
Take it!
HS 186 is great overview of the history of technology.  It will change the way you view and define technology while asking you to consider social implications of technological change.
I think that this course would be particularly interesting to anyone who is interested in a history of science and technology over the past half-millennium or so. History of Science concentrators would probably love it; others may find the material interesting but may not be so thrilled about writing the papers.The reading is pretty substantial, but generally manageable (about 2 hours per week). You don't actually need to read the novels if you're pressed for time, but everything else should be read.The papers are manageable, and each took me about a weekend to plan and write. Note that writing a paper is hopeless if you don't do the relevant reading.
