Very interesting material.  Shapin is funny and intelligent and very personable in and outside of the classroom.  It was one of those classes that typify the "academic seminar" in that it was smaller and very interactive, but also didactic.
its fun and painless, interesting readings, great and pertinent conversations. shapin was an amazing lecturer.
If you are interested in the history diet and nutrition, definitely take this course!  If these subjects don't interest you, I wouldn't recommend it.
I encourage people to take this class, as it presents a unique way of thinking about diet and lifestyle choices.  It has really informed my way of thinking about the world in terms of health and nutritional science.
This class was good because you didn't have to do all the reading, but you still learned interesting tidbits about the Early Modern dietetic world.
Professor Shapin is an incredible teacher and a very interesting man. Any student with any background should take the opportunity to take at least one of Shapin's classes in their academic career (if not more).
This was one of those classes where the course material is so interesting that i constantly found myself telling friends about what i had learned.
This class is a fascinating look at the history of nutrition science, and more broadly, the way we eat and interact with our food. It is not technical, but not superficial either, and offers a really interesting take on the history of food culture.
This is material Shapin REALLY cares about, and it shows. He's a fantastic lecturer on the topic, and you can tell because it doesn't feel like a lecture. He's just sitting and talking to you, finding humor and modern applications in some exceptionally varied, sometimes seemingly esoteric stuff.
A background in the history of science would be helpful.
Do the reading!!
amazing.
Shapin is awesome, both for his lectures and for the random trivia he throws out in lecture. (The root for "Carnival" is good bye to meat!) Take him to a faculty dinner if you can!
While this course material might not be for everyone, the depth of information that is given during this course is amazing! I loved the trajectory of readings and change in perspectives. The professor is not only incredibly passionate but funny and caring.
too bad you don't get to take this with shapin :(
pay attention and do the readings
This class is very interesting and you really understand the readings through the lectures and sections. Take this class!
Lectures were dry and the material was not at all interesting.
It is an interesting inquiry into a non-often-discussed subject. You get out of it what you are willing to put in reading and discussing.
Interesting material. Different from stuff you will learn in a traditional health class. Highly recommend it.
The lectures were 2 hours, which was very very long to be talking about such a specific subject - but if you're really interested in diet, then you would enjoy it! Professor Shapin is great!
Be patient with the first few weeks of the class. Although you will spend a good deal of time on the humors at first, it will all come together toward the final weeks of the class, when it is very cool to see the shift in perspectives toward food.
TO NON HIST-SCI CONCENTRATORS: Word has gotten out, and people know this is a course worth taking. As a result, it is in high demand, and places in the course go preferentially towards History of Science concentrators. If, like me, you are part of another department, don't give up; go to the first class meeting, sign up on the mailing list, apologize for your major, and pray that you get a spot. This class was one of the highlights of my week. The material alone is fascinating, and the fact that Prof. Shapin is the one lecturing on it is icing on the proverbial cake. Be aware that you will often leave this class very hungry; Prof. Shapin knows how to talk, cinematically, about delicious, well-prepared food.
it's kind of slow if you're not into it. You get out what you put in
Such a great class I hope it's taught in the future!
This was a nice relaxed fourth class on top of premed requirements and expos. The readings were pretty entertaining and the work was minimal (one short response each week and two six-ish page take-home essays). I found it to be very interesting, but you would probably want to already have some interest in the topic going into it. It was more focused on pre-1800s history than I had anticipated, and did not just focus on food and diet, but all aspects of what used to be dietetics (daily habits, health, digestion, etc.) Most lectures dont last the full two hours, more like an hour and a half. In section you just talk about the readings and the lecture, and Lisa was a lovely TF. Its a shame Professor Shapin is retiring next year.
Take this course! Shapin is the best, and if you have the chance to get Paolo as your TF, take it!
Be prepared to read some weird materials.
Incredibly engaging and interesting course. Very manageable coursework, enthusiastic professor, and enjoyable reading materials. Excellent elective!
This class covers an interesting topic and makes you rethink food and what it means for the body.
oriana is the best TF ever! she's fun to work with and super nice with helping us understand the concepts. a really interesting class that you should definitely consider taking!
This course was really great and painless. The only thing I have to complain is that lectures can get pretty dry and are 2 hours long which makes it really hard to concentrate in. But course materials are great, assignments are quick and easy and section with Oriana was always really fun.
This is a great life class.  Not only does Professor Shapin present a history of dietetics, but he also exposes us to different philosophies about life---truly interesting!
If you're willing to be open to the ostensibly esoteric subject matter, Prof. Shapin will explain to you in his whimsical and erudite fashion just how many areas of life and understanding dietetics impacts - and, as a bonus, you'll get a great hands-on introduction to history of science while you're at it!
The course is not difficult, nor demanding, but was very boring at times and felt as though nothing new was being brought to my attention; however, there are some exceptional lectures and the readings and subject matter is generally very interesting.
This course was very easy and really enjoyable.  The readings are not always the most fun reading, but Shapin gives very interesting and entertaining lectures.  However, bring a coffee - a two hour lecture in a windowless room right after lunch can suck if you pulled an all-nighter.  That said, I really enjoyed this class; it got me thinking about my behavior and choices in what I did on a daily basis and my own relationship with food.
The material is interesting and makes you think about food more critically
Shapin's a great professor, and you should definitely take the opportunity to take a class with him.  He also makes himself very accessible.  Don't expect to be enthralled by the readings, though.
This is not a course about current trends in dieting or eating for that matter. Take it if you want to look at the way people live in an academic way. Also, it's not an easy A class.
It's a much better assessment of the concentration than HS100, if that's what you're looking for.
This class is absolutely amazin! If you are interested in the evolution of diet and preserving health, Steven Shapin is your man, and Hist of Dietetics is your course! Shapin is one of the best professors at harvard and teaches a class that is second to none.
Lectures are boring and redundant. if you want a class where you don't want to go to lecture and do little work, this one's for you!
Shapin is AWESOME!!!
lectures are dry but readings and topics are great
Professor Shapin is always a pleasure to listen to in class and my tf (John) was great. The material is interesting and will probably give you cause to examine our modern food culture more closely.
This course is interesting and not too demanding overall (just one lecture, readings, and 1 section and only two papers for the whole semester).
This class is really interesting. Shapin knows what he is talking about and the topic is really interesting in regards to its relationship with the modern day!
It's a great class in terms of material, but beware, there is a substantial amount of reading.
This class would probably be very interesting for someone already interested in dietetics, or perhaps even the history of medicine.
This class is awesome! Professor Shapin should not be missed!
It's a good class, requirements are good, lectures can drag on a bit.
the subject matter is a bit boring and you dont go through very much material. it is pretty repetitive
Although fascinating for a few lectures, the course material has a tendency to become redundant and a bit tiresome.  It's a very interesting, but very small sphere of academic inquiry.
The class materials are interesting, but I didn't like the professor's lecture style
Shapin can drag on a little bit in lectures, but the reading and material is interesting and applicable.
