This is an amazing class! It really forces you to engage with your own thoughts on matters of obesity and public policy.  Professor Jou is a talented lecturer and the head TF is excellent.
This course offered a great way to learn more about the obesity epidemic. I feel like I learned a lot about obesity in both its medical and social contexts. Take the course! But be warned, you might end up paying a bit more attention to what you eat.
If you have the slightest interest in obesity, health, or nutrition, I strongly recommend taking this class! The readings are both provocative and educational; I think that you will find yourself thinking critically about the diet and exercise decisions that you make going forward.
Good class to take
If you're looking for a gem, take this class. You do not have to do the readings and only need to reference them in papers.  Lectures are not engaging and boring. Be prepared for the professor to talk way too fast.
It is very current and relevant. Professor Jou is great! If you are interested in the subject matter, I would definitely take the class.
Great class if you're interested in the topic - probably fairly interesting for people not originally in the subject as well
This is a FANTASTIC class.  It provided a great overview of not only the obesity epidemic but other controversial aspects of nutrition and food policy.  Professor Jou is incredibly knowledgable in this area and it was a pleasure to learn from here.  The readings are all incredibly interesting, and the paper assignments are not bad at all -- quite fun actually.
This course is very interesting, although taught through a pretty staunch liberal standpoint. Not a conclusive analysis, the class more presents different possibilities about the causes/solutions to obesity epidemic. Nevertheless, interesting material and enjoyable readings.
Really interest class on a really cool subject. Lectures cover a lot of different angles on the topic. Assignments are pretty straight forward and not too daunting. Overall, one of my favorite classes at Harvard!
One of my favorite courses at Harvard! I absolutely loved the course readings and lectures and am really glad that I took this course given my interest in food/nutrition/obesity. It definitely opened up my eyes to a lot more aspects of obesity than what I've previously thought about, and I often found myself taking the course material outside of class to discuss it with others.
great class, really easy and interesting. TAKE IT
Easy histsci - take it!
It isn't too difficult. The lectures can sometimes be dull, but it won't ask too much of you (3 papers and a film review). It will help if you do the readings to make some comments in section, but it's not completely necessary. You'll just need to go thoroughly through them once you have the prompt for the essays.
great class. if you attend lectures and sections and do the readings, you will enjoy the class and your grade
The course material is quite interesting and overall is not very time consuming. It broadened my perspective of the increasing prevalence of obesity in the US as I learned that the "epidemic" is much more complex than it is portrayed to be. However, I wish there had been more of a focus on exercise (we hardly discussed this) and blog posts/section were not that useful.
If you read the news and are aware of different social issues in the US, much of this course will not be new, but it is helpful to get different perspectives on the issues at hand
This class has a very low workload, but lectures can get boring at times in comparison to the readings.
Very interesting course! I found myself constantly talking to others about findings and facts I had learned in this class
This is a great class, particularly if you're a History and Science concentrator but also if you're just generally interested in this incredibly complex topic that so many people are misinformed about.
This class is a gem. Professor Jou knows her stuff, the readings are accessible, and one must not be well-versed in obesity in order to get a lot out of this class. Take it!
This class is so interesting! Professor Jou makes the lectures very entertaining, with clips from the Daily Show and other contemporary examples. The content of the course is very relevant to everyday life. I found myself bringing up this course in other conversations all the time. It's not too demanding although the grading is stricter than I expected.
This is a great class for those who are just beginning to become interested in issues involving public health.
Really enjoyable readings and very straightforward. Many from nytimes, atlantic, etc. The papers pull together everything you've learned and are easy to write if you do the short readings.
Professor Jou knows how to teach and run a lecture course. She is highly engaging and brings in plenty of resources to fully make her point in class. I would have loved for this to even be a seminar! Sections could be a little slow at times, but when the subject matter was polarizes, the discussions were great! The material is highly relevant today, and my view of the so-called epidemic is so very different now than several months ago. Take this class!!
Excellent class with very engaging readings. The lectures are varied and interesting, and Professor Jou is always extremely well prepared.
its a great class, very accommodating to other classes
Good class and not too difficult
very interesting material relevant today
If you have an interest in learning how complex the issue of obesity in the Western World is, this class will do a great job at proving the depth and breadth of this issue. The readings can be very thought-provoking, although sometimes you have to wade through 20 pages of reading to find the treasures. This class provides a very comprehensive history of obesity and diet culture/trends, as well as ends appropriately with a look at current legislation attempts aimed at reducing the severity of obesity in America.
If you are curious about how language, policies, culture, and the very nature of human behavior/psychology shapes our heavily medicalized society, take this course. It's a gem.
Very interesting. These are the kinds of articles that you read in the media anyway so why not take a class where you write papers on them? Sounds like not a bad deal to me.
This is a really fun, pretty easy class! Lectures are very engaging (lots of video clips and anecdotes) and assignments are straightforward. The class definitely introduces you to lots of new perspectives and information about obesity, but doesn't necessarily challenge you.
Easy class that is very interesting. Lectures were fun and flew by. Prof. Jou always included hilarious advertisements, music videos and other television clips.
This course is fantastic! You learn a ton about an extremely relevant and pressing issue facing us today. The class is low-stress (no final exam, just papers) and the readings are carefully selected, highly interesting, and wonderful - do them all, you'll get more out of the course. Take it if you have the space in your schedule!
This class is easy and uninteresting if you don't do the work -- which is very possible for a good grade, still. However, if you do the reading and invest yourself it's very interesting and you can get a very good grade.
This was a good survey course on the history of obesity but definitely becomes repetitive if you are not interested in the subject. It also seems to be a new class geared towards giving a balanced perspective which can be frustrating when you want to hear a novel opinion about obesity and how to design a better public health strategy around obesity.
This class is amazing-- extremely interesting subject matter, Prof. Jou gives great lectures, and the assignments are actually really fun to write.
If at all interested in the topic, you won't be disappointed. Professor Jou's lectures are information-dense but always engaging lecture and readings are very interesting, and this course has definitely made me question the way I view a lot of things.
This class is great! It covers many interesting topics.
The class does a good job of combining historical perspective of obesity (both policies and perception) with current news on the topic (i.e. campaigns, litigation, programs).
Don't take it.
This class was very disappointing, I had high hopes for the class coming in but it turned out to be very dry and boring.
Really cool class, great perspectives on obesity. I felt like I learned a lot of stuff and enjoy talking to people in and outside the class about it. Going to lecture is pretty important though, because reading the lecture slides later will teach you nothing. They're just pictures. Have to do at least some portion of the readings for assignments.
There is a lot of work, and one is graded rather harshly, but you learn a ton.
THis was a fun, not too challenging class that was incredibly interesting and well taught. I would definitely recommend it!
The way you learn about obesity in this class is so unique among Harvard courses! Each week is a different lens to view the epidemic--from biology, to psychology, to sociology, to socioeconomic class etc. You really get to see how complex, complicated, and intertwined the issue of obesity, and weight in general, is in our society. Professor Jou is great when it comes to making class entertaining. Even though her speaking style is flat, she includes tons of images, video clips, commercials, Tv shows, film documentary clips, etc. that ultimately keep you super engaged throughout lecture. I really enjoyed going to this class--it's low commitment and allows you to really delve deep into some of the issues if you're interested. DEFINITELY TAKE IT!
I really liked the topic, the readings, section, and even the assignments, but the lecture portion of the course did not meet the same levels as the rest of the course.
Such a good class! I would recommend for anyone who is interested in weight/nutrition/health.
The course is very fun and Professor Jou is really great -- get to know her if you can!  Great sense of humor.
It was the first year, so it will get better. Very interesting stuff, like so applicable and relevant. But a terrible lecturer. If you can suffer through her lectures, then take it for sure. Still worth it.
Will get better after a few things are tweaked. For a first time class it's awesome
It's a great course if you're interested in this stuff
Interesting class but the grading is rather strict.
This class does not have the best structure. Lecture is uninspiring and does not engage the students. Sections are the best part of the course. They are vibrant and engaging. The reading material is also fantastic, interesting, and easy to handle. However, assignments can be somewhat arbitrary in that most of them are opinionated yet grading is done on knowledge of the material. Despite fascinating and relevant subject matter, this course does not inspire one to see obesity in America as an engaging topic like it easily could.
This class is both interesting and relevant. I would encourage students to participate in lecture and get to know Prof. Jou as she is very open to hearing student opinions. I would recommend this course as a relaxed class to take on top of a heavier course-load since the reading is not to heavy and remains very interesting and informative.
Be sure to find out how your TF evaluates assignments. If writing focused, find out what the TF wants beforehand.
Very, very interesting and relevant to today's world
I think this course still has a lot to be improved on but the subject matter is interesting and relevant.
This class is great! It highlights some really interesting things occurring in our society right now, and the readings, particularly the New York Times articles, are fascinating. Take even if you're not Hist of Sci - it's a fun elective!
TAKE THIS CLASS!
This is a very interesting and fairly easy course.
Great class, not much work at all, relatively easy final, really interesting course material. Very relevant to what is actually going on in the USA today.
That it is a simple class and interesting.
really relevant, interesting lectures, awesome professor
It's a gem, for sure.  I have very little respect for the class, however.  It was interesting to think about this topic, but there really isn't enough content to justify a whole semester.  You will find yourself repeating concepts for every essay you write.  It's very easy, however, and I think the TFs know this and grade slightly harder than they need to.  All in all, it's a pretty easy class, and if you dont want to have to work very hard this is for you.
There is a fair amount of reading for the class but most of it is pretty enjoyable and not hard to read. You would find that towards the end, things get repetitive but that can be good or bad. We watch a lot of video clips during lecture so even if you don't think going to lecture is beneficial, it is worth going just to get a good laugh.
interesting subject matter, but does get a bit repetitive by the end of the semester, likely due to the fact that much uncertainty still surrounds the topic
This class is pretty interesting, and is very  relevant to current events. It is a pretty painless class.
Great course. Perhaps the only course I've taken at Harvard where people's prejudices and preconceived notions have actually been challenged and abandoned throughout the semester. Excellent readings. Work is spread out, so it's easy to stay on top of things
material is awesome, you actually want to read the articles. cool to talk about dieting in class since its discussed so frequently outside the classroom
If you're interested in obesity, take this class!! I really enjoyed it.  One thing I warn you is that there are many writing assignments (more than i expected), so make sure to check the syllabus before you sign up!
Really interesting class. Great for people interested in medicine/public health and food policy. Will really challenge your views of the obesity epidemic and what needs to be done in America to address this mounting challenge. Not a ton of work and really interesting readings! Professor Jou is also really great.
great course subject matter. be wary there is a lot of reading but other from the 3 response papers and a couple of others it wasn't too bad
Do the readings and be prepared to question ideals of overweight people being overweight simply because they eat too much and do not want to work out at all...
Take time to read the assigned book by J. Eric Oliver.  He paints an almost perfectly clear picture of the state of nutrition science and answers many of the questions you might have early on.
Definitely do the readings, not only because it serves as a good way to fully develop ideas from the material, but the various perspectives offered can open up discussion.
Take this class! It really makes you think critically about different reasons for why our country's obesity rates are sky rocketing. It also doesn't require much work, and it's interesting!
The course material was amazing, probably the most interesting reading assignments I've ever had. The class teaches you about every different perspective of obesity, including science/medicine, culture, history, and policy. With that said, Professor Jou does not generate much enthusiasm for the issue despite how easy it should be to do so. There were a lot of little essay assignments (response papers, film review, take home midterm), which were fairly interesting to write, but were graded harshly and sometimes frustrating. Overall, I enjoyed the course though. This was the first time it was taught, so I would expect it to be better next time around.
If you're really invested and interested in the material, you will love this class. Lecture and section are dry, dry, dry, but the subject matter is so fascinating that you will just love doing all the reading. So going to class isn't thrilling, but it's just 3 hours a week of lecture/section, and useful review if you've been doing the reading.
I loved this class. If you're at all interested in obesity or nutrition, this class gives a thorough background on the subject, coming from many different perspectives. You get exposed to a ton of different sources, all with differing information on the subject, so it's really your responsibility to form your own theories based on all the information you're given. The workload isn't terrible, and the readings are very interesting and easy to complete.
The reading is interesting but not crucial. Lecture is enjoyable and relevant.
This class is about an incredibly interesting topic that is present in our everyday lives.  It will really change your ideas about the obesity epidemic and show you that it's not just a matter of a lack of will power but there are so many other contributions that affect a person's weight. Very interesting class!
This class is a lot of fun! It's like one long TLC program but it is very comprehensive and offers a lot of very intriguing points of view on the subject matter. The lectures are interesting and section involves a lot of extremely interesting discussions on an issue that is very pressing to our everyday lives. A good class to take even if it is just for fun!
This course is interesting and topical. Very painless. Response papers (2), a take-home midterm, a film review, and a final. Professor Jou is great and is engaging and you can tell she cares about her students. Interesting course in that it discusses current issues, like the NYC soda ban, and other similar policy interventions.
The visuals in lectures are really interesting, I extremely enjoyed going to class.
