The course emphasizes more abstract issues than the title might suggest; "science" here actually means something more like "knowledge and its production" rather than the modern conceptualization of science as a sociopolitical practice involving experiments and laboratories and the institutions that contain them. I was still able to focus my work in that direction with the final project (an assignment which remains a nebulous entity until the last 2 weeks of class, for better or worse), but the bulk of the course readings have a medieval and theological bent- just a warning for others like me who may have a greater interest in contemporary issues. If you can handle a fairly unstructured course, you can get a lot out of the material; if you don't have much self-discipline, you might get more out of a course that has stricter requirements in the way of deadlines.
It may not always be clear what the course is really about, or what is expected of you, but Ragab is outstanding as a lecturer as he walks you through the history of an idea (such as "race" or "medicine", etc).  If the only thing you ever do in this course is attend the lectures, you will still draw tremendous benefit just from getting to hear him speak for 2 hours.  Even when I had not done the readings, I enjoyed class sessions a great deal.  He is also very respectful of students and treats everyone as equals.
You will never get so thorough, wide-ranging or critical reading list as you will with Prof. Ragab, who pulls this all together thematically with brilliance. The pedagogy of the course is student-centric and participatory: this is refreshing and energizing and we would want more professors to follow his example.
Professor Ragab is enthusiastic and clearly engaged with the material he teaches, but the actual course material is mostly abstract and dry academic writing that is difficult to engage unless you're already well-versed with the texts and their writers.
Very hard course. But take it! You will not regret it. Read up a bit on Middle Eastern history first.
Prof Ragab is amazing -- he encourages each student's own intellectual curiosity -- while introducing the class to the history of scientific concepts and practices in the middle east. More attention could be paid to specific topics and fields, but the class is a smorgasbord of ideas and it's up to you to pick and choose what you want to get more deeply into. The class focuses more on the history and practices of the region rather than the scientific concepts that were in vogue at the time.
Course title is deceptive; it should be titled Epistemology in the Wider Middle East.  There is a fair amount of reading.  Having a background in the subject will help you get more out of it but it is note completely necessary.  Definitely changed how I understand the Middle East.
This course is great if you want a taste of grad level life and are interested in academia, especially if you're searching for some methodology based form of science and technology studies (which is tough to find at Harvard). The Div school is kind of weird though. Also, a similar class, but one that is more focused on content, but less on methods is Sheila Jasanoff's Kennedy School Bioethics course. If you want a taste of STS content, rather than methods, take that course. If you know you're already interested in STS and want some idea of STS methods and philosophy, take this course. If you really want to learn a lot about science and religion, this ironically isn't exactly the course to do it. (You maybe talk about the relationship between the two in like three lectures, and a friend and I had an ongoing bet about when we would actually talk about religion in this course.)
The heart of the course is in the professionalization and understanding epistemology and cultural claims to knowledge. This is practical and theoretical. If you are just looking for topical content, the course may not have enough for your taste. It teaches you how to do that on your own time.
Great methods course!
Ragab is an electrifying lecturer! It is essential to enjoy the material being discussed but also to stay on track with your individual research throughout the semester. It is easy to let one or the other task distract you from the complete project at hand.
This course may be interesting for Divinity School students but frankly I was somewhat disappointed because most time we discussed sociological concepts, post-modernist thought and gender and racial bias in our perspective on history of science. Maybe, with more focus on science and religion and more opportunity for discussion, the course would have be worthwhile.
Prof Ragab is awesome. His approach to the discourse is a great model for scholarship, in particular, for those whose interests are both deep and wide. His theoretical intervention is also timely and I would recommend it wholeheartedly for any student looking to think more capaciously about things like "knowledge," "the academy" and "society" and the various interstructuring relationships among them.
Just do the readings, do your research, and have fun when it comes time to discuss.
Fantastic instructor; recommend this course highly.
Excellent material, but Prof. Ragab is what makes this course worth taking!
This is more of a divinity school course than a history of science course.  It consists mainly of philosophical discussions of 'knowing knowledge'.  If this is what you are looking for, this is great.  I wasn't and had a little bit of a disappointing time.  Professor Ragab and Klaus are both amazing though.One surprising benefit of the course, however, is that Professor Ragab spends a lot of time teaching you how to write an academic paper.  If you have any plans to enter academia this class could be EXTREMELY useful.
The topics in the course are very diverse, and Professor Ragab is incredible at delivering eloquent and understandable analyses of the texts.  The workload is very manageable and is even enjoyable
Awesome class, not incredible difficult, but definitely makes you stretch your mind
The class is better suited to undergraduates than to graduate students
One of the best intellectual experiences.
This course is an introduction to a large field, and it does not necessarily draw lines or offer operative definitions, though those are usually arrived at during the course of the class. Professor Ragab does not simplify the complexity of the topic, and for students who are not accustomed to working in this sort of interdisciplinary field that can take some getting used to.
