Why does Mexico function the way it does? How does the US fit into that? What health concerns arise along the border? These and more questions are covered with by this extensive and super interesting course. Just go to shop the class and you will see!
Best history class I have ever taken in terms of how history is told. Lectures read like a beautiful story and I learned so much about the history of Mexico and Mexico-U.S. relations. However, section did not really do anything to enhance the class experience. It needs to be improved in order for actual conversation and reviewing of class material to take place.Despite its problems (this was the first year it was offered), it was my favorite class this semester.
This course, in terms of material, is AMAZING. One of those classes that changes the way you look at the world. The structure of course, especially in terms of meeting student needs for review or access to lecture slides, could use some improvement (which I think will come with time). Definitely worth taking!
This class is extremely engaging and relevant. I never left a single class asking "why do I need to know this", which I believe is rare. Professor Soto has so many interesting stories to tell, and the way she ties them back into the course is so masterful.
This class covers some interesting topics but it feels like we bounce around topics sometimes without a clear direction.
TAKE THIS CLASS! It changed how I view the border and generally viewed the world. Never have I had a class that I enjoyed lecture this much, and learned so much! If you are interested in the intersection of race, gender, disease, and violence interact on the border and beyond this is the class for you. Be ready to think critically! Also do the readings they are so interesting :)
This course was interesting in its analysis of Mexico and Mexican public health. That being said, unless the TF changes I would be unlikely to recommend this course. The TF gave unsatisfactory comments on graded assignments and was extremely bias when evaluated and commenting during sections. The analyses presented during sections rarely made sense, and the section was useless especially in relation to lecture material. For starters, we were not given an option for sections time but rather had to move our plans in order to accommodate for the time the TF desired. Some students were not even able to make it to sections because there was only one time available, thanks to the TF. Section were largely just emotional chats and the TF rarely commented on anything; even when he did, his questions to the class were so convoluted that no one really answered them. I thought Prof. Soto Laveaga was accessible and had very very interesting lectures that truly helped in understanding Mexico's history. However, if the TF-ing does not change substantially, I would discourage people from taking the class.
I'm guessing that the course will be improved if it is offered again because this was the first iteration of it and Prof. Soto-Laveaga was new to Harvard. She's a great storyteller, and lectures always seem to pass quickly. However, her slides are kind of disorganized, and sometimes I would walk out of class wondering, "what did I just learn?". I really liked the variety in assignments (oral history, film analysis, research paper, midterm, final exam) because it made none of them worth too much of the grade and reinforced my learning in a variety of ways. Overall, a worthwhile course about a super important topic. I learned a ton and enjoyed the process, which is the point of college I think.
This is a very fun class. Great opportunity to explore another culture. Transforms your understanding of the U.S-Mexico Border, and allows you to see past the border and understand more deeply the cultures and traditions which have historically shaped Mexico. Deepened my understanding of Mexico and has affected the way I read news and perceive Mexico today.
This course was incredible!  This course examines the historical roots of so much of the rhetoric surrounding the border, immigration, and US-Mexico relations.  It also emphasizes the importance of challenging single narratives.  The course is very eye-changing, and I would highly recommend it!
This course helps me understand the meaning given to terms such as borders, boundaries, and race. You learn about the history of Mexico, but at the same time, you also get the larger sense of how Mexico's current state (regarding illegal immigration, the drug war, etc) is linked to U.S. policies - borders do not someone stop the flow of ideas, people, thoughts, and, in terms of public health, diseases. It is clear that the professor put a lot of work into preparing the lectures to create a sense of continuity in themes and ideas.  If you want a thorough understand of Mexico's history, illegal immigration along the Mexican-American border, and bi-national policies regarding public health, I would highly recommend taking this course.
Professor Laveaga is amazing. She is one of my favorite instructors and she did an excellent job over the course of the semester. The readings were interesting and the style of lecture kept me engaged throughout the semester.
This is a really good class if you're interested in learning more about the Mexican side of issues such as the Drug War etc. but you have to be willing to challenge your assumptions
