Whether you research is related or not, this is a great course for you. The instructor put lots of effort in teaching and cared about her students substantially.
To those intending to go into medical school, this is a fabulous introduction to alternative ways of understanding and conceptualizing the body that would make your future medical explorations richer and yes more relevant! To those interested in medieval studies this will enrich your knowledge of the period. To anyone else, you will surely find it very rewarding to study two key periods of the history of humanity with an expert and original scholar.
Just an interesting class all around.  If you put a lot of effort and creativity into the papers, you will get a lot out of the class, as it really forces you to interact with the material presented and extend the argument(s) that Professor Park makes during lecture.
This course is perfect for anyone interested in history or medicine, medicinal culture and Renaissance healing
This is a great intro to early medicine, and if for no other reason, take it to experience Katie Park. She is a wonderful professor, who really cares about students and about the subject matter.
This was a really interesting course that gives a good survey on not only medieval medicine, but also history in general. Especially for med students, it's really interesting to put our medicine into a context.
The lectures are full of pizazz and engaging, the material and readings themselves sound like they could have come out of Harry Potter (magical stones, demons and cosmic rays, anyone?), and the instructors themselves are dedicated to making sure the students (regardless of their background in history) are learning, getting the most out of the course, and above all, having fun.
It's great!  And a lot of fun :)
This course sometimes felt like more work than what it should for what I was getting out of it. The material is interesting but don't take the course for fun unless you are prepared to work really hard.
I know that Katharine Park's version is probably different (this year was taught by Elly Truitt), but the course covers a fascinating topic.
The primary sources in this area are pretty difficult, and unless you're really interested in this stuff, don't take the class.
Elly Truitt is a wonderful lecturer and really engaging, and its a pity she's leaving next year.  I definitely think that the success of this class depends heavily on the abilities of the professor
It's fun!
Be ready to read and write A LOT
OMG take this class. It was by far the best course I've taken at Harvard. Brace yourself to question everything you think you know about the obectivity of the medical establishment.
Be sure to do the readings and take notes. This is not a class where you can get by without doing the readings.
The subject matter was really fascinating, and the readings were really unique and interesting.  Albertus Magnus on magical stones, astrological theories about the plague, etc. It gives a pretty complete view of medieval and early modern medicine and makes you think about our own medical practices in a very different light.
A strong and illuminating course with a brilliant and supportive professor
This is a lovely and comfortably sized lecture class with a very caring teaching staff.  Readings are reasonable in length and often whimsical, as it is cool to learn the "language" of medieval medicine with its humors and powers. The three papers are broad enough in prompt to allow focus on areas of interest, and there are no exams.  This is not a class to miss for those interested in medieval society or looking for an interesting elective in the history of science!
This is an amazing course. It fulfills a GHHB requirement, the assignments are fair and really eye-opening.
It's a good course for people interested in the topics covered in the course. It's not for everyone but for those who like the middle ages, the Renaissance or diseases and humors should take this course.
As someone who has studied the intersection between Christianity and medicine, the majority of this course was quite pertinent and enjoyable. The essays are structured so that you can write about the particular topics that you find interesting.
This is a very accessible course to students who are genuinely interested in any of the topics covered in the class. The paper assignments are flexible and allow for a wide range of questions to be explored. This is a great gateway course for those interested in learning more about what being a historian of science entails.
