I would definitely recommend taking this course. The material it covers is very fascinating if you are interested in history or science at all. The teaching staff are great and Prof. Csiszar's lectures are very amusing. He does a bunch of interesting demonstrations in class.
If you are interested in history of science then you will really like this course, if not it will be a chore because some of the readings are very dense and hard to get through at times.
This class is so fun! I came in already knowing a little about the history of science in the nineteenth century, but this gave me a nice broad survey so I could put my prior knowledge in context. Every unit was just so interesting, and the lectures are beautifully constructed and great entertainment- I never regretted dragging myself out of bed for them, because I knew I was going to have fun and learn something. I think every student at Harvard should have a broad introduction to topics like the ones covered in this course: Darwin, eugenics, cybernetics, "big science," Romanticism, etc. Get ready to read some fascinating primary sources and hang out with a lovely teaching staff while never stressing out too much. This class is great.
This is a comprehensive survey course with captivating material and fair grading.
HS 100 is a cool (basically) survey course that takes you from the beginnings of the scientific renaissance in the 15th century through to 21st century bio-societies and biotechnology. It introduces some key themes in the history of science, and interesting historical moments through which to tease out those themes. Great lecturer, and awesome and knowledgable TFs
Although I wasn't sure how I felt about the class at first, I soon noticed that I was bringing in information that I had learned into other subjects. Eventually, topics that I had learned about in class would get brought up in everyday conversation, because the information I was learning was so relevant and useful.
Csiszar is the best professor - he's super prepared for every lecture, his slides are actually so helpful, he's available for office hours. Devin's a solid TF too.
Solid class. Well-organized, reasonable workload, and excellent lectures. To its detriment, however, the course spends too much time on several minor scientific figures while neglecting giants such as Einstein. The course is more concerned with science's changing relationship with society than it is with the importance of groundbreaking scientific discoveries themselves. This is truly a history class. You will be sorely disappointed if you are hoping to gain even a basic understanding of a number of scientific discoveries.
This is a very fun and engaging GenEd course to take especially if you're interested in science and/or history. The course material is very interesting and teaches you about some historical aspects of science you've never known before. Not an easy course, but would highly recommend - the effort is worth it.
This course is a great way to see if you're interested in the history of science!
This class is about the "history" of science. Knowledge of science itself may not be greatly helpful in the class. Instead, you'll get to learn the connections between science and other things, such as the state, religion, people, commerce, and war.
class is totally manageable and has some really interesting content!  a great gen ed or elective!
Professor Csiszar's enthusiasm made this course for me. He put so much effort into making the class student-friendly and keeping everyone up to date.That being said, the only reason I took this class is because I was already set on concentrating in History and Science. If this class had been my first introduction to the department I honestly would probably have decided not to concentrate. It has a very broad kind of unfocused Gen-ed feel. At times I felt like we went into far too much detail (Linnaeus and Buffon) and at other times I felt like we glossed over really interesting/important topics (ethics of Atomic Bomb, etc). I've also heard that a lot of what is covered here is taught again in the Sophomore Tutorial in a much more intimate, engaged setting. I regret that this class took up the place of a much more interesting/focused Hist&Sci elective.
This is a really interesting class that is good for people who want to know more about what science is as a practice and where it comes from.
This class is required for anyone concentrating or secondary-ing in History of Science, and as far as required introductory classes go it's not bad at all.
It's a great introductory course. I found it to be too distant for the present (until later topics in the course are reached) to be truly applicable to current problems. That being said, the professor makes it exciting and interesting. I looked forward to lecture every day.
TAKE THIS CLASS! The lectures are extremely entertaining and you learn a history that most people don't know.
An excellent intro to the History and Science department
This course is pretty easy, but worth it. I learned so much, I would highly recommend it!
Took as a secondary requirement and found it to be easy. Some parts were very interesting, others less so. Wouldn't necessarily recommend as an elective but for a requirement it was fine.
great course, you learn to conceive of science in a very different way
This class was very enjoyable and I learned a lot about the progression of scientific thinking. Professor Csiszar is very knowledgeable and excited about the course material. The readings are somewhat difficult to understand, because they can be very old, but they are extremely interesting. The papers are pretty open-ended and there are multiple options to choose from.
It's a good course for understanding how science has changed through time and how it fits in society.
This class was one of the most interesting ones I took this semester. It gives a whole new, exciting perspective of science.
Readings are interesting, assignments are difficult but not terrible, and Dr. Csiszar is a good teacher. Overall 7/10 would recommend.
This is a really wonderful class! Even as a senior HistSci concentrator, I found it engaging and insightful. The abundance of assignments (papers + tests) can get annoying, but they are not bad at all and the course staff puts a lot of effort into making the class an enjoyable experience.
Take this course and concentrate in Hist & Sci!But seriously, this course moved so steadily and I was deeply impressed by the variety of topics covered.  Each lecture offered really enlightening ideas that make you think more deeply even outside of the class.  This class was not stressful at all, but if you engage in the readings and in section you will be surprised by how much you learn.
This is a great class, but the light workload and large number of people enrolled mean that it's easy to lose interest and stop making an effort (while still getting a fairly good grade). Prof. Cziszar is a great, engaging lecturer -- and accessible outside of class, which is nice -- but at the end of the semester I just didn't feel like I had learned or experienced enough to justify having taken it. The subject matter is dense and fascinating, but for whatever reason that didn't come through as well as it could have
Don't let this class ruin history of science for you. This is the worst history of science class that I have taken thus far, but believe me, it gets better. Don't take this class if you don't have to.
stay on top of daily assignments and go to lecture because the lecture component is awesome
May not be the best option for someone looking for a Gen-Ed or an elective as the material is rather specific but I thoroughly enjoyed the material and genuinely feel like it laid a great foundation for my studies in History and Science
Engaging and thought-provoking but never painfully difficult.  Enjoyed attending all classes.  You cannot use laptops or any technology though.
I took this class to be introduced to history of science and to get a sense of the concentration However, numerous people told me while I'm in this class that it is not a good representation of the history of science concentration. This class is interesting, but it is extremely broad and some points it is very vague in terms of the words it uses to describes themes in science, like "big science" or science vs. state. The themes were huge.
I enjoyed this class a lot! Prof. Csiszar is a good lecturer.
well-organized course, great professor who is very excited about subject matter, definitely take advantage of the optional field trips/excursions
Interesting overview of the History of Science. I would definitely recommend this class if you are interested in concentrating in Hist Sci -- or even if you aren't!
More work than typical for a gen ed, but a really good, thought provoking class.
This is a good, straightforward course. If you're a History of Science concentrator, you'll likely enjoy this class - it's designed to spark your interest in some branch of science by giving a broad survey of western science from the 1400s to the contemporary era. In that way, the class is fairly successful. Prof. Csiszar also set up many fun site visits (take advantage of them) and in class demonstrations that made the course more exciting. The reading and work aren't too much, but some people in the sections never talked or contributed.
One of the best introduction courses I have taken at Harvard.
Take it! It is well taught - lectures were engaging! The professor has in-class experiments! The material was well organized/presented. It was really such a great class.On Exams - The exams tested if you knew the key concepts and material. It did not include minute details. So, they really just want to know if you've learned - not if you've crammed. They also give study guides for the mid-term and final. Both of which were very helpful.
There is a lot of emphasis on scientific developments from prior to Newton, so I would just be wary of what the course covers before deciding.
Be an active participant and you will appreciate this class much more.
DO NOT make this your intro HistSci course or your C&B Gen Ed requirement. It is not very representative of the rest of the HistSci courses, I'd suggest taking it once you're pretty sure you want to concentrate in HisSci. As a GenEd, it is a lot more work than a GenEd should be- 3 papers, a midterm and a final.
Don't take this course for general education. It's too much work (2 exams, 3 essays, and a whole lot of reading). If you like to do all of these things and want to learn about the history of science from a very Eurocentric and male perspective, then this is your course!
Great survey class, especially if you are considering this for a major.
Reading for this class is super helpful but attending lectures are imperative.
This is a fantastic course and I think everyone should take it.  For a gen ed class, it is rather work intensive but I deeply appreciate what I've learned in this class.  Also, Prof Csiszar is a GREAT lecturer.  He's funny and adorable.  Also, what a snappy dresser!  I know you've seen this Csiszar. You are killin' the blazer game (if you don't understand my slang, that's a good thing).
I stumbled upon this course as I was searching for CB gen eds. And though courses like CB 34 or CB 23 are popular, I was really happy and grateful that I came across this one. For someone who generally dislikes learning history, this course really synthesized the science with the narrative. As a scientist and natural science major, I felt that all the physics and chemistry and biology that I had learned was effectively contextualized, placed in the arc of events such as the Industrial Revolution or WWII. The exams are very reasonable, and although there is a fair amount of work between preparing for section, doing the primary source readings (DO THEM! they're fantastic and chosen to give the biggest punch for the least amount of pages), writing papers, and taking exams, I felt I gained a lot about the context of science in the past 400 years. Teaching staff was fantastic as well, and Prof Csiszar is truly passionate about what he does.
Great class. This class will make you a better student, citizen, and individual overall if you make the most of it. Hopefully they will provide course packs with the readings from now on. Work hard on the papers and participate!
awesome class -- I highly recommdend it!
HS100 is a fantastic class! Professor Csiszar is an excellent lecturer, the teaching staff is super helpful, and you will learn a ton. That being said, since the units cover so many different topics inevitably there will be some weeks where the readings feel tedious and boring and others where you're wildly interested in the topic. That being said, it's worth working through the more tedious weeks because overall you get a great sense of how we got to science as it is today how people approached scientific study in the past.
TAKE IT IF YOU LIKE HISTORY AND SCIENCE
Its a good class. Some of the material is dry but there are also very interesting parts.
This is course is exactly what you would think of when someone said the history of science.  It's a bit tedious, yet can be somewhat interesting. One of those that I would probably not recommend as an elective but it's not a terrible requirement course and you have to take it for hist of sci. Grading was pretty fair and section was helpful yet boring.
Extremely worthwhile if you're interested in American and British history as well as the scientific pursuits in the past 500 years.
The workload is not too bad, but be prepared to read a lot of dense, primary sources and analyze them.
I would recommend this course because the lectures were great. They were interesting and held my attention the entire time. Section was sometimes boring, but if you do the readings it makes section much easier.
Be sure to do the readings and be able to map their concepts over time. Additionally, go to office hours as much as possible. The staff is great resource to better understanding the material. Don't skip lecture! The lectures are too interesting to miss and if you miss one there is a hole in your understanding.
This class provides a good introduction to the history of science. The course material was interesting and presented in a way that inspired thinking. The essays for the class were somewhat difficult but manageable. There were 80-100 pages of reading a week from old, historical documents.
This was a good class and a good way to satisfy the Culture and Belief requirement. The lectures are well done and the readings are interesting. This is an especially good way to satisfy this Gen Ed, if you are interested in science. The workload is manageable, but doing the readings is definitely crucial to get the most out of the class.
This class is really interesting for a great understanding of the history of science and scientists. It gave me background that I had never before heard in a science or history class.
This class seems to have a reputation for being dull, but I think that's just the nature of intro classes.  You can't delve nearly as deep into particular topics as you'd like, which can be frustrating.  The class was pretty good though. Dani was a great TF.  The exams were pretty easy and the assignments were fairly graded, and if you are at all interested in history of science there will be at least a few interesting topics and persons covered in the course.
This is a nice intro to the history of science department. It has an interesting selection of readings. The papers are somewhat hard/ require significant work to get A's but they are manageable.
-- Do not judge the history of science department from this class alone; the class is much too broad at times but overall, a good way to appreciate the big themes in science and the practice/understanding of science
Loved this class! Goes into a lot of the "big hits" in the history of science, but spends a great deal of time on the 20th century, including war science, genetics, and biotechnology. I had to take it as a concentration requirement, but I would recommend it as a Gen Ed to those interested in studying how science is a product of the culture and politics of various time periods!
This course is a great way to see if you're interested in History of Science.  Just note that this is a survey course and so you won't got into anything as in-depth as you like.  However, the work load is quite manageable and the professor is really friendly and engaging.
Do all of the readings!
It is important to recognize that this is really a history class--it involves lots of reading and memorization. The class is somewhat time-consuming, but the material is not too challenging. I would only recommend this class if you really have a passion for the history of science--not just as a gen ed or elective.
Very interesting material.  Reasonable course load.  Teaching staff is very nice and helpful.
I would tell future students that this is a fascinating class.  It is an excellent gen ed to take if you're interested in pursuing a STEM field because it shows how science and research has evolved over modern time and brings up current issues in the research world.
Be prepared to read texts that have many terms/concepts that can fly over your head.
This is a very interesting class with great instructors. If you are interested in knowing more about science and society, how science has developed, or anything like that, it is a fun course to take.
Pretty good class. I do not like lecture based History of Science classes, but I enjoyed this class.
Fantastic guide to scientific thought and history from a very liberal perspective!
Even though it is an introductory course, Professor Csiszar is incredibly enthusiastic about the material and makes the lectures interesting. This class confirmed my decision to concentrate in history of science.
Professor cszisar was great, but the course material overall wouldn't be very interesting if you aren't interested in the history of science. Useful info to know, though!
don't take it unless you need it for history and science concentration; it is not all indicative of the types of classes you take in the concentration but it is a requirement so just push through
This course is interesting if you want to learn about the history of scientific inquiry and how science has developed into what it is today. The lectures and readings can be boring so if you're considering it as an elective it's informative but not the most interesting course.
As a hist of sci concentrator, i loved this course!! The workload is not too heavy and is really consistent, lectures are engaging and interesting, there's a topic for everyone.
Great introduction to the history of Western science - super low time commitment. If you can get Leah as a TF do it, she made the course for me.
This class shares some cool insights into scientific developments over time. They had a very specific way they wanted you to see each of these scientific historical eras though so if you didn't align with their views on assignments you were unlucky.
This class gives a very good overview of how science has progressed from the past. It does not have much to do with actual scientific experiments or processes, but rather, how individuals thought about science. It is very philosophical and ambiguous in some manners, but ultimately you come out of the class feeling more grounded in your understanding of how science came to be what it is considered as now.
This course is a good way to ease yourself into freshman year.
Taking this is worthwhile in every way: a wealth of totally fascinating information, a lot of interesting readings and it's not a killer time commitment.
Professor Csiszar is an excellent teacher and lecturer and every class was more interesting than the next. He really generates enthusiasm for the subject matter and is excited to meet and work with students individually, as well.
HS100 is a great class. I had heard that it was dry, but I never found this to be the case, and I am not someone who is particularly interested in science (although I do like history). This class offers something for everyone, and you can really shape your experience it. That being said, what makes this class so special is the teaching staff. Prof. Cziszar really cares about his students and about making lectures engaging and informative. The entire course is super well organized. TFs are also universally great, and both enthusiastic and knowledgable. The workload is completely manageable, and the readings are normally interesting. One small note is that the grading on the exams is relatively tough, although the exams themselves aren't too difficult. If you do the readings for the most part, and come to lecture, you will be prepared. I really would recommend this class without reservations. It makes you look at science in a new way, and I felt like I was learning something new and exciting each week. Take this class!
Professor Csiszar is an excellent and enthusiastic lecturer.  The course gives such a broad base of knowledge throughout many centuries, but really offers a good grasp of movements that have developed science as we know it today.  I would urge anyone interested in science to take it!  The TFs are also great at explaining and readily available to help.
The class is not recorded and it's kind of hard to learn material if you miss class, so only take it if you actually intend to go to class or if you know other people who will make it easier to catch up on missed material. That being said, lectures were very good and interesting. Section experience will vary, depending on the students, but generally section was really helpful in understanding readings and connecting them to the overall themes of the course. The papers are pretty easy if you know what's going on and they always offer a variety of prompts on the first two papers.
This course truly teaches you about the ways in which people have engaged with studying the world. It addresses matters of natural philosophy, natural history, hard sciences, social sciences, statistics, government, and more. It provides invaluable insight into the development of what we consider science today. The professor and TFs are amazing, the readings are fascinating, the assignments are fun and engaging.
This class is super fun and not too demanding.  A great way to check out a super cool department and fill a gen ed in the process.
Very fun and interesting course.
Keep up with the readings and don't slack off.
take it if you want to major in hist/sci or if you are interested in the topic quite a bit
I took this class as a senior and unfortunately thought this was basically a worse version of sophomore tutorial (which I loved). The teaching staff was great (Prof. Csiszar is really enthusiastic and obviously loves the material) but I don't think the class accurately represents the concentration, which is a main goal of the class. I think it could be improved by modeling it more on sophomore tutorial: case studies from different time periods in history to help students engage. I think an emphasis on thought provoking papers rather than the typical midterm/final format would also be beneficial. I gave the class a 3 because I love the material, but feel it really needs a revamp in structure.
HS100 is a great class, especially for students with strong interests in both the humanities and sciences. The lectures are engaging, and it is exciting to have the opportunity to read on monumental works in the history of science  including the writings of Galileo, Newton, Darwin, and other scientific revolutionaries. While such texts could be daunting at first, the guidance offered by Professor Csiszar and the TFs helped me to understand and reflect on the readings in meaningful ways. A highlight of the course was visiting Houghton Library, where we examined and even flipped through original texts by Darwin, Linnaeus, and Buffon.  

It is important to note that the essays and exams in this course are quite challenging. The take-home essay questions often have multiple parts, and the midterm and final exams require you to write several essays in a short period of time. Still, if youre up for a challenge, this course is definitely worth taking and will greatly shape and develop your understanding of the practice of scientific research  both in the present day and throughout the broader arc of history.
great intro to the history of science
This course often gets a bad wrap, but I really enjoyed it. If you are interested in science, it is cool to read the original papers of the figures and names you hear thrown around so much. Its also really interesting history challenging your conceptions of what "doing science" actually means. There is a lot of reading, which can be quite dense, but overall fun.
Do the readings.
Great Class, Csiszar really makes you excited about the history of science! No lap top class if that is a problem for you
If you have to take this class, I am sorry. It is very hard to get through. Hopefully there will be some useful comments this time around and Professor Csiszar will make some necessary changes.
Great course. Professor Csiszar is a great lecturer. Very easy to understand. Lots of readings but not too bad. Very creative writing assignments. Well structured course. Would definitely recommend to others to fill the Culture and Belief GenEd requirement.
Interesting and not too strenuous. Good introduction into the various realms of history and science study.
This class is a lot of work, and is definitely not what I would call an "easy gen-ed." The material can be engaging at times, but there is a lot of it, and getting behind is difficult to overcome.
Previous iterations of the course have had fairly low Q scores for some reason or another - sometimes unengaging lectures, sometimes unresponsive professors. Under Professor Csiszar, I can confidently say that I recommend this course without reservations. Lectures are always engaging and sometimes quite funny. Professor Csiszar goes out of the way to organize material in an easily-digestible way and interacts with media in a really meaningful way when most professors just point to images and move on. The professor and TFs are also very willing to spend time outside of class discussing the material - there are plenty of review sessions and they're highly receptive at office hours. My one concern is about the quality of the written assignments (essays), but given the teaching staff's receptiveness to feedback, I have absolutely no doubt that this will improve as the course is more well-developed next year.
I really enjoyed this course and think it offered a good introduction to themes and key moments throughout the history of science! Definitely take it if you want a good general understanding of how science came to be the way it is today, and themes guiding it forward in the future. Also, the readings are interesting and very manageable.
The right amount of reading, definitely more challenging in the beginning, as readings are very esoteric, but eases up after midterms.
Enjoy the 15 week journey of 400 years of cool stuff!
In my opinion, this class is going through renovations since it is so different from past versions. So I would tell future students to be conscious of the fact that some changes will be a little difficult at times.
This class had a huge scope and was great at giving an overview of may key moments in science. Professor Csiszar is very engaging and his enthusiam is infectious, and Kristen is a great and very accessible TF. The readings are fun, but can sometimes seem a bit overwhelming or uncontextualized -- if you can, it helps to re-read them (or read them) after lecture. The difficulty of assignments is on the less-stressful side of moderate and they're made considerably more doable if you go to office hours! I took this class without a substantial background in either history or science, and found it really interesting and fun -- I highly recommend it!
It's fascinating stuff.
This is a great class for anyone looking to fulfill the Culture and Belief GenEd requirement or considering a concentration in the History of Science.  The professor's enthusiasm about the subject matter is infectious, and he delivers great lectures that are relevant to issues of science, technology, and society raised by current research. Readings aren't too heavy for a history course, and although they occasionally grow dense with technical details the passages are generally interesting. The four short papers are fun to write, and the prompts are broad enough that you are able to focus on topics you find most intriguing. Exams require a great deal of fast-paced writing but are overall a good culmination to the course.  Section consists of enjoyable discussion and extras such as guest lectures and tours of the Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments in the Science Center help you to see the interdisciplinary nature of the history of science while exploring opportunities available in the discipline.
If looking to gain a deeper understanding of how science has evolved over time I can think of no better class than histsci 100. Teaching staff does a good job of helping one understand this broad period of time in a way that is easily accessible within one semester. I came into the course wary of how effective this could be done, but I was happily surprised as the course evolved.
This course was a very engaging survey of what we refer to as the "history of science".  The readings were a bit time consuming but quite interesting.  I would recommend this course to any student interested in either history or science.
This course does a good job of covering the main topics on the history of science, and is taught in an engaging way. The readings are not too challenging, and the important themes are emphasized in lecture and in section over and over, which I appreciated deeply, since in some history courses, it is difficult to determine what information is the most important. Going to lecture is essential to understanding what is going on.  The assignments are not difficult if you start on them early and have a good understanding of the themes of the course.
Prepare for more assignments.
It is a very interesting class and from what I have heard it has improved immensely compared to what it used to be like. Lectures are great and very interesting (only an hour too so you can really stay focused). It might seem like a lot of information, but it is not that hard to absorb. If you want a pretty broad overview of science in the last 300 years this is the class to be in. Very interesting and descriptive and I must say I remember the most compared to my other classes looking back now. It really sunk in.
This is a great course that focuses on the connection between science and society in history.
As a history of science concentrator, I really enjoyed this class. I've shopped it multiple times and this year, with Alex Csizar, it was by far the best its ever been. The lectures were good and the material was interesting and it was very useful to get a general history of science from Plato all the way up until modern genomic biology. There isn't that much work, the papers are manageable and the exams are also very straightforward. Overall, a very good class!
This class is not hard, but you should keep up with the readings because they inform you of the lectures. Professor Czisar is awesome! He also never tucks in his shirts, but it's cool. The class itself has a young feel to it and is truly enjoyable; couldn't imagine talking about Galileo and the atomic bomb in a better way.
HS100 covers super interesting material and makes you think about the history of knowledge and society through a really interesting scientific lens. My favorite part of this class was the papers, where we got to synthesize our thoughts on topics like Darwin. The class has four organizing themes and is made to progress linearly,  constructing a narrative out of the history of science. The readings can be dry and long, and so can sections and lecture, but most of the time and especially as the course went on it was a really fun, engaging course.
I would first of all recommend this class with enthusiasm. I would tell future students that as a requirement for the history of science department, this class was great. However, if they are interested in seeing what history of science is like, I might recommend another elective course within the department.
it doesn't really matter, the only reason people take this is for a concentration requirement
Try to keep up with the themes of the course and connect the readings to the bigger picture.
The class quality depends greatly upon the professor teaching the year you take it.  It was amazing this year, though it was the first year Prof. Csiszar taught it.
There are a lot of readings, and once you accept you cannot do all of them, the course becomes incredibly manageable and enjoyable.
History of Science will teach you very much about "science" and "natural philosophy" and how religion/society/context/funding/states influence how science is done. If you're interested to learn about the history of laboratories, or how Darwin and his Victorian society or even a brief history of genomics, you would Love the class and especially the reading. The reading are Not that much, and Peter Dear's book is just amazing and easy to read. The primary sources, which the classes actually primarliy focuses and is built on, can be challenging sometimes because you're always follwing the same thread of arguments. Make sure you have a Great TA. because a good TA is really required to ask questions and make connections. This is one of those classes in which it is hard to do on your own. I didn't have a great TA, and it was very difficult for me. the professor is Amazing. he's very intersting... and a wonderful lecturer.
It's a class for history of science concentrators, not a fun elective. It provides a broad historical framework from which the rest of my studies in the department will build.
This course is pretty much what you would expect from a survey course. Some info is interesting, others isn't. If you like histsci this will be a painless and mostly interesting class to take, if you don't like histsci dont take it as a gened (too much work to be worth it). Its a fine histsci course, but others are awesome.
Fascinating course, with a reasonable workload, and great teaching staff.
Only take if you are a Hist Sci concentrator. Professor Csizar says that there isn't much reading, but this is misleading.
I had the privilege of stumbling into this course, almost by accident. I had shopped another, but was deterred from signing into it because of the first homework reading, so, I went back to my.harvard.edu and happened upon this course, did the homework for it, and showed up on study card day for my first lecture :). It was a blunder I'm extremely grateful for; this course is highly commendable, by my standards, because it succeeded in accomplishing what I believe a Gen Ed should accomplish, and that is, to change one's perspective about the world by presenting it through a lens never considered before. Take this class. No red flags.
As a senior who shopped HS100 every year and kept waiting, hoping next year's professor would be better, I am VERY glad I made that decision. Professor Czisar's lectures are amazingly well planned... This course does everything that an intro history of science course should do. The way it teaches themes and the reading of primary sources will be extremely useful for the freshmen and sophomores who continue on with the major. If you are genuinely interested in the history of science, this course is really great.
I highly recommend this course if taught by Professor Csiszar. Otherwise, I would tell future students to be careful with the class because the readings can be dense and understanding them is vital to the course. Professor Csiszar's amazing lectures were the only way I was able to understand the readings.
The readings are fascinating and looking at philosophies and scientific developments in a thematic manner definitely changes your opinions on them. Try to do the readings before section, they make it much more worth it.
Professor C. is a good lecturer and the second half of this course is very interesting once you get into the mid 20th century. I found the material before that point to be really dry. The primary sources were hard to read and minimally engaging. It is a cool chance to think about the authority of science and the changes in the field over time, but, honestly, if you're taking this for culture and belief, take something more interesting!
Worst class I've ever taken at Harvard. Would not recommend at all to anyone.
While this course is particularly interesting in the second half of the semester, the beginning weeks are somewhat dull. Worth taking as part of concentration requirement but probably not as a gen ed.
Honestly, I would have really benefitted from taking this course as a freshman. Not only is Professor Csiszar engaging and incredibly knowledgable, he gave us tips on how to study! That's a first at my experience here, and it has been very refreshing twist. You'll learn quite a lot; the workload is rather light for a history course. Take the course! You won't regret it!
I walked away from course feeling very positive about the lectures and course content.  I found that certain units were absolutely fascinating, and others were quite dull (a matter of personal preference, I just don't really care about Galileo). The good units totally made up for the boring ones. The readings could be dull, and section was also a struggle.
Really fun class! Alex Csiszar is a great lecturer. The material is interesting, and the papers are fun to write. Great for science concentrators who want to get a better idea of what has led to the state of different scientific fields today. Also great to balance a pset-heavy courseload.
I didnt enjoy this class, yet I am still planning to concentrate in the history of science department. I think future students should be aware that this class isnt necessarily a great representation of the department or the concentration as a whole
It's not always fun or interesting but the Professor is a good teacher and you will learn a lot.
a survey course. interesting material, but a lot of material, and the pace could make it seem as if you are not delving deeply into anything. keep up on the readings, though, and do them well, and then you will get a lot out of the course
This course is fascinating and approaches science from a whole new perspective. While the course moves quickly, the assignments are well designed to insure that you learn the material well. The assignments all had creative aspects and were flexible to your interests, which makes the course very enjoyable.
This class is FANTASTIC! Don't let the old cue scores dissuade you; Dr. Csizsar is a fantastic professor, and he wasn't teaching it until this year, so all of the previous cue scores don't have any bearing. I loved this class; it was constantly fun and interesting, the lectures and readings were great, and it was very low-stress. As a science major who plans to go to graduate school in science, it fundamentally changed the way that I think about scientific discovery, and I would recommend it particularly strongly to scientists who want to think about science from a different perspective.
Made me much more informed about where society is in the world of science and HOW WE GOT THERE, which is a hugely important piece. This course also provides an excellent base for understanding modern topics as they present themselves in scientific research and the science/society relationship. Such a cool way to look into history. Certainly a must for all science or history concentrators, but anyone will take a lot away from this. It's a lot of material, and check to see if they change the assignments, because 3 papers and 2 exams were frustrating.
I loved HS100.  I always felt engaged in lecture and fascinated by the material.  I felt the teaching staff was accessible and the assignments and readings fair.  Section did not particularly improve my understanding of the material. The schedule and powerpoints were straightforward and sensible, though they did not contain all the information that was necessary to know.  Ask for clarification about written assignments and exams.
This is a requirement for history of science. So, as a requirement, it's pretty good. It's decent as a course on its own.
Great course. The readings and lectures are terrific. The assignments and exams are pretty bad, but they're manageable.
really great for teaching you how to conceptualize modern science. teaches you how to think differently and one of the unique kind of classes Harvard is really special for
Overall, the course was pretty dry and not the most exciting of material.
Over all, it was a great class! My TF, Leandra, was amazing and brought delicious sweets for us in section sometimes. The concepts are emphasized in lecture and section, so even if you do not understand (or don't read) the readings, you'll get an overview of the important parts. But don't expect to do well on the midterm, three papers, or final without doing the readings. People have told me that this isn't their fav HistSci class and it doesn't reflect the awesomeness of other HistSci courses, but I enjoyed it. Just put in the work and you'll be fine, too.
This course is great for if you want to attain a greater understanding of the evolution of science through history. I found that it was much more history and reading based than I anticipated. Be prepared for some longer dry readings throughout the year. The concepts were interesting though. If you take this course make sure to get the most out of section, as this is where I really learned the bulk of the material.
I took this class to fulfill my Historical Study A core requirement. As a science major, it was interesting to get an idea about how science and the perception of science has changed in the past 400 years. Having 3 short essays and 2 exams was a bit annoying, but this course was a relatively painless way to fulfill the requirement, and I gained some perspective about my area of interest.
The material is fairly interesting - it's cool to learn where our scientific beliefs come from. Unsure whether I would have taken it as an elective, though.
it's really intriguing studying the history of science. this class is a broad survey so it's not as interesting I feel as a more specific history of science class
Don't take this as your first Hist Sci class
It is a difficult class depending on who your TF is. Don't take as an elective
A good look into the department, and a way to gauge your interest in the field.
This is a great class as an introduction to the history of science, but I would not recommend the class for the gen ed requirement.
Don't take it unless you want to concentrate in HistSci
This course was much more interesting than I had originally expected.
Don't judge the History of Science department by this class! You should take another course in the department in a subject that interests you before you decide whether or not to major in it. This course is just something you have to get out of the way for the major - it's not great, but it's okay and you just do it. But many of the other classes are wonderful!
Pretty easy if you stay on top of the reading, although odds say that you won't. Even if you can't keep up, there are really no repercussions until exam/essay time.
I really enjoyed this class - it's great for a gen ed!
If you are a History and Science concentration, then you have to take this class. While the material covered in the readings and the lectures is very interesting, the papers are by far the worst part of the class, and the grading seems pretty arbitrary. If you want to get a good sense of the department and if this concentration is right for you, take another History of Science class before declaring your concentration.
Whether you need to fulfill a gen ed requirement or you're thinking about majoring in history of science, this is a great class. I highly recommend it because it covers so much and has something for everyone.
If you're a history of science concentrator and you have to take this class - look at the syllabus and see if there's anything you're interested in. It seems like they change the topics a lot each year so why put yourself through misery if there's nothing you like? This class is not like any other class in the department and you definitely don't need to take it first.
Make sure you don't fall behind in the readings.
Shapin is enthusiastic and passionate.  I liked his choice of topics.  His voice is low so sit close to the front so that you do not zone out.  The readings vary between being good and dry.  There is a lot of reading.  Essays are helpful.  Exams are flexible.
Take this course if you are interested in a broad overview of the history of science.  While this is not a survey course per say, it highlights a number of important episodes in the history of science that are interesting.  The papers and midterms are not too challenging, and it's nice not to have any long research paper at the end (just a final exam and the 3rd short paper).
i think it is a great course to get an introduction to the history of science...but only if you are interested in the subject matter.  there is a lot of great stuff that is taught in the class, but you will only get things out of it if you want to!
It covers a wide range of material and its interesting to be provided with such a perspective, to understand science as those in that time period understood it. The class also made me realize how many people were involved in "creating" the history of science, when I looked at all the famous scientific figures we did not cover.
I'd take it if you have to take it for your concentration, but it's not particularly riveting in its course material. Also, try the department history of science courses if you're taking this as your first HS course - you'll find more exciting ones.
Definitely not as bad as it's made out to be, but also don't expect it to be representative of the History of Science department overall.  It's a solid course, which covers some fascinating themes in the history science that will likely change much of your perspective of how science developed and why it holds its place in society today.  Shapin's lecture style takes getting used to-- some people don't like it, and you may have to sit in the front to hear him, however he presents the material well if you think about what he's saying and take notes.  Section was strong, and the readings are pretty light.  Essays took a bit of getting used to if you don't have much experience writing historical essays-- just make sure to approve a topic beforehand with your TF.  Overall, don't let it turn you off a great concentration if you don't find it too riveting-- there's plenty of fantastic histsci courses to pursue.
A bit boring for seniors to take, but probably a good fit for freshmen.
This is a good class for the lecture component, but for no other reason.  It is a poor representation of the history of science concentration, which is a shame because it is the class the suggest to prospective concentrators.
This is a good introductory, cross-time course about how different scientific thinkers thought about the world. It is interesting and provides good background.
There are a lot of readings assigned each week, and it's important to keep up with them throughout the course.
Although this course can be dry, it's a great introduction to the department, but I wish I had taken a different History of Science course as my first in the department; however, it's nice to get a concentration requirement out of the way early.
This class requires you to do a lot of reading, but the lectures and sections help you learn what you need to know from each primary or secondary source.  The midterm and the final are both fair, though difficult to do well on.  Professor Shapin gives entertaining lectures.
The course covers too broad a span of history to cover any topic in-depth. The goal of the course is to introduce history of science students to the idea of treating history in its own light rather than as a step toward modern understanding, so any student already used to studying history will find the course unexciting.
Good overview for non-concentrators.
The topics covered in this class are super interesting and it offers a different view into the famous scientific figures we've always heard about and changes the way you'll think about what science is and where it comes from. Lecture is pretty much just a straight lecture - not super interesting, but the TFs and professor are super helpful.
If you enjoy this field this class will be a lot of fun.
This is the worst class I've ever taken, and I'm pre-med. Not only did it cater to a specific crowd within the history of science (of which I'm not part of), but the readings were awful, the prompts were terrible, the lectures were obnoxious and the results of tests were not indicative of one's understanding of course material. Unless you absolutely have to take this class, I recommend not. There are much better classes within the department.
Obviously you have to take this if you're a Hist of Sci concentrator. However, if you're taking it as your introduction to the subject, realize that this course is NOT AT ALL indicative of the other hist sci classes (i.e., the other ones are infinitely more interesting/better). So don't be turned off of the concentration if you don't like the course. I probably wouldn't take this class if I didn't have to.
The material is so interesting! A great way for science concentrators to fill Culture and Belief.
Sit in the front or else you won't hear Professor Shapin!
dont take it until after sophomore tutorial
Do all the readings if you can.
Course material interesting, good overview of the history of science.  Recommended if you are interested in science and need to fulfill a core requirement.
It is very interesting and informative, but kind of a pain that it is required for all HistSci concentrators because it is not really relevant for those doing the Medicine and Society track.
The information is interesting as are the course faculty. May sometimes seem boring, but at the end you'll greatly appreciate the class and what you have learned.
If you are looking for a HisA core, DEFINITELY consider this class. The workload and exams really reasonable and the teaching staff are all fantastic.
Only take this course if you absolutely have to...you can find better history cores!
It's a very useful overview of the subject.
Fun! Interesting!
There is a lot of reading, but it's more important to understand the main themes. It's essential to attend lecture, but the sections are not very helpful.
a good class- but way too broad.
This class is an excellent introduction to the history of science. Although the readings more or less sentenced me to a long nap, the class itself was interesting and gave me a new perspective on science and how science is done and evolved.
Maybe if I had had a different TF it wouldn't have been so bad... And maybe because I already knew a lot of the stuff we talked about, that made it more boring for me. But I was miserable in this class.
There is a lot of reading, and some of it can get tedious, but the material is overall very interesting, and the tests and assignments are pretty painless.
I would tell them that it is manageable and there are interesting things that you learn but that it is not the most interesting or engaging course.
I would take it only as a requirement. It can be graded a bit arbitrarily, but on the other hand, it has a low workload, and you don't really have to do the readings.
It's a really interesting course, and it doesn't feel like a chore to do the work for it. The professors and TF's are great.
I would say that though the readings can be overwhelming and the course can feel a bit disorganized, overall it's very interesting and will also provide a lot of information not usually covered in other fields.
Primary readings are not very fun. There are too many pre-meds in the class that try to pass rather than trying to learn history.
-This is a fascinating class. It provides a great overview of the history of science. However, sometimes the readings for this course can be pretty extensive.
Requires a good amount of reading, but manageable (and it's a history class... what do you expect?); offers a good introduction to the history of science (for freshman or sophomores who are thinking of joining the concentration); for science concentrators: offers a new way of thinking about science -- how it's rooted in and related to the world.
I would only recommend this class if you want to work hard or are very interested in history of science. I would not recommend it as a core. I think there are probably much easier and more enjoyable ways of fulfilling the History A requirement.
If you are thinking of concentrating in History and Science, please do not make this the first class you take.  As a current history of science concentrator who took this class to satisfy a requirement, I can positively say that if this was the first history of science class I ever took, I would have never even considered concentrating in the subject.  I am not the only history of science concentrator who feels this way.  If you are thinking of either concentrating in history of science or using History of Science 100 to satisfy a core requirement, try to avoid it at all costs and instead take a class like Anne Harrington's "Madness and Medicine."
I really enjoyed it!  It was very interesting and not too time consuming or difficult.
It's so awesome to learn about the long road science has taken during the ages to come be what it is today! It really is an enjoyable class.
The class can be dry at certain moments, but the class is generally interesting and the workload is light.
fascinating subject matter; well taught
Only take this class if you're interested in the history of science.  Why you would take it if you weren't is beyond me.
The course was well-taught and really interesting to me personally, but I think you should definitely be interested in the subject matter-- probably not everyone would enjoy studying this material.
History of Science 100 is a good way to get a survey of the field and serves as a good introductory course to what the history of science studies. It's a painless way to fulfill a core requirement, and it covers interesting material you might not encounter elsewhere.
It's a large intro class that spans a long period of time, but it's definitely more historically than scientifically focused.  The key themes are really interesting to learn about but some of the readings can be dull.
I would tell students that the History of Science departmental courses are MUCH BETTER than this class.  I hope that one day, this statement is no longer true.
It's not difficult, but the lectures are interesting, and you learn a lot
This course is one of those that may truly alter the way you think about science, the people related to its development, and the world around you. It is well worth the journey's cost.
Be prepared for unnecessary readings and some very boring lectures from Professor Shapin.
a cool, easygoing class with great subject matter and an enthusiastic teaching staff.
Don't take it if you don't have to, there's a lot of reading.
It's a great course as in introduction to a lot of the major themes in the History of Science as well as some of the allstars in the department. But the assignments are vague, there's very little direction in what we're held responsible for, the lecture slides suck, among other things. It's fine if you're looking just to fulfill some requirement or are auditing it or taking it pass fail, but don't look to this course to sell you in the History of Science as a discipline.
That it is a really incredible class that talks about a LOT of issues in a lot of different eras, and really expands your way of thinking about history, science, and the stories of the scientists who comprise the history of science. It is taught by multiple professors which is an amazing and enriching way to teach the course. Though the reading can be overwhelming at times, the ability to get the thesis of a text and be able to identify a few relevant examples and points of view is really helpful.
Don't take this unless you like learning lots of unconnected pieces of information.  The readings are extremely long and boring.
The class isn't terrible, as long as you are prepared to do the work. It's definitely a more qualitative class, so you have to be sure to do what the professors and TFs are looking for to do well.
Focused on abstract evolution of ideas of science, the later information is more interesting than the earlier information. Primary sources are very important.
This class has a lot of overlap with the sophomore tutorial and other history of science classes that explore the same material in much greater depth. If you've never taken a history of science course I'd recommend one that's specific to a subject area you are interested in, rather than this survey course (maybe take a gateway course). If you have taken other history of science courses, you will find this class repetitive and frustratingly brief in its exploration of your favorite topics. The course has its moments: Professor Shapin can be very entertaining, section discussions can be lively. Given that it is required, I found this course tolerable, but I would not have taken it otherwise.
The reading is a lot, but it is well worth and gives you a comprehensive look at the history of modern science.
I took this class because I was considering being a History of Science concentrator. However, this was not the best way to get a sense of the concentration; I feel like the intro courses never really are. If you're looking to see if you might want to concentrate in Hist of Sci, try taking a Hist of Sci elective course first.
Wonderful course about the history of science - provides a broad introduction to the major themes and concepts.
If you think you may be interested in History of Science, take this course! It is an awesome introduction to some very interesting information, and is taught very well .
There are a lot of readings, so if you don't want to get bogged down later (which you will), try to keep on top of it
You should take this course if you want a very broad introduction to History of Science. The lectures are interesting, but a bit repetitive. Section was very strong.
This course truly changed the way I think about both history and science.
interesting. the material is a little dry but Shapin makes it not too bad!  The midterms were graded really hard.
Only take this class if you are a History of Science concentrator. The class is not good enough to be taken as a Gen Ed or elective.
This class is not as painful of a concentration requirement as many made it out to be.  It can be quite interesting at times, especially when discovering how much of what we know about scientific history is misrepresented in history books/common belief.  The TF's and lectures can make the material much more interesting than the readings.
lots of reading, although not all of it is necessary.
This course is excellent for gaining a general background in the history of science, whether you plan to concentrate in the field or not. The assignments require careful thought but are very manageable, and both Professor Shapin and the Teaching Fellows are very helpful and supportive.
I would recommend this course as a rather painless requirement for a history and science concentrator. It provides a solid overview of the department, and the subject matter is often very interesting. Even for someone taking this course as an elective, it offers a nice survey of the relationship between science and society.
I think that if you really enjoy history and reading primary sources, this would be a good class for you, but if you are more interested in science, you may not enjoy the course.
The workload was manageable to the point of generally being easy, but the grading can be harsh.
This class gives you a chance to think about science in a way that is never explored in any typical science course.  It allows you to see that much of how we think of science today is a product of the 20th century and not something that has been evident to people for centuries.  It also makes you more aware that how we think of certain discoveries today is not exactly how people viewed them at their origins.  It is important to know that the reason certain ideas have credibility is not that they were widely accepted in the past but that they underwent a critical process of controversy, debate, or skepticism before gaining legitimacy.
Good for filling a core; also good if you're considering concentrating in History and Science, but keep in mind once you get past this class, the other department classes are smaller, less formally taught, and overall more enjoyable!
Take the class if you are pursuing a History of Science degree or are more interested in the history of science from 1600 to 1900.
I think it's a great class, and very interesting.  However, it might only be so interesting to people with particular interests.  I really did enjoy it myself, and I think we had a lot of interesting, relevant discussions.  It wasn't that tough a class either- mostly an enjoyable intellectual ride.  One thing that did bother me a bit, though, was that the course description doesn't really fit the course material.  This is not a class about the broad overview of science- it's about a specific period (the past 500 years) of science, specifically about the history of white male European science.  We don't explore the sciences of other cultures, and I think most if not every scientist we really talked about was an older white man.  Which, a lot of important discoveries were made by men, and by Europeans, and our American science is based off of such discoveries.  But I think it's misleading to describe a class as the history of all science when it's only about one culture's science- I feel like there's a lot more out there.  (I think everything we discussed was important- but I would just advertise the class as being about the history of European/American science, for accuracy)I would like to reiterate that I did enjoy this class and found it to have valuable lessons.  Professor Shapin does a great job of teaching us a ton of stuff in very little time, without compromising the material.  I'd just describe the course differently in the course descriptions.
If this material interests you, it's a well-designed course
This is a great class, and the reading are so manageable and little but each is important in its own right. The teaching staff clearly put a lot of thought into the selection of readings and thus I suggest that in order to get the most out of such an excellent class one should really engage in the course.  Then that person will reap a great number of benefits.
This course will change the way you think about historical events and make you think more critically about your previous conceptions of the world. You will see there is a greater level of complexity to all actions.
History of Science 100 is a great class. It covers a broad range of materials, but the material is well-organized. The assignments and tests are manageable. There is a lot of reading, so I had to figure out what readings to focus on for the week. I liked this class a lot and look forward to taking another Hist of Sci course next semester.
A lot of reading and lectures are sometimes hard to get through. Assignments are creative and quite fun, though challenging you to think more than usual.
The class is not an easy core, but the material is interesting.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading without many assignments to reinforce the concepts. However, the material is overall very interesting and you will get out of the class what you put into it.
It might take adjustment to Shapin's free stye of lecturing
the relationship between science and society is so interesting, and this course covers all aspects of how knowledge affects people from all periods of time
This course is heavily based on philosophy, which was disappointing to my original impression of the course.
Great class!
This course will teach you about a lot of interesting themes and developments that I think are important in grounding us in the modern age.  It's really interesting to learn about the relationship between science and utility or the history of mental health.  This course will also have some weeks where there is a lot of reading and you're not quite sure what to take away, but overall it's a manageable workload and a pretty rewarding experience.  The papers are a lot of work but most of them help you get more out of the course.  It might only be really exciting if you make it that way, because if you engage in the reading and lectures you'll get a lot more out of them.
Lectures are enjoyable to go to, material is interesting, readings are good for the most part.
interesting in theory, boring in practice
only take this class if you are willing to read pages and pages of boring primary sources, attend boring lectures, and endure arbitrary grading
Interesting class; you will learn a lot; be prepared for a lot of reading
interesting, useful. probably wouldn't take it just as an elective though.
History of Science 100 is an interesting and enjoyable class.  The teaching staff is great and the work is manageable.
I'm a concentrator and I only took this because I am required to....This just isn't my thing...Read the syllabus very carefully if you're not really in to history.
The title and intro lecture put me off a little; but the course material was very interesting-much better than I thought the class would turn out-particularly because this class was not at all like the rehashing of unrelated, boring facts and memorization of arcane experimental setups and data that I had previously been exposed to when learning about the history of science in high school.
Not a bad intro class for Hist and Sci.
It's interesting, but it's also a good deal of work, and is sometimes graded harshly.
The lectures are interesting if you like learning about specific types of technology, engineering, and physics. They are not applicable to other areas of science, such as biology, psychology, or neurobiology. It was disappointing that the lectures seemed to focus a lot on what the professor was interested in, and that these didn't match up with my interests.
You'll see the modern world in a new light, no joke.
If you enjoy Prof. Shapin's idiosyncratic style, you will find this an excellent course.
This class is more work than a Core/Gen Ed. Keep that in mind. Only take it if you will love the material. And it's doubtful that you will love it.
This is a fantastic course that should be taken by all harvard students. It is a fantastic historical survey, the work load is minimal. The class gets you to think about familiar topics in different ways, and it gets you to think about very distant and obscure topics in familiar ways.
The course is a very enjoyable and informative overview of the evolution of scientific thought and its practical ramifications.  The course is not overly difficult to manage, and aside from the three papers and two exams, it does not take up extensive time from one's schedule.
very fun class that I recommend to everyone.  It provides a different perspective on science that you would never otherwise think about
This is a good class to fulfill a gen ed if you are interested in the history of science.
The lectures are kind of dry and boring, the essays are graded difficulty.  Take another history of science course before taking this one!
A good class provided that you have a little background in history, religion and philosophy.
A lot more effort than initially would assume. Awesome things worth learning tho.
The material is interesting, but the lectures can be a bit boring.
This class was manageable in terms of workload and difficulty. It is a good course for people interested in scientific ideas. I would have liked it to get a little more technical, but it is a history class by definition.
take this only if you're a concentrator or dying to know about the history of the *philosophy* of science, not the actual history of science
very interesting, comprehensive gateway course to the History of Science, the professors are great, the material is interesting
History of Science 100 says it is the introductory course to the History and Science concentration, but I would recommend taking another course, one that has been around longer and is more interesting, because this course could steer potential concentrators away from the major, which would be unfortunate.  Do not take this course as an introduction to History of Science, take something else in the department.
Not bad for a core.
You learn a lot of interesting material, but it is not presented in the most thrilling way.  Hopefully though since this was the first year, it will be improved in years to come.
It was a great course that covered a broad range of topics. The teaching staff was wonderful- professors and tf's alike. I liked being introduced to a new way of learning through primary sources and learning about the applications of science to human life throughout the ages.
Only take this class if you know how to read discriminatingly
Shop it and see if the workload has been reduced. Also, if you're concentrating in History & Science, you probably should take it regardless.
HS100 offers a clear and insightful introduction of the history of science through the ages. The course is engaging, interesting, and well-organized.
Do the reading, but do it selectively.  Ask questions and speak up in section.
It's a really good class and introduction to the field of history of science.
the course seems like more philosophy than either history or science; the title is very telling -- you have to want to think about how we know what we know
The course is realtively easy with some ups and downs and a little frustration.  If you don't like to take notes or attend lecture, don't take this class.  The lectures are not videotaped and powerpoints are sparingly filled in.  However, the material is intersting and well presented if you have an interest in seeing how science became what it is today.
Too much reading
I would say that this class is an excellent way to fulfill a core requirement while learning a lot of interesting material.  I especially recommend it if you are at all interested in the development of scientific ideas through time, or just intellectual history in general.
The class was interesting and insightful, but perhaps not so enjoyable.
It's pretty easy. The readings are too much--too many pages and very dense, hard to understand, and sometimes not really relevant to the  material in lecture.
This is a fairly good way to fulfill the history core if you are not interested in history and particularly if you are interested in science.
Of all the courses I have taken so far at Harvard, History of Science 100 is one of the few for which I would reserve my very highest recommendation.  It at once easy and interesting, and not so focused as not to be of general interest.  I enjoyed it immensely.
The class's large scope means there is exposure to several eras of the history of science, and thus everyone is likely to find something that is new or interesting.  One comes away not only with a core requirement but also with a good idea of scientific and philosophical ideas in history.
Be able to tease out your interests from the medieval to the modern.
I would tell them that it's a great class for getting a basic understanding of science's relationship to other aspects of history.  It provides a good foundation on which to hang other history of science courses.
I thought the materials we read were almost all fascinating, and all of the professors were good lecturers. There is quite a bit of material covered, which makes studying for midterms and finals a bit difficult, but there isn't a lot of technical information to memorize.
It's a lot of material and broad surveys, especially in historical subjects, are tricky to navigate.
Great class! Takes the best from both worlds, history and science, and combines it to make a really interesting and challenging course.
The lectures are kind of boring, but the material's pretty interesting.  There's a lot of reading, but the assignments are totally manageable.  Pretty good for a Core class.
Great class, lots of reading, substantive knowledge
Although the material is very interesting, there's also a TON of stuff to know, and it can be very hard to stay on top of the subject at hand any given week.
Too difficult for a core class, only take if good at history classes and interested in the material
This class is very interesting, even if this isn't necessarily your ideal subject matter. Some of the lectures aren't incredibly cohesive, but section leaders do a good job of helping you synthesize the material into broader themes.
with so many interesting history and science courses, i would not choose this one.  perhaps it struggled this year because it was the first year it was offered. It is sad that this is the intro to Hist and Sci course because it could potentially discourage students from choosing a wonderful concentration.
If you study a scientific field, before enrolling in this class take care to ensure that the professors' approach to the study of the history of science is compatible with your own reason for being interested in the history of your own or other scientific disciplines. If you are a physicist or biologist seeking insight into the historical development of how physicists/biologists look at the world, for example, I think you'll be disappointed. What this course provides is a broader historical perspective on the idea and nature of "science" as a "way of knowing the world", and its relationship to other developments in human society and ideas. That's a grand and somewhat vague project, and perhaps less interesting than a focused study of the sciences themselves, but that's the way the cookie crumbles.
A must for all history of science concentrators or prospective concentrators -- or a really interesting and fulfilling way to fulfil Hist B!
There is a lot of reading
