cool look at the intersection of two mainstays in our society: science & religion
This is a super interesting class that deals with fascinating material about the history of science that everyone should know. I learned a lot and changed my perspective on the way I think about how we interpret historical facts. It's not too much work although a fair amount of reading.
Read selectively when necessary, but do the work. It pays off.
very interesting/engaging/relevant course and world-renowned professor; moderately high reading workload and tough grading by TF(s)
This class is extremely interesting and will make you rethink the relationship between, science, religion, and the American government. There is a lot of reading, but it is rather rewarding.
interesting subject and professor
While this courses focuses largely on Anerican it does provide a good, critical point of departure to explore history of science and religion in general, and the discourse on their presumed conflict in general.
Professor Oreskes is a lively, engaging lecturer, I highly recommend taking this seminar if you have any interest in how science interacts with religion in America. Many of the modern questions of evolution v creationism, climate change, etc are answered by closely examining the histories of this relationship from a variety of perspectives. The reading is somewhat substantial, but always provide interesting and relevant information for sustaining discussion during class. Papers weren't too work-intensive yet touched on the main course themes well. Overall a great class on a fascinating topic with a really enthusiastic professor.
This was a very interesting class with a professor who's very involved in the area. However, it was fairly disorganized and the grading was a little confusing. We were not told what the final assignment would look like or when it would be due until late April, which was extremely stressful and irritating. Overall worth it though if you're at all interested in the relationship between science and religion throughout history and in the contemporary US.
the class is so interesting and Professor Oreskes is an amazing teacher. the reading is very heavy and sometimes confusing/pitched towards people with background in religion, but the assignments are very rare and manageable and the content is so interesting
Take this class for a chance to learn about how science and religion have and continue to shape America, from someone who is undoubtedly one of the world experts on the subject. Naomi absolutely makes this class: she's a stellar lecturer, and is an absolute blast to have as a professor, even if she is pretty busy. Know what you're getting into, there's a decent amount of reading, although most is pretty interesting. Assignments were easy, but weirdly graded/structured, which I think had to do with the subpar TF we had this time. Overall, a really great opportunity to think about neat questions about how science and society shape each other, from an absolutely awesome prof.
A lot of weekly reading and you need to participate in class to do well.
Professor Oreskes is brilliant and fun and she'll definitely push you (there's a lot of assigned reading) but it's worth it. You'll  walk away at the end of the semester feeling like you understand the world much better than you did before.
be ready to read
