Interesting material but really didn't enjoy the professor. Coding assignment was ridiculously hard because you have to do it in an archaic language (Applesoft BASIC) with little guidance as how to complete the problem. Wouldn't really recommend it
GEM CLASS. Very interesting material, the "final" is really just a midterm you take before reading period, and the projects are very fun and not at all a slog. Professor is good at what he does and is genuinely interested in teaching what he knows.
I walked into this class on a whim during shopping period even though I already had my schedule.  I ended up adding this as a complete elective as a fifth class.  I learned so much and talked about this class in almost every class I took this semester.  I think the class is super well-structured, which cannot be said about a lot of Harvard classes.  Professor Hersch makes the content extremely enjoyable and chose great "textbooks" that make you actually want to do readings (weird right?).  If you're lucky, you may even get to go to Bartley's Burgers with him.
This course explores the history of personal computing in the most engaging way possible. There is a lot of reading, but it is interesting, and even if you can't keep up with it, you will end the semester with a comprehensive understanding of the development of information technology.
This was probably my favorite course at Harvard solely for the material and the way it's taught.  The readings are great, the lectures are great, Professor Hersch is always excited and engaged and Devin is amazing -- the best section I have had in any course.  The assignments were all interesting and fairly graded but definitely need some work; I'm sure they will improve by the next time the course is offered.  You will enjoy this course!
Professor Hersch is a fantastic lecturer, with clear gusto and enthusiasm for the material! The course curriculum is also incredibly interestingcovering everything from the earlier computing machines to microprocessors to virtual reality, and all the hippies / counterculture in between! Whether you're a history of science concentrator or not (like me), you will enjoy this class.
Professor Hersch is an engaging and effective lecturer who aims to make the course very enjoyable. The workload is moderate and assignments are very time-consuming at certain points of the semester. But if you truly enjoy the topic, then you will find the assignments worthwhile and rewarding. While grading should be a bit more transparent, I would at this point recommend any course taught by Professor Hersch!
One of the most interesting/best classes I have taken here!
The course is awesome! Devin is one of the best TFs I've ever had at Harvard (and I'm a senior). If you're interested in learning about the history of technology, this is absolutely the course to take. Professor Hersch is incredibly knowledgable about the subject matter.
PROFESSOR HERSCH IS THE BEST. DEVIN IS THE BEST. TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU HAVE A SLOT OPEN IN YOUR SCHEDULE.
Super interesting class! Very low stress for the most part (except for the coding project if you have no coding background, holy cow!!). Prof. Hersch is hilarious and a great lecturer. He really cares about the course material, and furthermore he really cares about his students and tries to get to know them as much as he can with a big lecture class. Section was helpful too, and Devin is a fantastic, knowledgable TF.
Hersch is the best lecturer at Harvard, hands down. The class is fascinating no matter what angle you come at it from, and the assignments are both well-geared toward the subject matter and often very fun. Not a difficult class at all if you show up to lecture and do the readings (and you'll want to do both).
Very fun course. Easy to stay awake in class. Super painless senior spring course.
Take all the readings seriously and go to class because you cover a lot in class that is helpful for midterm and final. Over all, relatively chill class but also offers a lot of great perspectives.
This class was so fun and Professor Hersch was a pleasure to listen to. The lectures are very interesting and the assignments were fun. I recommend this class absolutely.
Great class, GO TO LECTURE!
Hersh is an entertaining lecturer and the class isn't too much work, I would recommend to anyone interested in the history of technology.
the exams are kind of hard. the assignments are a little unnecessary. but super interesting course!! the weekly work load is very manageable.
This a great and very interesting course with engaging themes and materials, a wonderful tf and fun professor who are very knowledgable about the subject. This is one of those cool/interesting hist sci lectures that doesn't require a lot of work, which is great in some respects, but also lacks a certain depth. Great course though.
