This course has a lot of promise. Prof. Hersch is a very engaging lecturer, and the course material is fascinating. Unfortunately, it is bogged down by a few issues. Namely, the mandatory sections are a huge drag. They are full of awkward pauses and overall fairly disorganized. In addition, both the midterms and finals, while not particularly odious in themselves, contain between two to three take-home essays. While not difficult, these take-home portions are particularly ill-timed, taking place during midterm/finals period. Were these few issues to be resolved, I'm confident this could be a great course.
The course covers many interesting topics. Attend the lectures because they're fun! A few negatives: the exam and grading structures are questionable and unclear.
Very good class, very straight forward and interesting.
This is an excellent class - I learned so many cool things that I never knew before! Prof Hersch is an amazing lecturer. The only reservations I have about this class is the amount of work was required for the midterm and final. This semester we had both an in class portion (1 hour both midterm and final) and a take home (2 essays midterm, 3 for final). I just think with a 10 page research paper we could've had a lighter final. DEFINITELY take this class though but be weary that you'll have to study quite a bit for the midterm and final (tricky matching portions and IDs).
THIS CLASS IS AMAZING!!! The material is incredible, and the only thing better than the material is Professor Hersch. He loves keeping the class interesting, with various "experiments" that break up the lecture portion of class. This class totally has a high school vibe (get to know professor, classmates) while being as challenging as a college course, which is hard to pull off. I might add that there is a bit of work toward the end of the semester, but if you love this class like I did, it's totally worth it. Easily my favorite class at Harvard.
Great class! Decently interesting topic, BEST lecturer at Harvard who is accommodating and personable, very reasonable workload.
Professor Hersch makes this class fantastic! I loved the lectures and definitely learned a lot about the history of spaceflight and how to think about it.
Humans in Space has been my favorite class ever at Harvard. Professor Hersch is a wonderful professor and engaging lecturer. Lectures were interactive and the readings were interesting but not too long. This class is a low-key gem, especially if you are a History of Science concentrator.
This was almost certainly the best class I have taken at Harvard (and I took it as a Senior). It will also only get better in future years, as Matthew Hersch is someone who is clearly committed to constantly improving the class wherever possible and this was his first year teaching it. The subject matter is fascinating, Professor Hersch is an unbelievably engaging, well-prepared, and well-spoken lecturer, and the workload is extremely manageable. I could not recommend this class more highly.
Very interesting material about the history of space exploration. Professor Hersch is a great lecturer and really cares about the material. There is a decent amount of reading, but certainly not unmanageable. Take home final essays were not that fun, but shouldn't deter you from the class. I appreciate the stuff I learned about the history of spaceflight.
This class is probably going to get bad Q scores but you should still take it under a couple of conditions. So here's the deal: everyone LOVED lecture and loved the content. Professor Hersch is a lot of fun and an amazing lecturer. I would look forward to going to it. Unfortunately, the experience got tarnished by the exam situation. It was completely absurd--i.e. at the end of the semester we had a 10 page research paper, a very tricky  in class final, and three 1000 word take home essays. So that was stressful. I would say DEFINITELY take this class but ONLY if they seriously change the exam setup (it was the same thing for the midterm). It was Professor Hersch's first year so I'm sure things will change but definitely check before you sign up.
great class lots of fun!!
It's a great class. Professor Hersch is incredibly interesting and engaging. Section lacks substance though, and be prepared for a lot of paper writing.
If you are interested in checking out a true history of science course Professor Hersch provides a nice introduction to a topic with many broader applications than you might think. A good elective as well for non hist/sci people, it presumes no prior knowledge. You will be asked to memorize a lot of details for the midterm/final, but otherwise the work is usually worthwhile/meaningful. TF wasn't great, but that might change.
Fascinating introduction to human endeavors in space: past present, and future. My only reservation is that Professor Hersch sometimes seems to insert his own social justice warrior views into the lecture, which is a little awkward and unpalatable.
This has been my favorite course at Harvard thus far. If you have any interest in space exploration at all you should take this course. It is not much work and is a fantastic introduction to the history (and future) of space exploration.
It's a fun class and Professor Hersch is really interactive. I'm glad I took it
Take this class. Even if you don't have an interest in space travel, you will after this class. The course is so awesome. Really laid-back, super interesting, and Professor Hersch is just an incredible guy. Absolutely 100% without a doubt take this class. In fact, take any class Hersch teaches, it'll be incredible.
