An interested look at brainwashing from the Cold War to the modern day.
very interesting, be prepared to do a lot of reading and to think critically about them
Fascinating topic and a very manageable course load, but the projects were still very intellectually engaging. Also, the guest speakers were very interesting, even if sometimes I didn't understand how they were relevant to the course
This course is in its nascent stages. If they get it together, this can be a very fun course! Many interesting readings, for sure.
Do the readings - they're extremely interesting.
This is a great class. There are a lot of readings but try and figure out which are the most important and focus on those... they're usually worth doing. However, you will probably leave the class with a fear that you're being brainwashed in every aspect of your life, which is a little unsettling.
If the course is restructured, it has the potential to be great. I understand that it had to be restructured at the beginning of the semester, so I'm assuming this is something that's already being looked into for next year.
fun at times, but also a bit confusing and drab.
It's interesting and pretty painless.
Very interesting class
GRADING IS UNPREDICTABLE
It gets a little boring, but the readings and subjects are fun.
It's a pretty easy course, but you won't get a tone out of it if you don't put anything in.
It's a good course, but it really lacks structure, which can be disconcerting and a little frustrating.
Really interesting & a fun elective
I definitely think that if a student is interested in the topic of brainwashing, this is a very exciting class to take. The readings are very captivating and I think there is a reasonable balance in terms of the amount of work you are asked to do. The one thing I would warn is that you have to be motivated on your own to do the reading and to get into the course since you don't always get that from lecture and section which can be a bit convoluted.
Will be a fantastic course as a seminar.
This is an interesting course on an often-ignored subject matter. It is quite a lot of fun.
fantastic course. take it!
Very cool subject matter makes the class easy to get through.  Guest lectures help to spice up interesting, but sometimes monotonous lectures by Lemov.
The class is really fun and the topics are crazy, which makes for an interesting semester. There's not a lot of work!
This was the first year this class was taught and it's a highly interesting subject (you get a chance to watch The Manchurian Candidate and The Stepford Wives, and there are great guest lecturers), but a lot of changes were made to acommodate the large class size, including the addition of a take-home final after shopping period had ended, so that was a bit upsetting (though it was a fairly good final). Professor Lemov is extremely well-informed but you better be quiet during lecture because she has a soft voice and you won't be able to hear her if it's too noisy. The subject matter is riveting, though, and you will definitely learn a lot and view Facebook and reality TV differently.Latif is a great TF, by the way.
The subject of this course is fascinating, but be warned that not only brainwashing is explored. Some of the topics we covered (advertising in the media, cognitive dissonance, the 1971 Stanford Prison Experiment) weren't obviously related to brainwashing, but the class was still fascinating. Lemov's lectures left a bit to be desired sometimes, as she spoke a bit too softly and always ran out of time, but I could tell she knew the subject really well, as did the TFs. Take this class if you'd like interesting readings and the chance to see your friend's and family's reactions when you tell them you're taking a Brainwashing class at Harvard.
This was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.  The material is fascinating, it's well taught, and the assignments are engaging and fair.  Do not pass on the opportunity to take this class!
It is really great if you do all of the reading.
It's interesting, easy, and ties a lot of things I've learned in psychology with interesting facets of history and pop culture. I've already recommended it to all my friends!
It's the sort of class you really have to be interested in the material to thrive in.  Lectures weren't amazing (though they often had cool moments) and sections were a little soft, but the topic is 'brainwashing' and if that sounds cool to you, then you'll probably enjoy the class.
The class is as fascinating as its name suggests, but be sure to keep an open mind about the contents.
Be careful about which subjects you choose for your final paper.
The course was great- very interesting and never boring. But only take if it is a seminar!
History of science concentrators, beware that this class felt more like a Hist Sci core than a concentration class. Section discussions were limited by the backgrounds of non-concentrators and assignments were kept brief and not very exploratory. That being said, the material was very interesting and Professor Lemov's lectures were a pleasure to attend.
There is not much necessary work for this class, but assignments are not graded particularly easily. The material is very interesting but not necessarily presented in the most engaging way.
The course is interesting, the readings are manageable, and the lectures are well-done. Can't ask for much more than that.
Professor Lemov is great and the topics are fascinating- the type of thing you will go out and learn more about after class
the professor is not an engaging speaker. I would recommend this class only to students already highly interested in this subject
Very interesting.
interesting readings and the essays are very open and you can essentially make your own prompt.
Not only is the material incredibly interesting, but the assignments are very reasonable and provided with very useful resources
I really recommend this course, even if you're not a Hist of Sci concentrator, as the material was very very interesting and did not really require any Hist of Sci background as it was more of a general overview. The lectures really helped tie things together, but did not always delve deep enough into the topics at hand, which is what the readings helped to do. But most of the readings were really interesting and were actually enjoyable to do. The essay topics were fun and actually made me reflect on society. I actually really enjoyed writing the essays. Although usually I am very concerned about not writing enough, I was actually more concerned about going over the page limit for the essays for this class. The final was quite painless overall as well. This was one of my favorite classes this semester!
It is an interesting class, but is not always incredibly engaging.  The guest speakers are a highlight.
The material was really interesting and the teaching staff is super laid back and helpful and understanding about everything. The paper topics are really easy and thought-provoking. It sounds like kind of a fantasy class but you actually learn a lot about Cold War America and Communism.
EASY.  Prof Lemov is okay at lecturing, but Jeremy is a WONDERFUL tf.  You also get lots of freedom on what you write & present on, so reading is super optional.
This class is good, but it does not make use of most of the readings, so you don't feel like you're getting a lot out of them.  There is so much material that is covered that the order of events can sometimes be confusing and hard to follow.
Attend lectures and do the readings because they are essential in understanding the course.
This class is SO easy! TAKE IT! The lectures might be boring and awkward, partly because of the professor or the general setup, but it's overall very interesting! EASY EASY EASY!
A deceptively grand course.
I think this class is extremely interesting. The readings are fantastic, but you don't always have to do them. Lecture is run extremely well by Prof. Lemov. I found her to be a bit timid at first, but after the first two weeks, I completely respected her. She is extremely smart and asks so many thought provoking questions that learning in this class became more exciting then boring.  The guest lectures where also SOOO COOL. In terms of the work, there are always so many options for the paper topics that are all thought provoking. For instance, I always wrote film reviews and still managed to do very well. Take this class. You will not regret it!
Although the lectures can be a bit dull, the material is super interesting, and the assignments are relatively little work about really cool topics. I definitely recommend taking this class
Very manageable workload. 3 short papers and a final. Final is not bad at all and does not try to test details but rather broad and obvious themes/ppl of the course. Lectures are a bit dull, but interesting material.
This class requires some adjusting. I think everyone would agree the subject matter is fascinating, and Professor Lemov is extremely knowledgeable about all aspects of it. But the lectures move very quickly and aren't that clear sometimes. When you back and study for the exam you sort of realize that you did learn a ton which is nice but it can be tough to get there just using the lectures. Section is great, assignments are fine, but grading is a little on the harsh side.
This class is really fascinating and doesn't have an unbearable workload. Pretty much the best of both worlds - definitely recommend shopping.
Material is very interesting and very relatable. Lectures are hard to follow.
Fascinating class! Really interesting material - great to take as a fun elective.
A lot of fun and almost no work at all, this class will intrigue you and make you consider the world around in a new light. The assignments are a delight to write, the teaching  staff are fascinating to talk to and wonderfully passionate about the subject matter and the application of the ideas you will explore range from the creepy and almost fantastical (cold war mind control experiments and a declassified CIA interrogation manual anyone?) to the more commonplace but equally interesting (engineering concept through environmental design or carefully chosen words). Surprising, relaxed yet fascinating: best class I've taken at Harvard!
Her lectures can be a little difficult to sit through and her slides are pretty useless but it's an interesting course. Unfortunately the writing assignments didn't actually relate too closely to course readings.
This class is as fascinating as the title would suggest.  There is a lot of reading, and Prof. Lemov is not a dynamic lecturer, but you will learn some pretty crazy stuff about cold-war era history.
Not too much work, and interesting material
Lectures are horrible. Don't go. Stephanie Sasse lead my section and made the class worth it.
Interesting and easy class!
loved it, lectures are boring but who goes to that anyway
Take it, just be prepared to not find lectures that informative
the subject seems really interesting but the lectures could be a bit dry
Lectures are a bit boring even though the material is really fascinating
Great class, a real gem.
Take this instead of CS50. They are a cult. Trust me I know now.
dont take this course. Waste of my time. Sounds interesting, its not. Grading is unfair too -- not the easy A that everyone talks about.
The material is interesting, yet lectures still manage to make topics excruciatingly boring. Assignment instructions are unclear and grading punishes you for not doing what the TF wants (even though you can only really guess at what their expectations are...).
Do not take this class. Lecture seems like it would be interesting, but is actually incredibly dull. The TF staff is not very knowledgeable and section is a waste of time because no one (including them) has done the reading. The assignments are ridiculous and uninspiring ("Analyze a movie" or something like that). Not worth it
Fun and interesting class.
This class isn't very demanding and has a reputation for not being very demanding, so everyone involved (students, TF's, the professor) treats it as such - unless you're incredibly self-motivated, it's quite easy to fall behind on the readings or not participate much in section. That being said, there is much about the class that inspires motivation, as the material is fascinating and hauntingly applicable to one's own life (particularly the later units on soft-persuasion, advertising, social media, etc.). Professor Lemov  presents a complex historical survey of brainwashing and its relation to totalism (Cold War), psychology/sociology (the science end of this course), pop culture (reality TV, brands), cults, etc.
Lemov's lectures take some getting used to (and maybe some coffee right beforehand), but the material is so incredibly interesting and the assignments allow you to pursue what interests you most. Definitely do the readings if you're not getting what you want out of lectures, because this topic is definitely one you ought to explore.
This class does not require much work.  The lectures are not that great but to get a good grade in the class you do not even have to go.  The readings are really interesting so I would recommend reading them if you have time.
This class is really interesting, and you will learn a lot if you go to lecture and do the readings. A lot of it is self-driven, which may be both a good and bad thing, depending on how you want to approach it.
A fun and interesting HS class. If you're not going to pay attention in lecture you wont learn anything but you can still do fine in the class.
Boring lectures.
Boring lecture
The course materials are fascinating! Do not take if you are a paranoid type person - as is, this course will make you feel like everything is brainwashing you, including you brainwashing yourself (Festinger --> cognitive dissonance --> aka self-brainwashing) Anyways.... The course is very cool and the TFs are wonderful. They genuinely seem to care. Make an effort to participate in section! It will make everyones life better. Dr. Lemov is exceptionally soft spoke and not an engaging lecturer, so make sure that you can deal with that before signing up for the course.
Professor Lemov is not a good lecturer. She is timid and hard to hear. This is a problem because not much information about hte material is given on the lecture slides so it's not unusual to leave a class without knowing what the main points of the day were.
This class was very disorganized and the lectures were boring, but the readings and concepts were very interesting
This is a great class to take even if you have never done Hist of Sci before. The subject matter is connected to so many different aspects of modern life. The lectures are really interesting and incorporate a lot of videos and storytelling. I actually want to continue reading and learning about the topics we covered.
The course has a lot of interesting concepts!
Really interesting! And fun topic to learn
This class was a totally new area for me, and I absolutely loved it. Found myself talking about the material with friends all the time-- that's what all Harvard classes should do!!
really cool. makes you aware of world around you
Boring lectures, so boring.
Interesting subject matter, assignments were pretty straightforward. Professor Lemov is obviously very knowledgable about the subject matter,  but her lectures are honestly not extremely engaging. I found that there were a lot of seniors taking this class randomly as an elective or as pass/fail so there were some times in section when it seemed that the overall buy in was pretty low and I could tell that the TF was struggling to reconcile her expectations with how much effort we were willing to put in. Overall, it was moderately interesting and not too difficult.
this class doesn't take much time and is fascinating. It's a fantastic course that teaches you to really question everything you do, and the influences that are on you on a daily basis. Plus it'll help you not get abducted by a cult!
The lecture part of this class is really bad.  Probably the most boring lecture at Harvard, despite the material being extremely interesting.  Section makes up for it because the TFs are laid back, and the work is really not demanding at all.  The guest lecturers were awesome though, really interesting.  This class could be really cool, but there needs to be a more lively person at the front of the classroom.
The course material is very interesting, but the quality of the lectures was inconsistent.
This class is quite manageable and, on the surface, quite interesting. However, lectures are not engaging, which is frustrating -- a talented lecturer would make this a truly fascinating class, but there's a lot of untapped potential here
if i wanted to fall asleep, i would play an audio recording of this class
This class is so easy and interesting, you better take it.
