Take the class. The workload is very manageable, especially for a seminar-style class, and the material explored is like no other class at Harvard. If you are a WGS concentrator, this should honestly be mandatory material. Understanding masculinity and male identity/how they are sociall constructed and enforced is critical to many basic understandings of gender theory, and will give you a lens through which to view issues of queerness, transgender identity, and womanhood that will be very useful in your studies.
you can get a lot out of this class if you do the readings and engage in discussions. I learned so much from this class and it really changed my perspective on life.
come in prepared to do a lot of hands-on work (like planning discussions/activities; researching in-depth for your final paper), and you'll get a ton out of this class.
This course has a very unique subject matter you're not likely to see in many other places. It handles it effectively in ways that provide interesting perspectives on a variety of issues.
This class is awesome.  You basically just talk for 2 hours about really interesting material.  Sean fosters a really amazing community and environment that I haven't found in a lot of my other classes.
This is an excellent course, especially for those who have previously had little experience with gender studies. Discussions on masculinities/ gender and their role in determining male behavior and health were very insightful. Professor O'Donnell is also excellent in his feedback on papers and his willingness to go out of his way to meet with students in the course.
This seminar was great! The readings were mainly sociology or anthropology research articles covering a lot of different aspects of masculinity. The discussions were very free and the professor really helped foster a sense of community and camaraderie in the class. This course also gives its students a lot of freedom in choice of research topic for the final paper, which is a fantastic opportunity to pursue something about which you are passionate. The professor was extremely helpful in finding resources for the research projects.
If you have the opportunity to take a class with Sean O' Donnell, then take it. This class was incredible and there need to be more like it.
