This class is interesting if you are interested in gender, the middle east, or the study of the body as a locus of discourse. If you are interested in any of these components it will be worthwhile. If interested in all, it will be enjoyable!
If you can, take this class! Professor Bayoumi is wonderful and really provides great inside on many of the texts relating to Egypt
The material is so interesting to discuss! And the assignments are quite open to interpretation so you can really explore your interests.
It was hard to sit in a class of 15 people and be lectured to with an unstructured powerpoint. The material can be very interesting, but is also very confusing and lectures move quickly. I would recommend having some sort of background and a strong interest in not only the Middle East, but gender studies as well.
Take the class! Not too much work, weekly discussion questions keep you engaged in the reading, and the final project was fun!
Ah, what a great course! I did not know much about the Middle East coming in, but you learn a great deal. I loved exploring the intersections of gender, sexuality, and medicine in a new context and learning a little history and anthropology, too. This class is so important, especially considering today's wide-ranging misconceptions about the Middle East. Professor Bayoumi is one of my *favorite* professors. She is so knowledgeable and yet so humble. Go to her office hours whenever you can. So happy I took this course (!!!).
Professor Bayoumi is an incredible teacher. Class is engaging and expands your mind to think in different capacities for challenging issues. In a world where Orientalist discourses dominate political and cultural dialogues, it is important to challenge ourselves to see the "other" perspective.
This course was a  fascinating study of an essential topic. The  format of the lectures could be a little try, but the readings and assignments were all well designed.
I loved this course! It was such a pleasure to come to class every day to talk with a room full of passionate and engaged students about topics that I care about.
Professor Bayoumi is incredibly intelligent and talented.  She is the most wonderful professor I have ever had, not only because of her unique insights and experience, but also because of her kindness.  It is rare that you meet a professor who is so knowledgeable but also patient and interested in students' own thoughts.  Professor Bayoumi made enjoyable a course that involves deeply troubling concerns.  The material challenges your own perceptions while demanding empathy and engagement with concerns that can be personally meaningful.  This is honestly the ideal course.
This is a great class. The discussions are interesting and engaging, and the work is very manageable! Just make sure to keep up on the readings.
Dr. bayoumi is great - If this course material is not for you take another one of her classes!
Great course! Not too much reading (and often the readings are interesting and varied!) Best part by far is the assignments - three short papers and then a creative final project. Dr. Bayoumi is so knowledgeable (and her Arabic knowledge allow us to really dive deeper into authentic material!) Kit facilitated interesting conversations in section. Great course regardless, but a particularly wonderful way to fulfill part of a GHHP secondary!
best choice i made this semester
this course was engaging and fun with a very manageable workload. both dr. bayoumi and kit were accessible and really encouraged deep thinking about the material.
This is an interesting course, but even though the course title says it deals with the Middle East, 90% of the course focuses solely on Egypt.
This course was interesting and quite easy in the workload.
I really respect how Dr. Bayoumi approaches her work and her teaching as both a activist and critical academic.
This class was super interesting! The professor is wonderful and is incredibly knowledgeable. It was a pleasure to learn about gender and medicine in the Middle East from her. It was definitely a topic I knew little about before the class, but I am very glad I took it!
The class is interesting if you are willing to commit yourself to doing the readings. In the weeks when I did the readings, I felt it was very engaging and I learned a lot. In the weeks I didn't do the readings, however, I felt pretty lost. That is clearly a fault of my own, but I did feel that this class had a lot of readings (though that may just be the STEM person in me speaking).
I wouldn't take this course unless it was converted to a seminar
This is an interesting class and I learned a lot but I think it also has a lot more potential. Professor Bayoumi is clearly very intelligent and super interesting but the lectures can sometimes seem unconnected/tangential and there isn't a clear storyline throughout the course units. Very easy and fun assignments with a lot of creativity though.
If you are at all interested in this subject or description of the course, you should take it. The reading list is great, and the assignments allow flexibility in what topics you choose to explore.
It should be interesting, but it's not. The readings are fascinating and the topic is great, but for some reason, class isn't. The lectures should be more discussion based, and the discussion sections should actually have discussion, but the TF isn't great. I think if you're interested in WGS this is going to be a let down, and you should try to find a smaller class within WGS instead.
This was a great class. We learned a lot about the history and contemporary middle east and gender. Prof. Bayoumi was a good lecturer and approachable teacher.
I would definitely NOT recommend this course. The course material is wayyy too specific, and not really applicable in real life. The lectures are boring, as Professor Bayoumi just talks about the same exact topics and arguments in the assigned readings. Also, section is pretty boring, and it did not really improve my experience taking the course. The topics discussed in the course need to be broadened to the Middle East more generally, not just Egypt. It's too focused on Egypt.
It's the kind of class you take if you want to really learn something about women in the Middle East, rather than memorize a bunch of information that you will never need to use again
interesting and not very time-consuming or hardonly take if you're interesting in women's issues and the modern middle east
This is a wonderful class with an amazing professor who is very passionate about the material! Take it!
