Best assignment options ever! Most fun I've had writing an essay was the option to write a hypothetical time-traveling scenario. So much fun and interesting too!
Great reading materials and fun lectures, but the course seemed to see-saw between being overly simplistic at some times and overly obtuse and drenched in theory at other times. It's a great introduction to science fiction and its uses if you are not very familiar with it, but if you're already a fan of the genre, you might be best just reading the books on your own.
Sophia Roosth is an interesting professor with a wealth of interesting knowledge. That would be helpful if this class were a limited seminar, and we actually got to talk to her in a small group, and not in a lecture of 60 people. Section will vary based on your section leader, but it's not good.
If you really like science fiction take this class.  Make sure you look at the course reading list and if the books on that appeal to you then take the class.  There are just three 6-8 page essays for the class and you can really write about whatever you want which is cool.
The best part of this course are the creative paper options. I wrote a science fiction story for one of them, and generally had a lot of freedom with topics. My only reservation is that the class seems much more focused on science fiction than on science, and while Professor Roosth tried to show us the link between the two, in many instances it seems that this link is imaginary.
All of the course's problems this year strike me as eminently solvable. The subject matter will still be incredibly interesting in any case, so I would recommend the course on the assumption that the logistical problems it had as a new course need not recur.
This is a really fun course if you like science fiction - if you are entirely uninterested in the genre I would guess that you wouldn't be a fan. Be prepared to do outside research for your papers. This isn't an English course - you won't be doing literary analysis in the way you might expect from a course in which you read novels.
There is a lot of reading. If that doesn't scare you go for it.
Be prepared for lots of reading - but if you like issues of science and society this is a great class.
Really interesting and painless class. Take it if you're interested in sci-fi!
good senior spring course!
This is a great class in that it's very interesting and doesn't have a terrible workload.
Really cool class that's very different from other ones you will take at Harvard!
I was drawn to this class because it seemed like a great way to learn something and get my scifi fix, but it was different from what I expected. We did not read any authors I was familiar with and focused much more on social theory than I would have liked. The workload is fairly light but reading a book a week can be challenging if you don't set time aside to sit down and just read for a few hours. This is the first year so they were working out the kinks, but both lecture and section could be painful if the professor/TF asked a question that was too easy or too theoretical/unrelated because no one would respond. But I enjoyed the class overall. You get to watch a few movies. I now see that scifi is a much more respectable genre than people give it credit for as it can influence directions of current science and also be influenced by science.
There is a much, much stronger focus on the social theory aspects of science and science fiction than I expected going in. (As opposed to a focus on the science or on the speculative nature of the fiction.)
This class may be the most fun you'll ever have doing homework. The books are incredible; all really interesting and well chosen, and the professor synthesizes them with their historical periods very well.
The professor is adorable and really enthusiastic about her topic. Some of the readings were pretty technical/hard to get through, without seeming to enhance things much. The novels were mostly pretty fun.
This course seems fun and easy, but it actually isn't. The lecture format completely doesn't work and sections were among the worst I've experienced in my entire Harvard career. Prof. Roosth is great, but the section is so poor that it overshadows her enthusiasm and knowledge.
It is genuinely a fun course, and it encourages creative thinking. The reading can be difficult to keep up with at times, but it is worth it in the long run.
Great course. The readings are fun, the papers are fun, lectures are interesting. As with any class, section is what you make of it. If you prepare for section, the discussions are very interesting. If no one prepares for section, it gets boring.
This class sounded cool, but didn't really live up to expectations. Lectures were sometimes interesting, but sections were not helpful.
It sounds like it'll be really fun, has a great reading list, and the professor is young, hip, and enthusiastic. The 2 hour lectures are torture, however, and, while this may be improved if you do not have Anna, the section component was unintentionally hilarious at best. Furthermore, there was a tenuous at best relationship between the materials covered in lecture (which were fascinating when you could manage to pay attention for the whole time) and what the papers were on. The in-class activities ranged from fairly interesting to awful.
This class sounds more exciting than it is. Grading isn't exactly easy, section is uneventful, and, overall, taking science fiction seriously as an relevant part of the academic discourse is a hard sell (and one I don't think the class successfully makes). The readings are long, the secondary sources are dense and rather irrelevant, and you don't read nearly as many things as you might've hoped you'd heard of. For people who really want an excuse to read a bunch of books, some of which are definitely intriguing, this is the class to do that. For others, who might just be interested in the topic, you might want to look elsewhere.
This class was a joy--I have never been a science fiction fan and still am not, but the subjects addressed in this class, critical theory in particular, require no love of science fiction.
Class is awesome! all the materials are so fun and the lectures are well done!
For hist of sci concentrators: this is not a typical hist of sci class. It actually has a lot of social theory and is not very historically-based.
I really enjoyed the lecture material in this class. I thought it was so interesting to see how certain aspects of science fiction and real science are intertwined. I loved that the lecture material was so varied and focused on a lot of different history of science topics that went along with the genre of each novel. However, I realized that I don't really like science fiction at all so reading the books was really difficult for me. Definitely only take this class if you are interested in science fiction or think that you could be interested. Although I didn't really enjoy the books we read for the class, it was great because the essays didn't have to relate at all to any of the material discussed in class - you could pick any other work of science fiction that you were actually interested in and write about that. That was really great for me because I was able to write about things I actually enjoyed writing about rather than some of the novels which I didn't like. Finally, two hour lectures are REALLY long...
