This class was interesting, but can be a little dry sometimes. If you aren't interested in the material, it will be boring for you.
There are alot of readings for material that isn't explained in lecture all the time. It can be a bit hard to see where exactly this is being applied as well.
Although this course has an interesting subject matter and a lot of potential, the majority of students enrolled clearly treated it as an "easy" course to add to their schedule. The same atmosphere also seemed to exist among the teaching staff, which significantly slowed down section discussion, although to her credit our TF Katie did try to spark conversation as much as she could and was very responsive to feedback. Professor O'Donnell seems like a very interesting individual but I also felt as though he was trying to achieve too much within one class - discussing everything from the drug epidemic to violence in America to medicine and law made for a fairly unorganized syllabus with little room for in-depth discussion of any one topic. Not a terrible choice if you need this class for a requirement, but would probably not recommend it as an elective.
This class is a gem. Both an easy and interesting course, a rare combination.
This is the first class I've taken where I've really enjoyed pretty much every single reading. The lecture component wasn't always the best, but it wasn't bad either. I felt like I got a lot out of section discussions and overall learned a lot about several different epidemics. The assignments were fair, and this was definitely manageable as a fifth class.
It's an enjoyable class but one must be wary of the readings and lengthy lectures.
Readings are very interesting. Assignments are graded fairly and are not too numerous. The lectures this year were not a good component of the class. Dr. O'Donnell is ineffective as a lecturer and just reads from his typed notes the entire class. Katie as a TF, however, was excellent. Her feedback on our written work and her preparation for section and email availability redeemed this course.
The ideas behind the course are interesting and important, but it covers way too much material to look at anything from a rigorous historical perspective and felt like we were simply getting the wikipedia-version of 100 different epidemics/people/events in history. If you are interested in the history of science, I would recommend starting with a different course that allows you to dive deeper.
very interesting, great teaching staff. katie is really cool and really nice. it's pretty reading-heavy, but you can manage the course by just skimming or reading one or two of them.
This is a really good class that doesn't have too many assignments. The lectures can be a bit dry, but the readings are really good, and besides that there's not too much work for the class.
This is an extremely interesting course on epidemics that offers an introduction to a biosocial analysis of disease. There is a fair amount of reading but it is all really interesting and will probably help you in the long run for this class. The instructors for the class are all very knowledgeable, engaging, and approachable. This was definitely one of my favorite courses this semester and if you have any interest in the subject, I would recommend taking it!
This is a phenomenal course in terms of both its materials/readings/assignments + Professor/teaching staff! You will enjoy this class regardless of your concentration.
Easy but boring
The material is very interesting but the lectures aren't too great.
great class- the workload isn't too heavy and i learned a lot and enjoyed lecture
Very interesting, non-stressful, and worthwhile class!
Unstructured but filled with interesting information. Take for an interesting class but don't expect it to change your life.
Very very interesting course, without a lot of outside work.... actually...pretty much no work
Mauk isn't teaching the class next year, the TF Sean is. He is absolutely awesome!!! Definitely recommend taking this class ESPECIALLY because Sean is teaching it.
The material of this class was amazing and I think that it is important information for many students.  I greatly enjoyed the lectures and readings! However there were a few issues this past semester. The professor is changing which I believe will alter the poor organizational issues of the current class but read carefully over the syllabus.  The unproctored take home exams on terms etc..were absurd and not worth your time so watch out for that!
Professor Mauck is amazing
The course topics are interesting. The lecture format and assignments were average, not incredibly engaging. Professor Mauck is clearly very knowledge on the subject matter. Section was informative and interesting, however. Word has it Sean will be teaching the course next year. I recommend taking it.
The course material is very interesting, however the class was very disorganized in terms of logistics and the lack of tf's meant that Sean seemed pretty overwhelmed
Take the course if you are very interested by the topics listed in the syllabus! The class is not too stressful, though assignments may be returned later than desired.
This class was interesting and easy, but perhaps not the best structured class ever. Professor Mauck is an excellent lecturer, but you only get evaluated on three things all semester: a take-home midterm and final and a 5 page paper. This makes the class very manageable, but didn't really make me motivated to do the readings every week, which were generally very long. Sections were also really large, which made it difficult for discussion, but Sean was extremely nice and smart.
Overall good course with interesting content and not overly stressful with work or anything of the sort (couple of take home exams and a short paper) Grading always seemed fair and Aaron and Sean were really knowledgeable of the field. Particularly if you're not history of science or in a similar concentration (or a hardcore premed), some parts of the course may annoy you but still a decent course. some better, some def worse.
This is a fantastic course about the history of medicine. Every lecture is packed with interesting information, but you won't have to memorize everything. Assignments are very few and far between, and grading is lax. I took this course as an elective and really enjoyed it!
while the lectures were interesting, the same professor will not be teaching the course next year, so you should not take it. Literally the most poorly organized class that i have ever taken. Sections were a complete waste of time and I hated them.
Do the readings
If you are interested in the material being presented in this class, its a great class and I definitely recommend taking it. You can learn a lot in this class if you choose to. It's all about how much time and effort you put in. I didn't find the material particularly difficult, it was quite straight forward. The materials in the readings are covered in lecture. I would definitely recommend this class, but if you're just looking for a good grade and don't care for the material it can be boring.
class can be disorganized but material is interesting and assignments are fair
This is an excellent class for anyone working in hard biological or epidemiological science, as well as for students of social and political theory.
This is a very interesting class, and the TF and professor are both very engaged in the subject matter.
This class was okay. I went in really excited about the topic, but eventually lost my enthusiasm.  The course was fairly disjointed, with the professor and TF seemingly not communicating very well, resulting in the class being told different things from different sources.  Readings weren't super useful, because the material was just repeated in lecture.  There's potential, but the class needs to sort itself out first.
Take this course!  It's chill, engaging, and fun.  Very low workload, but really interesting material.
This class is extremely interesting. You won't be let down!
Great course! Definitely learned a lot and helped me decide  how I would like to study medicine in the future now that I see the value of historical interpretation.
very low workload
I would say that my experience with the course was not ideal due to administrative ineptitude.
This course is great! Professor Mauck is a fantastic lecturer, and the material is super interesting. If you're interested in epidemics or the history of medicine this course is for you.
A relatively low workload with engaging lectures, though a bit administratively scattered.
Very interesting and enjoyable class. It covers a lot of ground in a painless and thought provoking way
Dr. Mauck is really great and enthusiastic about the material, as well as knowledgeable about a variety of related topics in addition to the course material. The course surveyed a variety of diseases throughout history including modern epidemics and how the term might be applied to things such as violence, obesity, and other non-infectious disease related topics. Overall, it was a really great course with a really low workload; I would highly recommend!
this class is phenomenal. The lecturer is clear, articulate and engaged with the material. Every week has an interesting new topic and the course requirements are totally reasonable. this course made me want to become a history of science concentrator!
This is a great course. Professor Mauck is super laid back but so so smart and an amazing lecturer. All the topics are really fascinating and he's particularly knowledgable about the obesity epidemic so that week was particularly great. I did the long paper option and as long as you work ahead and choose a topic that you like it's really stress-free and I'm sure will be great practice for writing a thesis chapter. I looked forward to this class every week!
-No section component, which means you will get behind on the readings but will be able to enjoy Professor Mauck's lectures and will have minimal work each week-Exams were fair, paper was open-ended-Material is very interesting, as are the readings!
This class was really interesting, but you should definitely try to do hte readings if you can, because you will get much more out of the course.
Aaron is a great lecturer and the material in the class is very interesting. Would highly recommend to everyone interested in medicine
This is a great class to take to learn generally about a bunch of different epidemics without getting too stressed out about little details if you worry about that when it comes to testing. The set-up allows you to take exams or write a large paper so you can have the option of doing your own research on the most interesting topic for you personally.
This course is very balanced -- with the option of doing a midterm exam or a final paper, there is room to tailor it to your own interests.
This was a good class for anyone curious about epidemics over history.
This class, and Professor Mauck, was great. Professor Mauck taught us so much, and he did so in a poised and eloquent manner.
Entirely lecture-based, with no section. Given this format, it becomes really easy to be disengaged with the course material.
Extremely interesting subject matter and very low time commitment
This is a very easy course. Requires relatively little reading and day-to-day effort. The lectures are generally enjoyable, and often have an interesting take on material that most people in the class have probably heard before.
This class was stressful in terms of assignments because the syllabus was not concrete and all of the assignments were assigned haphazardly
The material covered in this course is very interesting, but as a new class, it was poorly organized and not well taught. Perhaps it will be better next year, but this year there was a lot of ambiguity about due dates and assignments. If you are interested in history of science or the course material, I would recommend shopping it first to see how the course will be organized next year.
It's unorganized but SO interesting and painfully easy. TAKE IT.
