To take feedback from TF's on response papers, to go to office hours for both the TF and Janet Browne, and to make sure to do all the reading because in small sections it is obvious if you do not.
You will absolutely love it, it's not easy but you come out of it feeling like it was completely worthwhile.
I know this is a concentration requirement so most people taking it do not have a choice but it is also very enjoyable. This is a great class for those looking to become familiar with the history of science and for those who enjoy discussion. However, it does not cover any topic very deeply so for those looking to delve into a specific subject, this class would not be appropriate.
I would tell them that the class is fairly easy because there were no exams or final papers, but you have to be diligent about keeping up with your daily work because so much of your grade is dependent on it.
easy A, probably won't learn all that much
Take it!
This class felt even easier than History of Science 100, and was not particularly well organized.
I would tell them to pay attention in HS 100 because all of the material is the same.
In all, this course is a great introduction to the history and science concentration; it exposes you to many of the central issues of the discipline, which is a great experience for anyone still trying to figure out a potential thesis topic.
It's a pleasant way to fulfill a requirement, but you need to put in a great deal of outside work/take other courses to get a rigorous training.
My favorite class this semester. You should take this class if you're at all interested in the History of Science.
some assignments were a bit simple, but fun and interesting overall
Since it's a requirement for the concentration, you have to take it. Nevertheless, you'll be glad you had to take it.
Firstly, if you're a concentrator, you have to take this. But I would recommend it to anyone who has an interest in the history of science. It's a wonderful introduction not only to some major events in the study, but also to the mechanics of how one writes, studies, reads, thinks about the subject. It's a awesome class.
take because you have to take it but you won't get anything out of it.
It is an awesome class in which you learn a lot, have great discussions, and the workload is manageable.
It'll probably be a bit different next year, but this course is very good if you're interested in history of science. If not, you're kind of out of luck.
This course is rooted in the sections.  That is where I did most of my learning.
This class is fun, interesting, easy, and you get to wear moustaches during debates.  Why would you need another reason?
Do your reading.  No seriously, just do it.
This course is an excellent way to discuss, in depth, some pivotal moments in the history of science. The course covers a broad and interesting array of topics and requires you to do close reading and original analysis. It also introduces you to potential topics of interest and specialization within the history of science field, while teaching you methods of historical writing.
Anyone who is a History of Science concentrator must take it.
Approach with enthusiasm, it will be worth it.
I would tell them to really appreciate all the lectures and readings. The history of science department does an excellent job of introducing students to the many things they can study within the department. The guest lectures were also very captivating.
History of Science is a great concentration, and this course is a broad intro into what we do.
It is a good intro to the field with interesting readings and subjects. It will remind you why you liked hist of sci in the first place. The time commitment is not that bad, but you have to work on your writing a lot.
It's a good class but make sure you understanding readings, etc
Great survey of theories of history and science.
This class is difficult, but made me see history of science in a very different way. In addition to learning about how history of science is done, I learned a lot about philosophy in general and gained lots of transferable knowledge to use outside of hist of sci.
I love my concentration, so I gladly recommend this course to future students. Honestly, it is challenging, but I personally learned a lot. With that said, Hist of Sci 97 is no cakewalk, but it's a worthwhile academic journey and a very necessary introduction to the varying schools of thought in science studies.
Professor Wellerstein is phenomenal - he is really funny and gives great introductions to each week's material.  I found almost all of the readings in this course really interesting and very different from things I had learned about before.  It made me see the world a little differently, gave me a good hist of sci foundation, and made me excited for the concentration.  Section was actually really fun, and the workload was not bad at all.  Do the reading, it will make section much better and you'll learn a lot!
The course requires a sufficient amount of outside work including readings and critical thinking about class materials.
Do no underestimate the difficulty in the assignments. Yes, the are short compared to other classes, but require just as much, if not more thought.
It's a great class for anyone considering a concentration in hist of sci
Do the readings. They are actually very interesting and will probably serve you well in the future if you're a history of science concentrator. The faculty is composed of fascinating people!
After taking this course, I actually know what history of science is and I am excited about the concentration.
It's really gonna push you to learn more about history of science and your own interests in the field. After HS97, you'll certainly know whether or not history of science is right for you.
This class will validate your concentration choice. Take it! Do the readings each week because the info is too valuable to fritter away.
Professor, and so the course, changes each year, so it's hard to say what you'll experience.
you will be challenged and learn a lot. it is rewarding. section is great! (I had a great TF, so I guess that's why). best discussions in section that i've had at harvard
This is a very good class.  Lecture and section are enjoyable and interesting.  There is a lot of reading, and because section is two hours long, it is necessary to do the readings and to stay on top of them from week to week.  The writing assignments are challenging, but the teaching staff is very fair in their grading.
A lot of reading, but section is interesting and the history of science department brings together students with a wide variety of interests that adds to discussion .
This class is very difficult and requires a lot of perseverance with the readings, but it is all worth it. I felt like I learned a lot of life lessons that are applicable to the world outside of science. I developed an intense appreciation of the importance of history of science. This class covered a lot of history, philosophies, and writers, but it also generated a lot of enthusiasm in the tutorial sophomore students which was very evident.
Even if philosophy of science isn't really your thing, you can definitely enjoy this class and get something out of it if you really commit to approaching the readings with an open mind and genuinely trying to understand and apply them.
The way the class was run under wellerstein was really good. it definitely has its challenges, but wellerstein and the tfs do a great job making all of the readings accessible.
I really enjoyed the tutorial - it's lots of reading, but the assignments aren't bad, and compared to other concentration's tutorials, isn't too work-heavy.  But do the reading, otherwise 2 hour section will be awkward.
The class definitely provided an interesting and useful insight into seeing the history of science as a general topic and how the history of science changed throughout history. There is a lot of reading, but in general they were not to difficult to get through. Professor Wellerstein is a great lecturer and seems like a really great guy. Overall, I really enjoyed the class!
This is a very manageable course that introduces you to history and science topics very well.  Hopefully you will have Wellerstein, because he is great.  The TF's and teaching staff are so committed.  The department is amazing and a very happy place.
Some of the readings will be dense, but they offer a good sampling of texts within the History of Science discipline. The focus is on reading, not as much on writing. Lecture and section balance each other out with the former being laid back and the latter being more intensive.
The syllabus and course description are incredibly intimidating and this is not an easy class but it is definitely doable, even enjoyable. Professor Wellerstein is not teaching it next year I think and they mix up the structure and readings a bit each year, but it was surprisingly useful with assignments that were painless. The thought of methodology class wasn't exciting to me, and although much of it takes some deep thought and rereading of the material to understand, the ideas are pretty useful and relevant in and out of class. I found ideas of social construction and Kuhn or Latour everywhere! Professor Wellerstein and they TFs are super knowledgeable and enthusiastic and we even got HistSci mugs at the end of the course. They truly care and that made the course even better!
Hist Sci 97 has changed quite a bit since previous years and now provides a theoretical foundation in the History of Science: we cover 1-3 major thinkers/theories in the field every week, read some of their important pieces and then discuss in section.  Lecture and section were fantastic; my experience with section was probably one of my best yet. The readings can be very difficult on some weeks, and will take up the majority of time you dedicate to the course-- the more you do the readings, the more you'll get out of section and the course as a whole! Overall, a great experience for Hist Sci concentrators, one that will be especially helpful in future research (ie. thesis) in the concentration.
This course is somewhat reading intensive, however having the right TF makes section discussions all the more enjoyable and easier to understand
Do the reading!  Even if you can't get through all of it, at least read half or 3/4 of it very closely so you can speak up in section.  The reading in this couse is NOT DESIGNED FOR SKIMMING. This is a really rewarding course - you'll be so happy at the end of the semester that you learned so much, but sad that it's over! You'll feel really educated knowing about big epistemological thinkers.  Be prepared when you start out in the course, especially if you start outwith Kuhn, not to get straightforward, chronological history -- you'll be grappling with complex philosophical ideas.
This class was great.  I loved the format of the course and the fluidity between units.
As a sophomore tutorial required of all concentrators, this class was pretty good. At times it was very demanding and the material was not as interesting, but overall this course gave an interesting history of the history of science and how it has changed over the years.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading and to devote a lot of your work solely to this class
The readings are tough and section is long, but you can walk away with a broadened view of the scientific enterprise and how it shapes our world.
Despite having many wonderful experiences in the history of science department, particularly in the Einstein Revolution and Hist of Sci 100, this course totally failed to impress me. The course is regrettably taught by professors and grad students with less than adequate experience to be teaching a Sophomore Tutorial. The History of Science department should put the same thought and energy into the Sophomore Tutorial that they have done with History of Science - which was one of my favorite courses that I have taken at Harvard.
The experience you have with this class depends on how much time you put in--taking the time to do the reading makes all the difference. You get so much more out of section if you are prepared to discuss--and section is the emphasis of the course.
A little tedious when half of the material repeats from Hist Sci 100, lectures are also superfluous. However, section can be a great opportunity to expand one's knowledge by hearing different opinions from fellow peers and the TF. Getting a great TF is key to enjoying this course.
good intro to hist and sci concentration, but if you just want to take a hist of sci course - take a departmental one other than this one!
You don't have to do all the reading, but do enough to discuss topics intelligently in section.
The material is pretty interesting and it's not very labor intensive.
The lectures are not too stimulating, but the material and readings are interesting and on the whole, much more engaging and enjoyable than HS 100. Also depends a lot on who you get as your TF.
There is a lot more reading than what you will ever cover in section or find useful for writing your papers. Learn to skim.
This class gave me a chance to take an intimate look at some key moments in the history of science that I had not previously explored and to develop a more full relationship with my peers and TF through the 2-hour tutorial section.  This course can be a lot of fun for students who like studying the history of science because the essays are more satisfying than written exams and the topics provide a wide range of focuses to choose from.
It's a lot of fun and relatively painless. The tutorial leaders are great at facilitating student-generated discussion.
only take if you must
Love this class! Excellent way to jump into the concentration!
well, you have to take it... it's about developing writing skills/analyitical thinking, but his of sci 100 was more interesting
The readings are interesting and assignments are fine. It is a good intro course, but I still felt a few things were missing.
It is a great class- a really good introduction to the History of Science.
You will emerge with a more thorough understanding of the major scientific events of the last 500 years.
The Junior tutorial is much more fun, but this is a fairly good survey of history of science topics. It doesn't really give a good picture of what the concentration is like.
It's a really rewarding class!! Make sure to do all (if not most) of the readings so you can be prepared to discuss all the themes in tutorial. The topics are fascinating, and there's bound to be a unit that really strikes you!
Read. Listen. Discuss. This is an awesome tutorial.
N/A
Tutorial is great, the material is very interesting and you'll enjoy the intimate section discussions.  The 2-hour section didn't feel long at all.  All of the course TFs are great.
You will get out of it what you put into it
This course will make you happy you chose hist and sci. It was my favorite class this semester. Just 3 hours of class time a week and interesting readings when you are not in class. The structure makes it easy to get a good grade as long as you do the reading and participate. Team Kepler and Latif are the best.
The class doesn't require you to do too much work but make sure that you put in 100% effort into every paper because they basically determine your entire grade in the class and they are quite hard to do well on, at least with my TF, James.
Make sure you know what kind of thesis you should have for the essays.  Close-reading is a new concept, and your conclusions cannot have the same sort of encompassing claim that you may be used to.
Loved it!!! Cases were awesome, and we got to talk about some really interesting concepts (especially in the latter half of the course). Papers were evenly spread out and never too demanding. Awesome class :)
The History of Science Department is wonderful. This course was obviously well planned and constructed with the intention of exposing students to as much as possible while also recognizing that the best way to do so was not to overwhelm each student with the task of learning about each of the topics. Weekly themes were split into 3 subdivisions, with each section taking on one of those subdivisions. The weekly  plenary allowed for a thorough discussion of the themes and the more specific cases. The assignments were great and allowed one to work with a different kind of source each time in order to build familiarity. I LOVED THIS COURSE! I think it is the best sophomore tutorial of any concentration!
Do the readings! I missed some and always regretted it. They are picked carefully and after the first 3 weeks are always interesting!
This course is probably the least painful sophomore tutorial there is. Most of the topics we discussed were actually interesting and made for great discussion. There was an emphasis on skill building rather than context which I think is very valuable.
Do the readings!!! Also, communicate with the TFs as much as possible, they are all very willing to help.
The class is a fantastic opening to the field of history of science. You get intimate time with the professor and TF, as well as intriguing discussions. The material is intriguing and the atmosphere is welcoming. It was always a pleasure to go to class.
Anne Harrington is a wonderful professor, and you will learn how to think critically about topics in history of science.
You gain such a breadth of knowledge of key questions in the History of Science  and each week you engage with other students in exploring these questions. You'll be surprised by some of the things you learn, but most importantly, you (hopefully) come  out with a great appreciation for science.
This is a very interesting course where you learn in a different way and cover a wide range of history of science topics.
Great introduction to what the History of Science offers-- ranges from early science to modern issues. The assignments all push you to learn a different style of research and writing. Papers/projects are short but difficult. DO the readings, sections are very small and everyone's responsible for information.
Sophomore tutorial is great!
The course staff are all fantastic and really dedicated - and although there may be lots of reading each week, it's really worth it to actually do it so you can have productive discussions during section.
Overall, the tutorial is great! You get food in plenary, and sections are really small and casual.  The Teaching fellows are really helpful and supportive, and it was a very positive experience!
Sophomore tutorial will only affirm your decision to concentrate History and Science.
Great way to become a part of the History and Science department! I wish that everyone at Harvard had the chance to take this class.
Great introduction to questions in the history of science
As far as tutorials go this is probably one of the best. There is a fair amount of reading (don't leave it until the last min, and you definitely have to do it because section is pretty small) but its pretty interesting. Having taken HS100 is definitely helpful.
The best, most interesting, most engaging sophomore tutorial I've heard about.  Student-led activities, unmatched faculty attention for a sophomore tutorial, fascinating topic, and great sense of community.
Great course. Professor Harrington is awesome and so are the TFs. Very interesting material.  A lot of reading/ writing, but it's really not bad.
This was one of the most amazing courses I've taken at Harvard, and I recommend it even if you're not sure about concentrating in Hist of Sci
This is one of my favorite classes that I have taken so far. It was a great sophomore tutorial to take, and I feel like I understand history of science in a much better way now.
Interesting format, but you will become a better writer and have a greater understanding/appreciation of the history of science.
This tutorial is an extremely unique experience in that you will be doing collaborative work each week and engaging with the material to a point that you feel comfortable leading an exploration of a topic with the class.  The topics from this course were diverse and interesting. I am so glad I decided to be a HIstory of Science concentrator.
This is a great introduction to the History of Science, even more so than History of Science 100. Just commit to the concentration!!
This class was an amazing representation of the history and science concentration! I really didn't enjoy hist of sci 100, and I was worried that the rest of the concentration requirements would also be dull, but this class was so interesting and unique! I recommend with the highest of enthusiasm.
It may be a Sophomore Tutorial, but it's a lot more interesting and innovative than you would think, which can be good and bad.
Going into this class I thought it would be miserable, but it ended up being great. Professor Harrington is just an all-around amazing person!
This course was AMAZING. The plenary format of the lecture component takes some getting used to--and you have to be willing to get together outside of class in preparation for class each week--but it is manageable and extremely rewarding. Anne Harrington generates so much excitement about the course material and the section TFs are fantastic.
A very group-oriented introduction to the many different approaches used to study the history of science.
This course was a great introduction to the field of history of science. In a way it was a methods class, as we looked at many different types of materials. The format sometimes made it feel like we did not fully engage with the materials, but having the larger and smaller sections were valuable because we were able to cover more material with less effort.
Throughout this course, it is important to keep some of the greater questions and the broader picture in mind while preparing cases.
The plenary/section format is really cool, and balances students' contributions with the instructors'. This course was really fun and enriching, and I would highly recommend it.
This is a great course to get a basic survey of the field of history of science. I have a better idea of the concentration, but it is definitely a survey course. You do not go greatly in depth/research much, so there's a lot to look forward to. I would definitely take it.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard!
You have to take it, but it's really a quite innovative format, and not too difficult.
This is a great introduction to the History and Science department with an enthusiastic teaching staff and a very interesting curriculum. You won't learn very much about actual historians of science, though.  Participate often to get the most out of the class.
This class is the epitome of what Harvard should be. You are vigorously using skills for analysis in an encouraging environment where those set up to help you and learn with you all are enthusiastic and sincerely invested in their work and yours, too. Overall, you leave the course having learned how to THINK.
This class was great. Anne Harrington is a great professor, and cares SO much about her students. You're probably taking this class because its required for your concentration, but enjoy it! Its a much better introduction to Hist of Sci than HS100 was.
Professor Harrington did a great job with this tutorial. None of the papers have anything to do with the readings, but there were plenty of instructions on how to do them well. Sections were tiny and laid back.
The class is interesting if you are sure you enjoy the department and buy into the way they view the world. I often felt that the I wanted to take a different approach to the material, which caused me to be quite frustrated with the course at times. That being said, professor Harrington is wonderful, and the TFs really work hard to be accessible, which I really appreciated.
This tutorial is great. I believe it's a new format, but I think it really works. Anne Harrington is awesome and my TF (Lisa Crystal) was great as well. You have to take this class as a concentrator, but I really enjoyed it.
While this class is a requirement, the case study format is unique and makes studying the material more fun. It will also help you learn how to prepare academic presentations which is a very good skill to have.
absolutely consider this concentration! This tutorial was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard
Easy and interesting (if you like HistSci, which clearly you do if you're a concentrator), lots of overlap with HS100 though.
Although the structure can be frustrating at times, it has been improving steadily. Professor Harrington, the teaching staff and the materials makes it so enjoyable.
There may be some readings that you are not very excited about, but the class discussions are great, and the framework that's built up over the semester is essential to discussing topics in the history of science / science and society in other classes. Plus, you're required to take it for Hist Sci anyway!
This is how a tutorial ought to be run. The workload was consistent throughout the semester, but extremely manageable. Professor Harrington is a brilliant and genuine person, and she is not afraid to make changes to the tutorial if things aren't happening the way they are supposed to. This was a stress-free, but academically stimulating course, and it makes me proud to be a HistSci concentrator.
Use the Writing Center
Its required, but its interesting and not too hard, teaches you how to analyze sources
This course was great! The workload is fair and the assignments are interesting. Definitely be engaged with the readings and in section and take advantage of pre-assignment meetings because they allowed me to improve my writing so much.
I LOVED THIS CLASS. Professor Harrington is amazing, and the material itself is fascinating. Structured very well, and shows you all the different aspects of the field. You don't have very much reading, which means you have time to actually do it, and it is always enjoyable. The assignments are also pretty fun. Made me fall in love with Hist and Sci all over again!
This course really confirmed that concentrating in the  History of Science was the best choice I have made while at Harvard. The readings are incredibly interesting and in varied formats, from diaries to videos to secondary academic sources and beyond. Get to know Professor Harrington and go to her office hours for more in depth discussion. You really do reap what you sow in this course in that the assignments are not too demanding and you will not be tested on all the material, but the readings really did change how I thought about science and the world. I found myself falling in love with so many subtropics of my concentration!
You'll cover a range of intriguing issues, questions and topics in the history of science.
Do all the readings and get engaged in discussions. The topics are really interesting.
I would tell students to go for it! This is a requirement for History and Science concentrators, but it didn't feel like a required class at all. It was incredibly dynamic and there was a lot of room to explore your own interests in the history of science (which was medicine for me) through the four individual projects. The TFs and Professor Harrington are also incredibly accessible and help provide an excellent foundation and transition to the junior tutorial the following semester.
Keep up with the readings as much as possible because they're interesting -- if you're not interested, pick a different concentration
This course is necessary to take if you're a hist of sci concentrator, so you have to take it, but it is boring. Before I took it, it got really good reviews, so I was excited to take it, but i did not find it that interesting and i thought it was boring most of the time actually.
It's a requirement; become friends with people on your team
This class is an excellent opportunity to learn more about history of science whether or not you're concentrating.  The TFs and professors are really friendly and knowledgeable, the case study format is engaging, and the work is very manageable.
Do all of the readings and start your papers before the day they are due.
Concentrate in the History of Science! Seriously if there was a poll of seniors regarding concentration regrets, I assure you that so many say "not concentrating in HistSci."
This class was great.  HS97 is a great way to enter the concentration.  It's a super useful way to learn how to examine different types of sources to help you prepare for junior tutorial and possibly a thesis. It's also nice to work with your fellow concentrators.
This course is phenomenal. It provides you with a range of interesting topics to take on each week and perfects a number of skills that you would need for other courses and outside of classes.
The teaching staff is very helpful
This is an amazing sophomore tutorial for an amazing concentration! You explore a wide variety of different concepts via really cool and fun case studies, sections are really small and intimate (around 8 people each), assignments are pretty fun and not too much work, and you get treats every week!
great class -- the format of section and plenary is conducive to great discussions about interesting course material. grading, however, can be arbitrary
helpful for other courses.  lots of reading but useful and encourages participation.
I love the hist of sci department -- the members of the department really car a lot about their concentrators and engage in very nuanced analysis of historical events.  I also really loved the format of this course.  Having a really small discussion group was a great way to make students feel comfortable participating, and I enjoyed the teaching presentation in the bigger group.  Some of the plenary topics were really fun as well.  For example, I really enjoyed hearing about the professor who studied alien abductions and about the race-based cardiac drug.  Sometimes I worry, though, that we are not making concrete enough connections between our historical narratives and current issues in medicine/politics/science in this course.
This is a very manageable course. I would recommend reading the section material a few days in advance, as some of the period pieces can be more difficult to understand. The writing assignments are very interesting and enable you to explore your interests.
I LOVED EVERY MOMENT OF THIS CLASS. I know that History of Science is the right concentration for me after taking this sophomore tutorial. The structure is different from other classes. There's about 20 people in plenary and a 6-7 person. Very intimate setting, which made it easy to know everyone and have really fun discussions.Plus Anne brings food to every section and it's amazing (think mochi ice cream, cookies, chocolate)Workload is not hard at all. Paper assignments due about every other week and I had so much fun doing them actually. A little bit more work the week where you're case leader and have to present the material from section to the rest of plenaryThe topics covered were super interesting as well. AMAZING CLASS.
Super interesting class that will definitely give you a great background and preparation for the future history of science courses.
Not only this is an amazing sophomore tutorial, this is an amazing class. I would recommend this to concentrators and non-concentrators alike.
Take the time to read. It makes the class so much more interesting and worth while if you're actually getting a lot out of it!
Fun, interesting, and easy. You cover a lot of material, but only through case studies and the work is shared among your team so the workload is pretty light.
This is a great tutorial! The content is really interesting and introduces you to such a breadth of information about the history of science/ways of studying/analyzing/writing about history. I also really loved the way the class was set up with smaller sections and then coming together for a larger plenary.
The class is highly engaging, be prepared to do a fair bit of reading but it is well worth it as the discussions are lively and interesting.
This class is an interesting and good introduction to the history of science. You'll be exposed to a lot of different topics, some of which are more interesting than others, and explore several different writing styles through the project weeks. Overall, this class is pretty low-stress and very interesting.
It's a good class if you're a Hist and Sci concentrator, but maybe not the best way for you to understand if you are a concentrator if you're still on the fence. I came in on the fence and am still on the fence. That being said, the department really cares, Professor Harrington is amazing, and the TFs know their stuff inside out. Plenary was always a breath of relief in the middle of busy weeks.
worked closely with TFplenary presentations were a great way to learn and plenary was engaginganne is greatif leah is your tf, you're luckysome very interesting topics, earlier weeks are boring
this is an extremely interesting course that will prepare you for a more in depth analysis in the history of science!
TAKE THIS CLASS! If you declared hist-sci already, this class will solidify your decision. If you are not declared or are unsure, this class will DEFINITELY pull you in! You will learn about and be exposed to so many different stories in hist-sci, in such a FUN, no-stress way! I need to emphasize that variety - we learn about so many different topics that  you will never be bored, and it's a great way to discover a certain sect of hist-sci that you find really interesting and become passionate about.The assignments are very chill and are all focused on teaching you different skills that are really important for further class. Something unique to this class is that you choose your own project every single assignment (only 4, plus 1 presentation), but because of this you will always be able to work on exactly what you want; this freedom of intellectual exploration is not found in other classes. Plenary was always the highlight of the week, because I always learned cool things from your classmates but also because Anne Harrington is simply a genius! And the way she thinks about these topics honestly astounds me, and will astound you too!
This course is pretty fun and laid back. It is a really good intro to the field and many of the key aspects of the history of science, but at the same time you get to learn a lot of cool new things. The small section component also helps make for great discussions.
Really loved this class. Professor Harrington and the section leaders were so enthusiastic about the course, and the plenary portion was a great way to learn about different topics.
This class will make you so glad you chose History and Science. The teaching staff is amazing, Professor Harrington is the best professor at Harvard, and you leave feeling both ready and excited for what the rest of your time in History and Science will bring.
This class will change your life.
This class will make you love being a History and Science concentrator
It's a concentration requirement so you have to take it. It won't be painful at all, but it won't be the best class ever either. It will expose you to just how welcoming and accommodating the concentration is and how willing they are to let you explore your own interests.
Don't expect a lot of work from this class, but do expect to really engage in the material and get to know your classmates. This has been my favorite class at Harvard.
It's required.. Use it to gain primary source analysis skills through the individual assignments.
Loved sophomore tutorial. Professor Harrington does a really great job in designing the course. The small sections, small plenaries, and class field trips really make you feel involved
This class is extremely worthwhile and enjoyable. The course material is super engaging and interesting, and the way the course is set up (with a plenary and section time) allows you to really dig into and analyze this material.
If you are at all interested in history of science, take this class and I promise that you will love it! And you will probably want to concentrate in it as well. Super fun, engaging, and laidback.
Tutorial was fun and a highlight of my semester.  You will appreciate how well-organized the course is and how smoothly it runs.  Incredibly interesting material and the assignments are perfect: low-stress but engaging.  You learn a lot about the material but you also learn how to interact closely and purposefully with primary and secondary sources.
The sophomore tutorial is a great welcome to the department. Professor Harrington clearly loves teaching it and has put a lot of thought into structuring the class in a way that is interesting and engaging. It's not a given A, but the TF's will give you lots of feedback and tell you how to succeed, making it very possible to get an A.
This is a fun and unique course that will provide you with a nice segue into the department. Take advantage of its unique style and collaborative approach.
Excellent course -- if you're trying to decide whether or not hist of sci is for you this course is great because it gives you a good insight onto how the thinking works. Also it will probably push you over the edge because it's just such a fun course.
Sign up
The section and plenary components combine nicely as a way to learn each week's cases and present them to tour peers.
This class is a great intro to ideas within history of science and is a very approachable intro. Very manageable reading and assignments and I actually enjoyed the class quite a bit.
Learning to think from more than one perspective will help you learn to think better about yours.  Whether it is how to think from your perspective, or more importantly, how to navigate the crossroads when your perspective intersects with other perspectives.
We discussed pretty cool things during section/plenary. There were other things that were not so engaging. I just really hope and pray that the entire concentration is not like this class. However, I've been told that it's not so that gives me more excitement!
This course is very enjoyable. The work is varied and gives you the opportunity to interact with many of Harvard's different collections. The teaching is very good - Professor Harrington is warm, supportive, and good and bringing out important point. I found that every section liked their TFs, and I also found my TF was very good at helping us with the materials. The first few weeks can be a bit hectic, but the whole course really comes together about halfway through.
The material is engaging, and the class is structured to generate enthusiasm. Enjoy it!
The course material is interesting, but what makes this course absolutely amazing and a great transition into the field of histsci is the passion and enthusiasm the teaching staff bring into it.
If you're not already sold on studying Hist&Sci, this tutorial will surely convince you! The class is relaxed yet rewarding with awesome teaching fellows and Professor Harrington is incredibly passionate about the material.
