It's a really interesting and enjoyable course where you learn a lot about a time period that is rarely discussed. It adds a new perspective on the world.
This is a great class for minimal work and time
I found the material sort of difficult to access. I had no previous knowledge of middle eastern history so the class was fairly challenging for me. Also, the class structure is very free-form so it may be frustrating for you if you like well-organized classes.
A Harvard Gem. I am sure that Professor Ragab is going to be one of those Professors at Harvard that people study with not because they are famous, not because their classes are introductory, but because they make any topic they teaching interesting and because their teaching style is just superb. So take the class for the Professor - I promise you that you will enjoy it, no matter how interested you are in the topic.
The workload for this class is extremely simple: 3 response papers graded on effort and a 15-minute presentation at the end. As long as you go to lectures and sections, you'll be fine. You do learn some really interesting things about medieval Middle Eastern culture and conceptions of the body, which I knew nothing about coming in to the class. However, I do think that some organizational changes are needed in order to make the material more accessible and engaging.
The professor is extremely knowledgeable about his field and was very kind and open to accommodating me in his office hours
This course is an incredibly low work load, but once you realize that you WANT to do the readings and the assignments...the class is over. take advantage of it from the get go and get a lot out of this course. It is great if you put in the time.
The course is interesting and Professor Ragab is a good lecturer but the lack of organization is frustrating and the course doesn't feel like it progresses in logical succession.
This class is extremely easy, and seems based on learning for learning's sake, above assignments and grades. The change in pace is refreshing, and the professor's lectures are interesting as stories and just as dynamic. However, the reading is by and large unhelpful in the scope of the course.
Great introduction to sexuality during the medieval middle east!
The amount of work you put into the class is the amount that you gain from it. The course is very flexible, and there is a lot of potential to engage in intellectual conversation and debate. Professor Ragab is a very good lecturer and is very willing to meet with his students to discuss topics in class and beyond.
Kind of a waste of time. It's easy, but you don't learn anything, and have no sense of how you're doing in the course.
I absolutely loved this class!!! Take it!! Professor Ragab is AMAZING, the work load is very relaxed, and the subject is incredibly interesting.  This is by far my favorite class of the year.
A great class, one that allows you to fully explore your interests and passions with the subject matter.  While seemingly far removed from the present day, much discussion ultimately focused on new ways of looking at cultural practices in our current world.  The class is flexible and has a low workload with readings/assignments, so I would especially recommend if you have a busy semester and are looking for that last course.  Professor Ragab is a wonderful lecturer, and very accessible outside of class to discuss your interests.
awesome class that introduces you to the origins of our conceptions about the body
I really enjoyed this class because it is not difficult grade-wise, but very challenging as a student in general. I think you can grow a lot from it if you choose to, but can also slack off if that's what you want to do. The professor is really engaging and the material is definitely very interesting.
Make sure you do the readings! It is so important to section and they are very interesting.
You'll get as much out of this class as you put in. The readings vary- some are fascinating, some are not - but Professor Ragab is a fantastic lecturer and his approach to teaching and to history are valuable and all too rare at Harvard.
The extremely narrow topic of this course's title may fool you into thinking it will be overly-detailed and esoteric. Absolutely false. This class changed my outlook on the world better than most survey classes ever could. Professor Ragab is amazing...be sure to take this course if you have any interest in WGS issues or sociology.
If you're looking for an interesting, fun course to take with a light workload, this is it.
Good class but could be pretty boring sometimes.
Take this course with an open mind!
There is no work to do at all. Great for athletes.
In a lot of ways this class is just baffling. I'm sure if you have a good TF you actually learn a lot. Maybe. But everything is just so disorganized and unclear. We never got assignments back, our TF never responded to emails, and I literally have no idea what grade I'm going to get. I've just never had a class at Harvard where I've felt like I've heard about so many things but actually never learned about anything. Like I could easily list the main topics we talked about but not a single main thing we learned. Its a new class, so maybe it'll get better. But this year it was sort of a train wreck.
Excellent professor, great variety of materials. Ni liked the necessary and recommended way of organizing the syllabus, I appreciate that all materials were easily obtainable
Good way to fill a requirement.
You'll get as much out of this course as you put in. If you're interested in the topic, you can learn a lot from this course. If not, its going to be hard to stay motivated.
This is a truly unique class that broadens your perceptions of gender.
Great class. So interesting and not too demanding.
Be aware that participation is extremely important in this class. If you go into section without doing the readings, things get very uncomfortable quickly.
I absolutely loved this course, it is a great class and has a lot to offer many different people. The class had many different avenues and was to cater to people with all sorts of comfortability with the material.
The class is very informative and the course materials are very interesting. The drawbacks are the amount of work (a very ambitious midterm) and you have to take the material with a grain of salt because not all parts of Muslim society are examined.
That it's harder if you don't know anything about the topic going into it.
it is interesting and not too much work.
Dr Ragab is awesome - both in terms of his theoretical knowledge and his pedagogical commitments - and you must take at least one class with him
Pretty intense if you're looking for an easy gen ed. Super interesting and wonky if you want something totally different than anything you're studying. Casual "penetration"s in lecture.
unique course with interesting material
The material is hard to understand if you have no back ground
Good class but some of the material can be challenging due to its foreign nature.
For what I got out of it, this class requires too much time.
Its a little bit hard, but its an interesting class to take.
This class was extremely interesting but I found the lectures were extremely disconnected and disorganized.
This class is extremely interesting and does not require a lot of work -- you'll learn about something that is difficult to learn about outside of this course
overall was an enjoyable class, but section was my least favorite part
You get out of this course what you put into it. Be committed and let this course teach you more than you could have expected.
This was a really cool class and in the end not as intimidating as it seemed In the beginning.
If you are familiar with the faith, you will sometimes be bored by the historical contextualization of some of the subject matter. However, the readings presented in the course and the discussion of queerness and sexual practice in pre-modern islamicate life is absolutely unique to Prof. Ragab's course and has been one of the most eye-opening discussions about Islam I have had.
It is very interesting and eye-opening, with intriguing lectures. The class itself does not require much work, but the section was intense for me!
fun class to take with interesting material and accessible professor. better understood if you have a background in Islamic history otherwise it seems very confusing at times. not a super difficult class
Do the readings early, and participate on the blog as much as possible to fill in the gaps.
Stay up on readings. It's easy to just blow them off, but they are very useful and will come back to help on the response papers.
Don't expect to know what is expected of you in assignments or when they're due.
should be interested in the course material prior
This course is very disorganized, do not expect clarity on assignment expectations.
This class is great.  I was absolutely fascinated every lecture!  Professor Ragab is awesome and really knows and cares about what he is teaching.
Comfortable, informative and everything you could want out of a standard lecture-section course. Professor Ragab is awesome-- ask him to your house's faculty dinner!
Phenomenal instructor.  Come with an open, curious mind.
Take this class to learn about gender and sexuality in the medieval Middle East. You'll get the most out of it if you have a basic background in both gender studies and Middle Eastern studies, otherwise it's just a lot of random stuff begin thrown out you out of context!
This is definitely an interesting course, but the main conclusion I drew from the class is that you can't draw generalized conclusions because there is always an exception.  Although this made for good discussions during section, it made writing assignments difficult.  You will definitely get more out of it if you have background in the Middle East.  The lectures are extremely interesting, but don't necessarily assume you will walk away feeling like you've learned a ton.
This is a good class as a first dip into the field--probably not as great if you already have some background in islamic history.
Keep up with the readings and be diligent about taking notes in class.
It's not a bad workload but make sure you're interested in the subject
This class covers fascinating subject matter, though the logistics of the course itself can sometimes prove frustrating.
There's not terribly much work, but also not necessarily terribly much work.
This class is quite low in terms of work-load.  If you have some background knowledge about Islam, this course could be quite interesting.  If not, then it might be a little confusing/hard to get depth of knowledge out of the course (unless they change the structure, which they very well may do because it's a fairly new course).
A thorough exploration of a really interesting time period.  Opportunities for creativity, and for addressing the big questions.
Enjoy the class!
Make sure you go to all lectures. The professor is incredibly knowledgeable about the material and expands upon the lecture slides in class.
A really interesting class! I thoroughly enjoyed it and it was not too difficult. The course load is not too demanding, but you can really choose to delve deep into the material by doing the readings. Take it if you have the opportunity.
It's a pretty easy course (work-wise) but there's not a lot of structure in the course.
I am very happy I took this course freshman year and I would recommend this course to anyone who has an interest in the development of cultures and societies around the world.
The class felt like it was unguided. We got off on a rough note, so perhaps the semester just never recovered, but all in all it was sometimes frustrating to figure out what the main points were.
This class is really easy, but irritating. Lectures and section can be extremely boring despite the fact that the material discussed is often interesting. You never really know how you're doing in the class because you receive very little feedback.
Very easy and interesting course. Requires little work great to manage other workloads
This class may be technically easy to slide by in based on requirements, but it was SO PAINFUL to get through. The lectures totally lacked coherence, and it was frustrating because the subject matter had potential to be cool. Amy was a pretty cool tf, though, if you have a choice. But the readings were dull and it was hard to understand what was going on or how it all tied together without just a lot of BS. The beginning is pretty inaccessible without a background in Islam, too.
This is a great way to rethink the categories of understanding we use in contemporary western society. It's a great course!
This curse is a great Harvard class. It manages to teach you interesting things without pressuring you like many other courses do. The professor gives great explanations and the section leaders follow it up by more deeply exploring some of the issues brought up. A good class to take if you want to learn something and avoid a workload that could break you. INstead a few essays and a final project will do the job intended: make you better understand the subject matter and worry less about your grade or transcript.
This class was really cool and I learned a lot that I found surprising and new.
This course was really awesome. It was a great way to fulfill Hist A (core) in addition to work with Islamic, Gender, and Sexuality studies in one course. If you're interested, shop it. It's totally worth it.
Probably the least-demanding course offered at Harvard. The material is interesting if you feel like reading it; the course has legitimately no structure.
TAKE IT!!! Its lots of fun and very interesting. Makes you step outside your modern day gender perceptions and biases and forces you to understand sexuality from a different context.
This class is the best of both worlds. It is very relaxed and the professor is fantastic. The TFs are kind and encourage discussion. It was a great learning experience. The final project is informative and fun. The class focuses on gender and sexuality
The lectures are cool do not skip them. I recommend this course fully you'll learn a lot and since most lectures summarize the readings and discuss them you can skim readings for the actual sections.
This class is very interesting and laid back. The teaching staff is awesome! I highly recommend it.
Take this class! The lectures are great and the texts will make you see the Medieval Middle East in a new way!
its interesting. be sure to at least skim the readings for section.
good class, not that time intensive but can be dry at times
Very easy but also pretty boring
BEST HIST B EVARRRR!!
it's a great class! You learn a lot about an interesting topic, without being overwhelmed by work.
The course load is very easy and manageable. However, you have no idea what grade you have in the course until you actually receive it at the end (still haven't yet).
You need to be organized and keep track of when things are due because it is not well organized and you could easily miss it!
Section leader is important!
The material in the class was interesting, but it was rather disorganized and course expectations were not clear. On paper, the course does not involve a lot of work, but vague timelines and rushed schedules in the latter part of the course made it challenging.
This is an extremely interesting course and not difficult by any means, but it not well organized by any means.
The professor and teaching staff are all very passionate, knowledgeable, and supportive, but unorganized. Next year I think this will be a much better class once organizational kinks are worked out
this class is not exactly easy to follow because the lectures are kind of confusing.  In section we talked about our readings, but I think it would have helped if we toed in the lecture ideas more.
Excellent exposure to unique subject matter, coupled with a relaxed and flexible arrangement of assignments. The professor is incredibly interesting and engaging. You will learn about a variety of topics while also gaining the ability to approach and consider new ideas in a more comprehensive, critical light.
This class is incredibly easy and actually very interesting and makes you think. You get out of the course what you put in; you can get through the course with minimal work, but you won't learn as much. Pick a good group for the final project because it pretty much determines your overall grade.
Great class to take.
It was a relatively easy workload in some ways, but really weird in others. You get out what you put in. There are issues with clarity of deadlines sometimes, but this may not be too bad - it seems that the deadlines are pretty flexible.
It's a great class because the teaching staff really gives you the freedom to pursue more in-depth whatever interests you. That's unusual at Harvard.
great class all around.
History of SCIENCE???
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE!!!  DO NOT BE FOOLED BY THE SYLLABUS!This class is terrible.  Poorly constructed and organized.  Simply unbearable lectures.  Needless to say I will NEVER again take a class taught by Prof. Ragab.I thought this course would be an interesting way to fulfill my WGS elective; I would be exposed to the way medieval Middle Easterners (which the course equated with exclusively Muslims)thought about sexuality. However, Prof. Ragab delivers information in such a way that drains any excitement I might have had for the topic.  For the entire hour, he stressed every non-important word, that by the time he said something that might have been worthwhile, it would get lost in the midst of his rant.  Also, the ideas expressed in a particular lecture were not connected to ideas expressed in previous or subsequent lectures; for example, we spent an entire lecture talking about the switc to writing on paper.  My TF said that the course was constructed to be "disconnected." WHAT?!  How am I supposed  to write a response paper, connecting at least three readings, when the course is "supposed to be disconnected"?  Readings for a single lecture could be upwards to 100 pages (I counted), causing me to feel like this course was just a burden to bear, instead of something I looked forward to. The syllabus does not allow students to make an informed decision about whether to take the course or not.  It simply says, three response papers and a final project and its presentation.  Easy enough.  But don't be fooled.  The due dates for the response papers are dependent on when Prof. Ragab finishes a unit, which means as a student your schedule is dependent on him - you won't be able to figure out when you should work on things for other courses until he gives the word.  Also, the syllabus doesn't state that the required presentation will be (A) held during reading period, and (B) 4-5 hours long.  Although it was fun to see what other students had been working on, it is information that would be helpful to know a head of time (aka before the add-drop deadline).His lack of consideration for his students does not stop there.  During mid-term season, he had students fill out mid-semester reviews on the course, which included questions on their reactions to his lecture style.  After they were reviewed I asked if the course would be changed in any way, and my TF responded with, "No."  What is the point to doing a review if you don't care what students are saying to you?    When the semester began, Prof. Ragab was stuck in Cairo because of Visa issues.  The teaching staff kept on telling us that he would be back soon.  In the mean time he conducted lectures via Skype; he said, "It's the first time this has been done [giving lectures via Skype]. Harvard is very excited about it."  What is so exciting about sitting in a lecture hall, looking at a giant image of your professor, and only being able to make out every other syllable because the connection is awful (even though the course moved to three different locations)?  What is so exciting about having never seen your professor in person until an ENTIRE month had passed in the semester.  It was extremely disruptive to the learning process and experience.  The course should have either had the head TF teach or have been canceled.  Harvard, please don't give professors the option of Skype-ing lectures.  Ironically, the same man (the professor) who hadn't been to class until October, instated random attendance taking at lecture.  Maybe I should take a note from Prof. Ragab's book and Skype myself to class.
This course covers interesting areas of dispute in the Medieval Middle east that are still discussed today.
Great course that teaches students about the Medieval Middle East in an interactive way.
Contrary to what many people may say, this is not a course that will guarantee you an A. That's not to say that you can't take it as a fifth class if you're willing to put in the minimal work. You have to show up to lecture and participate, turn in several papers, submit blog posts, and work on a final project. Do the work, and you'll do fine; however, you can't expect to not do anything and still do well. It's actually a pretty interesting course and the material is fascinating and really neat if you bother paying attention in lecture and to the readings.
It is an easy class and easy to do well in but there is not much that i learnt from it.
Class was no work. Don't need to go to lecture, but should because Ragab is a boss. Ardeta was super nice and helpful for section. For your final project, find something fun and easy.
