Every graduate student should take a class consisting of a close reading of books in such a constructive and critically aware environment.
This is one of the best courses I have ever taken at Harvard. Do not miss a chance to learn from Allan Brandt! Great readings and great discussion
Allan Brandt is one of the most passionate and engaged teachers I have had the pleasure of taking a course with. I was amazed at how much time he devoted to each individual student outside of class. Although I know that he was very busy with other obligations outside of his teaching, he was never rushed during our conversations during office hours. He took the time to get to know me both as a student and as a person, and his advice has been incredibly helpful. Allan's love of teaching was clear throughout the semester and I feel very lucky to have taken a class with him.
Allan Brandt is a phenomenal instructor. He puts substantial thought into planning the course, carefully selecting the set of books that will be included each year in order to ensure that a wide variety are read. Both the content and structure of the course are great. Every history of medicine student should take the course, but all history of science (and other allied fieldsanthropology of medicine, health policy, etc.) can benefit from it. Students preparing to write their dissertations can get a lot out of the discussions of the strengths and weaknesses of the works covered, as they are clearly discussed as *books* and what makes for effective arguments in this format. Allan is extraordinarily generous with his time and support of studentshe takes great care to provide substantive, thoughtful feedback as students work on assignments and on the final work submitted.
This class is a gem. It is a great chance to get to know a great professor and read great books. Great great great! Take it! The readings are carefully selected, the discussions are fruitful and cover a wide range of topics, and the assignments are helpful to professional development.
Even if you are not interested in History or Science as a research field, the topics discussed in class really get at contemporary concerns in medicine and public health that is relevant for everyone. Prepare to see the world differently.
Prof. Brandt is a gifted scholar and a generous teacher. He treats you as a colleague and it is a joy to be at the seminar table with him.
If you can take a course with Allan Brandt, don't think twice. If you can start taking his courses as an undergraduate, all the better.
Allan Brandt is a remarkable teacher and human being. You should not miss an opportunity to take a course with him, regardless of overlap with your interests.
Take it! The discussions are rich and stimulating, and Brandt's focus on helping students to think about how the books read in class should inform future work is very helpful.
Professor Brandt is a really excellent teacher and designed a really great syllabus for the class, and because we had students with backgrounds in History of Science as well as other departments/fields, we had really great class discussions. definitely a class oriented towards graduate students, as the talk about dissertation topics, book publication, etc. is not as useful for undergrads.
This is an excellent, excellent course. Every week my views on the texts we read were changed and challenged by my classmates and Professor Brandt. You actually explore how scholarship is produced, which I was skeptical of at first but ended up being extraordinary valuable.
Any student of the history of medicine should take this course. Professor Brandt offers an insider's perspective on the production of the history of medicine and its importance to our broader global culture (c.f. his own work on the tobacco industry). Further, Brandt's insights into the outlining and writing of nonfiction books in general provides lessons for any dissertation-writer.
Professor Brandt is an amazing instructor (engaging and understanding), and I would recommend him highly.
If you always meant to write a book, you might feel pause after hearing all the critiques of these great books -- but then you'd probably decide it's worth it anyway. If you never meant to write a book, Allan Brandt will persuade you.
The more active you involve yourself in the discussion and ask Allan difficult questions, the more inspiring answers he will provide and the more you will enjoy this class.
The readings won't blow you away, but you'll learn a lot and you'll get to hang out with Allan Brandt.
Discussions are really interesting and are at a higher level than most undergraduate courses.
This class changed the way I think about medicine and the role of the doctor and patient. It made me rethink my career goals, and challenged my assumptions about medical practice.
A truly well-taught class.
This is a fantastic class with some of the most creative writing assignments you will encounter. It is very helpful for your personal and professional development.
Dean Brandt is thoughtful and smart.  Students and young scholars could learn a lot from him.
A stellar introduction to a variety of issues in present-day medicine.
TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU CAN. Alan Brandt is great! I really liked the diversity of my classmates - there were people from nearly every Harvard school. This class will make you want to write a book and make you think a lot about what is the most effective way to write it. I also liked that the assignments were very practical - if you become an academic, you will have to write book reviews and review essays, but how to write these isn't really taught to undergrads in other classes.
Great experience in the inquiry into history of medicine.
It is a lot of reading, about 300 pages a week, so if you're a slow reader, it might not be the best choice. But the discussion is engaging and stimulating since it's on a graduate student level.
This course is a perfect match for students intrigued by medicine and looking for a chance to explore and critique the ways people have addressed key moments or medical problems in recent history.  It is perfect for advanced students in the history of science.
This a great course in which to learn more about work that is now being done in the field.  Allan's reading list is interesting and varied, and you will have the opportunity to discuss and compare different approaches to the work.
a good amount of reading, but otherwise a great class with really substantive discussion. take if you are interested in getting a critical/novel perspective to medicine - this course does a great job of it
the course is a once in a lifetime experience, you are trained to think critically, to voice and articulate your opinions as clearly and logically as possible, and as a true intellectual and future academic you are encouraged to develop a habit to read efficiently and write book reviews of the highest quality.
I would highly recommend this course to future students, should it be offered again.  It is a very unique course in which you get to think about books as a whole, from publishing companies and cover artwork, to readership and sales, to the author's background and influences.  The content of the books inspired great discussions.  Students who are interested in publishing a book in the future would definitely benefit from this course, though they are by no means the only ones.
This is one of those courses that you will remember in fifty years. If you are interested in a career in medicine or any aspect of health care, do yourself and your future patients a favor and take this course. Be prepared to challenge your preconceptions about medicine--go in with an open mind and you will really benefit from this course. Professor Brandt is an exceptional professor.
I like that the students in our class were from from various departments within GSAS and the College, the School of Public Health, and MD/PhD students. The diverse backgrounds and perspectives of the students in our class allowed for rich class discussions.
This is one of the best seminars within the History of Science department, and possibly at the university.
I would highly encourage future students - undergraduate, graduate, medical, public health, policy, etc. - to take this course.  In fact, I would encourage all students to take a seminar with Professor Brandt sometime during their Harvard careers.  I would tell them that in my opinion, his pedagogy and approach to ideas, as well as his perspective on interdisciplinary research and communication, are a model for academia.
The instructor is a great teacher. If you are interested in getting some broad perspectives on the history of medicine in the 20th century, this course is a great choice.
This is a valuable course for anyone interested in exploring the history, theory and evolution of modern medicine. Through reading, discussion and course papers, this course pushes students to confront medical issues and wrestle with difficult dilemmas. It also provides students with a critical view of modern medical practices.
Great, diverse group of graduate students. Brilliant instructor who is really engaged with the issues and facilitates discussion well. Interesting set of books, ideas, and problems. This course is taught at a very high level, but has been one of the most rewarding I've taken.
