This course is interesting, but as a two-hour section it needs to be discussion based and instead, with 31 students, became lecture-like. It was hard to be engaged for that long, and made doing the reading a bigger task when there wasn't stimulating discussion. The readings are great and the weekly topics very relevant if you are at all interested in health policy.
Prof. Mauck and Jessica were absolutely wonderful: incredibly knowledgeable about their fields, approachable, and always willing to help or talk. If you are looking for an interesting class on an important and certainly timely topic, I recommend taking a look at this course!
You should do the readings or else will be very lost in class
The class is a good introduction to history of biomedicine and American health policy. Readings range from very introduction to very dull. However, no feedback on work and if you choose the final option, a final and paper due during reading period, which is annoying.
This in-depth survey of health policy in the United States examines many themes key to contemporary health debates, including the role of evidence-based medicine, the nature of the FDA and pharmaceutical industry, and the evolution of doctors' and patients' attitudes towards health insurance, HMOs, and the Affordable Care Act. This class will especially interest students of the history of medicine and of public health, as well as early twentieth-century and WWII-era Americanists.
Absolutely brilliant professor. You will learn so much in this class, if you want to. It's not a class where the professor is breathing down your neck any more so it's on you to do the readings and engage yourself and if you do, it is SO worth it.
Histsci 143v is a fascinating approach to health policy in the USA and I feel so much more informed after the class. We addressed most of the relevant issues in healthcare policy and practice today (Affordable Care Act, IRBs, randomized controlled trials) but our discussion and insight into these topics was much more interesting because we started with a strong historical background. To me, this was the epitome of what a history of science course should look like.
It is a great class if you are interested in learning about and discussing the historical flaws and features of the U.S. healthcare system in light of the rise of evidence-based medicine.
This class is amazing if you're looking for a crash course on healthcare that only happens once a week for two hours and is taught by Aaron Mauck, who is incredibly intelligent, hyperarticulate, and also cares deeply about the practice of teaching and his students. He engages students in conversation and really challenges us to push our understanding of current important topics in healthcare.
Professor Mauck is wonderful, and he knows SO much and is so passionate about what he teaches. It's hard to know how you are doing in the class though, because there are very few assignments and they are not returned quickly. Still, this is a great class to take either as a concentrator or someone who is interested in medicine.
Keep up with the readings. Go to office hours for feedback on work .
Mostly Hist sci concentrators working on their theses, if you're not one of them, probably shouldn't take it
Great survey course regarding health policy in the U.S. I definitely feel like this course has helped me learn about the state of healthcare in America and was overall very interesting and useful!
Very interesting and pertinent class!
Aaron is one of the smartest person that I have ever met. He can answer any question and talk for an hour even naming dates without any notes. Discussion oriented class. You get to choose whether to write just one final paper or midterm,final, short paper.
Good course. Not much work and I felt I learned about an important subject. The professor is very smart and well spoken and also very relateable being a former house tutor. Would highly recommend.
Very interesting readings, a very knowledgeable and kind professor, and a very manageable workload
This course has by far had the best / most interesting readings of any I've taken at Harvard, but be prepared for class that's 3/4 lecture and only 1/4 discussion.
If you come prepared to the class and join in the discussions, it will be a fun class for you.
