Actually do the readings for you section! Not only does it make your section fruitful but it makes preparation for the midterm and final much easier!
Take this course! The topic is inherently interesting and Professor Roosth is a fantastic, witty, entertaining lecturer. I thoroughly enjoyed going to class and doing the readings.
This is an awesome class. So interesting and cool, especially for hist of sci concentrators or people that are interested in ethical issues, even if you aren't particularly interested in science. The essays aren't bad at all -- you only have to write 2 and you get the chance to rewrite one of them. They are interesting to write, but make sure you understand the prompt. Great class, take it.
This class was not at all what I expected. The syllabus makes it sound interesting and not particularly time consuming. On the contrary, readings are overwhelming and there is an enormous amount of course material. If you are a logical thinker this class will be incredibly challenging and likely not make any sense to you at all.
This is a great class. The workload is very manageable and the topic is amazing. Probably one of the most interesting courses you will be able to take at Harvard
An excellent class, fun materials, reasonable workload, good lectures, interesting topics. I took it as a complete elective and I'm glad I did. I recommend it.
I do not recommend this class if you are a biology concentrator. The topics covered in the class are interesting, however, the way that the professor presents the history does not make you leave the class with any critical thoughts on how the history fits together. The readings are interesting, however, lecture does not coincide well with them. They are not clear at all on their expectations for the assignment or midterms.
This course is an intriguing introduction to biotechnology, taught be a great professor. The reading is worth doing and will greatly increase your understanding of the material.
This a great class for anyone interested in biotechnology, modern medicine, patent law. The coursework is very manageable but it's not meant to be a "gem" or gut class. The papers are short but graded seriously and the midterm/final require extensive preparation.
In theory, this course should be interesting. In practice, this course is extremely boring.
The material is great and the course load was manageable, however I would not suggest taking this class after seeing how they changed their grading tactics from the previous year
The material covered in this course is very interesting, and very relevant. I think the teaching staff was surprised by how big the course enrollment was this year, and I think they were unprepared for that sometimes. The "response" papers are really not response papers at all, they are worth a big part of your grade and the TFs are very nit-picky in grading. Still, this class is worth taking if you're interested in the topics.
The topics covered in this course are fascinating. However, the readings were often too long and dense and Professor Roosth spoke way to quickly in lecture so that it was hard to digest it all. The exams were also graded very harshly. This is not an easy A.
The lectures are interesting, but as someone who took this class as a fun elective, I was disappointed. The paper topics are poorly designed, and the TFs are often not that helpful.
amazing course with great topics that are relevant to everyday life, the exams were difficult (even though they give you the questions before hand)
Definitely my favorite class and professor this semester. The topics are all interesting and thought-provoking and the workload is minimal if you keep up with the readings. A great intro to Hist of Sci.
Straightforward class, but be careful the grading is hard.
Incredibly interesting material, gets a little repetitive, slightly harsh grading.
The material was good and I learned a lot, but I hope they are more clear with instructions for the papers and midterm next time.
This course is categorized as History of Science but it's neither History nor Science - it's an anthropology course. If you're not interested in anthropology, don't take it. The lectures jump around random topics, often simplifying the science to make broad judgmental statements with phrases like "Global South" thrown in every now and then, it feels repetitive and useless after a while. Only take it if you're into anthropology.
The material taught in this course is really interesting, but the whole structure of the class is horrible. The assignments are confusing and graded extremely harshly, and the class overall is completely biased towards history of science concentrators despite most people taking it as an elective. This class is definitely not worth the cool material.
the material is VERY interesting, however the course is sort of overshadowed by too-fast, stressful lectures and difficultly graded exams (so difficult that I still do not understand why I received the grade I did despite discussing this with my TF). If they decide to be more welcoming of non hist of sci concentrators, I would take this, otherwise I would be cautious.
Really cool class and good at giving a great background -  you'll never look at the news the same again!
If you're at all interested in the topics this class is great, I always enjoyed lecture and was never overly stressed by the work load. Take it!!
It's AWESOME especially for a senior year elective. super fascinating. learned a ton.
Lectures are packed with information and interesting.  However, lectures aren't recorded and the slides are insufficient.  There isn't much work for this class
I love this course! Sophia Roosth is amazing. She does an incredible job of making history of science material, which can sometimes be construed as extremely abstruse, acceptable without dumbing it down, which is a problem I have with many history of science courses. Her lectures are fascinating, the reading is interesting and relevant, and she expects good work out of her students. The number of assignments is completely manageable, but do not expect to be able to blow them off - the class is easy in that there are very few things to turn in, but the standard to which they are held is not something to scoff at. The material is amazing, applicable, and fascinating. I think everyone should take this course.
This is an interesting course, especially if you have any interest in biotechnology. Worth taking as an elective.
If you have any interest in the history of science or biotechnology, you should take this class. The material is very interesting and Professor Roosth delivers excellent lectures. This course is also very current, so if you are interested in current biotechnology debates, innovations, etc. you would like this class.
Professor Roosth is outstanding, definitely take this class before you graduate!!!
Interesting subject for an elective. Lecture was very interesting. My only problems with the class were a lack of clarity, at first, on what TFs were looking for on response papers and exams.
I learned a lot about the debates being held around biotechnology that go far beyond the "enhancement versus therapy" conversation that we seem to be wrapped up in in the media. Professor Roosth made class really interesting, and her insights (and outfits!) were always worth listening to. It was more of an interesting, learn-about-cool-court-cases course than it was a heavily intellectual one, in the sense that we spent a lot of time learning about the history and not as much time engaging with the readings or discussing it in section, but the course was well worth it!
Take this class.  It is hands down one of the best I have had at Harvard- you will find yourself thinking differently about science and can even see the concepts we learn about in class playing out in the news.  The assignments are interesting and not painful and give you a lot of choice.
It is interesting for about half the semester, and the work is more demanding and complicated than it seems.
This class is incredibly interesting and the professor is fantastic, as are the lectures. It is an easy workload as there are few assignments, and as long as you study for the midterm/final (1 hr, in class, they give you the questions beforehand so you know what is coming) than you really shouldn't have any problems. It especially gives you a lot of interesting perspectives on legal issues with emerging biotechnology.
The material presented is really fascinating, and Professor Roosth is awesome. The workload is pretty light, but the exams and papers are not easy. I enjoyed this class overall.
One of the best classes I have taken in my four years at Harvard. If you are a scientist, take this to understand how society impacts science and how science impacts society. If you are a humanist, take this class to be aware of the ways in which science, medicine, and technology has and will impact your life. The faculty and staff are young, dynamic, and insightful. The materials cover significant depth and breadth of really cool/relevant topics. Finally, the assignments really teach those who don't know how to think historically, think historically. How conversations between historians have occurred and are occurring. Really cool class that's very doable and will teach you things you need to be an aware citizen in society!
lecture slides have nothing on them - you must go to class! the exams are essays based, prepare them thoroughly before and you'll be fine. papers graded very harshly.
It's really interesting and opens your eyes to issues you never would have thought about.
Sections are a little dull, and the tests really don't allow you to show off your knowledge from the course.
It's not that great. the professor is not unbiased at all.
The assignments are graded very harshly and the exam questions are difficult.
interesting class, not too much work
great class! really loved it! don't underestimate how to prepare for the midterm- talk to TFs about what they want for the answers
Pretty interesting course but it's more work than it seems although they do really try and help you. Things are graded arbitrarily though
The Professor definitely has an insecurity complex about it being easy which she makes up for by imposing harder grading which is just stupid
A fantastic overview of critical questions in biotcechnology.
it seems like it's low workload, but it's not really. the papers are pretty tough, and the class is graded really harshly. before papers, meet with your tf to see exactly what they want.
This class had the potential to be the most interesting class of all undergrad classes this semester. The material and topics covered in lecture get better each day. However, the assignments and midterm/final in this class overshadow how cool this class is. Expectations are confusing, unexplained, and for some assignments, completely missing. I thought this class was going to be my favorite class I've ever taken at Harvard but it is now one of my least favorite.
This class is very fun, very engaging. However, the class encompasses a wide variety of material and the assignments are graded very hard. Other than this, it is a phenomenal class, I loved it.
Enjoyed the material, hated the assignments. Extremely vague (still didn't require much work), but a lot of room to screw up. The teaching staff clearly took a reactionary role to having so many students in the class. Never experienced such an obvious case of a professor punishing non-concentrators for being interested in the lecture material.
The lectures are outstanding. Sophia is a fantastic professor and I learned so much from this course. However, don't expect very useful feedback on assignments. Nonetheless, this has been one of my favorite courses.
I am a graduating senior who was taken 32 classes here. This was quite possibly the worst class I have ever taken at Harvard. Lectures ramble on, taking 20 minutes to make no point in particular, and then taking 5 minutes to throw everything you need to learn and regurgitate on the exams at you rapid-fire. Rinse and repeat for an entire semester. If you missed a point made in lecture, or weren't done writing down what the Prof said before she moves on, too bad: lecture slides consist mostly of completely useless and barely relevant pictures, and lecture isn't videotaped. The exam prompts are given to you ahead of time, but the writing must be done in class, turning the exams into a test of who can handwrite the fastest to make the most relevant points in 53 minutes. The paper prompts were unclear and the teaching staff was not particularly helpful in clarifying what they were looking for. The material in the course was also covered from a bizarre neo-liberal perspective I found completely unconvincing.
If you have any interest in biotechnology take this class!! The professor is awesome!
Good class as an introduction to History and Science. Interesting lectures that are well organized with a supportive TF staff.
I'd only take this class if they cap the enrollment. Last year it was way too big, especially sections. The subject material and lectures are very interesting, although sometimes repetitive (internally and across lectures). The workload is light, but assignments are often unclear and seemingly arbitrarily graded.
Take it pass/fail. The material is very interesting and Professor Roosth is very friendly, but the exams and papers are hard.
This class is way harder than it looks, but it's still absolutely worth it. Professor Roosth is one of the better lecturers I've had at Harvard - even if you don't do the reading, go to class because every single one has its own unique plot line. The exams are way harder than you would expect given that they pre-circulate the questions because it basically asks you to answer in 20 minutes what many historians of science endeavor to answer in a full length book.
This is not a science course, it is not a history course, if you however want to discuss the Global North vs. South, identity, and the likes in a repetitive fashion take this course.
Interesting material, brilliant and cool professor. The grading is very arbitrary and quite frustrating. May be more stress than it's worth, depending on your TF
this should not be taken as a gen ed/elective if you are looking for a fun semi-easy course
Way more work than it seems from the syllabus. Subject matter is way less exciting than you would think.
Not too much work at all! Really interesting lectures! Section can be meh though (and what course isn't subject to this criticism?). I felt that many times we were just handwaving and describing wishy-washy concepts during section, which is why I was surprised at how concrete and useful the lectures were.
Great course that explores a variety of historical and contemporary debates, definitions, and questions about biotechnology
Definitely keep up with the readings! They definitely come up on exams.
An fascinating class, but harder than it might seem.  Definitely take it, but be prepared to work.
If you're thinking of taking this as an easy A, DONT. Its a complete waste of time, with absolutely mundane course material despite well-presented lectures. The essays and exams are graded extremely harshly and section is the most painful thing in the world. That being said, this class has practically no work required, so if you want a class that is harshly graded but no time involved then take it. Just a warning though, this class is much more history based than biotech- based. As a science concentrator I found the first half of the class particularly painful because we talked about patent law and the development of the seed industry for over a month...
This is a biased course.
Great class...professor is engaging, TFs are wonderful and the material is actually really relevant and interesting.  Grading is pretty harsh (it's not a Gen Ed), but the opportunity to re-write one of the papers makes up for that.  Distribution of possible exam questions a week before the exam allows you adequate time to prepare and you know exactly what to expect on the exam.  Overall, great class and I wouldn't hesitate to take it again.
If you want a canonical history of biotechnology taught over 21 lectures, you can take this course. Or you could spend five hours reading the Wikipedia and learn the same thing. No big HistSci surprises, no cool readings or case studies.
It is important to stay on top of the reading assignments for the class.  Participation in class is the best way to get a range of perspectives on the material.
Professor Roosth happens to be a very interesting lecturer. She is effective in providing with an important perspective from the history of science, which is that science is not a monolithic endeavor, but rather very much shaped by the historical and cultural circumstances in which it was conducted. This class also covers many important contemporary issues and allows us to engage in critical debate on these topics on many fronts. However, it is important to understand that this class provides a particular perspective on many of the issues, which is wonderful in that it focuses your thinking, but it is slightly problematic as it is informed by certain philosophical traditions.
Take this class. Sophia is awesome. The material is relevant. And the lectures are really engaging and interesting.
It's great--take it!
This is a great class for anyone who just wants to learn a little more about biotechnology and how it is developing currently.
It's simply an excellent grounding in biotechnology, and an excellent discussion of it.
Great course, interesting subject matter, Sophia is an awesome professor.
It is very interesting and different material I had never thought about before.
This class is really interesting and really makes you realize the intense cultural significance that biotechnology can have. It is not difficult, but definitely stay on top of your work if you want to do well!
very strong lectures, engaging and thought-provoking material, brilliant professor (though a bit intimidating in how she demands answers from people in the class). you should have a strong science background or at least familiarity with scientific/technological advances in the past few decades. while the course doesn't go into the complex science behind topics, should have a good grasp of what biotechnology is. there are two hour-long tests with essay questions and a final 12-15 page paper on a topic of choice. the class enjoys delving into the philosophical/moral questions behind scientific advances which is very thought-provoking but also very difficult to grasp and handle.
THIS IS AN AMAZING CLASS, take it!!!! The lectures are interesting and thought-provoking, yet concrete with specific examples and well-structured. The tests are very easy. This class is a gem, I am so glad I took it!!!
definitely take it if you're interested in the topic!Also, if you are considering a concentration in science and you also like humanities, this is a good intro to the history of science concentration
Very interesting and relevant to life today, take it.
This was my first real social science class (certainly my only elective) and I'm just not a fan. The last straw was the packet saying that proper citations would save the world. At the end of the day, the material is all interesting but studying it this way just feels pointless.
This is great overview course. I almost wish that lectures were longer so that we were able to delve into the material more.
Take it! Professor Roosth is a great instructor!
Interesting, relevant material
This class is perfect for a heavy workload.  The exams were very straightforwards, but i was a bit disappointed because the exams oftentimes did not match up with the lectures.  The lectures are interesting and deal with numerous modern issues; however, sometimes the lectures could be scattered and it was hard to stay organized.
So worth it! Prof. Roosth is an awesome person and the material is utterly fascinating.
This class is super interesting. Professor Roosth is a fantastic lecturer and all the topics are extremely relevant. It is definitely not easy, as Roosth does not overly simplify anything. But this is what makes the class fascinating and important, and I found it well worth the extra effort. They also are not terribly hard graders, perhaps to make up for the complexity of paper topics, themes, etc. I felt like I learned a lot, and perhaps more importantly, everything we learned was treated in a nuanced and highly analytic way.
Both the professor and TF were awesome. They cared, the course was interesting, and you discuss interesting courses.
This class is great and is one of my favorites that I have taken so far! It gives an excellent overview of biotechnology, which is perfect if you have a particular interest in the subject or are just curious about learning something new. It has a very reasonable workload, and the exams are not that stressful as the questions are released in advance (though they do require quite a bit of time in preparation). Professor Roosth is fun and engaging and clearly knows a lot about the subject. You should definitely take this class!
This was the perfect combination of engaging course material, thought-provoking assignments, and grading that matched the time and effort you invested.
Great course! Really opened my eyes to issues connected with biotech that I didn't know existed. Prof Roosth and Wythe are badasses
This class is exciting because you learn new things and there is a lot of discussion where there is room for new ideas and opinions.
TAKE THIS COURSE. Sophia Roosth is a powerhouse, and your eyes will be opened to the fascinating history of biotechnology. Readings are great; lectures are a treat; the material will shock you and amaze you and make you rethink everything you thought you knew. Not a huge workload and so worth it.
This is a great class if you're interested in this material.  Professor Roosth facilitates a lot of discussion and its very interactive.  If you're not into classes that have a lot of activists trying to voice their opinions, then this isn't the class for you.  But if you are, then take it!  Assignments are very easy, you have to write two 4-5 page papers all semester.  She also gives you the prompts that will be on the midterm (take home) and final.  The format is nice because she cares more about you understanding and synthesizing the information into a cohesive argument rather than trying to surprise and trick you on the final.  Readings are pretty lengthy but they're not at all necessary because she covers what you need to know in lecture.  You'll get out what you put in.  All in all, fun and easy class.
This class is awesome. It covers extremely interesting issues surrounding the history of biotech. The topics are controversial, and the subsequent discussions generated are great.
This is a fantastic course for both undergraduate and graduate students. Highly recommended! Professor Roosth is an engaging lecturer and with extensive knowledge of this area and keen insights.
Incredible class. incredible teaching staff. Interesting topic. A must take at Harvard.
