Little is about baseball despite the name of the course being about baseball
If you are a baseball fan and have a strong math/statistics background, this will be a great class for you to take. As long as you do all the readings and put in the effort, you should see good results.
I think the class will significantly improve in future years. Professor Phillips is great.
It's very easy, requires very little preparation and the material is pretty interesting. I definitely came away from it with a better appreciation of statistics, baseball, and medicine, though don't expect the course to go really in depth into anything.
I liked this class a lot! There were definitely some kinks, but that's to be expected in the first year of a class. The first half of the semester on medicine is kind of boring; I felt like we just kept learning about clinical trials and discussing whether or not they worked for a really long time. But it's cool to see how statistics became used in the fields of medicine and baseball, particularly if you like stats. My only complaint was that it seemed like the math was kind of difficult for people who had never done it before, and as someone who had learned a lot of it in an actual stat class, this course wasn't great at explaining new mathematical concepts to people.
Baseball does not start until the last month.
The material can be incredibly interesting and fun, but you should expect to teach yourself statistics if you don't already know it.  And it helps if you're a baseball fan.
Moneyball was by far one of my favorite courses at Harvard thus far. It took really interesting topics and used them as a way to teach you how to more generally critique the use of statistics in everyday life. I learned a lot about questioning how statistics are used while learning a ton of fun things about medicine and baseball!
Sabermetrics was interesting. ... The first half of materials, not as much.
This class promises interesting material, but if you're particularly interested in taking this for the baseball portion of the course, you probably know everything already. It is interesting to study the history of the mathematical ideas that you would learn about in your other classes though.
This was a really interesting class that caught everyone's attention by its description. Even though it was a new course, it was structured well and organized sensibly. Overall, the material was engaging and thought-provoking. It is more than a class about baseball, but it certainly helps (in the second half of the course) if you like or understand baseball.
Don't take this if you can't handle dense mathematical readings and regular psets with statistical analysis questions.
If you like baseball, medicine, and stats, this class will keep you interested the majority of the time!  The professor is also one of the best I've had!
One of my favorite classes at Harvard by far! Lectures were insightful, well-structured. I took it mostly for the baseball, but the medicine case component was also really interesting. Readings were not too long but super helpful and for the most part really enjoyable.
make sure you're very interested in the topic
Great class if you're into baseball. Realistically, it should be split into two classes -- one for baseball, one for medicine -- but the great second half makes up for a slower first half of the course.
Math is a huge component of the course. Even though they might advertise that it is not, it is. So have at least a solid foundation with statistics and a good understanding of probability.
it's a cool class with reasonable assignments and reading lists. everything is taught in lecture and it's not videotaped so go to class!
Professor Phillips was a great lecture, and the lectures along with the reading were very informative. Take this class if you are interested in medicine and/or statistics in baseball and want to understand the evolution of the fields. Section was mostly unproductive, however, and this aspect of the course was my only negative experience.
This class is unnecessarily difficult. The material is interesting so I would suggest taking it pass/fail. Do not be seduced by its title, as more than half of the course is about the statistics of medicine and although we do read Moneyball, it is not discussed in great detail.
Take the class if you are interested in the material and confident in your mathematical ability!
This is a history class, not a cool math class, not a science class. Professor Phillips is fantastic, and passionate about the material, but there is much to be improved in this course. The assignments were vague, the grading was absurdly harsh and seemingly arbitrary, and the section was abysmal. DO NOT STAY IN ION's SECTION. You will not know what he is saying most of the time, and he will take off major points for seemingly minor errors.
It's a fun class, not difficult, but not the most organized.
This is a really cool hist of sci course with great lectures. The baseball unit is the focus but the medicine unit is also extremely interesting. However it's harder than it seems it will be! Still worth it though. As long as you're willing to put in the effort, especially into the psets, I'd definitely recommend it.
take but beware of statistics portion
A great course, especially if you are interested in how probability is used.
totally worth it, work your way through the medicine portion of the material to get to the sports
Not exactly what I expected it to be
If you like baseball or the history of science you might very well like this course. If you are interested in neither and are looking for GenEd credit, you're better off taking another class. If you're interested in Hist of Sci, but are also interested in studying it from a radical perspective, this class is also not for you.
Class is pretty cool but the problem sets are obnoxious. Lectures and readings are for the most part pretty interesting.
Interesting class. The 5 psets and weekly readings are somewhat demanding but very manageable. Lecture and section extremely useful/interesting.
Check out the material in the syllabus (the books and readings) and see if you find them interesting. This course is not as "sexy" as its title
While dry sometimes, Chris Phillips teaches a great class with interesting topics. The medicine is underrated-you learn interesting case studies of statistics in medicine, and the Moneyball component is great. This is the kind of class where you will enjoy what you read and write, and the math is easy. Take this class. But make sure Ion is not your TF-he is miserable.
Prof. Phillips is a charismatic lecturer, and was passionate about the material. However, coming in, I thought this would be a class largely about baseball. The medicine parts were also pretty dry, but were actually more relevant to course themes, which went against my expectations coming in.
Section component should be improved, but interesting and mangeable class.
First year this class was taught, and there were some imperfections (bad TF's, unclear course direction and linkage of concepts). It has potential, though. Give Prof. Phillips some time to fine tune the syllabus and thematic connections, maybe change the problem set structure, and it could be a solid course.
The baseball section is great, but if you're taking it for that, realize that the entire first half of the course is on medicine and a little dry.
Professor Phillips is great, really enthusiastic about the material.  Note that baseball is only half the class, but the medicine half of the class is also great.  Problem sets are about 70-30 writing-math.  The writing prompts are like 500 word mini-essays, so be warned of that.  There are 1-2 per problem set.  But there are only 5 problem sets and they  drop the lowest one.
If you're a big baseball fan, this class is a must-take. The first half (on medicine) is pretty dull but once you get through that, the second half is fascinating and you learn so much about the history of the game that you didn't know.
This class is a cool way to look at the history of statistics. The material is interesting and fun to learn.
This course was interesting but definitely badly portrayed in both the course description and the syllabus. I assumed it would have a lot more of a math component, but all of the math was very basic.
Definitely an easy and enjoyable elective
Great course and Professor Phillips is the man!
Like most courses in this field, you get out of it what you put into it. It's pretty easy to get away without doing all the reading, but it is genuinely interesting material so thats not always a good thing. The assignments (5 psets) are pretty manageable, although sometimes the math component would be frustrating (it is a HS class not a math class...) All in all, though, its a "recommend"
This course is well taught and is fun. Sections and problem sets are confusing and graded unevenly, but the material is engaging, and the readings are very light. This is definitely a course to try if you are at all curious about history of science.
This class is a lot of fun! Great class to take as an elective if you're interested in medicine, baseball, or both. Don't be fooled by the amount of math, though - while you are expected to answer basic probability questions, the course is in the history of science department, and the majority of the evaluations (assignments and exam question) are based on historical analysis. So, don't be scared if you don't like numbers; conversely, don't expect this class to be a breeze just because you have a solid grasp of statistics.
Very easy and relatively interesting class.
A nice fourth course for those interested in a relatively laid back examination of baseball and medicine and their usage of statistics. Interesting, but perhaps falls a bit short of the excitement generated by its title.
Really interesting material
Take this class if you really like baseball. If you don't, it will be extremely difficult for you to care about what's happening in the class. Phillips is a good lecturer, but the section component was seriously miserable.
If you are interested in the history of stats, the history of statistical medicine, and a little bit of baseball then this class is for you.
