Really interesting material, and not really a ton of work each week. The class gives you a good framework of questions to ask when thinking about movements and activism in medicine, and the specific examples discussed are good ones to be familiar with.
Take this course! It's a subject that has been, in my opinion, an oversight thus far at FAS and was an incredibly fun elective course. Aaron is endlessly knowledgeable and an excellent professor, the work load was manageable, and the readings each week were compelling - there's no downside to taking this!
Do the readings every week
Really fascinating subject material on social movements in medicine, covering topics ranging from polio campaigns to anti-vaccination movements, from alternative medicine to HIV/AIDS and breast cancer activism. Course was disorganized, however - be ready to have unclear deadlines and expectations on papers and exams.
A really interesting course with a wide range of topics. Discussion with Professor Mauck is always super insightfulhe is one of my favorite instructors I have had at Harvard, very knowledgeable and articulate on a wide range of topics. The final paper seems to spring up on you at the end of the term, so get started early!
Great class with interesting material. Organization isn't too strong but if you're genuinely interesting the course material, I'd definitely recommend.
Aaron is awesome - he is brilliant and engaging, and he has constructed this class around the topics he is most interested in, which is very apparent in his enthusiasm for the material. There is not much work, but you won't get anything out of the class if you don't do the readings - do the readings!!
Professor Mauck is incredibly knowledgeable and delivers a great introductory spiel at the beginning of class. The class itself is a little scattered in terms of discussion, however, and you'll end up learning more from the readings than you will from the discussions in class. It's a great class to take if you want to learn a few interesting things, but at times it's a bit disorganized and can feel unstructured.
Professor Mauck created a very special class that explores medicine through a sociological lens. Although lengthy, the readings are very interesting and varied as Professor Mauck has done a  careful job of picking literature that best illustrates social activism. You'll get out of this course what you put into it. Sure, you don't have to do much or any of the reading throughout the semester until one of the 2 papers is coming up, but the most rewarding part of this course were the class discussions, and it is hard to contribute without reading. The course was disorganized at times due to Professor Mauck's laissez-faire attitude, but that same quality will save you when you turn in a paper a few hours late or if you need an extension.
Very interesting readings, and Mauck is a very interesting & knowledgeable teacher! The hardest part of the class is just the final research paper-- which if you find a topic you're really interested in, isn't that bad either.
Prof Mauck and the course more generally could take some lessons from the way this semester progressed, in terms of handling logistics and organization of a course. Otherwise, he is super smart and engages your ideas with the course material effectively! The material is also super interesting. I am very excited by social movements and the conceptual framework of patient activism, so this course really suited my interests.
Aaron Mauck is a great discussion leader.  I learned so much for this course and was able to explore the topics I was most interested in for the midterm and final papers.  Highly recommend this course.
If you're interested in the course materials, definitely take this course! Keep in mind though, that the assignments are a bit vague (but Prof. Mauck gives a lot of leeway with how you want to answer the prompts).
Take any course that Mauck offers! He is an unbelievable teacher and I was so lucky to take two of his courses :) He's also an amazing person so I'd recommend going to his office hours when you can. The amount of information he has stored in his head is admirable.
