There is quite a bit of reading, but well worth it.  The assignments are actually really cool, and the class exposes you to a lot of great resources you never would have known about otherwise (the map collection, chsi, etc.)  You will do well in this course if you are not afraid to be creative with the projects.
Class experience is entirely dependent on the people enrolled, since class time revolves entirely around summarizing the various readings (very little lecturing on new material). On the plus side, the projects are fun and you get to interact with the Putnam collection quite a bit.
The topics discussed in the class were interesting but each week is just a series of articles to read on different topics.  The course isn't tied together well.
As someone with little experience with History of Science, I found the readings hard to get through. The assignments, though, were interesting and somewhat fun, and didn't rely on you having thoroughly understood all of the readings.
It's an interesting course and the readings are good, but know that there will be weeks where the readings are too heavy to manage and won't be covered in class.
Do not enroll in this class unless it specifically pertains to your interests and future
Though I enjoyed the intimate nature of this class, you really have to be invested in the readings and the subject matter to get much out of it. That said, the discussions were very enlightening, and the students and professor worked together to interpret readings and create new knowledge. The assignments were interesting, but seemed to relate to museography more than instrument studies.
This course will provide you with an interesting survey of some important issues in the field of history of science, through the lens of scholarship on scientific instruments.  Unfortunately, the time spent in class is devoted to rehashing the basic arguments from the readings. As a result, this class, scheduled for two hours, routinely ends in an hour and a half or less when the discussion has completely fizzled out.
