A great introduction to the sociology of science by one of the foremost sociologists of science. You'll get more out of it the more background you have in philosophy or social theory.
You will get next to nothing out of the lectures because they will bore you to sleep.  Everything learned in lecture you need to know you can google search
This course is the best class I've taken in four years at Harvard. The course material and teaching staff are absolutely incredible and thoroughly dedicated to teaching (and fun, friendly, and approachable to boot). If you're interested in what scientific knowledge is made of, take this course - it's changed the way I think and what I think about.
This was awesome! You should hope it's ever offered again. I learned much more about how science works and how people do it than I ever thought people knew.
Best course i've ever taken at Harvard. If you want quality time with an excellent professor, quality (but not too much!) time with excellent readings, and want to think some quality real-world and philosophically-challening thoughts, especially if you want to get a quality introduction to relativism - Take it!
The class is amazing -- both the professor and readings will blow you away.
this class will make you reflect deeply about science, knowledge, society and self. professor is absolutely amazing.
It is a relaxed and self-paced course, but section discussion can be intense and you really have to know the material well. At least 5-6 hours of solid reading per week, more or less depending on your background with the topics.
Amazing.
This class was fantastic.  One of the best classes I have taken in four years.  Professor Shapin is a brilliant teacher who inspires great interest in the subject matter.  Furthermore, the sociology of scientific knowledge is an understudied but fascinating field.
Shapin is awesome, knows about a bunch of things. Fun for everyone!
Thought provoking and interesting, even if you're not a Hist of Sci concentrator.
I recommend this class for freshman and sophomores especially, as I feel it frames future classes in the realm of science and history very well.
Before I took this class, I had little interest in 'science.'  This course will invigorate you, provide you with a number of distinct vocabularies for interpreting and viewing what society understands as 'science.'  At the same time, the course provides a number of invaluable insights into the process of sociology more generally, all couched in the extremely entertaining lecture style of Professor Shapin.
Some of the material is really interesting. But most of it is far from revolutionary and may strike people who are experienced with theory as pretty unoriginal.
WARNING: This is NOT a History of Science class and the content of the material directed more at sociology or social studies concentrators. With that said, the material is very interesting and the professor and tf are great. Although I think this was the tf's last year so...
I would definitely recommend this course. I would however caution people against just taking it because they think with as few as assignments as it requires that the course will require no work. To be able to do the papers, you have to do the work. And the doing the readings are often times like trying to backstroke through peanut butter they're so dense. So if you're someone who gets frustrated with highly esoteric, inaccessible, academic writing, maybe steer clear.
Don't take it if you're just into understanding what motivates scientists.  This class is more about how to think of science philosophically.
As challenging as it is rewarding.
If you are interested in the sociology of science and would prefer a lot of freedom to study whichever section of it, this is the class for you.
The course was pitched as asking questions like, "What is social about 2+2 =4?" But the majority of section discussions were spent debating whether *anything* could be social about scientific knowledge. If you find this to be an interesting and controversial problem, you will enjoy this course. If you would prefer to assume that *something* is social about scientific knowledge and explore more deeply what that is, you might become frustrated by the focus of the course.
It's a difficult class that requires a fair amount of thought and effort. You can probably get away with not learning much but you're missing out- if you truly understand the work it's impossible not to be intrigued and excited by it.
Take this course. It is thought stimulating and will make you look at science in another way.
As a social studies concentrator, I enjoyed and felt well-prepared for the class.  It could've felt more useful if it covered more material, but Prof. Shapin is both chill and effective.
It's pretty easy but the lectures can be very boring.
