One of my favorite courses at Harvard. Professor Hersch is the best lecturer on campus.
If you are interested in history and/or technology even only a little bit, you should take this course! Forget about learning history from old, boring textbooks - in this class you will so much freedom to learn in an interesting way, experience the history yourself, build a new world (through 4 essays) where you will be able to point out to all bad things that occur on the Earth, and most importantly - you will have 4 super fun (!) fabrication challenges in which you will come up with technological inventions yourself!
Great and tons of fun! Professor Hersch is incredibly engaging and the lectures are basically just an hour of fun facts per week.
This is a fun course that requires 4 creative essays and projects in which you must build a working product from a limit set of given materials. It is not difficult and lecture is enjoyable to go to. Professor Hersch is very enthusiastic and tries very hard to make it interesting for everyone.
So much fun that it does not feel like a class. Mostly, this is a good thing. However, it seems like the teaching staff have a very clear idea in mind about what they would like to see from the challenges and papers, which takes the fun out of it a little bit. Hopefully these issues will be fixed in future offerings. So take this class with your friends, get together a great group, and have fun building old technology
If you want a class where you get to build rockets and learn about video games and warfare you should take this class!
This class is great!  Professor Hersch is a fantastic professor and his lectures amaze me in the amount of information he is able to cover and how much knowledge he has about technologies ranging from the smallest and more random ones to ones that have revolutionized the world. There are no exams in this class and the essays are more based on your own ideas, so it is great that you can sit back in lecture and just take in all of the knowledge without the pressure of taking notes.  Everyone should take this class!
Take it! Very manageable and a fun way to learn about the relationships between people and technology.
Easy and fun.
Prof. Hersch is such a wonderful professor, and the material he teaches is also very interesting. Basically, if you want a well-taught, interesting class that is also pretty easy, this is the class for you. THERE ARE NO EXAMS!!! And yet I still learned a lot from the four short papers and four building challenges; honestly I think engaging with the material in this low-stress way helped me learn better.
It's a fun class, but I wouldn't take it if I wasn't a senior.
If you have never built or invented something with your own hands and imagination, don't graduate without taking this course.
THIS CLASS IS AWESOME. Professor Hersch is an amazing and engaging lecturer. His personality and teaching style made this class my favorite class of any that I've taken here.
This class was really fun and really easy. It takes no effort at all. Prof encourages students to not take notes during lectures and just soak in the information. All the challengers are relatively simple but still intriguing. The essays are not hard and graded pretty easily. Plus, there are no exams or finals. If you're looking for a no-stress class, check this out.
If you want to have some fun and be creative take this class.
Awesome class setup! Hersch gives amazing lectures! Papers and projects are fun to do. Paper grading can be harsh which can be annoying given they are so open ended.
Really loved the course. Very interesting topic and the lectures were great. Definitely take this class.
This class is a super cool approach to covering history. Professor Hersch is a tremendous lecturer and the way he has designed the class is incredibly interesting and engaging. Loved taking it and highly recommend it for those looking for an exciting course with low workload.
HistSci 189 was a great elective-lowkey work wise but with interesting readings and lectures.
This a great class that is a lot of fun and also makes you think
This class is very fun and tailor-made for senior spring.  However, it will also make you feel like you are in the eighth grade.  30% of your grade is "fabrication challenges", which are glorified science fair projects where you have to do things like build timers out of balsa wood and sand.  The remaining 70% comes from a combination of creative five-page essays in which you explicitly "need not consult" outside sources and everyone's favorite 10% participation.  No exams, no real papers, a lot of credit given for Elmer's glue prowess.  This class seems like a gem, and in many ways it is, but it is also more middle school than college and leaves a lot of important depth out of its admittedly interesting material.
This class is awesome. Great opportunity to enjoy cool lectures while also having good section conversations. The papers and projects also didn't feel like they were incredibly tedious either. It was fun to make projects that represented tools of the time period.
What a feel good class! This class will teach you so much and keep you smiling in a stress-free environment!
Low workload class and relatively interesting. Professor Hersch is a good lecturer.
a class where you get to actually enjoy your assigments
