its not too hard of a workload, but very philosophical and sections are not great
The reading material for this class is completely incomprehensible, AND YET your ability to get a good grade is hardly affected by your ability to understand the course material. You can write your response papers on basically whatever your heart desires. I strongly recommend that it not be on the actual material of the readings, because nobody knows what is going on. Good luck understanding anything in this class. I can say that at the very least you will be so incredibly bored by the lectures in class that you will be forced to be productive for other classes. Not a bad thing, I guess.
It's a great class! The workload is extremely manageable, and it covers some really interesting topics!
I loved this class.  It was thought provoking and the readings were really interesting.  Also we fully discussed the readings in class and section, so they actually seemed to matter
This class is good for people that are already interested in global health and health care economics.  The lectures got a little stale at times, but the readings were interesting.  The assignments are open ended, so you always get to write about something that you are really interested in, making them enjoyable.
This course had good potential but awful execution. Each week the lectures were uninteresting and not engaging, and although it is the student's choice to take notes on a computer and then browse the internet, in this case I don't think it was their fault. A small minority of the class was actually paying attention for the full 2 hours, and communication between the TF, lecturer, and students was minimal. The material had the potential to be interesting, but with few specific examples and frequent repetition it easily became boring.
With such an interesting, engaging and divisive topic, this class has a lot of potential. Much should be done in the teaching format however, for it to truly constitute a worthwhile experience. The class should be taught in a seminar format (perhaps 1 hour of lecture, followed by 1 hour of discussion), for students to truly engage with the course material.
Easy class. Great topics on bioethics for those of you interested.
Great subject matter that will challenge your thoughts. Could be more engaging though.
Take this course only if you're interested in ethics and global health. For me, that wasn't an issue because I'm obsessed with both topics. However, I can see how it can become laborious and slow-moving for some people.
Very little work but the trade off is that this class was completely uninspiring and boring. The topics had so much potential for awesome discussion, but everything from the lecture format to section format led this to be an entirely boring class that was really disheartening.
Great class if you are genuinely interested in the material
This class is thought-provoking and inspiring! Definitely take this course!
TAKE THIS COURSE! Very helpful to under stand the social side of public health policy and is great to take alongside a class like SW24 or SLS19 that is more hard policy based.
