An excellent introduction to some of the most weighty technological questions facing us today and their historical context.
This course is a wide survey of big data throughout history. It explores library card catalogues, surveys bird banding, and much more, and is not simply about big data in the modern context.
This course will give you a solid historical basis from which you can understand modern data practices. Professor Lemov gives very well-structured lectures and asks compelling discussion questions, interspersed with interesting and often funny related video clips. But by far the best part of this course was the diversity of minds in the room. As an undergrad studying gov, it was very cool to cover both precise and more normative topics with grad students from Harvard and MIT in history, art, design, engineering, etc. I looked forward to a rich conversation every week.
"Big data" is ubiquitous and shaping industries and disciplines across the board. This course takes a critical look at how data has grown to become "big" and the many issues that have emerged in the process. If your research looks at modern systemic issues, this course is a must.
Big Data covers some really interesting dimensions to the subject that I hadn't considered before!
Rebecca brings a particular and incredibly useful approach to the history of Big Data--from the perspective of the history of the human sciences. She's super engaged with contemporary discussions from popular media and scholarship and weaves this together to drive the class to make critical and historically minded judgements about the possibilities and pitfalls of the big data hype.
If you work in data science or have an interest in the philosophy of informatics, this course will provide useful background and insights to guide professional development.
For a buzzword that has been on everyone's lips for the last couple of years, this course does a great job of drawing out the continuities between Big Data and preceding technologies, allowing students to explore the more exciting discontinuities. I did not think I would find the weeks dealing with library management and various formats as exciting as, under the guidance of Professor Lemov, the discussions turned out to be.
the course subject is fascinating, with the field changing rapidly.
That it will probably be the most exciting and ethically-fascinating class they will have the privilege of taking during their time at Harvard.
This class does not cover quantitative techniques - instead, it teaches you about the history and context of big data in various fields.
Chillin'
Very interesting course, rich discussions really pushed me to think further on the questions of Big Data-what exactly is Big Data and what are the implications of our increasing reliance on Big Data to solve questions? Definitely would recommend this course. Be prepared for a lot of reading though.
