It's a very time consuming class, but also very rewarding. Prepare for many long nights working.
This is a great class for hands on design experience in a relevant field with real possibilities for IP and maybe even producing startups.  The breadth of projects was very wide so most people should find a project that suits them.
This is a departure from your typical theoretical coursework, and is the best way to gain practical engineering skills at Harvard.
This course teaches it all: from idea generation to finished product - an excellent learning experience in how to design and fabricate a medical device. The guest speakers from industries, start ups and VCs were a great resource and motivation throughout the class. Absolutely recommended for anyone who wants to call him/herself an engineer!
This is the best engineering sciences course at Harvard. I hope everyone will consider taking it. This course provides an invaluable learning experience.
This class is both the best and worst experience that I have had at Harvard. It requires an extremely large amount of time, and I definitely had to sacrifice work in other classes to work on this class. Because many of the people in the class are graduate students, they have much more time to vary in their schedules to work on the class project, and it is hard to keep up with three other classes. If you choose to take ES 227, be aware that it will be your major project for the semester, and the only thing you work on for days on end, regardless of whether or not you want it to be. Conor and the TFs expect a lot from their students and push them a ton, sometimes frustratingly so, because they are very controlling and have a lot of influence over the course the projects take. That being said, the course was extremely rewarding and I am extremely proud of the end result. I would definitely take it again if I had the choice.
Guys, it's a very good course. But it's hardcore. You are going to spend a lot of time on it. But it may turn out to be a patent and a good conference or journal paper.
The class is awesome, but INCREDIBLY labor intensive at the end of the semester.
This class is awesome!  Its one of those engineering courses that reminds you why you chose to concentrate in engineering in the first place.  The projects you work on are very intriguing, real world issues and working closely with a clinician was an excellent experience.  Conor and the teaching staff provide good structure and "encouragement" throughout the course and the guest lecturers are generally fantastic.  If you can, take this course!
This course will eat the back half of your semester. Plan your courses accordingly. But if you put in the work and have a good team, you will feel pretty accomplished at the end.
Very time consuming and frustrating at times but it was a great experience working with a clinician on a real problem.
PROS:This class gives you the opportunity to create something practical. In our class, all four teams had created a working prototype of a medical device by the end of the semester. Be aware that this will require an extensive time commitment (at least 10 hrs/wk, and possibly over 20 by the end of the semester)You get to work with local clinicians. This is one of the few classes that gives you an excuse to get outside of the Harvard bubble.The teaching staff gives helpful feedback at hour-long weekly meetings with each team.CONS:You will spend the entire semester working on a project in groups of four or five, so this class is best for people who learn well in group settings. Be aware that you are not allowed to choose your teammates. You will spend about half of the designated class time and many hours outside of class working with your group. If you are interested in working on medical devices but don't enjoy group work, you can take 91r with Professor Walsh instead and work on very similar projects.The lecture portion of this class is very disorganized. Most of the lectures are given by guest lecturers, who often repeat each other.
This class is useful for getting more experience in designing and building medical devices. I would not recommend taking this class if you don't have prior design and manufacturing experience.
What you get from this course really depends on what you put in. It is possible to go through the semester not putting in too much work but not gaining much either. However, putting in a lot of effort, gives you a ton of design experience.
This course is unique. A physician presents a medical problem and you and your team come up with a solution for it. You have a generous budget to let a vendor manufacture your final prototype. Take this course if you can (!), but only take it if you can make it you top priority for the semester. Expect to spend long nights in the lab for the last 4-5 weeks.
It's a great class since you get to work with fun people and build something clinically relevant. You don't need to have a mechanical background though it is helpful.
this class provides the most comprehensive training for a future engineer.
This class is very rewarding at the end but the time commitment is no joke. Unless you have about half of each week to dedicate to this class, don't take it.
This course had ups and downs. The ups were great project ideas and working with clinicians. It was also great that the output was a real working prototype that could one day solve real problems. The downs were that this course required a lot of time for what seem like very quick, mundane things. It is not a difficult class but it takes a bit of time to finish everything and constantly coordinate with a group.
Requires lots of time and dedication, but absolutely worth the effort!
Want work hard on something that will save lives?  Get ready for an intense and rewarding experience.
This class was mind opening. You will never
It will be very frustrating at times, it is very time-consuming, and I felt like I could've gotten the same experience out of working on a project in a lab (which is essentially what you do in this course anyways).
Great course for upper level engineers- the design classes at SEAS are always great and teach practical knowledge for how to approach client-centered design and engineering.
This course is a lot of work (equivalent to ~2 courses). I really enjoyed the project but be prepared to work in a group and spend a lot of time on this.  I believe it is best to enroll in this course if you are a SEAS graduate students or college seniors who have at least some experience experience (1) working on hands on engineering projects (2) tackling open ended problems, (3) working on group projects, and (4) working on engineering design problems. As this course of so focused on the final deliverable (a functional prototype) it can be difficult for less experienced individuals to be able to actively contribute to their team and have a valuable learning experience.
So....much...work
This is an amazing course-- one of the best I've ever taken. Basically, you'll work on a design project with a team of 3 or 4 people for the entire semester. Usually there are 4 or so teams in the course, each working on a different project. The teaching team has high expectations for the project teams, which is good, because it pushes the students to do good work and produce meaningful results. Ideally you'll do the work equivalent to a conference or journal paper throughout the semester. Expect to spend 15-20 hrs. per week on the class, and a lot more than that in the last few weeks, but it's worth it. You'll leave the class a better problem solver, mechanical designer, project manager, and you'll acquire a myriad of other skills that will serve you well moving forward.
This class can be really amazing if you're willing to put in the work. It's definitely a large time commitment, but the end product (a working professional device prototype) is really cool. Be careful if you're coming in without any mechanical engineering/design experience as you will almost certainly need those skills at some point. A general background in BME without any mechanical skills probably won't be enough. Make sure to start prototyping, designing, and building everything as soon as possible in the semester. Don't underestimate the amount of time you will need to spend on figures, images and videos for presentations.
Great opportunity to work on interesting problem, but be prepared to balance course-based requirements with ability to innovate on product/project-outcomes.
This is a fantastic course. The teaching staff puts a lot of time and effort into your project, and the more that you do so as well, the better the outcome.  Make sure that you stay on top of deadlines, especially when it comes to ordering supplies.  Get started on prototyping, testing, and making videos early because they take longer than you anticipate.  Also use the teaching staff as a resource!  They are great to bounce ideas off of or send drafts of final presentations and papers.
It is a lot of work, make sure you have a light load in your other classes
This class is amazing. It is a lot of work, but you will want to spend time on it because it is a very rewarding class. The teaching staff is great.
ES 227 was a great experience, but be warned: you will spend a lot of time in Pierce basement.
If you're willing to put in the work to make this happen, it's an amazing class and incredibly rewarding. If you're not willing to make it your priority during the last month or two of the semester, it won't be a good experience.
This course requires A LOT of work. Probably near what you would expect for two normal courses. The teaching team expects a lot out of you, and there is a lot of frustrating work that does not seem to be entirely useful. With that being said, you will definitely get a lot out of it. You see a project from beginning to end, get tons of practice on giving presentations, and will likely get a publication out of it. If you have the time and energy to commit to this course, you would probably do well to take it. If you are at all worried about how much time you'll be able to put in, hold off for another term when you're only taking one other course.
This is a time-intensive project based class. It's very well structured, but expectations are high. You should probably not take this class with other project classes or with an otherwise heavy course/research load. In addition to the lectures, the course requires an hour for team meetings and about 3 hours for lab. You'll be paired with a clinician collaborator, and meet with them about once a week or every two weeks as well. The first half of the course, I spent an average of 10 hours a week outside of lectures, meetings and lab. Like most project courses, the workload intensifies at the end - closer to 20hrs/wk on the project, and 30-40 in the final weeks for the presentation and paper. However, you do get a very nice finished prototype, and the process is all documented, which is important whether you want to go into academia or industry. Teams generally get a conference paper out of the project as well (plus a nice sense of accomplishment).
If you want to work on a real-world problem and build a real medical device with the potential to enter the market and make a real impact then go for it. There is a lot of work to do - you pick your project, define the scope of the problem, generate ideas, and implement your best solution. Make sure you have the time to put in and dedicate to working in lab on building and improving your device - this is not a class where you just turn in an assignment by a deadline and call it quits for the week - there is a continuous stream of work to be done in order to achieve your end goal.
This course takes a lot of time and effort, sometimes on things that felt like busy work. The end result is worth it though.
Your experience with this course almost lies completely with the team. I had a fantastic experience because I was in a group of two very knowledgable graduate students and 2 undergraduates (including me). Even if the undergrads couldn't contribute as much, we learned so much from the grad students, and could probably do similar design work in the future.
The class pushes you to work more than almost any other class. However, the work is incredibly rewarding - you learn about the full design process, improve your technical skills, and make an incredibly cool device that is fantastic for your personal growth and portfolio. Dr. Walsh emphasizes a systematic approach to taking on complex problems by breaking it up into concrete phases, rigorously documenting and formatting all of your progress (which leads to some great presentations and content that you can present to employers after the course is done), and working in a team. The expectations are set high, and this course is definitely not the easiest way to fulfill the Junior Design requirement, but it is by far the best class that I have taken at Harvard.
Know that this class is very demanding going in and that you'll have to put in a lot of work to make your project a reality. However, it is incredibly rewarding and impressive to have a project of this caliber as part of your learning experience. There is no better way to delve into detailed medical design at Harvard than this course, and the teaching staff really wants to help you build a great idea. As long as you're prepared to make this a priority for your semester, you'll love this class and what you get out of it.
This is probably the most useful course I have taken at Harvard. This course made engineering feel so real. You go through the entire process of designing a medical device from research to defining a mission statement, from deciding on the product requirements to deciding on the best concept to go forward with, and from modeling and prototyping your product to actually manufacturing a cool looking medical device at the end. I would be lying if I said this class was not hard. It was very hard and time consuming. There were plenty of time in the semester where I felt this class demands more work than three of my other classes combined. The staff expects so much out of you but that is only because they believe in you. And all that effort definitely pays off at the end. I have never felt more satisfied in anything I've designed ever. This is probably a project that I will be talking about in my interviews for years to come. I have no idea what grade I will get in this class, whether it be an A, B, or even C, but it doesn't matter because I learned so much. I not only grew as an engineer but as a person. I learned how to really communicate my design to my peers and how to give effective presentations. I highly highly recommend this class, but make sure you have the time for it. Don't feel bad if the weekly feedback fro the staff are too harsh. It'd just their way of encouraging you. At least I think. It definitely made my group worked a lot harder every time we receive their feedback. A minor unsatisfactory part about this course was some of the teammates I was working with. It was very stressful working with so many people who are somewhat forceful and overbearing personalities during group meetings and discussions. As somewhat of an introvert, I felt that my contribution got overshadowed by some of my teammates because they would often just talk and talk and talk without giving me the chance to contribute during meetings to a point that it was overwhelming. Make sure you have great communication with your team in the very beginning to make the best out of this experience. But the teaching staffs were understand when I reached out to them about this problem. Perhaps the teaching staff can generate team next year while taking personality into account? Overall, great class. You should take it if you're serious about engineering.
This is the kind of class that you get as much as you give -- if you're willing to devote >15 hours/week and intense focus to this class, you will leave the class feeling like a real engineer capable of managing a difficult design process and developing an impressive medical device. If you take this class and are unwilling to commit to it, it will likely be a miserable experience. That being said, I am so glad that I took this course and highly recommend it; it's unlikely you'll ever have the chance to receive such personal, constant feedback from such an expert teaching staff. Take advantage of the opportunity!
This class is amazing - you truly feel like a medical device designer as you interview clinicians and build a working prototype. If you work hard, you can come out with an awesome prototype that may even get published.
This class is a lot of work, but it is a great alternative to ES 96 that will allow bioengineers to work on projects that are more relevant to their field.It will be very important to make sure that your team works well together.
It will require a lot of time to work but it's fruitful.Professor and TFs will not teach technical skill but you'll definitely learn it by making things by yourself.
Be warned it's a ton of work and the teaching staff expects a lot from you. They also like to micro-manage the projects a bit, so my advice is to just do what they tell you even if your not sure it's the best way to go--things will go much more smoothly!
It's a great class, but prepare to spend a lot of time figuring out how to present your materials. There's very little guidance when it comes to understanding how to build the device, but there's a lot of it for getting there. Prepare to spend whole days in Pierce. Coming out of this class though, you definitely realize how to sell your product to an audience, which is really cool.
This class takes a lot of time, and your sentiments toward the course are likely to vary depending on your specific project. For example, I was more excited to work with hardware and ended up working on a project that was mostly coding and matlab. Like every other review, know that this class takes a lot of time. I took this with a difficult courseload (Physics 15b and ES156) and definitely suffered a hit to my grades this semester because of it. You learn a number of important skills regarding group work that are difficult to teach just through the sheer number of hours you put into the project. Organization, communication, and presentation all come into play throughout the semester, and I definitely feel like I will use the skills I learned in those areas the most after this course is over. You are held to very high standards and it will definitely affect how you pursue other projects afterward.
Medical Device Design is as exciting as its name suggests. The class gets you immediately working with industry and academic experts to design a working prototype of a medical device. Among all the SEAS classes, this class is definitely one of the more hands-on and applicable. What's most exciting about this class is the sheer amount of face-time with the teaching staff, who are willing to support and mentor you in any way after hours or on the weekend. The teaching staff and support staff are a wealth of knowledge, and their comments/feedback are extremely valuable. This is not a class to be taken lightly, however. ES 227 demands a lot of time outside of class, especially towards the end of the semester, and should not be taken with classes that have long lab hours.
This course is rigorous, and does not hide that. However, it is an incredible course. It is well supported by the SEAS community and fosters an incredible amount of innovation in one semester. The workload is substantial, but at the end, you and your team have produced a functional medical device and learned an enormous amount about the design process and how to communicate your ideas. The mentorship and collaboration with teaching staff is incredibly focused and really unparalleled.
Huge timesink. Be prepared to make this your hardest class and plan around it. The results are satisfying because you will do real engineering design work. Be prepared to have close contact with a 3-4 person team all semester long and to be held accountable to them.
Be respectful of teammates and vendors and everything should be just fine. Respect their time, opinions and contributions.
The quality of the class really comes down to the quality of your team. You work with your team almost exclusively from day 1, and without constant teamwork and communication this would have been a miserable experience. Expect this class to take over your life-- it's incredibly time consuming, but the final product is really rewarding.
