Make sure that you understand the concepts for the tests.
It starts off and you don't know what the hell is going on but by the end you feel like you have a good understanding.
It was a good class, though probably not interesting for everyone, especially if you do not like math.
Take it if you need it, not really an alternative, as it uses *the* text for learning signals & systems
Provides incredible understanding of Fourier Transform / Fourier Series.
Very useful class that is bound to teach you something useful, though the applications section at the end is a bit difficult.
I would definitely recommend this to everyone, but only if they are willing to work hard, and struggle with the material. If you put in the time to understand and learn it, it is very rewarding.
"Don't pay attention to cosine. Cosine sucks." - Vahid, 2009.03.05
Great class.
I really enjoyed the course, but the tests were a little difficult.
You will learn a lot, but be prepared to work hard
I'd recommend this course but only to engineers and math concentrators.  This is difficult material.
Professor Tarokh is a great lecturer but the material is sometimes difficult to understand and grasp so be ready to work hard to really comprehend it.
Worth taking the class just to get a peek into Professor Tarokh's sharp understanding of the fundamental mathematical tools of science and engineering.  It's empowering to know just how boring (easy) most problems are if you just know how to represent them correctly.
The concept of signals and systems is an interesting one, and Vahid is a great teacher that explains it well. The workload is reasonable, and you get to hear about some cool applications. I definitely feel like I gained a better understanding of "systems" ways of thinking through this course. Also, in terms of who should take this, while the material is geared towards EE, I think that biologists, computer scientists, applied mathematicians, physicists, could also benefit from one aspect of the course or another. No EE is assumed for it.
It's dificult but the staff are there to help you. It may also be helpful to find supplementary textbooks to read.
It's hard and it takes a lot of work, but generally well-taught.
Prof. Vahid makes the lectures very interesting by commenting on the history behind the concepts. It's a very useful class: the concepts can be applied beyond engineering. I strongly recommend it.
One of the few engineering courses with ambitious material, rather than simply making elementary material seem difficult.  Challenging but very rewarding.  Problem sets can be brutal, but tests are generally fair, and not much beyond what is actually taught.
Tough but worth it
Very well-taught -- Professor Tarokh is an engaging lecturer, and explains things very clearly. Yongjun Kwok is also an excellent teacher and gives very clear explanations. He clearly puts a great deal of time into preparing notes for sections and review sessions, which greatly benefits students. The course has a nice attention to very interesting applications, and I liked the historical context (talking about Armstrong, etc) that Professor Tarokh included in his lectures.
Though difficult, the class is taught well and there is a lot to learn if enough effort is put in.
Be prepared to work hard, but you'll definitely learn A LOT. And you'll most likely do well so long as you put in the work.
This class may deal with difficult material, but work hard and it'll pay off.
Start your problem sets early, and check them over with peers.
This course is really math heavy, but you have to take it if you're an EE.  I recommend that you take it early on so that you don't have to do all the work senior spring.
This is a tough class, but it is very interesting, very useful, and Vahid is a fantastic professor.
This is probably the most useful class I have taken to date. It teaches different ways to think about problems that are essential to an engineering education. Tarokh has made a career out of the things he teaches and it is fun to hear his rants on how important this stuff is. Bottom line: this class takes some mathematical sophistication and is well worth your time. Take it.
ES 156 is a challenging course. Vahid teaches the course so well, he makes you think it's easier than it actually is. Don't let that trick you into falling behind. Keep doing problems, go to section, and make sure you understand everything before exams.
Don't expect to be taught a thing.  Just learn it on your own.  I hope the price of the book comes down because that is your only real resource.  I have heard the TFs from previous years are just as terrible as this year's.  Good luck. You're going to hate this class.
amazing professor
This is a very well taught class. The material is interesting. Keep in mind, though, that this is essentially a mathematics class.
This is a very very difficult class, but you will learn a lot of useful material. Don't let yourself get behind early.
The material in this class is very interesting and Prof Tarokh is a funny lecturer. You'll need to study a lot of the material on your own but it's very doable and rewarding when you understand the material.
The course covers many fundamental topics that are required for more advanced subjects. The amount of work is fair, and lectures are clear.
This class is extremely straightforward: there are very few tricks in either the material or course logistics. The problems sets are often excessively long (7+ 4-part problems is normal), but doable.
If Vahid's not teaching, you're in trouble
This class is a math course.  This class IS difficult.  Problem sets (at least the first ones) can take quite a while.I considered dropping this course at one point, but I worked through that period with the TFs.  After that, I absolutely loved the course.  Incredibly fun if you would like to see how electronic systems handle information.  Great course material.  Prof. Wood might seem a bit intimidating at first, but he is a really nice guy if you go to ask him questions in person.  Even if you're not doing electrical engineering, I would recommend this course just because you can really get a good grasp about the electronic systems that are so prevalent in our everyday lives.
The material for the class is difficult but very rewarding. Feels like a real engineering class.  And as Vahid says, with this class you can solve differential equations, mortgage equation, and design electrical systems!
Signals and Systems can be a very interesting and challenging course. You need to be comfortable with mathematics and it helps to read the textbook/watch video lectures online if things don't make as much sense. Take it if you have an interest in the topic as you will likely not have to worry about your grade.
Put in the work every week and you will be fine. Focus on getting an intuition or the equations and topics you are learning. Stop Vahid and ask questions if you're lost or he will keep steamrolling ahead.
This is a great class to get introduced to the idea of working with signals and systems.  It'll definitely help you get a feel for the signal processing, which is an essential component to practical EE.
Go to Vahid's office hours. He will really help you, and help you understand the material well. The material is useful and interesting!
The lectures are very enthusiastic and the material is very interesting and widely applicable. However, the course is a bit disorganized, and the homework assignments don't help very much with learning the concepts. Overall, worth taking the class, with some minor frustrations.
This class is tough but if you're struggling, just get some 1-on-1 help with the TF and you'll do fine!
This course was really difficult but I can see how it can be useful in someway in the future.
Class is fairly interesting, you really delve into the core EE is built around. There is a lot of math, so just keep that in mind. The course is a bit disorganized but Vahid certainly makes up for it by being a great, clear lecturer who makes the core concepts stick.
The material this course covers is truly amazing stuff--applicable in many domains beyond electrical engineering. The math is quite beautiful--and you have time, you ideally spend some time really understanding what all the math represents and why it works the way it does. Vahid provides some intuition on this but he's a whiz and as much as he's open to answering any "dumb" questions you might ask, his lecturing talent lies more in his capacity for talking about the history and philosophy of math and science, rather than cleanly elucidating concepts. But back to the math--the thing is in order to do this class well you don't actually have to understand it all, you just have to learn all the right moves and how to do them. There's a bunch of practice problems and the solutions to the textbook are online so there's plenty of opportunity for just drilling yourself until you get things. It is hard to be motivated to go to lecture if you are behind and not understanding things, so try to review before/after to avoid that. Kamyar was kind of awkward but overall good and helpful. The more that you can become fluent in all these skills the more tools you'll have in your box when you go down the way in your problem solving career. I'd also highly recommend this for non-EE people; ie applied math or physics, just to get lots of Fourier practice even though you might not be actually sampling signals etc. in your field.
Though this is an EE requirement for graduation be prepared that it is a math class- the material is useful for a lot of areas but as an EE concentrator I wasn't expecting it to be a math class.  Also definitely read the book as a supplement to the lectures- very helpful.
It's a math course, and Vahid is a hoot.
There so much important material that I think all engineers should be exposed to.  As an EE, it's easier for me to think about signal processing as a direct application, but the concepts can be related to many other fields.
This class is well taught, but still quite difficult. Vahid is a great professor and he is an entertaining lecturer. The homeworks start out fine but get much harder as the semester progresses. Section was extremely helpful with the p-sets and helped understand the material in a more direct manner, as sometimes lectures can be confusing.
Great class that, if you are interested in knowing the reasons behind important ideas in communications and signals and the theory behind them, is really interesting.
This course is well taught but covers a lot of material that is not immediately intuitive. Reading the course book and reviewing lecture notes is very useful for problem sets. Don't fall behind, because this course is fast paced, but you will do well if you keep up with the material and work hard.
This was actually one of my more favorite courses so far. Through it I gained a better understanding of the analog/digital duality, which I would argue is a very important concept to have a grasp on.  Through this course you will gain a basic understanding of the theory behind electrical engineering, without ever actually touching a resistor (or even talking about current and voltages).  It all seems very generalized sometimes, which is why it is important to make the effort to connect the course material with real world applications, rather than just trudging along and hoping to do well on the exams.With that being said, this was basically a math class, and since you're an engineering student it shouldn't be too bad.
While I thought this class was very interesting and really teaches you to think in a different way, I would only recommend taking it if you either have to for the EE concentration requirement or if you really like math. For an engineering class, it's very theoretical and essentially feels like a math class. But on the occasions when Prof. Tarokh mentions the applications of the concepts, you really see the power of the concepts you're learning and it's quite enlightening. Workload for the first half of the class (before Spring Break) is not too bad since the material in the first half is fairly straightforward compared to the second half. After Spring Break, the material gets extremely difficult as you dive into Fourier Series, Fourier Transforms, and Sampling. These parts are really the meat of the course and problem sets become much more painful and are less likely to be fully completed.
Go to Hongyao's section -- she's amazing! This class is not easy, so don't take it if you're already taking a heavy course load!
Go to lecture and section; that will give you an understanding of the concepts on the psets and exams. The textbook isn't super helpful, but the TFs (Hongyao Ma and Jie Ding this year) were amazing at explaining concepts. If you're looking for a mathematical understanding of signals processing, this course gives a great and broad introduction. If you want anything more than just theoretical, look for another course.
This course is difficult, but fair.
Tough class but you learn a lot and you don;t feel like the information is useless or completely inaccessible.
It's really fun and you learn cool stuff, go to all the office hours you can, Vahid is a really informative funny guy, you will enjoy the office hours.
This course is poorly organized and difficult. I did not find the material to be interesting. Don't take it unless you have to.
Professor Vahid is exceptional. This class has many difficult concepts, but it is a rewarding experience that is necessary for EE.
Vahid Tarokh is one of the best lecturers I've had in the engineering department, especially because this material is his bread and butter so he gets very passionate about it and always explains it in reference to real-world applications.  The course is difficult, but there are plenty of opportunities to do well with bonus points.  Be sure to attend lecture and section to really understand the material, because the problem sets are very confusing otherwise.
Be prepared for difficult to follow lectures, unhelpful sections, and a lot of math on your own. The professor is more approachable than he seems; take advantage of office hours. However be prepared for a difficult and frustrating course. Textbook is a must-buy to completely understand the material and do psets, it is the best way to learn the material as it directly correlates to what is being taught. Buy. The. Book.
This class requires a lot of independent reading and learning, as it is difficult to capture all of the material in lecture. Be ready to put in some extra time to learn.
Vahid does a good job going through derivations, but the course is not very well organized. The lectures spilled over into 4-5 extra classes that we had, and those were on important concepts that were hurried. The online materials are also a bit hard to make it thorough. If you take the course be ready to put in a lot of effort in the second half (double the work of the first half), we covered 500 pages of the textbook, if you want to get something out of it. All in all, a useful course for introducing signals and systems views.
Just an awful course. Make sure to read the book early. You might be better off watching Oppenheim's MIT lectures online than going to Vahid's lectures.
I wouldn't take this course as an elective unless you're *super* interested in the material. It's not really my cup of tea to begin with, and lectures are really difficult to follow. I would almost always give up trying to figure out what's going on by about 20 minutes into the lecture. That said, the problem sets are fair and not stupidly long, and although the exams are really hard, there is a lot of extra credit and a really generous scale on the class. Almost everyone ends up doing well anyways.
study hard
If you are EE SB and have to take it, good luck. Everyone else, run. This was actually one of worst classes I've taken here, I came in really excited for the material and having heard really good things about the professor but this semester was different. To be fair, the professor was teaching 3 classes so its probably not his fault, but we all suffered for it. The lectures were extremely difficult to follow. The people who never showed up and self taught from the book probably did better in the course overall. The exams were a nightmare. The psets were all pretty easy, with questions all pulled from the textbook by the TF. The exams were nothing like the psets, all the questions were well beyond the scope of the psets in formats no one had ever seen before, the professor made them up with no regard for the problems we'd already seen. The average on the midterm was a 50% with more than a third of the class getting below a 30%The sections were a bit of a joke, there were two back to back which half the class couldn't attend. Then, they decided to have lectures in sections because they ran out of time in the class, but each section was a different lecture so good luck trying to go to everything.Vahid was really nice one on one and very helpful (if slightly intimidating), I can't complain about him as a person, I just wish the class had been a little different.Chinwendu (the TF) was also really good in OHs and super kind and patient. You probably have to take this class so there's no point in worrying about it, but just be prepared to work a lot if you want any shot at a decent grade/ learning anything.
If you have the opportunity to take this class with a professor other than Vahid, definitely do that. Vahid was a very ineffective lecturer. He didn't stop to check if the class was comprehending anything, and when you asked questions of him in office hours he would often explain things the same way over and over instead of trying a new approach. Among my friends in the class (there are a bunch of us who knew each other who took the class this semester), nearly all of them agreed that they learned close to nothing in any given lecture. Chinwendu is also a hit-or-miss TF. If he doesn't have time to prepare, he is often unable to answer questions quickly and efficiently, and many times made me more confused in the course of his explanations than I was previously. When he taught sections for which he had prepared, they were very helpful, but without preparation he is not very informative.
Buy the book and read the book. The book is your new Bible. Work on problem sets with others in the class and go to office hours. I didn't start going to office hours until about half way through the semester only to discover that they are crazy helpful!
If you have dealt with Fourier transforms before, this class will not take up a lot of time. If you are a physics concentrator looking for a 15c replacement, I would recommend 175 or a graduate optics/photonics course instead, but this is certainly better than actually taking 15c.
Vahid's teaching style is so refreshing - he's enthusiastic, not afraid to make absolute statements, and rarely makes mistakes.  This class has assignments due every Thursday at midnight and you'll spend 4-6 hours on each assignment.  This class is also very math heavy - be prepared to do algebra with complex numbers, sums within sums, some integration, and lots of "analysis" type proofs.  The midterm is difficult but there are support systems in place to help you if you fail miserably as I did.  Good course though - in my opinion, the best of the core requirement courses.
Every EE has to sadly take this class.  If Professor Tarokh is still at the helm, it will be the worst experience you have in a Harvard class without a doubt.  I could go through a laundry list of reasons why, but if you look at the Q scores for this year, I think it will become obvious that many feel this way.  If Professor Tarokh is still running the course, I would even make the absurd suggestion of taking the equivalent of this course at MIT.
This course could be SO MUCH BETTER. Be prepared to do everything by yourself, you barley get anything out of lecture and sections are terrible (the TF has no clue what's going on). Interesting material though
It's a difficult class that doesn't have much support. Sometimes you're wondering why you're doing the work you're doing, but it pays off if you just think about it a lot.
