This course is poorly organized as it's the first time they have this course. Hopefully they will improve next year.
With better organization and a self-disciplined student, this course offers a range of content and opportunity to build some really cool devices in lab.
A great experience that will take you out of the class room and into the cleanroom! Great teaching staff w/Marko and Peter.
the opportunity to get taught by these enthusiastic professors in a hands-on environment is a really amazing academic experience. Worth the long hours in lab.
Everyone was awesome for this class. Undergraduates, you will get a chance to learn with graduate students while learning really specific field of engineering out in the industry. Super low, super low workload - 4 labs and 4 psets total. Super easy. Lecture wasnt too boring, the labs are 4 hours long so that was difficult fitting it into my schedule. But the info and knowledge i gained from speaking too all the graduate students is simple unquestionable.
Great class, super fun, and valuable! Especially if you are doing research that involves fabrication. Also the teachers are great.
This class requires very little work overall. The 4 hour labs are pretty boring but theres not much that needs to be done work wise apart from the day that the psets and labs are due.
Great course! Evelyn is an awesome professor and cares a lot about her students.
This class is one of the best engineering class in terms of marrying theory in a lecture with practice in the lab.  Evelyn is awesome!!  The only complaint is that the lab can sometimes run long and be frustrating.
This class is very manageable, fascinating, and you probably won't get another opportunity to take a class with this cool of a lab experience.
Very fun lab component where you apply what you learn in lecture. Highly recommend, especially if Evelyn and Peter are teaching again.
This is a class you can only take at Harvard. The breadth of resources available for this class is amazing. Sometimes the labs feel very boring and take forever. I would suggest really trying to learn about why we are doing what we are. It is very easy to just float by in this, but then you aren't really getting anything out of this class.
Definitely take this class if you're curious about microfabrication. The lab component is very hands-on and requires you to really think about the theory behind what you're doing. The professors (Evelyn and Peter) and teaching staff are extremely dedicated and made it a great class.
Take this class!
Great lab!!! Learn about some very cool things, make an LED (highlight for sure). Sometimes can be frustrating because you don't know how exactly what you're making can be applied, but having patience for the final project which will most certainly be cool. Get to use some very cool machines in the CNS. Peter and Evelyn are a dream team.
This is hands-down a great class. Really low work-load that keeps you engaged without any additional repetition or busy-work, super interesting hands-on experiences in the cleanroom, and no exams! This year we got to fabricate and take home our own PN-junctions, PIN-junctions, LEDs, and MOSFETS. You get to use pretty much everything in the cleanroom and Peter is quite the character with an unbelievable wealth of knowledge about all of it. Between him and Evelyn alone, this class is worth taking if you can fit it into your schedule. Also a super relaxed EE elective.
