Some interesting topics taught, but ultimately (and rather disappointingly) did not cover most of what was originally mentioned on the syllabus. I was hoping for a more application-based class, but it ended up feeling like more of a math/stats class.As a new class, it was quite disorganized at times. The textbook was not useful for much of the class and the lack of notes made it difficult to learn and understand parts of the course. I imagine in a future offering of this course, there will be posted notes for everything which will (hopefully) resolve this problem.All of that being said, I think the class covers some really interesting and useful topics and will probably be much improved in a future offering. The teaching staff's great - everyone was really helpful, made themselves available with lots of office hours, etc. I'd shop this class and see how the first problem set goes before deciding.
Lectures are a bit difficult to get through, but the knowledge and tools you walk away with are great.  You just have to be willing to put in the work to earn them.  If Paul is TFing the course again, don't worry if a lecture is confusing because he'll clear it right up.  Problem sets were really interesting and covered a lot of cool topics.
ES 155 is a course that introduces you to many powerful techniques in data processing, information theory, and computer vision. Lecture is crucial to understanding the concepts, so don't miss them.
Not only is this course an excellent introduction to biological signal processing applications and algorithms, but many of the ideas taught are applicable to non-biological problems as well. Anyone interested in a gentle introduction to a nice array of important signal processing algorithms would enjoy this course.
This course requires "mathematical maturity," but I think that much more than that is required. Take a signals course, at least AM/Math 21b, and potentially Stat 110 before enrolling.
The course has a lot of potential, and I enjoyed it in spite of the fact that it was a new course / with teaching staff that had not taught it before. All of the teaching staff were very willing and patient to explain things. The tools taught in the course are useful, though the textbook felt a bit unhelpful. Take good notes from lecture (I think the notes from this year will be made available, but taking good notes would really help enrich a student's experience of the class).
The things you learn in this course are really interesting, the professor is enthusiastic and accessible, and for the labs/project you get to utilize a lot of resources that the teaching lab has.  Not the easiest class but it is small and you get to know the teaching staff well.
definitely take this course if you are interested in (bio)signal processing. the concepts taught can be applied widely in signal processing and the project can be quite interesting. but the workload can be a little heavy with almost weekly assignments but they are not that difficult.
Be prepared that there will be lots of maths in the class, but it is useful for the foundation of data processing applications.
