If you're taking this class, you probably don't have a choice. This may or may not be a good thing.
take it if you have a good background in the course material.
You will learn a lot and get a really good feel for electronic circuits.
If you need this for a requirement, consider taking one of the equivalent classes offered in another department.
could use a large restructuring of the course
It's a difficult class that moves very quickly.  It would be helpful to have been exposed to some of the course material prior to taking the class.
DO NOT take this class unless you absolutely have to. I really wish I hadn't, but it was an EE requirement so I had to. Your entire grade is based on problem sets. The homework is much harder than anything you will encounter in lecture. Work with a group! And go to Donhee's office hours over Jeffrey's. Also, don't be intimidated by Donhee when he blames you for not knowing concepts you've never been taught. Don't be afraid to say "NO" when Donhee explains something and asks, "YOU GET IT?!" He does that a lot and it's annoying and not helpful AT ALL. I must reiterate: GO TO OFFICE HOURS.
Only take this class if you must. It's not easy, and it will be a lot of work. Donhee is great, but the problem sets are much harder than what he discusses in class. Also, try to ask for a section component because lectures are not enough to fully understand the material.
Be prepared to put in the time to review the notes to this course carefully. Ask questions early because the material builds upon itself and its easy to get lost and unmotivated if the material starts to really take a turn where the material stretches the understanding of the fundamental building blocks.
Do not take this class unless you have to, but for those of you who do, be prepared to spend hours on the problem sets every week. The professor is really smart but not always easy to understand. Lecture will seem simple and make perfect sense, then you will look at the homework and have no idea how to do it. Go to office hours.
I learned a ton in this class, but it was extremely difficult. Definitely one of the most rigorous electrical engineering courses offered, every p-set was a challenge but I was very grateful for the fact that there were no tests or projects, grading is 100% p-set based. Donhee is a great teacher and his lecture notes are extremely useful throughout the entire class. Make use of office hours if possible, as he helps break down the circuits into easier components.
Professor Ham is really a great instructor so you can learn about complicated circuits without big difficulties. After this course, you will be able to analyze complicated electronic circuit behaviors in a very logical way.
This is the most challenging and rigorous class I've taken so far at Harvard. Your grade for the class is 100% based on the problem sets, which are extremely tough, definitely the hardest I've done here. There isn't a texbook either, so you have to go completely off of Donhee's notes. I mean, they're good notes, but you'll come to find that you don't have nearly as many examples as you'd like. Fortunately, Donhee is an amazing professor and really cares about you understanding and learning the material. Both he and the TF are very dedicated to helping you out during office hours--Donhee even stayed very late with us multiple times to help us out with some particularly difficult problems. If you're not doing EE, I dunno if I'd take this course. It's all theoretical and you won't be building any actual circuits--you'll be using HSPICE, a simulation software which can be frustrating at times, not to mention not a lot of lecture is spent helping you learn. If you take this, GO TO OFFICE HOURS. ALL OF THEM. Seriously--since homework is everything, your grade can get screwed pretty quickly if you slip up or start handing them in late.
The professor is very knowledgeable about the topic so you learn in so much detail about the BJTs and MOSFETs circuits. They assignments were sometimes lengthy and rigorous, but overall they helped a lot in understanding the material. We definitely needed more resources though
This is a really good but hard course. You will learn a lot and learn it well if you put in the time. Professor Ham is a great teacher and he does a good job explaining this complicated material if you take the time to listen.
Professor Ham's teaching is very good, but I was frustrated with the level at which this class is taught. I had hoped for a solid introduction to Circuits, but unfortunately a large amount of time was spent on device physics and the progress through the circuits part was at times frustratingly slow. This is not a hard class, but the problem sets can get very repetitive, sometimes frustratingly so and do take quite a bit of time.
The material is not hard at all as long as you stay on top of the work, read the lecture notes, and start the problem sets early. Prof. Ham is always willing to help; the way he helps you makes it feel like he is just another kid in the class that happens to know a lot more than you. The material is cumulative so, once again, as long as you keep up with the work you will be fine. Some assignments may take a while to complete simply because you are approaching the problems assuming them to be hard. In other words, you will make the course harder than it has to be & Ham will show you that you're over thinking things & you will see how easy the problems actually are.
This course is difficult and time consuming. But it is manageable as long as you stay on top of the material. Prof. Ham gives excellent lectures and provides the students with lecture notes at the beginning of each lecture so you can actually listen and try to understand instead of just copying down circuit diagram the entire time. Take 30 minutes and review the previous lecture's notes before the next lecture. When you work on the problem sets (which are long and difficult, especially as the semester progresses towards the end, but which are logical extensions of the material in lecture and lecture notes), make sure you understand what's going on even if you're working with others. Because the material really builds on itself week by week. Save your problem sets and the solutions Prof. Ham gives out for the homework because you will see patterns of circuits again and again. Go to office hours, Prof. Ham and Jeffrey (the TF) were incredibly useful. And don't get so caught up in the work that you forget to appreciate how cool the stuff you're learning is. If you put the work in, you'll get a good grade. Looking back, I learned a ton in this course, and analyzing circuit diagrams is almost second nature now. We learned some pretty neat stuff.
This is definitely a necessary course for electrical engineers. For all others, it is very interesting material to learn about transistors all semester and how they can be configured to build almost every fundamental electronic device today. However, in terms of practicality for building electronics Physics 123 would be better. I really enjoyed both classes. This class is a lot of work but still relaxing in my opinion because it is all based on homework.
This is a good course to learn the detail of circuits, but should really have a section and problem solving component, given how difficult some of the material is. You should try to get your hands on a good circuits textbook at the start of the semester.
This course is extremely demanding, but ultimately very rewarding. Professor Ham is great lecturer, and is very fair with regards to grading and feedback.
Donhee is great, but if you can avoid this class do not take it.
This is a good class.  There is a hefty workload, but it's manageable, especially because the teaching staff provides a lot of support.  You will learn a lot.  The material is taught very clearly and thoroughly.  Donhee has by now refined the course such that the workload is manageable.  (In past iterations of the course, the workload was 2-3 times what it is now.)
I felt that this course spent too much time on device physics (conductivity, density of states, energy levels in PN junctions) for an electrical engineering course - it was halfway through the semester and we hadn't touched circuits. Although I suppose that it is necessary knowledge for electrical engineering and it would be tough to expect students to fit yet another course into their schedule.The material in circuits is definitely on the theoretical side, as we did mostly analysis of circuits and its behaviors. (No design problems/projects). Great material to start out for electrical engineering, but not necessarily applicable for other disciplines. However, the tough p-sets do help develop problem-solving skills. For just playing with circuits and designing them to work in the lab, consider Physics 123.Additionally, if you are just taking a course to see what electrical engineering is about, I wouldn't recommend ES154. Perhaps ES50. While this course definitely went very in-depth in circuit analysis, I couldn't see the bigger picture in how exactly these amplifiers and such fit into real devices.The professor, Donhee Ham, is awesome! He is so energetic and excited about the material, and he lectures very well. He is also extremely helpful during office hours, and his main goal is for you to learn the material, and will even work with you on the problems if they seem difficult. (He's said, don't stress too much about the p-sets at all). So if you are taking this course, definitely make use of office hours. And listen to him when he says that you should be reviewing the lecture notes!! The course is very fast-paced and constantly moves forward, always building upon the material taught in the previous lecture. So it is a MUST to review lecture notes every week. You will gain so much more out of lecture if you do this.In terms of workload, it's difficult to gauge because the course starts out very slowly (no p-set the first week or two) and then picks up towards the last month or so of the semester when we really get in the circuits. First half of the course, p-sets probably took me ~5 hours, while at the end of the course p-sets can definitely take upwards of 15+ hours. So plan accordingly and don't get lulled into a false sense of security.Overall, though, this was a fun class to take and I learned a lot.
A class where titans come to think and riddle.
Is Sae Kyu is still the TF and Professor Ham is teaching, this is a highly recommended class. It is very well taught and covers an interesting topic in great depth.
the material for this class is not impossible, and understanding the material takes some work on your own part and listening in class, but altogether, it's definitely do-able. the homework is hard but lecture notes are helpful, and prof. ham and sae-kyu are excellent resources to help you understand the material and how to do them.
The homework problems towards the later part of the course are much more time-consuming, plan your time well.
Be prepared for a lot of work.
The course is difficult (and your lack of study habits will make it more so), but Donhee is a great teacher and his office hours are great for understanding the material. You get out what you put in - make sure you're putting in enough time.
Hands down, MY BEST CLASS AT HARVARD. Yes, it is at times difficult and spent >15 on some psets. And Yes, TAKE IT. DONHEE HAM IS THE BEST PROFESSOR, PERIOD! He KNOWS his stuff, and KNOWS students' weakness and would repeat a concept 4 times if he has to. He asks if EVERYONE understands about 3 times and really makes sure NO ONE IS LEFT BEHIND. As long as you review lecture notes, the course is not diffcult, just slightly challenging. Go to Office hours, ask questions, and start psets early. You learn Solid state physics, electronics, and everything in between. Perfect for all interested in science, semiconductors, circuitry, or just having an awesome inspirational teacher.
Prof Ham's teaching style is one-of-a-kind, in my experience.  I find it especially useful how he provides you with written copies of his lecture notes so you can actually spend lecture LISTENING and not just frantically writing stuff down.I will say that Yes, this course is VERY difficult.  The first few weeks will be pretty straight-forward.  The weeks that follow, you will be doing the same routine, but the circuits get more complicated.  If you don't reach out for help or working with others, you will probably have a difficult time from this point on.Despite the difficulties, the course is Definitely doable, so long as you take time to review lecture notes and attend office hours.  Office hours are extremely helpful and are a must!
This course is challenging! Even though there are no exams, I'd say I easily spent more time on the homework for this course than the combined time studying for tests in other courses. However, if you put in the effort you will really learn a lot, and the teaching staff are really supportive and helpful.
look.  this is going to be a challenging class, so make time for it in your schedule and you will be fine.  really try to understand the material first because the homework follows very naturally from the concepts discussed in class.  the teaching staff is supremely helpful so make use of this resource!  if you've ever wondered what that triangle is that you've seen in circuit drawings, that's what you'll find out from this class, big time.
Don't be fooled at the beginning. It gets exponentially harder.
Prof. Ham is the best! Sae Kyu is an amazing TF. They are both very accessible and would spend hours until you understand properly the material. Donhee is an excellent professor who really cared about us understanding all the material.
Professor Ham is great and is good at explaining things. This year the workload was significant but quite reasonable (he said he decreased it from previous years). However, the homework does get very repetitive and tedious later in the course.
ES154 is a very challenging and time-demanding class, but Professor Ham does an exceptional job in teaching the course material and engaging with each and every student. The teaching staff is very interested in that students learn and understand the material, but problem sets may be a bit challenging and, at times, impossible to solve without help from the TF's and the Professor.
The material and problem sets are very interesting, but as the semester goes on the problem sets become very time consuming. All that work means that you will understand the material and basic circuit design very well. Professor Ham himself is a great reason to take the course; he is very enthusiastic, makes the material interesting, and offers a large amount of his time to helping students. For example, he was in MD working with students until 2 am. Definitely take this course if you are interested in circuit design.
The course is time-consuming, but extremely worth it. Covers all the information you'd want to and need to know about transistors and circuits. The material is really interesting and well taught. Donhee is a phenomenal professor and a great person. Donhee and the TFs are very accessible outside of class and plenty of help is provided for the PSets. You'll definitely want to work with others on PSets though since (towards the end of the semester) they would take an ungodly amount of time to do alone.
Be ready to work your butt off in this course in that it is difficult and many times when you sit in lecture, you will feel like all the information is extremely over your head.  Make sure to find a study group and be prepared for some late nights psetting- even if you start early, and be sure to take advantage of office hours. Furthermore, be sure to be willing to learn the concepts and not just the problems.
It is difficult and time consuming, and although you don't realize at the time, you really do learn a lot about complex circuits and the functionality of transistors.
The material is really difficult and the problem sets take a lot of time, but Donhee is an amazing professor who makes it all worthwhile.
ES154 is a really great class but is very time consuming and difficult.  You need to be willing to put in the time and effort in order to do well but if you do, you will do well.
this is a very time intensive class. a few things you should do: 1) read lecture notes before class if possible 2) review lecture note material after classes and in preparation for next lecture3) focus on understanding what is covered in lecture - big picture - not just finishing hmm4) work on psets during weekend and go to donhee with questions in office hrs - will get a lot of it5) homework sets took everyone 10-25 hrs to complete - make sure you have room in your schedule for this class6) really master small signal model when it is taught initially7) form a group early on to work on pests together with - more fun and manageable this way 8) spend at least 30 min-1 hr to go over graded hmk to understand what mistakes you made...by doing this you will actually get something from the hmks...and will save time on later hmk sets
This class is very difficult and you will spend a large portion of your week working on the problem sets but Prof. Ham and his TFs are very supportive, so make sure you take advantage of all their office hours.  Ham is a great lecturer and never moves on to new material unless the class says they understand the concept.  He makes it a point to relate the (dry, technical) material to real world applications that are very interesting.  Prof. Ham is very good about making students realize that homework points are not a big deal and that all he cares about is whether or not you are learning the overall concepts.  To quote him, "If you lose 5 points on a homework, don't worry about it.  If you lose 10, don't worry about it.  30 points? Don't worry about it.  100?  Don't worry about it!"  That said, don't take this course unless you have to.  It's not interesting enough or easy enough for someone who is just curious about how transistors work.
This is a challenging course, but provides a good introduction to electronic circuits and underpinnings of transistors.
Donhee is a GREAT teacher. He genuinely cares about his students. He is very knowledgeable and thus sometimes digress into very interesting general topics. You'll make a lot of new friends while solving the problem sets.
This is an absolutely amazing class. Rarely will you find a professor who has such profound knowledge of his subject area (as well as many other areas) AND can communicate this knowledge extremely well. If you're looking for inspiration by an amazing professor you MUST take this class. Only problem sets which you work on with the entire class and the professor.
The professor truly makes this class. Professor Ham is amazing - take this class if he's teaching it!
This is likely to be one of the heaviest workloads you will encounter at Harvard. Make the most out of the extensive help you receive out of class.
Be prepared for a metric **** ton of work in this class. It will keep you up. Donhee is a fantastic professor, though, and stays up with you working on the set. He worked with us at 4 in the afternoon, 7 in the evening, 11 at night, and 2 in the morning. He's very dedicated and wants his students to do well, but prepared to work like nothing else to get it done.
This course is real. It is very interesting stuff and the Professor, Donhee is amazing and inspiring. If you take the course however, be prepared to spend many long nights working on the problem sets with your classmates and the TFs and the Professor. You become very good friends after the experience.
Great course but requires a lot of work
This is an amazing class, it is unbelievably well taught and Donhee is probably the best professor I have ever had.  However, the psets are very very difficult and will take on average 20 or greater hours per week.
You will work very very hard, but you'll leave it with a better understanding of transistors and circuit design
Not for the faint of heart.
this course is extremely difficult, but you will come out feeling like you learned a lot. Dr Ham is an amazing professor and teaches the material well, is very knowledgeable, and makes the class fun and interesting
This course is not easy and will require a lot of work. Be prepared to spend a couple of nights in Maxwell Dworkin this semester and learn a ton. The most frustrating part of the course was going to office hours and learning something that was incorrect, doing the problem set with that incorrect information and having to practically start anew every week. Hopefully, they will change this next year and so the course will just be rewarding and not rewarding and frustrating.
There is a LOT of work, but Donhee is great.
This class is very rewarding and provides a GREAT understanding of electronics and electrical circuits, but is very hard and time-consuming.
Be prepared to become a master of circuits but also to live in Maxwell Dworkin
If you have a light load one semester, TAKE THIS CLASS. Professor Donhee is the best professor I've ever had. However, that being said, this class is a LOT of work, so don't take in conjunction with several other hard classes. But overall, you learn a ton of circuit stuff, and Donhee is worth it. Take it.
very good class but also very difficult
This is an excellent course.  Professor Ham is an excellent teacher and is dedicated to helping students understand the concepts being taught.
though the material is very difficult to understand the professor tries his very best to explain it.
The professor is very nurturing, so this a good class even though the material may be difficult for some.
prof. is nice and helpful
Unlike many engineering courses, ES154 with Donhee Ham is a well-taught class. The professor's lecture notes summarize key components of the course, and his lectures themselves are punctuated by interesting stories, historical or otherwise, surrounding the science. The problem sets are challenging and time-consuming, as well as rewarding.
Made more manageable than in the past by not having midterms or exams. Problem sets therefore require a decent commitment.
It is definitely a great course for anyone who is interested in technology.
Interesting subject matter, well taught, but difficult problem sets
The class is challenging, but if you need to learn about circuits it's a good way to go, especially if Professor Ham is still teaching it
I think that this class is well taught and that professor Ham is incredibly dedicated to his students. I would recommend that students have taken an introductory electrical engineering class before taking this class.
You need to work pretty hard in this course.
Difficult, but fun. You'll learn a lot.
This is a tough course but Prof. Donhee made the course better than originally thought. Definitely a plus. A lot of material is covered, but you'll know much more after coming out than when you start off the semester.
One should take this course before of Donhee, but there is a significant price to pay in terms of the work that one needs--this class simply requires a lot of hard work and dedication.
Definitely hard but doable !
This course was enjoyable overall and a great way to fulfill the electronics requirement for mechanical engineering. The workload, however, was very significant and would probably deter a lot of people.
The class never gets easy... Be prepared to do your best (some night will be VERY long)
If you are an EE major, better cross-register at MIT for this course - you'll get a much more applicable skillset and be in a more competitive environment.
This course is worth taking for the experience of being under the tutelage of Donhee Ham.  His dedicated preparation, comprehensive understanding, and unique perspective on the educational process make the experience of being in his class exceptionally rewarding.  The class is difficult, but office hours are extremely helpful, so take advantage of them.
An interesting course if you have the time to manage the workload.
Make sure to read the textbook along with the topics from the very beginning of the course! You will not learn the material otherwise. Only take this if it is a concentration requirement.
This class is like traveling on an airplane. The staff can be as nice as possible, but it will still be a miserable experience (although the midterm/final project/final exam experience was closer to a trip on United than anything else). Also, with Marco teaching a sizable chunk of the important part of the syllabus, it will make no difference whether or not you wear noise canceling headphones during lecture, as no one can hear a thing he is say. To quote someone from the beginning of class, Yeah, can you please speak up this time?  Plus, if you want to read the textbook aka safety brochure, you will be bored out of your mind. In the event of an exam/project, aka a crash landing, you not know what to do, as useful information that has been taught has actually just been crammed into the lecture slides. Good luck.
This class doesn't do enough to support students throughout it. Teaching staff have been condescending when I have asked questions, lectures don't always add depth to the material in comparison to the notes, not enough exam prep were given to students and attempts to ask for help have gone ignored.
It was just not an enjoyable experience.
Great class - Gu is an excellent lecturer, the assignments were all pretty fair and the final project was a lot of fun. All the teaching staff were very helpful, they understand this material extremely well and were always willing to help you understand it better. That being said, the midterm and final exam were rough. A weekly section would have been nice because there is so much material, it is difficult to retain all the information.
This course is required for all EE students, A.B. or S.B. There is no section component. Lectures can be a bit dry, but Gu is a fantastic teacher and truly cares about his students. Marco can make concepts a little convoluted sometimes, but he is new to teaching and is very approachable. Psets were sometimes frustrating, and the take-home midterm was quite intense. But as long as you keep up with the textbook, youll do fine. Overall, Id say this course made me more excited about being an EE student.
This class was pretty disappointing, especially because I was looking forward to it after shopping and felt like it had a lot of missed potential. Gu's a great teacher, but I found his lectures ineffective. Marco's a really nice, helpful, knowledgeable guy, but as it was his first time teaching, his lectures also weren't great. I think I learned about 90% of what I took away from this class from reading the textbook, Sedra and Smith is a really good book and you need it to do well in the course. The homeworks were poorly written and really seemed like a scavenger hunt through the book to find the right formulas, I didn't feel that I gained any insight or intuition from doing them. The take home midterm is time consuming, but fair in difficulty. TLDR, you probably have to take this, so buy the book and read it.
This class is dreadful. It felt like problem sets covered different material from lecture and did not illustrate much: I often was just flipping through the book to find circuit topologies or the right equation. Lectures are dry and uninteresting. The take-home midterm provides 48 hours, but it took most of the class at least 20 to complete it. There is a final project AND a final exam, the former of which was the most infuriating and frustrating assignment of my entire life and the latter one of the most unreasonably difficult exams of my life. Only a few people turned in a completely functional project, and a solid majority of the class bombed the final exam. The one shining light is that we got plenty of time to learn how to use Cadence. I don't feel like I learned much from this class; if anything, I feel cheated. This course is a classic case of the stereotypical engineering class:  bizarrely difficult, frustrating, and uninspiring. You will suffer through the semester and come to loathe your existence when the dual weights of the project and exam come to rest on you. Be warned: avoid if you can.
1. Possibly the most conceptually challenging EE class so far, but learned a ton2. Plan ahead to make sure you understand everything before moving on3. if Marco lectures, prepare to go ask Gu for explanation because Marcos lecture is  not the most clear one4. if Marco lectures, sit in the front of class because you can barely hear him5. take advantage of office hours - the TFs really know their stuff6. start Psets early
Gu is a great professor and very knowledgeable. Be sure to take advantage of OH for homework.
You are left to fend for yourself at times in this course, meaning there are sections where you have to spend a lot of time making very slow progress. It can be frustrating because you think there must be a better way to teach some of this material and some of the stuff like the intro to transistors wasn't taught well in our class at all. These things keep building on each other so a poor understanding of one section will definitely have an impact later.
Though required, this class is often frustrating and at times the material is poorly explained.  Though in the end some of the material is very interesting, the final project and associated parts of the course are only useful to those interested in IC design.
Gu is a great professor and all of his lectures are very interesting. The course at times felt like it was covering some unnecessary stuff. The tfs are ok.
This class was very challenging, but also includes some cool content! If material starts to get tricky or you start falling behind then devote time each week to go to office hours to ask about more than the problem set. Don't let yourself fall behind because it will be a disaster trying to learn everything before the final.
This is a great but tough course in analog circuit design. It is a low-level design course, so be prepared to spend some time working with nitty gritty low-level circuits. Every EE should take it.
Read the book, it'll make your life easier
ES 154 is a rough but necessary concentration requirement. The stuff on transistors is very difficult conceptually but if you work through the equations, it comes out ok. There's one pset due every Wednesday, no lab component, no section, and a final project at the end of the semester that is basically designing an op-amp.  This class is not glorious or life-changing, but it is painfully necessary.
If you're an EE you don't really have a choice whether to take this. That being said, Gu teaches it well and makes the topic of transistor operations slightly more potable. Still fairly dry and difficult material.
take this stuff
This class was very difficult but I think if you are willing and able to put in the time, you can learn a lot about how to analyze circuits by hand.
This class is very difficult and I highly recommend that you do not take it with other hard engineering classes.
Great class that teaches you a lot about analog circuit design with transistors. Gu is a very cool professor. All the teaching staff are very knowledgeable, friendly, and helpful on the psets. There were some rough spots as Gu hasn't taught this class in a while, but those should be ironed out in the future. Workload is very manageable. You do a pretty cool op amp design project as a final project.
Gu is a really great professor who makes some tough material doable.  It can be hard at times, but it is fair and ends up working out in the end.  Be careful with CAdence problems and projects.  They can take more time than expected.
Expect lots of self teaching.
I really enjoyed taking this class with Gu. If he is teaching it again, I would highly recommend taking it. Assignments and tests are very reasonable. Be prepared to put in a good amount of time for the final project.
This was a very hard class, but came together at the end and I learned a lot
This class is very interesting at times, and really solidifies your understanding of transistors and how they can be used in the real world. I would absolutely recommend this course to anyone interested in circuit design, even if the course is not a concentration requirement.
Electrical engineering majors need to take this course, and it is likely too much of a commitment for non-engineering majors. But I would tell any electrical engineering major that they should look forward to THIS course most out of any on the engineering curriculum because the teaching staff is awesome and the difficulty of the course really helps the students to work together and make great friendships.
I really enjoyed this class, and especially enjoyed learning more about exactly how a lot of the circuit building blocks you might use in another class actually work and are designed. Gu is a great lecturer, and a really nice guy. Keep in mind, however, that this class is not easy and you will get out what you put in.
Take this if you want to learn about the fundamentals behind circuit design. The theory takes a bit of effort to master but the project is a great part of the class because it has some real world applications.
Gu is a wonderful lecturer, hopefully he is teaching the class again. The class was well laid out, psets were very manageable. The midterm and final project were a bit rough, I think they severely underestimated the time we would need to complete things... The only warning would be about cadence. They sort of toss you in and hope for the best, there's no formal instruction other than some pdf tutorials, it's okay but make sure you have a good study group to work with otherwise you'll be stuck for days on frustratingly tiny problems. Other than that it was a great class, I'd definitely recommend it!
This was maybe the best course I've taken in the Engineering department. The material is fascinating, Prof Gu was a great lecturer, and the psets and final project were well-structured and felt worthwhile. That said, this class is hard, and it's important to stay on top of work throughout the whole semester because the material builds on itself.
Gu's a good guy. Though lectures are a little boring, the course was fine overall and I feel like I learned a lot. You may find the material uninteresting if you are not specifically interested in low-level chip design.
Professor Ham is a terrific teacher. Take this class if you want to get a solid understanding of some electronic circuits and devices.
Take only if it's a required course or if you are reeeeeally keen on learning how transistors/amplifiers/diodes function at an atomic level.
Well, it won't be taught by Donhee Ham anymore, so it will probably be totally different.  Take all of these evaluations with a grain of salt, because Donhee did things differently.
Work with people and go to office hours--this stuff is hard.
Prof. Ham is not teaching this course next year so everything will change. That being said, material is interesting if you're interested in electrical engineering. Even then, you would probably wish there was more application based material.
If it's taught the same way, be prepared to put a lot into the psets. Also make sure to ask questions if you don't understand anything. Donhee tends to ask "Everyone got it?" and then move on. Speak up if you aren't caught up, everyone else in the class will appreciate it.
It's a nice course in that you do learn a lot and don't have to have the stress of an exam or labs.  However, the psets can be tough so make sure to begin them as early as possible so that you can get help in office hours.
Tough course, lots of very important material for EE's but I don't think I would take it if it wasn't a requirement for my concentration.
You can learn a lot from Donhee and can see why he is so popular.
Prof. Donhee is a nice person with great patience. This course is helpful with understanding the basic conformation of electronic device. Suits undergrad.
This course will really teach you about circuits and some of the details and intricacies involved with circuit components.  Any electrical engineer should definitely take thing course.
Problem sets in the beginning do not take very long (6-8), but the later ones, (i.e. pset 6 onward) take a fair amount of time (15++). Professor Donhee does a great job building your understanding from the physical level to simple single transistor circuits with a few resistors to complex ones (oscillators, current mirrors, CMOS amplifiers). He is very knowledgeable, and expects a lot from his students. Don't ask questions he's already answered multiple times or whose answer is in the lecture notes
I would only take this class if you have to for concentration requirement or if you really have the time and effort to put into the class. You really only take away as much time as you spend on it. The material can sometimes be a bit dry, you're learning about transistors after all. But it covers essential concepts for anyone that is seriously considering electrical engineering.
This class will give you a very thorough understanding of transistors. Professor Ham is brilliant and funny and very receptive to his students.
Great class. The psets in the later half of the course are a bit challenging, but this class doesn't have exams so it evens out. Make sure you revise lecture notes. Prof.Ham is a genius and knows a lot about circuits. Also, don't EVER submit the pset late, as prof.Ham is very strict on the late hw policy (50% off)
