It will consume your life, but you will love it. Tom is amazing, attentive, and knows his stuff. The TFs are incredible and very responsive and helpful, and fair graders. The material is A LOT and HARD. But it's worth it. 10/10
Take this class if you want to be a good engineer.
Be ready to put in a lot time, because there is tonnes of material covered in this class and it goes at breathtaking pace. You have to keep up, otherwise catching up can be very tough. Do consistently read lecture notes. Go to Sunday sections for questions and psets. You learn A LOT from this class. If you are EE major deciding b/w ES52 and this class, take this class! As an EE major, this course really will give you the solid foundation you need to call yourself an electrical engineer!
Very fast-paced class with lots of material, some of which can be difficult. It's necessary to keep up with the readings because of the fast pace.
In terms of material, it is one of the most immediately practical classes I have taken. Covers both analog and digital electronics, which make up all of electronics. Extremely important for any experimental physicist and engineer.
It is one of those classes where you get out of it what you put in - labs aren't graded (except small participation grade) and there are no lab write-ups, but they help immensely with your understanding of the electronics. Plus, electronics debugging is a very useful skill.
Take this class. Tom is incredible. Be prepared to spend long hours in lab, but this is by far the best lab you've ever taken. Everyone does the labs not because they're required to, but because that's the only way to learn the material.
One of the hardest, most accelerated electronics courses you can take, but its worth it. The class has several grad students who seem more comfortable with the material, but undergrads get by. It's imperative that you do the readings and dedicate 3-4 hours outside of class to each day's notes in order to fully understand what's going on.
Please make sure you have enough time for the class. I did not, which made me fall behind. It is very difficult to catch up if you fall behind.
This was, hands-down, the best course I've taken at Harvard so far. The course covered an unbelievable number of topics, each more interesting than the last, and I'm leaving the class feeling like I have quite a bit of circuit design experience under my belt. I took this instead of ES 52 as the electronics requirement for a BS in Mechanical Engineering, and I have absolutely no regrets. I loved every moment of the course, but never heard the end of the complaints from my friends who opted to take ES 52. A big part of why this course is so great is that Tom (one of the kindest lecturers here) has taught it, in some form, over 70 times and has written incredible notes (he wrote the student handbook for the Art of Electronics!!!) for each class.  The notes are very entertaining, let you know everything you need to about the topics covered in each class, and really don't take *that* long to read. The TFs - Randall and Ben - were also both incredible. They were super friendly, knowledgable, and willing to help with anything. It's unlikely that either will be around in the future, but I have no doubt that Tom will find worthy replacements for them. Finally, I really enjoyed getting to know the other people in the class. It's really easy to get stuck taking course after course with the same group of engineers, so taking a course that's technically part of the physics department is a breath of fresh air. About 50% of the students were in grad school, and they were all very smart, inspiring people. The rest of the students were also very eager to learn and made the overall experience much better. Overall, this course definitely takes a lot of time (11+ hours of just class a week, including Sunday sections), it's hard to understand a lot of the concepts on the first try, the psets aren't the easiest, and the exams take a great deal of thought, but everything is doable if you're willing to learn (that's why you're here at Harvard, right?) and is oh so rewarding! Skip ES 52, take this - you won't regret it.
It's a lot of content but it's worth all of the work!
Take this class if you are interested in electronics and want to learn about circuits.  Realize that it is a large time commitment and will take up a lot of your time (equal to around 2 classes).  Very worthwhile - unlike any other classes that I have taken at Harvard.  Really awesome classroom (anonymous quizzes delivered to you on a remote-controlled electric train that puffs smoke).  Professor Hayes is extremely kind, interesting, and most importantly, knows the material really well.  Reach out to him with questions.  Focus on understanding the labs and trying to build the circuits in the labs.  Don't try to understand everything written in the notes.
Hands down, the best laboratory electronics class I have ever even heard of.I understood the beauty of electronics. Things which are mysterious are either scary or seem like a miracle. This course has brought the field of electronics to the earthly realm for me. I no longer shy away from any kind of electronics work, rather approach it with enthusiasm. This course really prepares you with a very good broad foundation of electronics.
