This class gives a great overview of energy technology. The class is extremely well structured and the professor is very responsive. The problem sets are a little lengthy but help with the understanding of the class material. The assigned reading is a lot (two chapters a week for the most part of the course)!
Please be prepared with a lot of home work.
I would warn students that the time commitment for this course is greater than average for the courses offered as part of the Graduate Consortium on Energy and Environment.
After taking this class, I sound much more informed when debating the feasibility of many new energy technologies.
The redundancy between readings and lectures made it feel like having both was a waste of time. Because the reading is mandatory, those couldn't be skipped. While I don't like to skip lectures, I found myself bored being present the same material we had to read for homework in class. This class did not feel like a good use of my time, especially coming from a background with a lot of engineering and science. The class has students with varying backgrounds, and tries to find a middle ground to meet the needs of all students (being challenging enough for those with a lot of science background while accessible to those with minimal science), but oftentimes fails to satisfy anyone.
No need to stress out too much
Overview of the energy sector and all its technologies. Very valuable course. Take this to develop quantitative-based opinions of energy technologies. Mike Aziz is very nice and an invaluable resource.
It is a nice class if you are interested in a broad range of topics in energy technology. However if you already know what you want to focus on, you may benefit more from taking another class with narrower topics. Also, be prepared to spend considerable time on reading materials and problem sets.
Good course, but may be difficult for people with little background in physics or engineering. Be prepared.
The course covers a lot of the quantitative analysis of different energy resources and I learnt some stuff from it. Unfortunately, it's not well organized. Class typically starts late and there will always be technical issues with computers, etc. wasting class time. The required reading takes time and is unnecessary sometime.
