This is a great class for learning the fundamentals of linear elasticity. You'll also be introduced to viscoelasticity and large deformation theory.
This class is quite difficult, but the material is very interesting. Make sure you have the time needed for this course.
Joost is one of the most gifted lecturers at this university. He's able to take complex problems and break them down into simple, interesting material to discuss. This courses is very much an intro course, though, meant to expose you to a broad range of topics in Solid Mechanics, not meant to make you a "master" of any of these subjects. Take this course if you're interested in further courses in Solid Mechanics, or if it's a field that you're interested in and wouldn't be exposed to otherwise.
This course is definitely worth your time if you put in the effort.
This is a very traditional course in solid mechanics, but it totally nails it. Joost is a great lecturer, and is always happy to stay after class and discuss whatever is on your mind. The lecture notes are comprehensive and very helpful. Assignments are occasionally long but are very fair and reinforce the lecture content. This course is a must for anyone considering studying mechanical engineering.
I wish I had bought or borrowed a copy of the Timoshenko book that was on reserve in the library.  I did visit the library read it a couple times but might have benefitted from easier access and thus more time spent reading it.
Professor Vlassak is an amazing lecturer, and you will really learn the fundamentals of solid mechanics. If you don't have much background, learning the material and doing the problem sets will require a lot of time.
Professor Vlassak is great!  Challenging class, but you will learn a ton.  Also, Yecheng was an awesome and helpful TF!
I would take any course that zhigang suo teaches.
Zhigang is a very enthusiastic and entertaining lecturer and frequently asks students questions during class. I didn't really have a very strong solid mechanics background, so the homework was difficult and fairly time consuming, but not impossible, especially if you read the lecture notes that he posts online and went to section or office hours. Zhigang also seems to recognize the fact that different students will have different backgrounds. The material mostly focuses on theory, not experiments so much. He definitely challenges you to think, and you get very good at solving ODEs/PDEs/boundary value problems.
If you feel like you are prepared to take the class and plan to use solid mechanics in your field this is a good class. If you are not prepared to take the class/never plan to use solid mechanics, this class will be extremely difficult and time consuming.
This is a good introductory solid mechanics course. The course materials are clear, and build up concepts from first principles.
Excellent professor. Very time consuming homework.
Professor Vlassak cares about students and is a strong lecturer who will make sure you will learn the material.
very knowledgeable instructor, would be an ideal course for someone interested in the particular kind of solid mechanics being taught but not the most broadly useful class
It is applicable to just about everything.
I would tell future students that this is a great introductory course into most of the concepts found in mechanics. I would not take this course unless it is relevant to the research you would like to do or if you're in a mechanics related field. I also found that this course was very theory based and the homework contained very few practical applications of the concepts. This course is also not as math heavy as some of other graduate level courses such as Fluid Mechanics. However, it definitely requires a lot of tedious math to answer some of the homework problems.
I think this course gives a good background in solid mechanics and the tools to apply the material to a lot of different fields of research. It's useful for most research.
No prior solids/continuum mechanics experience necessary. Weekly problems sets. Joost is really nice and gives extensions if necessary. Joost really encourages questions, and you can go to his office anytime for questions.
This class is extremely rigorous. The homework takes a lot of time. In the end, it is worth it though. Professor Vlassak is a really great lecturer. I ended up learning a lot in the class. It may be helpful to have a strong math background.
It is a well taught course and covers most topics of solid mechanics in the elastic regime very well.
This is a key class for any engineering student... or any student in SEAS really. I would recommend considering this course as a 'heavy load' due to the amount of time the problem sets take so choose your other classes accordingly.
Good solid class, not easy, but not really hard
Prof. Vlassak is incredibly nice, but if you don't have a strong undergrad background in solid mechanics, this class is most definitely tough. Expect to spend at least two full nights a week on the problem sets (probably more if you actually intend to comprehend them) and still find the take-home exam ridiculously hard.
This class is challenging, but the material is very interesting and so are the lectures. If you enjoy the subject, this is a great class to take!
It is much wider than you might expected, but not deeper. It serves rightly as an introductory graduate course of the subject-solid mechanics.
Good for a solid foundation in the fundamentals of solid mechanics.
It is hard work, but the concepts are interesting and the lectures are good.
This course was taught exceptionally well and covers a broad range of topics in solid mechanics along with various solution techniques, including analytical and numerical methods.
The lectures are interesting and relatively easy to follow.  The problem sets, due weekly for most of the semester, are considerably more challenging.
Great course to take, however make sure you don't fall behind.
The problems are really time consuming.
Zhi Gang has a passion for solid mechanics, and will guide you through the development of one of the oldest areas of study in mechanics with clarity.
This course is definitely worthy to try for all students involved in mechanics, applied physics, etc., and Zhigang is a very good instructor.
The content is intellectually stimulating, and the homework sets allow one to really learn the material
It is a rigorous mathematical course.  Does not provide the intuitions of a strength of materials course.
This course requires a lot of work, but it is necessary.
Pls choose this class if you want to concentrate in Solid Mechanics in the future, very nice plan to you.
This is an elementary course of solid mechanics. It is helpful if you want to go further in this field.
A lot of work.
