This is easily the worst class I have ever taken at Harvard, and I believe will most likely be the worst class I ever take going forward. I would never recommend it to anyone in its current form. Perhaps a better way of stating this would be I would never recommend taking a class with Professor Keith. The course was extremely disorganized and I learned virtually nothing. Professor Keith gives little effort to the class and also strikes me as a very arrogant person. If you are interested in Energy resources take a class with Professor John Shaw.
This course is an awesome introduction to energy systems and sustainability. If you're at all interested in energy technologies and policy, you should definitely take this course. Hopefully the course instructors will organize themselves better next year, but you should still take this course either way. Prof. Keith offers a really interesting perspective on energy that you won't want to miss.
This class is by far the worst class I have ever taken at Harvard. The material itself is very interesting but the disorganization of the class takes away from the content immensely. First day of class the professor did not even show up, and needed a TF to call him to come in, which he finally did around an hour late. Moreover, there is no structure to the class. We had 2 p-sets in the first two months, then 3 squeezed into the final 2 weeks of class and reading period. I feel that work was assigned simply for the sake of having assigned it to make the class look official. We had a research paper, final exam, and several quizzes and p-sets all after Thanksgiving break. This added to my stressload so much, as I had several other papers and exams to focus on. All the psets and quizzes were also on things we never even learned in class, which is ridiculous. Much of the class revolved around LCOE calculations which we didn't spend more than half an hour in class discussing. Then there was an official review session held at 9am on a weekday (with very little notice) to cover this after there had already been multiple quizzes on it over a month into the semester. Aside from Cliff, the teaching staff was horrible. I am still confused why the class had 3 TFs and a professor for ~30 kids. Sections were held by TFs and these were an absolute joke, and everybody stopped going after the first couple weeks. We would essentially sit in section and there was no lesson plan. It eventually reached a point where the Tfs would just ask if we had any questions and let us go if we didn't. Cliff was the only one setting up review sessions for quizzes and psets. A lot of times this was the first time the class had seen a lot of the material. Many times we would get the quiz and just laugh because it was so pathetic how we didn't learn a lot of the information and were expected to somehow learn it. The solutions for psets and quizzes also included no explanations, making it very difficult to study. Thus, most of my study sessions were quite aimless, as there was virtually no content to actually study. In short, take this class is you have an immense understanding of the material, because you won't learn anything in the class, or have a strong quantitative background.
Do not take this class. It is very easy but not interesting at all. It is very poorly run and the professor clearly does not care about teaching the students. If you want to learn anything about energy technology, you would be better off trying to learn on your own. If David Keith is still teaching this class, you should not take it.
This class is very disorganized. The quizzes do not reflect the material and the lectures are very all over the place.
The class was horribly disorganized. David Keith is a genius, but he's also a very busy guy, and didn't put much effort into actually putting anything together to make this class cohesive. We jumped around hard accounting/economics to hard physics/engineering. The materials were wonderful, but we hardly knew what was expected of us EVER. Assignments were very unclear as to what was being asked. And when I would ask one TF, s/he would give a different answer than another TF when asked the same question. The TFs and the professor were in no way on the same page about anything. The students were frustrated the entire semester. No one really knew what we were really doing throughout the course. I learned about how to calculate the levelized cost of electricity.... kind of. That's my major takeaway from this course. It's just disappointing because of how amazing it seemed like it would be, based on the materials that we  'planned' on going through.
While the material of the class is very interesting and the professor is an extremely interesting person, the class is very disorganized. Problem sets were assigned at very random times and we were sometimes quizzed on material we never learned in class.
This is the most unorganised class I have taken at Harvard. David knows this and says he will make it more organised next time, but it was shambolic and despite not being overly hard, this can get frustrating
Professor Keith is extremely knowledgable and tells you information you want to know but be ready to be patient and teach yourself.
This was the most unorganized course I ever have taken. I should have known from day one when Professor Keith did not even know we had class. This class was so disappointing because it had such potential to be great, but professor Keith's lack of caring ruined it, as it seemed he was too focused on other things. The topics are truly interesting, and definitely ideas I recommend learning, but the class needs a lot of fine tuning.
do not take this class.  it is the most disorganized class i have ever had. i had no idea what was going to be on the quizzes or how to do the homework... even the TFs couldn't do it and didn't know.  this was a waste of my time and would be a waste of yours.  everything i learned could be summed up in 1 hour.
Good class for gaining a background in energy, but it's a bit disorganized.
This class was very disorganized, but the material was very interesting. If you are able to deal with disorganization and have a genuine interest in learning about energy technologies, you can take this class and be successful in it.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. It was the single largest disappointment in my Harvard career. The professor does not care about this class at all. The material is awful. Nothing is prepared. Organization is nonexistent. We learned nothing. It was an utter waste of time. You will learn nothing and waste your time. Even if this course is offered in the future with the promise of change, IT WILL NOT. David Keith does not care about his teaching. He will make promises. They are empty. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS.
This class is quite disappointing. The material itself is interesting, but it is so poorly presented that it doesn't even matter!! I definitely learned a lot and I learned the value of considering non-technical aspects of energy systems, but I felt like I could've learned a lot more in the space of a semester. The pace of the class was just too slow due to the sever disorganization of the class. Honestly, this class isn't worth your time. I'm sure you could learn a lot more in a similar class offered through a different department.
This is the most disorganized class I've taken in my 5 semesters at Harvard so far and that is an understatement. I thought the material was interesting overall but then we would be quizzed on material we didn't go over in lecture. In addition, we had 2 p-sets, a quiz, a final paper, and a final exam all in December. Overall, I thought that the teaching staff was disorganized and didn't care about the success of the students in the course (besides Cliff who I felt was the only person keeping the class alive).
Professor Keith was disorganized and even acknowledged once that he didn't think too much about the class. I was never sure what would happen with the quizzes and it was obvious that he didn't really plan that much for the lectures. Keith is of course a great mind when it comes to energy matters, but it didn't exactly shine through in this class. I don't think it's worth someone's time if he doesn't make assurances that he'll invest more time in it.
This was undoubtedly the worst class that I have ever taken at Harvard. I took CS50 at the same time as ES 137, and this class made CS50 look like a gem. There was so much potential for this class, as the topics are undoubtedly interesting, and yet this class was such a let down. Firstly, it was probably the worst run and most disorganized class that I have ever had the displeasure of being enrolled in. It began on day one when Professor Keith didn't even know we had class and barely showed up to the first day, and it continued throughout the semester as deadlines switched constantly. On day one, we didn't have a final, and by the time study cards were turned in, all of a sudden we had a final and because it was scheduled so late it was basically the last one. Secondly, the TFs, with the exception of the one undergraduate TF, were terrible. Neither of the two graduate students made any attempt, literally any attempt, to bond with or connect with the students. Their office hours were infrequent, and the assignments that they wrote were rife with mispellings and other issues. Finally, Professor Keith, to put it frankly, is far too arrogant for his own good. He was dismissive toward other faculty, he was dismissive toward ideas that students put forth in lecture, and he was always so busy on his own research and lectures and everything else, that you could tell this class was his last priority. It was blatant that he often wouldn't even prepare a lecture, rather he would take slides from other professors or just talk about a random news story that really had no bearing for 45 minutes. All in all, terrible class. Worst class I have taken. I would not ever recommend this to any student that is thinking about it. Plus, the class is at 8:30 am and that certainly didn't help.
Don't expect a well-administered or carefully planned class experience. If you can be comfortable with the fact that the entire class feels improvised day-to-day, nothing is taken too seriously, and there isn't much of a pre-planned curriculum, its great. The minimal structure makes it really easy most of the time and its a pretty relaxed way to discuss incredibly interesting and relevant energy topics. Professor Keith knows a ton about the material and is an incredible resource, and though most of the time he doesn't seem like he cares too much about the course, this makes it a low-stress experience, yet you still learn some about energy. For example, he isn't too concerned about attention to detail on assignments, which means you dont really have to worry about it either. So you still learn some, but its a pretty relaxed atmosphere.
It is a poorly organized course and the professor does not seem to be interested in teaching anymore.  The quizzes are not representative of students' learning.  The problem sets are assigned sporadically.  The most helpful information came from attending a single TF's optional sections, office hours, and review sessions.
You will never know what is going to be on the quiz, and the psets range in difficulty. I wouldn't take this class unless Prof. Keith commits to better organization. When I took the class, I heard it was going to be unorganized however I never anticipated this level of disorganization
In its current structure, I could not recommend this class.  It seems like a very relevant course with interesting and practical material, but the course leaves a lot to be desired.  It is not very well organized, with some concrete units but many lectures in between where we talked about nothing new or just did trivial or bizarre practice problems.  Quizzes and problem sets should not have been very difficult, but questions were often out of left field, and practice materials were rarely provided.
This is an awesome course - incredibly interesting and pertinent! It was a little disorganized this year, but that's to be expected in the first year that a course is offered. I'm not an engineer and yet this course was totally fine for me.
It's a renewable energy fanatic's wet dream.
If you're interested at all in energy you should definitely take this class. It's a window into the brain of the professor and the guy is brilliant.
The class was a bit disorganized but that it to be expected since it was the first year being offered. Professor Keith is great and also very enthusiastic about the material which makes lectures interesting. Overall course was great!
This class was very poorly organized, but as a first year course that is to be expected. The quizzes are far preferable to psets each week, especially considering that they dropped a bunch of them. Kieth is a great professor, he is clearly extremely knowledgeable, but sometimes I don't know how biased his facts are by opinion. If you are interested in renewables, this is definitely a good course to take.
The lectures were awesomeKeith can easily hold your attention and the subject matter was both inherently interesting and presented in a compelling way, with a strong focus on real world connections, technologies, and applications.  The course was poorly organized, but that will be ironed out since this was the first time it's been taught.  The quizzes sometimes test stuff we didn't learn in lecture or quiz prep.
If you want to better understand the energy language and be able to deduce valuations for cost of energy or electricity, take this course!
While it presented a very interesting perspective on the current concerns around energy, this class was poorly organized and assumed a great deal of knowledge about energy sources, thermodynamics, and basic economics. (But Carolann was fantastic, though I don't think she's returning as preceptor.)
I think this class will improve as it gets a little older. Because the class was new this year, I felt as if the staff did not have the entire course planned beforehand, which made things disorganized (like the website) or vague (like some of the assignments. If you're interested in the energy system, however, I would recommend it for the most part.I found Professor Keith's lectures to be informative, but not central to understanding the material; many of the problems on the quizzes were not related to lecture. Dr. Koleci was a great help, and I hope she continues to be part of the class in the future.
One of the most practically focused classes that I have taken at Harvard.  If you are at all interested in the Energy sector then you should 100% take this class.  The workload is small, the value added is huge and the teaching is fantastic.  In the top 5 classes that I have taken in my three and a half years here.
ES 137 was an interesting introduction to the energy industry today and the challenges it faces in improving efficiency and complying with environmental/climate standards. We covered most of the major sectors of energy (electricity generation, transportation), the environmental effects of energy production (pollution and climate change), and focused on cost-of-electricity calculations to determine what types of energy generation are economically feasible. If you're interested in the energy industry, this class is a good introduction.
This class was very disorganized and there was not enough communication to know what was expected of you as a student.  Although it was the first year this course was offered, it was still much more disorganized than it should have been, and it is likely not to be any more organized next year.
Organization was not that great; we frequently found ourselves wondering what we'd be tested on.  Hopefully that will improve in future iterations.
I enjoyed this class. It was the first time it was being taught, and any time that happens there are obviously going to be some kinks. However, I thought the material was interesting, and I really enjoyed having Professor Keith as an instructor. He's very interesting and sometimes a bit all over the place, but he is also extremely knowledgeable and passionate about the course material. The structure of the course could be improved, and likely will be as the instructors get more used to working with undergrads. The class wasn't too hard or too much of a commitment, and I learned a bunch along the way. Overall, enjoyable class, not too painful, and you walk away with a better knowledge and understanding of the energy technology and systems in the world today. I also enjoyed learning the pieces of economics that fit into the engineering/energy/political decisions associated with climate change.
A valuable opportunity to explore the global energy system from a real world angle using data and information the is nearly impossible to come by anywhere else.
If the class is still like this, then no. Wait a couple of years, but under David Keith and the current teaching staff it is very disorganized. You may think not having psets is a blessing, but you really don't learn the material and it doesn't work out as well as you think it will.
Very useful practical knowledge regarding energy. Pretty easy as well, however regarding the research paper and final project it was quite unorganized and unlcear.
This is a great overview of the current energy sector and the potential for renewables. It will give you a new perspective on things and will increase your overall 'energy savvy' ten-fold. Professor Keith is very impressive and can lead interesting and enlightening class discussion. However, he sometimes appears a bit too busy or arrogant to give students enough thought (for example, when you ask him a question, he will often cut you off halfway through with an answer). He is a great guy though, and is a good professor overall. There is not too much work - the quizzes and the final were fair and interesting. I'm totally happy I took this course!
