this course is a good general introduction to environmental engineering techniques
I enjoyed Professor Rogers as a teacher, he made lecture very interesting
Only take this course if you are interested in the topic and think it would be useful to you in the future. There are many difficult, unorganized, tedious points in the course, and I think that the main thing that got me through was the topic only. Professor Rogers is a very kind professor who has wonderful stories to tell but is sometimes difficult to sit through 1 1/2 hours of lecture with.
not a lot of work, lectures were boring
ES165 is a great introduction to water engineering, and particularly environmental engineering. The material covered in this course has numerous connections to other course in the department.
This is an amazing course if water treatment is something you are interested in!! Professor Vecitis is a little quirky, but is very smart and passionate about this topic and manages to keep every lecture interesting. The course can basically take up as much or as little time as you like (especially for the final project), but the more time you put into it, definitely the more you get out of it. This is one of my top three favorite classes at Harvard so far.
This is a more advanced engineering course! Be ready to take time in the psets. However, the final project was incredibly rewarding and if you really want to leave with a good understanding about water treatment processes, take this course!
This course requires substantial chemistry pre-requisite knowledge.
Good class to try out engineering in a really relevant field (water).  Greg is a great and patient TF. Chill professor(Profesor Vecitis). But that means you have to hold yourself accountable to starting work well ahead of time and keeping up to speed. Go to office hours, but try doing the PSet beforehand. Labs are pretty disorganized; depending on your lab mates, data collection can be pretty messy, making analysis in the lab report difficult.  Best to establish the big picture beforehand, or read up on the lab before showing up to lab, to do well on them.
Just as anything in life, the more you put in, the more you get out.
This class can be hard if you don't know chemistry, especially water chemistry. In addition, the labs could use some work to become useful learning experiences, as they were disorganized and sometimes didn't work at all. Furthermore, the final project was very broad making it hard to complete an effective project by the end of the semester.
The course is pretty straightforward. Make sure to study for the exam, because that score will ultimately determine your grade as none of the other assignments have much of a distribution in the class.
make sure youre solid in genchem (like AP level nothing crazy) and are ready to devote time to the final design project. pick a responsible group!
This class provides a nice overview of many pertinent fields of water engineering including filtration, purification, and various disinfection mechanisms. It is a useful course if you are looking to get a general picture of environmental engineering in the context of water without an excessive time commitment.
This is a good class to take! Mary is am AMAZING TF. She and Chad both grade pretty generously, and they really want to see you do well. Go to her office hours and you will do fine on the psets. Chad is really flexible about the final project, and will help you out a lot with it.
Excellent class! Very practical and Professor Vecitis is always available to help outside of class.  Also, lab gives you a lot of freedom to explore topics that are of particular interest to you.
In the beginning, I didn't enjoy the course because the labs gave no freedom and were somewhat dull, and the textbook (I really did not like it) made the homework assignments a lot tougher than they had to be. But then the psets stopped and we got to start our final project and I loved it. Also realized how much I had learned. Also, it was a super small class - only 8 people - so I made great friends with my classmates.
This class will be easy for you if you have done the pre reqs for the course.  It is not too time intensive and has minimal work outside of the midterm and final project.
It is a straight-forward course. All the professors are very easy-going people and are opened to talk and help you. Chad is very fast in his lectures, but you can stop him at any time if you don't get a concept.
There's good material here, and the labs are great.  Things can move very quickly, so ask lots of questions when you get lost, since the teaching staff obviously know their stuff really well.  A good less-general ES class.  Neither my hardest nor my easiest.
this course requires real lab write ups which at first seems like a drag but you learn SO much from doing them. not a hugely strenuous course and the subject matter of the course is useful and interesting.
This class is a lot of fun if you are interested in water quality.
This class is really interesting and a good way to fill an engineering requirement. Chad and Anas are awesome, and put the interests of the students first. They are willing to work with you on anything.
Take this course if you are really interested in the material.
thoroughly enjoyed it
For anyone who is interested in water engineering and water treatment, I'd highly recommend this course. The final project is really cool and involves treating a water sample in order to produce drinking water. Chad is very helpful and is usually free to talk if you have any questions about the homework assignments or the design projects.
I was pretty disappointed in this class because I had heard good things about it. It was very unorganized and the communication between the lab instructor and the professor seemed to be lacking.  The course has potential, but there need to be some improvements before I would recommend it.  The lab component is pretty good and teaches you a lot.
Great class to take to learn about water!  If you're environmental engineering, you should definitely take it and Chad is very invested in making sure we learn and like what we are doing.
Really a great course if and only if you're interested in environmental engineering. If you aren't then find something else to take.
Great class where you learn a lot about water and water treatment. Learned how to write lab reports and the final project was fun. Chad was a great professor and was often available for help and feedback. I enjoyed this class.
Chad and Anas are extremely helpful and accessible outside of class.  Go to OH!
This class was a great way for me to see one of the many ways that environmental engineering can be applied to the "real world."
Great class, excellent introduction to the field, I learned a lot
Sometimes the lectures can drag on.
there's a new prof next year so i don't know...
This course was a joke. I came into it hoping it would be an interesting elective outside of my field of study, but it was not rigorous at all. This course only assumes high school level of chemistry and no environmental science background. If you have a decent mathematical background, then it will be very easy, as problem sets and midterm are just plug-and-chug problems with formulas easily found inside the book.
I guess if you're in environmental/water engineering, then you need to know the material, but it doesn't present enough material to warrant it as an interesting elective.
Final project was also very disorganized. There was absolutely no direction, so many projects were only marginally related to the class material and did not reinforce what was taught.
This class is good but it repeats a lot of things that are taught in ES 6 and almost any other ESE class. It was not a tough work load and the variable lab and homework helps keep each week with only one assignment. If you are looking to learn a variety of things and are ESE I would recommend taking a different class because this material is covers a lot in ES 6 and the level of difficulty is not that much more. It is interesting and not hard so if you just want to learn more about remediation take it.
Chad is an awesome professor, and this course is good. The psets were a little annoying, but it's a fun course, and the final project is an awesome opportunity to really do something. The course gives students a lot of respect and freedom-- I felt we were treated like engineers, not like little undergraduate students.
Pay attention and ask questions and this class will be very manageable. Chad is easygoing and approachable, and he makes an effort to avoid always lecturing the whole time, which makes it almost fun. Also nice to have an intimately sized course.
I think the material in this class is important, but the class is what you make of it.  The work does not require a lot from you, but since the class doesn't give you a very deep understanding of anything you really will gain the most by reading the textbook.  Otherwise, you'll probably do well in this class but you might feel like it's a waste.  

Also, think about final project topics well in advance!  If you have an exciting project, you'll really enjoy those hours spent in lab and have something cool to write up.
Great course. Much more in depth than ES 6, but similar material.
the p sets are SO hard.
The class is not too much work. There is only one midterm that wasn't too bad. Chad's t-shirt game is off the charts
