This is a great class! A lot of what I learned will be applicable to my research.
It's really broad, and it doesn't go very in depth on any one topic. If you are good at motivating yourself to go over class notes and review the material I think you'd learn A LOT, but if you're busy or more interested in other classes/research, you might not get that much out of it.
I would tell future students that as an breadth course this is probably a good class. But do not take it if you're expecting to go into detail in any one topic.
You get out from this course exactly what you put in. If you want to push yourself you can gain a solid MEMS foundation. If you are busy and have other things to do you can put no effort into the course and get nothing out.
It is a great intro to MEMS class with a excellent overview of MEMS devices.
This course is horrible. You do not learn much about MEMS at all. No hands-on experience, no studying of MEMS device, not even reading that is related to MEMS. Take the course at MIT if you really want to learn something, this course is just busy work and is stupidly easy.
This is the best course if you wanna have a taste of what are the fabrication techniques and MEMS applications. However, if you already have this kind of knowledge, there's not much else you can learn.
The course  is a broad review of MEMS fabrication techniques and devices. However, don't wait till the last week for the final project; it requires teamwork and time to work out the details.
This course is definitely enlightening if you have no experience with MEMS.  Coursework is light, but don't let that take over how you treat the course.  This is definitely a "what you put in is what you get out" type course.
Find a good group and invent something cool!
This course is an introduction and they mean it. Do not expect to go too in depth into anything. Be cautious as a graduate student, you may be able to get more out of another class.
This is a great class. The instructor is excellent - he is passionate about the material, very knowledgable and is an excellent teacher. The course provides a very thorough overview of the physics behind MEMS and the fabrication techniques. Highly recommend for anyone who uses these techniques in their research or for anyone interested in learning how MEMS work.
Great introduction to MEMS.
This class is easy, yet helpful. Take it if you are interested in MEMS and you need course credit. The final project is a little more demanding that one would expect but it pays off.
good course for MEMS
The class is fairly easy, but if you'll be doing microfabrication and design this is a good/fun introduction.
Useful class for experimentalists. Many things learnt can be applied into research.
