there is a reason why so few people enroll in this course, it is pretty bad. take other stats if you can, most people who are here only take it because they have to. not taught well, goes really fast, and has hard psets
The class is good to take to refresh your probability background.  However, not everything that there is to know about probability can be covered, so you should do some extra reading if you want to learn more.
Good introduction to probability in engineering.
You are likely to be confused.
For somebody who wants a nice introduction to probability, this is probably a good course.
Look at the other recommended text books for the beginning of the course as they offer a much clearer presentation of the material
Pay attention from day 1!!
The course does present some interesting theoretical math, but there is little in regards to its application.
The class is fine for a concentration requirement, but I wouldn't recommend it as an elective.
The simple effectiveness of this course at teaching concepts was a breath of fresh air amidst a myriad of engineering courses which try to do too much at the cost of students' depth of understanding.
Life is probability.  Take this course, and get a life.
The professor was excellent. The course was very well structured. We had quick reviews at the beginning of each lecture which were very helpful. Th topics are very interested. All in all, it was my best class this semester.
This is an enjoyable course, but assignments are challenging so get together with the other students in the class to do the problem sets.
very well taught, Professor Lu builds in a lot of review, so its easy to stay on top of the class as long as you are using the lecture notes and augmenting that with the textbook
This class has some really interesting and applicable material. Also, Professor Lu is great, although lecture can be a little dry at times.
Don't take this class unless it is a concentration requirement. The lectures are super boring.
Try to petition out of it. I don't know if they will let you but perhaps if enough people try then the department might see that this course offers no additional value to electrical engineering students. The students would at least learn something by taking a well taught probability or stats class.
If this class is not required then don't take this class.
Only take this course in its current format if you absolutely have to.  The teaching is nonexistent and the assignments are more challenging than they have a right to be.  Get a tutor if you can.
Expect to do a lot of independent learning
The course needs to be revamped and reorganized from the bottom up. There was no class final review and we started our final 25 minutes late... pretty much summed up the class as a whole in the end.
This course was challenging, and required a lot of time and effort to really understand the material. As a result, I learned a lot, but again, it was a tough course. Probability is not as intuitive as I'd expected going in, and took a lot of time to really start to grasp. Prof. Lu was extremely helpful in office hours, and demystified a lot of topics for me.
Course has challenging material but workload is manageable. Be sure to take advantage of Prof.'s office hours, lectures, book chapters, etc and the course will be smooth
Yue is wonderful. I loved the class! I liked the applications we saw. And the class was great because you're rewarded for the work you put in if you're consistent.
This is a difficult stat and probability class, but professor Lu is a great and effective teacher. The p-sets are very difficult and office hours are extremely helpful. Both midterms were hard but the final was very fair. Overall, a tough class but you learn a lot of probability theory throughout it.
Yue is a really good professor. His lectures are very clear and well organized, and he integrates many cool and interesting examples into his presentations. He is also available for office hours and immensely helpful if you meet with him one-on-one. If you have to fulfill a statistics requirement I would recommend this class. It will be more challenging than the some of the other statistics classes but you will also learn a lot more.
Manageable but not a blow off course.
The professor knows what he is doing, and is always willing to help.
A great course for covering probability, though perhaps a bit lacking on the side of statistical analysis of data.
This was a good class, that did what it was supposed to: provided a first introduction to probability and gave a few engineering applications.
If it's a requirement, take it.
This class is straightforward and teaches you what you need to know. A lot of the topics are really interesting, and the Matlab assignments are educational without being too difficult. The course was also not unnecessarily difficult.
Excellent intro to engineering probability
This is a great class. You will finally understand probability theory.
Take. This. Class.  It class is very good for developing your intuition and you'll think about things around you in the world in a probabilistic manner.  It will help you model scenarios for future classes and think more logically.
You should only take this course if you need to.  It is very interesting and Professor Lu is great, but there are plenty of other classes that teach you probability in a much lower stress environment.  The class has two midterms and a final, plus weekly problem sets.  All manageable if you go to office hours and find a good study group.  The material does get pretty dry at some points.
Lue was a fantastic teacher and the material was exciting and interesting. Fantastic option for probabilistic mathematics requirement, even if you aren't an engineering student. Very well taught.
Professor Lu is an excellent instructor. He present the material in an understandable way and gives a lot of relevant examples.
This is a good course with a great professor.  It starts off very easy and then gets much more difficult very quickly.  As long as you keep up with the readings, it's not too much material to handle.  To be clear, this is only a probability course and does not cover statistical topics like regressions, etc.
Professor Lu is great. He's a really good lecturer and explains new concepts in ways that just makes everything really clear. You should definitely go to his office hours, because his one on one tutorials are even better. The class is very laid back, homeworks are difficult but manageable, and the material is really interesting if you like probability and math.
Go to office hours and approach Professor Lu for help, he is very accessible and helpful.
This is a great alternative to stat 110 with a great professor.
ES 150 is a great choice for those who need a stat requirement but don't want to take Stat110. No prior stat experience is necessary, as long as you attend lecture regularly, since Professor Lu is extremely good at explaining concepts thoroughly.
Great alternative to Stat 110. Really enjoyed the course's structure, lecturer, and effectiveness.
Great Course. Very interesting and very reasonable tests and homeworks.
Easy class. Very well structured. If you just keep up with the class, you will definitely do well. Psets might get tricky later on, but exams are pretty easy.
If you're not required to take it, then don't. Lecture is pretty confusing, but overall it's a super easy class, but you can find better statistics courses where you can learn more.
Great class! Learned a ton with a Prof who genuinely cares about his students.
Professor Lu is a great professor with very good lectures. The course material was different than what I expected from a statistics class in that it focused more on probability.
This is an easy class and doesn't require much work outside of lecture.  The midterms were hard but (at least this year) the final was pretty easy if you were paying attention during the rest of the course.  Yue is really helpful on the homework so if you're confused go to his office hours.
This is a great course. While the material isnt the most interesting in the engineering curriculum it is taught very well, and professor Lue is an amazing professor. He definitely cares a lot about his students and is always willing to help out. Overall i highly recommend this course.
Stay on top of the material and enjoy the class!
This is one of the best classes I have ever taken in SEAS as an engineering requirement. It is so well-organized and so well-taught and I've learned a lot in the process. It's not one of those courses where you have to suffer a ton in order to get anything from the class; you learn so much just by putting in the normal amount of hours one would expect to spend on a class. If you can take ES150 to satisfy an engineering requirement, definitely take this!
This class is mostly probability- less statistics- but it is very well run and well organized. Professor Lu is very helpful, and kind, and good at helping you get an intuitive sense of the material, so go to his office hours. The expectations are very clear of what you will learn and be tested on.
This course is a good introduction to probability but does not deal with statistics at all so is perhaps less useful than other courses although the material is still interesting.
This is typically taken as a requirement for fulfilling the probability/stat requirement for engineering concentrations. If you are looking for a course on statistics, this is not the one to take; the course solely focuses on probability. There are many advanced engineering topics that require a thorough understanding of both probability and statistics, so I wish I had taken something a bit more rigorous. That being said, Professor Lu did a fantastic job introducing probability. Lectures are very clear and assignments are relevant and do not take much time to complete (<4 hours).
This was a great course taught by a professor who clearly cares about his students. Within the second week of class, Professor Lu knew everyone's name and took an active role in ensuring that we learned the material. The small class size (especially relative to a class like Stat 110) means that you can ask questions easily during lecture and receive much more personalized help with the material.
the professor really wants the students to succeed, and he teaches that way. One of the few times I can say in SEAS that this course is not only taught by someone who is knowledgable in the field, but is a GOOD TEACHER
You are most likely taking this class because you have to. I didn't find it particularly difficult, but it also focused much more on probability than I expected, and didn't give the kind of background in statistics I was expecting.
This is a great alternative to AM101 or Stat110 for engineering students who want to understand probability but don't want it to be their most difficult course of the semester.
A well run class that makes the requirement quite enjoyable.
Yue is great at making the material accessible and presenting it in an intuitive manner. Put in the work and do lots of practice problems and you will be fine.
Great introduction to probability. Lectures and lecture notes are clear; office hours are amazing and they help you understand the homework a lot. Not too fast-paced; able to ask questions during lecture.
This class is pretty straightfoward-if anything confuses you, go to office hours. Professor Lu is really good at helping you determine what/why you're confused.
This is a really great class, with an absolutely amazing teaching staff! The beginning goes rather slowly, but you end up with a much better understanding of statistics, with none of the handwaving I remember from high school stats.
take the class
this class is good for seniors to put off until senior year, but be aware that the material from right around engineering thesis time is the material emphasized on the final.
easier than stat 110, but you don't get quite the same level of problem solving skills
It is a great probability class. You learn a lot without it being too painful. The assignments are very fair.
As a concentration requirement, this class was great.  Professor Lu knows the material extremely well and explains it in an easy, comprehensible way.  Definitely take this course if you're interested in probability & statistics.
Great assignments, great lectures, interesting tests, I can't praise this course enough. I learned a lot and the course was painless.
Very easy class, but I wish Stat 110 was an option to take for the electrical engineering requirement, as I feel I would have learned more.
I enjoyed this course very much, and would recommend this class to anyone looking to complete their statistics or probabilty req for ES. The class is enjoyable, and the problems are not too difficult, and the time this class takes is probably around 2-4 hours outside of class per week. Also, the exams are usually not as hard as the homework problems, which is nice because it makes the class less stressful.
Definitely the best was to fulfill the stat requirement for engineering. Not too challenging but interesting
The lectures are very well structured and the material is presented in a way that it is easy to learn. As long as you go to lecture and go to section or office hours when you find a topic confusing, this class is very straight forward and easy to do well in.
It is a required course for most engineering majors, so if you're taking this class you probably have no real choice.  It was one of my more moderate classes; not the best, but not the worst, either.  That being said, I would recommend you form pset groups because some pset problems are not easily solved with only the lectures and textbook as references.  Also, go to lecture, because the online lecture notes are not as helpful as one would hope.
Material is dull (if straightforward) and not relevant to engineering. We discussed very few engineering applications during this class.
This is a fairly comprehensive course in probability and statistics, that covers many concrete applications of the course material. Great intro class, but if you are looking for something more rigorous, you probably want to take Stat 110.
Great introduction to probability. Professor Lu is fantastic and lectures are excellent. The course staff posts great lecture notes for every class. The problem sets are very manageable and definitely help reinforce the material. Exams are fair and adequate resources (practice problems, review) are provided.
You likely have to take this if you're an engineering concentrator, so know it will be a great class, Yue is an excellent professor, and the class will teach you.
Dr. Yue is an excellent lecturer. He presents material in a very clear manner and is really good at answering questions.
Pretty interesting and not too difficult course on probability
Best option for taking Probability. Yue is the best engineering professor I have had at Harvard, hands down.
Yue is a fantastic lecturer - he explains everything intuitively and simply, and answers questions with great clarity. He also paced the material very well throughout the semester. The problem sets and exams were very reasonable. Probability is a really fun and useful topic that everyone should take, regardless of concentration!
Great course for engineers who want to complete their stats elective.
you will have to teach yourself but it's a pretty chill class. material isn't that easy but you can learn it yourself
yue lu is great
I would give this course a 6 out of 5 if I could. Yue and his teaching staff are incredibly caring and effective at teaching. Most impressively, Yue lectures almost completely without using any notes, having committed to memory all the concepts, examples, and derivations. Assignments and exams were reasonable, and the material was taught multiple times throughout the classconcepts would first be covered in lecture, then they would be repeated in section. Yue also often reviews material from the previous lecture before proceeding to the current one. The result is that I was able to learn the concepts much more comprehensively and have a much stronger grasp of the material than I would had I taken, say, Stat 110.
Make sure to read the book along with the lectures. Yue is a great teacher, but sometimes the examples he provides in class are more complicated than they need to be to understand the problem. Overall great course.
Great class to satisfy your probability/stat requirement. Yue is a great prof, the material is interesting and straightforward, and it is not a lot of work.
Yue is an excellent lecturer and the lecture notes cover literally all the material covered in class. Definitely much less formal in its approach than stat110, but overall a well-taught introduction to basic probability and statistics.
Don't get discouraged in the beginning of the course. The first few weeks can be humbling, but go to office hours and section and then Dr. Lu will not fail you.
It wasn't too bad overall, but if you're looking for a class that emphasized statistics in a way that could be applied to research/projects, this isn't quite it.
If Yue is teaching this course, I highly recommend it. He's excellent at understanding questions and responding in a way that addresses the root of your question, he's a great lecturer and explains things well, his office hours are super helpful, and he runs class at a comfortable pace. I always felt like I was learning, but wasn't stressed. I loved this course. I'm an EE concentrator (AB) who takes a lot of non-STEM courses too, so I'm not coming at this from a hyper-STEM perspective.
Yue is the best engineering professor I have had at Harvard (reference - I am a senior). He is extremely clear, comes up with several examples, and has very good lecture style. The course is reasonable workload w/ exams and problem sets. Very good course materials (online lecture notes, section notes, problem set solutions)
A more manageable alternative to Stat 110 or AM 101 for engineering requirements, although this is mandatory for EEs. First part of the course is deceptively straightforward, but the second part of the course ramps up surprisingly fast. You get 3 pset drops and it may be tempting to use them, but make sure you learn the material or you'll be in trouble for the midterms.
This is a great introductory course to probability.  Yue is a great lecturer, and the course materials online are very helpful in learning the material.
Great class if you spend the time to supplement lectures with the textbook. Would recommend having some statistics/probability background so that you can better understand what is going on. Overall a pretty great course and Yue is an awesome person.
This class is not very time consuming, lectures and problem sets are pretty dry.
Wanted a probability/statics background for engineering. Yue was a great professor. the tfs were okay, helped me get through. The midterms were fair, just dont slack off. Start early on the psets.
For the engineers that have to take this course: ES150 is a nice break away from your engineering heavy courses. The material does not come naturally very rapidly at first, however with sufficient practice it gets much better. Yue is a great professor that is very responsive to his students. HE GAVE US THREE PSET DROPS TO USE AT OUR WILL. That made this course much more manageable. As long as you do well on the psets and make an effort to understand the helpful practice exams, this class will not be too difficult!Another disclaimer: This course is entirely on probability and NOT advanced statistics.
A good way to get the probability and statistics requirement out of the way without taking Stat 110. Professor Lu is competent and creates good psets and exams.
I took this for an engineering requirement and I kinda wish I had taken Stat 110. I didn't find this class to be relevant to my engineering work at all, but in terms of a probability education, it was reasonable.
This is a solid course in the engineering department. Professor Yue is a funny guy and an excellent instructor. Course expectations are clearly outlined, and the pset drop policy is quite generous. Problem sets are very doable and not designed to make you struggle or waste several hours; they teach well. The material is also pretty neat too, and it makes quick probability estimations easy: ES150 teaches you how to think about probability problems just as much as how to solve them. I learned a great deal and enjoyed it - you will too.
This course is very well structured and the instructor is very kind. Professor Yue is the kind of professor who would stay past the end of his office hours just to make sure you understand concepts.
This is a very well taught class.  It is straight forward and if you try hard, you will do well!
I took this class with some of the necessary background, but without a rigorous training in the material (I knew definitions but was bad at applying them). This course definitely increased my understanding and abilities. However, sometimes it was hard to negotiate what we learned in class versus what the homeworks were expecting.
This class is very well-structured, so if you don't plan on taking Stat110 since its only offered in the fall, this class is the best if not perfect replacement. You will definitely learn everything you need to learn, and at a very high quality.
Yue Lu is a wonderful teacher and presents information effectively.
Decent class, although it was pretty disorganized, especially lectures. I'd be careful if Vahid is teaching it again - he can take some getting used to.
Not the most difficult material but also not particularly interesting
Material is pretty interesting and not inherently difficult, but Professor Tarokh is an AWFUL lecturer.  If you don't know how to read a textbook and teach yourself the material, don't take the class.
The material is conceptually challenging, but I think the teaching staff makes it accessible through reasonable psets.
Yo you better be disciplined about this and study all the material/stay up to date or you gonna get wrecckkked by the midterm.
This is a good course of introduction to probability. There is homework due every week, but the homework do not take much time. Understand the concepts and know how to apply is essential. The final exam is quite challenging.
This course is a pretty straightforward and relatively easy probability course. If you're an engineer, it's a good way to balance out a tough courseload.
The class speeds up a lot in the 2nd half. If you read the textbook and go to section you will do extremely well. You can slack off and do fine throughout the course but it will come back to bite you on the final.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE WITH PROFESSOR TAROKH.  If you can wait to take this course until the normal professor returns from sabbatical or can take an alternative class, do so.  Professor Taeokh runs an unorganized class without any notes or taking any questions.  He has an insufficient number of office hours, and then everyone suffers on the exams when material we never covered or worse never properly learned rears its ugly head.  I have heard that this course is usually pretty good for an engineering requirement without Professor Tarokh, and as bad as he was for this class and ES156, I would believe that.  But, under no circumstances should this class be taken with him again.
I would recommend taking this class. The material was not too difficult and the lectures and book were very helpful in understanding the material. Homework was never extremely difficult or time consuming
Probably an easier way to fulfill the engineering stats requirement over Stat110, but I was not impressed with Prof. Tarokh's teaching. His lectures were unengaging, his notes disorganized; trying to review for exams even off of my own handwritten notes from class proved difficult. Sections were supposedly 'optional' but deemed 'basically required' later on. Exams were far harder than homeworks.
Depending on who's teaching the course, this could be great or terrible. I would not recommend taking it with Vahid, the lectures were pretty rough, but if the regular professor comes back from sabbatical next year you should be fine?
Textbook is very helpful to supplement lecture.
Use the book. There are a lot of good examples in there and it has good explanations. Also go to office hours. Office hours are very helpful.
I would tell students that the course does teach fundamental probabilities and that the tools it gives you are very valuable. However, the lectures can also be a bit scattered, and the sections can be less helpful than expected.
Do not take this course. You might as well take Stat 110 as it is probably taught better and does not cover as much material as this course does. This class was very unorganized and poorly ran.
A nice intro to probability. Teaches all the fundamentals you need, but does not dig deeper into the applications.
Vahid's lectures are profoundly uninstructive. If you absolutely have to take this course (and can't substitute it for another probability course), invest in the textbook.
Make sure Vahid isn't teaching this course. Hopefully, another instructor will make the course more bearable.
This is a difficult class. Lectures are very dull because they are mostly proofs of concepts presented in the textbook, rather than example problems, which would be much more helpful considering the entire course is largely based on problems, not particularly theory. The textbook is one of the best intro to probability textbooks on the market, which was helpful, but example problems during lecture would have made this class much better. Luckily, the TFs Katherine and Alejandro knew the material very well and office hours were very helpful when seeking help on problem sets. I would not recommend this class outright to somebody casually shopping for a probability class because it could be structured better, but it wasn't terrible. If I could do it over I may have considered a course in the stat department to fulfill this engineering requirement though.
The lectures were detailed, although more examples were certainly needed. Additionally, including only topics covered on the psets prior to the midtermI'm not sure I completely am comfortable with the current professor; his proofs are helpful, although I felt as if the class as a whole was very disorganized.
A solid course that provides many of the fundamental concepts in probability. Not necessarily focused on applications in probability (take that as you will), but definitely worth taking for anybody looking for a respectable basis of knowledge in the topic.
