This is a chill discussion course with no sections, definitely a nice way to fulfill the SPU requirement if you don't want to invest in something more rigorous. If you want to learn systems theory, this course won't do that. Readings are fun, mostly pop-sci. Short weekly assignments on which you never get feedback, so no idea if/how they were graded. Also next to no feedback on the final paper, so the outcome is a huge mystery. That said, professors and classmates were nice and the whole thing was quite enjoyable.
This class is great for juniors and seniors, who are interested in getting exposed to a broad range of perspectives.  You get to talk about a lot of really complicated issues in a setting that is engaging and relaxed.  Also, there really is not that much work in the class aside from the final paper, so the bulk of it is really just showing up and being ready to participate.
Do it.
This class was really fun. For the first year it was offered, ES 26 was a great exercise in Systems Thinking. However, there is a lot of work to do by the teaching staff to organize the class for future years.
If you came to Harvard looking for a real liberal arts education, this is the class to take.  This class requires no particular knowledge or skills and isn't really about any one subject.  You also won't really come out with any specific skills or tangible results.  As Professor Mansharamani put it at the beginning of the semester, this class is pretty much a liberal arts take on the big problems of today.  You spend a couple weeks each on several different big issues (food systems, pandemics, climate change, inequality, etc.).  The class basically consists of readings and discussions.  The readings are interesting and informative and the discussions are engaging and diverse.  Take this class if you're interested in a higher-level take on the big challenges facing modern society.
take it you want an interesting interdisciplinary look
Amazing class - your boundaries will get pushed, and way of thinking about the world will get expanded.
Great class with a lot of promise. Be sure to ask for feedback early and often. You will be challenged.
This a very cool course. It is the first time they are teaching it, so it was a little bit disorganized, but still very much worth it. Very rarely you will so many perspectives being discussed to come at the core of the problems. The class really showed me how ethics and philosophy influences business and engineering, and how systems thinking can be applied to resolve philosophical or social science issues. The instructors are so cute, quirky, and interesting, I would look forward to class every week just to see them interact. I am sure they will improve the course for the upcoming years, and once that is done, it should be a Harvard staple.
This was the first year this class was taught. I feel like it wasn't as rigorous an exploration of systems as I would would have liked. The readings were cool and it was generally fun to discuss in class with a diverse group of concentrations in the room. I would recommend this class primarily to juniors and seniors who are looking for a cool class to apply knowledge they have learned throughout college. The professors are pretty cool, take advantage of the opportunity of having such a large teaching staff.
This course is a waste of your time. It sounds much cooler than it is. If you want to learn about systems-thinking, do a couple of hours of research online and avoid this course. The professors are incredibly disorganized and the class discussions go off into pseudo-philosophical tangents with literally no clear point. Truly, nothing should make you want to take this course.
I would tell them that this course is interesting and can help you think from a different perspective, but that it is not exactly well organized and there lacks a lot of guidance. I'd recommend them to look into other design thinking classes if that is what they're interested in. Also, too many discussions and very male-centric as there were more men in the class than women.
