The course requires a good investment of time to gain an understanding of the material, but the reward -- understanding how so many of these electronic devices work -- is worth it! Professor Hu is extremely helpful, and the course is very rewarding.
It's an easy class that covers some cool applications of the material. The HWs are easy, and the midterm and final project are cool. Evelyn Hu is an awesome prof who cares a ton about students.
Good class. Evelyn is an amazing professor in that she cares deeply about her students and the material, however she is a mediocre lecturer. This class could benefit from some more structure and more consistent pacing.
A fun introduction to photonic devices. Well taught and engaging.
this class is very dense in concepts that are hard to visualize, but the course moves slowly enough that if you have little to no experience you should be ok
Best class this far. Professor Hu is amazing.
If you are looking to get as much bang for your buck as you can with your electrical requirement, this is not the class for you. If you are looking to enjoy the material and be moderately challenged then take this class.
Just be careful of the homework assignments. Otherwise, Evelyn is a great professor.
This course is a fantastic introduction to semiconductors and photovoltaics and gives incredible insight into how electricity flows through materials on an atomic level. Evelyn Hu is an awesome professor who cares a lot about her students and will go the extra mile to make sure you understand the material. The projects are super interesting and when you finish them, you will be surprised by how much you've learned! Totally manageable workload overall. Highly recommend for anyone with an interest in energy technologies.
Make sure you're genuinely interested in the topic before you decide to take this class.
This is a very straightforward class experience. About 1 pset a week, 3 short, very doable labs, and midterm and final projects instead of exams. It never felt like an unreasonable workload (great for an engineering class!) and the best part of the class is Professor Hu. She is one of the most caring professors in SEAS, and if you get to know her she can really help you.
If you're looking for a fairly easy class with an exceptional professor, then I highly recommend this course. This class doesn't require a lot of you, so it's easy to leave psets and other assignments until the last minute, but if you stay on top of things, it's a very straightforward course.
While this class has no quizzes or tests in the traditional sense it is not easy. The problem sets are challenging and often material is very confusing. Lectures can become very tedious and the material goes way over your head. Just make sure you really are interested in the subject material or this class will be a waste.
This class provides an understanding of how semiconductors work and what makes them so powerful when constructing electronic devices. Lectures are interesting. Homework is not always straightforward as we do not learn how to solve many of the problems and are not always introduced to all the equations beforehand. Be prepared to read the textbook.
If you're an engineering student, you should absolutely take this course both because the material is interesting, and because Professor Hu is one of the best professors I have learned from at the College.
This class is a very good introduction to semiconductor devices and the physics of semiconductors. It teaches students the basics of semiconductor junctions, which underly much of modern electronics.
This class is not the conventional lecture. It challenges you to think and teaches you how to attack problems intuitively and physically. The professor  is brilliant in doing conveying this by example.
Be prepared to think before coming to class.
The reason why we have telecommunications, lasers, solar energy is because of the concepts we learned in this class. If you want to rule the 21st century, come and learn about the technologies you'll need to use!
This is a great course for someone who has never taken a solid state class before. Professor Hu has the ability to effectively communicate the course material to students from a wide range of backgrounds. By the end of this course you will have a good intuitive understanding of how solar cells and transistors work. There is a lot of class participation which is also nice. Would definitely recommend.
Very interesting though low level.
Teaching was not the easiest to follow and the final project is a "teaching" the class about your research topic, which I personally did not like. Whole class was almost too open-ended and not focused. However, the TF and teachers offer a lot of help and support.
THIS CLASS RUINED MY SEMESTER! It wasn't difficult, it was just extremely bureaucratic, stressful, unfair, and bizarre. The class was branded as an "engineering design" course but, immediately following the Add/Drop deadline, the course structure fell apart, clunky PowerPoints became the sole source of learning, and the material was 99% theoretical physics. The assignments were also terribly worded and harshly graded. The midterm and final were graded bizarrely and inconsistently, with scores that seemed to reflect favoritism more than actual content. The standards and guidelines for these assignments were not clear and changed from day to day, the most stressful of these changes occurring during the final weeks of the class for final project submissions. Neither Professor Koleci nor Professor Lombardo answered questions or responses to quizzes very well, sometimes ignoring what the students were actually saying. All of that said, this class might still have a case: the material is useful and you will learn to be able to read academic papers in physics and engineering on these topics. I just wish that the course structure itself had been less stressful and more clear from the beginning and that either it was labeled as a solid-state physics class OR had involved more design and engineering as it had promised.
This class wasn't what I expected it to be.  It's a lot more information about the physics than the devices.  Not particularly great.
This class is a wonderful introduction to photonic and electronic devices from an engineering perspective.
Super fun class! Learn a ton of cool material.
It was an okay class. The first half of the course moved kind of slow with more focus on the physics/theory but once you actually start talking about semiconductors and the devices that use them it definitely picked up in interest. The only thing I was unhappy about was that the final design project suddenly and without warning turned into a final teaching project along with a 15 page paper that made reading period a lot more stressful and was much less satisfying than a design project would have been. But overall, Chris and Carolann are pretty chill and Rob is actually the greatest TF who knows so much so it was a solid introductory class.
Dont take it with Lombardo. Very unorganized and didnt learn a thing. Waste of time.
Granted, this is the first time these professors have taught this class, that being said, it was a bit disorganized. Particularly, the grading was highly variable between students with no explanation or feedback given. Feedback on all assignments was minimal.
You will have great professors especially if Evelyn comes back.  The course subject is applicable to a lot of new technology, which is awesome.  Can be dense at times, but not impossible.
This class is a great introduction to photonics, and provides a very strong understanding of what is occurring at a quantum level.
This class is about the physics behind photonic devices / semiconductor physics. It is not necessarily advertised as such, so be aware. It's not super hands-on with regard to devices, but you do get a good understanding about what happens in the materials that make up electronics (in terms what happens to the electrons). I don't feel like I learned as much as I could have because I got lost in the lectures. It's hard to gauge what the professors want from you/what's expected on you, but they are very available via email and the TF Rob was great.
It's frustrating to take a class as an elective thinking it will be interesting, and soon realizing it's the worst class you've taken at Harvard. The workload wasn't that demanding, but the teaching was just bad. Learning from a powerpoint and group activities maybe just isn't my style? I don't know, everyone seemed to be exceedingly bored and confused in class.
Take the class
This course was pretty terrible. I came out with a basicand I mean basicunderstanding of solid-state stuff, but we did no engineering work at all. We wrote some papers, and barely got to how transistors work at the end. Don't take it.
Great class with really interesting material. The teaching staff is extremely helpful and supportive. If you have any interest in how any semiconductor device works take this class.
Definitely take this class if you have any interest in how (basically all of the) interesting devices in your world work. Semiconductor physics is something that any engineering student should know, and the course is taught in a way that you can come to it as a complete novice and leave with a deep understanding of many fundamental concepts.
I thought this class would be more about the devices made from semiconductors and used in photonics, however it was much more physics based than I had anticipated. I think it should be made more clear that a large component of this course is learning at a very low level how electrons and holes are interacting within electronic devices. I would have preferred a class more focused on the actual devices rather than the physics.
This class is incredible. They spend more time on the material YOU want to study, Evelyn is the best engineering lecturer I have ever had, she gives exciting presentations that make you understand the material really well (her analogies are great). The assignments are not too difficult, but adequately test your knowledge of the material. The labs are interesting fun. The take-home midterm and final are given plenty of time in advance and are fun, creative exercise in applying what you've learned. Overall it's a fun course that is low-stress but I probably learned more in this course than my other engineering courses because the lectures were so effective and informative. Best class. (Anyone can take it too...no real pre-recs needed). Please take it. Make your life a bit easier and learn a lot about a really cool subject)
This course is the best!  You should take it even if you're not an engineer!
good but not the most mathematically rigorous
This class is very different than most Engineering/Science/Math classes. Professor Hu does an amazing job building intuition rather than simply testing on memorized concepts which are immediately forgotten as soon as the semester ends. The result is that the course load is light and you also end up learning more. As a Chemistry & Physics concentrator, this was a great choice to meet my Physics requirement.
I took this class because I wanted to understand how semiconductors work, especially in relation to solar technology. It was the best decision ever. Professor Hu is absolutely incredible, and focuses on making you understand important concepts, rather than on arduous computation. Also, I had never taken an electrical engineering class, but this class, and Professor Hu have made me regret not taking more electrical engineering courses. As a graduating senior (yes--I took this as an elective my senior spring) I am so happy to have taken this class --definitely one of my top 3 classes at Harvard.
The exams are both take home exams. They are not easy as they require you to make decisions on your own. They are both proposals meaning that there is no right and wrong. You are given a lot of freedom could eventually hurt you if you don't reach out to the staff to get additional guidance. Overall: TAKE this class. It's a must for basic knowledge in EE.
Professor Hu is the best engineering professor at Harvard, hands down. She truly has a gift for teaching, and you simply cannot sit in a class taught by her without learning the material. This class is very well-balanced, and unlike other classes, doesn't require 20 hours psets to try and learn the material since the teaching is superb. Take a class with Professor Hu. You won't regret it.
great class.
This is a really good course
Great Senior Spring engineering course - nicest, best teaching staff. I walked out with more knowledge of semiconductors than I thought I would have - the course isn't very challenging and excuses you from knowing everything about semiconductors. Definitely a good intro to solid state but would want to take more courses / read the textbook more before I felt truly confident.
It's awesome and you learn a lot without having to do a lot of work.
This class is a GREAT engineering elective to take.  Awesome teaching staff, not at all overwhelming like so many other courses in the department, and you learn how a handful of ubiquitous devices work!
The teaching staff are incredible -- helpful and friendly.  They really care about the material.  The workload is light, which is both good and bad -- sometimes it was hard to understand material lecture-to-lecture without regular assignments.  I would probably recommend, and I have no EE background.
Even if you are not an electrical engineer, you should take this class. Everything is explained very well from the basics. The teaching staff is amazing.
This course helps develop a strong understanding of the fundamental physics underlying semiconductor devices.  A few key technologies are discussed, such as p-n junctions, solar cells, and lasers.  However, there is not a lot of discussion about the breadth of devices possible with this technology.
Evelyn is amazing.  You will miss out tremendously if you don't take a course with her before you graduate.
Evelyn Hu is the best teacher for disseminating what is otherwise difficult materials. Everything becomes fun.
professor hu is the nicest and one of the most impressive professors i've had at harvard. her clarity of thought is tremendous. definitely take this class!
Prof Hu is one of the most amazing professors at SEAS. She is a wonderful teacher and really cares for you. She wants you to love the material just as much as she does, and she makes you think about the material in ways that really sparks innovation.
I would like to strongly recommend this course to students who are aimed to studying or working in the area of semiconductor devices. This is definitely an excellent course.However, for people who did not learn or haven't touched the quantum mechanics or solid state physics for years, I suggest that they first fill up this gap or review well these subjects before taking this course. But if people are simultaneously taking one of such course (e.g. solid state physics), it might be fine.
Buy the book, read the lecture notes from the website, send someone to class with a tape recorder, but under no circumstances should you enroll in this course. You will hate every minute of every lecture and every assignment. You will feel belittled for no good reason, and there will be nothing you can do about it.
Fantastic class.  Will learn a lot that can lead to interesting research topics.
It was a really good class! Most of the work is conceptual so the assignments are not very hard and yet gives you a really strong in-depth understanding of how semiconductors and semiconductor devices work.
Take this class! Very interesting material, really well-taught, and has reasonable exams, psets and labs!
This class is awesome !! I took this class as a fourth engineering course senior spring and it wasn't a burden at all. This class is completely manageable and a perfect senior spring class: interesting material, super nice professors, laid back, and you get to learn a lot of cool stuff about the mechanisms that underlie many of the solid state devices we use every day. Highly recommend this course !
Very good class. It focuses a lot on the conceptual rather than lots of monotonous calculations. Take it if you want to understand more about the fundamentals of how semiconductor devices work. Make sure to talk to Chris and Evelyn to ask clarifying details as you work through the midterm and final projects.
this class is great! great professors, great material. don't take it if you don't like more open-ended engineering design assignments or quantum physics stuff.
This course provided a good introduction to semiconductor devices like photodetectors and solar cells. Sometimes the homework assignments and design projects were frustrating because we didn't receive much guidance.
This course is an appropriate mixture of theory and application, such that the applications are understood to a deep theoretical level, and the theory is given relevance to its applications.
ES173 was a great introduction to semiconductor materials and semiconductor devices.  It starts with the molecular-scale building blocks and zooms out to design projects, and because there are no midterm exams you're able to really focus on what you're most interested in.  The design projects are difficult if you have never taken an engineering design class before (I hadn't), but the professors are there to talk to you about it.  Evelyn is fantastic.  Chris was very helpful in office hours.  The only negative for me was that I took it mostly to learn about solar cells, and we didn't get to that material until the last two or three weeks.
This is a super interesting class especially if you are interested in something like solar panels - it is really cool to see how everything works on a very microscopic scale.
Very easy course. First half of the course covers very similar material as the first third of ES154.
Great introductory course to solid-state semiconductors. The course builds the material up step-by-step to make it easy to follow and understand. The midterm and final project are also awesome - they are short papers that engage your understanding of the material but take up minimal time and effort to complete unlike a more formal research project.
A good platform to learn about semiconductor, photonics
