You will learn a lot about physiology and numerical system models, but I think that the course is too scattered and schizophrenic to merit a full recommendation
Don't ever show up on time. It's not worth it.
It is a good class for bioengineers, but be prepared for frustrating lab reports and the disorganization.
You only take this if it is a requirement otherwise it will be a waste of time.
I would tell anyone in the engineering department to take this course, but I would not recommend it to anyone.
It's getting better and better each year, take it as early as possible if you're considering biomedical engineering.
Be prepared for a lot of work, but it's a great class!
If you want to be a bioengineer, then obviously you have to take this course. Make sure that your schedule isn't too difficult when you take this course. If you are unsure about engineering, I wouldn't start off with this course because it will probably make you not want to be an engineer after completing the class.
Be ready for the instructors to be difficult and not very helpful. The lack of enthusiasm and disorganization in general puts a huge damper on the experience. Also, the beginning of the class is far harder than the end, but be ready to spend almost all your time on engineering.
Be prepared to put a lot of time into that class.
this will be your hardest class. don't try and take another time-consuming class or you won't be able to put as much time as needed.
Be ready for a lot of time spent on lab reports.
Be ready to work very hard.
This course is very time consuming, but not excessively difficult.
Don't take it unless they make significant changes to the format.
The concepts were not explained very well.  Office hours were not very helpful because they are hesitant to explain things (do not want to give away the answer).  I found it very difficult to get a good grasp on the concepts covered.  It was very frustrating trying to do work when I started every problem set without the slightest clue of what I was doing.
Very interesting but incredibly hard.
The material taught is genuinely fascinating but the class is poorly organized, poorly run, difficult to manage given a full course load, and unfairly tested. I would not recommend it without a reasonable background in college-level science and engineering.
Only take this class if it's required or you are willing to work very hard.
Take it if you really love the subject, but it sucks because it is at 8AM and there is a lot of busy work.
I would say that the material is execellent, but the way that the course is taught is not ideal. The major drawback would be the lack of preparation of the professor.
Only take if you're definitely going to be a BME concentrator. Otherwise you shall be unnecessarily stressed.
If you are interested in human physiology (particularly the pulmonary, cardiovascular, neural, or renal systems), the subject matter of this course will probably really appeal to you. There is also a significant quantitative component to the course though, prevalent in both the homework assignments and the labs. Many of the homework assignments and all of the labs will require you to use MATLAB, and some familiarity will be useful, though not necessary. Some of the labs and homework assignments can be very time-consuming, especially since not all of the lecture materials will be organized in a way as to allow for easy reference.
Other students who have taken the class might complain about the workload. They are nuts. You work about as much as a good engineering ought to work in an introductory course. If you need a course that will simultaneously and efficiently introduce you to physiology, engineering, and MATLAB, this course is the way to go.
This course is incredibly disorganized and difficult to navigate. There is little structured support and it is easy to feel that additional effort will not benefit your grade in the course. The professors do not work together and the expectations between the two professors are entirely different. However, the material itself is quite fascinating, and a knowledge of physiology is crucial for a biomedical engineer.
The material is really interesting and taught pretty well, but the teachers are completely at odds and this makes the course difficult to take.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard so far, hands down. It definitely affirmed by decision to concentrate in biomedical engineering, and it also held a lot of interest for me as a pre-med as well. Maurice and Sujata are both very brilliant people, and it's a great opportunity to learn from them. I should also mention that the class is very time-consuming, though - it's fairly Matlab intensive, so definitely a lot of hours per week are spent on both conceptual material as well as learning how to code. Overall, if you're BME, I'd definitely recommend!
Only take this class if you want to concentrate in BME; it's not the class you take for "fun"
ES 53 is a required class for potential biomedical engineering concentrators. In some regards, it is poorly taught and not well-organized, but at least the material is very interesting and the TFs for this class are an amazing resource. Problem sets are challenging, but collaboration is encouraged and you will continually find yourself learning from your peers.
You will learn a lot of matlab programming, which is very useful, as well as get to bring back math skills. The middle section of the class was significantly easier than either ends, but overall definitely manageable if you put the time into it - wonderful class!
This class is very poorly organized. Lacks a section component. Solutions to psets are not posted promptly. Solutions to practice finals were not posted until the morning of the exam. Very frustrating and tough class.
I have mixed feelings about this class. On one hand, the material in this class is extremely interesting. The instructors do a great job viewing several physiological systems through an engineering lens.On the other hand, there were several things that negatively impacted my experience in the class. For one, the class is not very well-structured. Problem sets are fairly good, but a lot of the handwritten answer keys are difficult to decipher. The labs are interesting, and usually do not take up more than half of the allotted time. However, the instructions/questions are outdated, and the material does not necessarily reflect what is covered in class - as a result, students tend not to care about doing a good job on the labs, which is certainly disappointing.Furthermore, your experience with labs will definitely vary based on the people you work with. I know someone who had something negatively affect his labs almost every week, e.g. partner not showing up to collaborate, dropping out before helping with the lab, computer shutting down spontaneously, etc.Sujata is a great lecturer who really cares about her students, and I think students certainly appreciate that. Maurice also cares about the students, but gives them "tough-love," so don't get too frustrated with his attitude. Also, he's a whiz at doing fast arithmetic, but don't let his act get to you. Make sure to be confident asking your questions, because he tends to cut you off and answer the question himself.
I think BME is awesome and you will end up happy you took this course if you are legitimately interested in BME. That being said, this course will frustrate you beyond your wits end. It is disorganized, and the profs are really unprofessional at times.
I loved ES53! The material is super interesting, and even though the class is a bit disorganized, I think the material overcomes this. Also, Maurice is fantastic--he really forces you to think quantitatively about the material, and the pace of his lectures is always nice and quick which keeps you on your feet.
This class is not necessarily the ideal introduction to engineering; I think it is a course where you have to struggle and sift through a lot of frustrating material to get to the "aha" moments or class discussions that are truly interesting and stimulating. Perhaps I can summarize by saying that if you get through this class and still have a strong interest in pursuing engineering, then engineering is probably the field for you.
Don't take this class as a freshmen. It's plenty of work and you have to learn a lot on your own.
It was a very unorganized class, but the labs were interesting.
All BME concentrators have to go through the pain that is ES 53. The problem sets were unsatisfactory; a balance between Maurice's and Sujata's psets would've been more ideal. Also, learn MATLAB when you can (early in the semester). Or else, you'll always have to depend on someone else who knows MATLAB for the grueling lab reports...
Be careful going into this class. It can be interested at some points, but just a ton of busy work at other times. Your teachers will always be late to class, and your homeworks will fluctuate from being unmanageably long and complicated to being short, sweet, and completely from the lecture slides.
This class is ridiculous, but I definitely got to know my classmates better because of this. It was very challenging for me, but at the same time, very rewarding. It does take a large amount of time and I found myself struggling in other classes because of this.
The material of this course is very interesting, but be prepared for quantitative-heavy problem sets and labs. Matlab plays a large role in the labs, and going to tf office hours is almost necessary to finish the labs. Make sure to take advantage of Maurice's office hours because it will give you the opportunity to review lecture concepts in a smaller setting and will allow you to ask questions, slowing down the review.
This class is disorganized, and the labs are challenging, especially in the beginning. Be prepared to spend a fair amount of time in this course. Both professors are great in office hours - so definitely take advantage of those.
This course has such interesting material and lectures. The main problems are with organization and coordination. This class is frustrating and also rewarding. This class takes up a lot of time. The professors are great individuals to know.
I wouldn't take this course unless it's a requirement for you. It's a ton of work (especially the labs), and the midterms can be frustrating (both Sujata's and Maurice's). You will learn a fair amount though, and at least get a general idea of how to look at the body from an engineer's perspective.
make sure you understand how to use matlab from the beginning or youll regret it
The material that you learn is good, as is the Matlab experience. But do not come into this class thinking you will enjoy it based on that. The class is disorganized and fragmented, as is the nature of classes where you have two independent teachers who have radically different teaching styles and who do not seem to like each other. For BME concentrators it is a must, but I don't know if anyone else should voluntarily subject themselves to it.
A perfect way to sum up this class: a community is built through mutual suffering. The teaching styles of both professors are very different and do not complement eachother. The workload usually ranges from fair to way to much, learning closer to the latter. There was a pset assigned and due during reading period. Class was very disorganized - we were not able to cover some parts of the syllabus. Our exam times would be cut short because of logistical problems- not enough time for exams. The class is difficult and time consuming. Would only take if you are seriously considering ES or BME.
The class is great if some changes are made. If you are thinking about this course, you probably need it for BME. Be aware that the class can sometimes be very frustrating especially when it comes to organization. That said, Sujata and Maurice are very caring even though they have different ways of showing this.
Don't take this class unless you want to be frustrated all the time. You learn some cool physiology stuff, but the rest of the class is just painful.
This class is extremely unorganized. The profs don't seem to collaborate at all, it's almost like taking two classes. One is highly quantitative, the other is highly qualitative. While this might seem like a good mix, it ends up being frustrating when approaching exams and psets. Things are often posted last minute. Working with other students is how I survived this class. FIND A STUDY GROUP.
I loved the material that this class covered, and in general the quantitative approach that it took to the material rather than straight-up memorization of systems. For that reason I particularly enjoyed Maurice's section despite the fact that it could often be confusing and frustrating because he isn't always the most effective lecturer. However, his office hours are extremely helpful. If you prefer memorization and lectures that repeat information so that you will get it then you will prefer Sujata. I found her section to be much less engaging though. Other than that, the course was frustrating in the sense that the professors rarely ever communicate on anything so the course is very poorly organized. This became especially apparent on the final. So, in general the material is great and I do recommend the class, but I seriously hope they figure out the organizing because it can make students quite angry.
It's difficult, but it gets easier because you learn how to stay on top of things. Do not be afraid
Problem sets can be extensive and very difficult, learning matlab is hard at first but gets easier.  Sujata and Maurice have very different teaching styles and philosophies which can cause problems for students.  Overall, put the required time and effort into the class and go to TF office hours when necessary
This class is terribly run.  It gets in the way of the awesome material and interesting lectures.  Much frustration stems from the fact that one professor is a poor communicator and is not invested in the class and that the other is too sensitive too the whinings of the students.  The professors don't talk to each other.  Certain expected responsibilities of the professors, particularly when it comes to test proctoring,  are absent.  I liked the material and both professors are very bright, but the rampant disorganization left a sour taste.
It's a great class, but a little disjointed in the way it's taught.  There are sections that are fairly straightforward, but the rest can be a bit of a challenge.
ES53 is a very challenging class. With that said, the content is very interesting and refreshing: it's awesome to learn about the body in a more quantitative way. Problem sets are hard, exams are hard. Maurice and Sujata are both amazing, although in very very different ways. Don't think that this will be easy, but you will learn a lot.
The course material is great because we learn how to apply quantitative aspects to biological systems (just as the course title says). For example, we cover how much oxygen is consumed when we breath, how blood travels in the heart, the renal system and the visual system and how visual perception works. While I really like the course materials, the professor's teaching styles are very jarring and they are slow at returning psets. They are also not very accessible and the course material would be a lot easier if there was a better curriculum. It is harder than it needs to be because the course is very disorganized.
Definitely a "weed out" class for prospective biomedical engineering concentrators. Make use of TF office hours, as problem sets and labs (specifically the MATLAB components) will be difficult to complete on your own. It's not an easy class, but if you dedicate the necessary time and effort you can get by.
Sujata's part was easy and uninteresting. Maurice's part was hard, but interesting.
I really liked the course! It was well-taught by two absolutely brilliant professors who truly care about the students.Maurice's psets are quite challenging so I would start them early on and got to office hours to ask questions and clarify your understanding of materials. Sujata's psets are very straightforward and sometimes it might seem that the question is too simple but that usually is the case.If Maurice has office hours, go to them! The couple of times I went, they were super helpful.In studying for the quizzes: For Maurice, review your psets because the quiz will be very similar to your psets. For Sujata, she will tell you every type of question that will appear on the quiz so listen up during class. Maurice's quiz is quantitative heavy whereas Sujata's quiz has short answers. For both quizzes I was not able to finish in the allotted time but that's OK because a good portion of students weren't able to either. Don't stress out too much over it because your lab and psets are worth more than those quizzes put together.
The material in this course is very interesting. It really shows physiology in a different perspective, allowing you to see how the body works through a quantitative approach. However, it is quite disorganized at times and the two professors obviously have different opinions on teaching/learning which makes the course seem a bit inconsistent and fragmented. I would only recommend it if you really like learning about the human body and you like math. The lab write-ups were often very time-consuming due to the extensive use of MATLAB, but it really forces you to learn how to use MATLAB and you come to realize just how powerful of a tool it is.
If you want to do biomedical engineering, this course must be taken. This course will take up a lot of your time outside of class, because you need to do both problem sets and lab write-ups, which can take up to a total of 15 hours. The course is not well structured and there are few resources accessible. Be prepared to learn and teach yourself.
Take this class only if you are a BME concentrator or you have serious interest in the subject matter. This was the most disorganized course I have ever taken.  Lectures started late and ended late and were not all that effective in teaching the material.  The professor was late for both the midterm and final both times because they apparently had not been printed.  Homework was posted days later than it should have been.  The website was updated far too slowly for the homework solutions and lecture slides.  The TFs for the course are students, so work was not returned  in a timely manner.  If you have no experience at all with MATLAB, you should definitely get yourself some sort of learner's manual and devote some time in the beginning of the year.  Otherwise labs and psets will take you forever.  They have lab office hours for this class for a reason!  Definitely go to those, as the Matlab you need to be doing for these labs actually requires some serious coding knowledge.  Make use of office hours for the psets and take advantage of Maurice's review sessions.  Maurice's psets tend to tae longer than Sujata's and are more quantitative (and Matlab-oriented) in nature.
You'll learn a lot, and have fun doing it.
This class takes up way more work than you think it will! The labs would take my group anywhere from 6-8 hours apiece and then the homework was either frustrating or trivial. They assume you know MATLAB really well and often trivialize the amount of math you need to know. If you're wondering if engineering is for you, take this class. If you still like the field when you're finished, you're in the right place. My advice: Find good study partners and lab partners. You cannot do this class on your own so find reliable people to work with. You'll absolutely need them. Also, don't get the textbook. You won't need it.
Prerequisites:At least math 1a and 1b, CS50 not required but encouraged. No bio background neededThis was a great class, one of my favorites at Harvard so far. When you can, read the book before the lecture, because then you get really far ahead. Also be sure to ask TFs for help with code, since Matlab can be difficult and the class is arguably more than half Matlab.
This class was incredibly hard, but really powerful in that it affirmed my desire to be an engineer. You learn so much.
If you like plugging numbers into formulas, you will do fine.
This class isn't that difficult but just requires an annoying amount of time.
It is a useful class, but Maurice is very unorganized.
Lectures and exams were impossible to prepared for
This class was miserably difficult. That being said, it was my favorite class. Proceed with caution.
This is a really interesting class but it is also difficult. The hw and labs are challenging and time consuming but you get a lot out of the class. It has helped solidify why I want to be a bioengineer.
You probably are not going to take this class unless you have to. Overall, I learned a lot in this class, and it has taught me more than any other course I have taken here at Harvard. That being said, you are going to have to put in the work. Lab reports, once they start up, can take around 4-6 hours depending on how MATLAB heavy it is. In addition, you will probably be assigned psets that can take around 5-7 hours to do, so be prepared to spend some nights during the week staying up pretty late. Also, this class is probably most people's first exposure to MATLAB. There is a learning curve at first, but the TFs do a pretty good job teaching you the basics of what you will be needed to perform for the class, as well as future coding.
Take it; but GOOD LUCK! Ask students who have taken the class before and your TFs for help. You'll learn a lot and bond with your classmates working through all the assignments/labs. It's a huge time commitment though, so be careful choosing your other classes for the semester (although it's definitely been done in conjunction with CS50, etc by some crazies)
This class isn't as bad as some people say. I learned a lot and honestly thought the material was pretty interesting. MATLAB can be a bit annoying, but spend some time with the MATLAB tutorials at the beginning of the course, or learn the basics outside of class. It'll pay off in the end! Go to lecture, and take notes on things that aren't on the slides. If you miss class, meet with Sujata or Maurice outside of class -- both care a lot about the students (they show it in different ways) and are very very accessible.The textbook is also unnecessary in my opinion. I didn't buy it, nor did I feel the need for it at any point in the course.
Be prepared to be very frustrated at times. The material is actually pretty interesting, but lectures were sometimes very disorganized (the ones by Maurice). In the end, you might not have a choice of whether or not you can take this class, and if that is the case, then just stay on top of your game and reread the lecture slides since that helps sometimes. Start your homeworks as early as you can so that you can ask questions, which trust me you will have.
This class is really great for understanding the physics behind the physiological systems but it is VERY challenging and takes a lot of time to do properly. Beware lectures that dont have slides, try to take good notes.
This course requires a large amount of mathematical, computational, and programming work. Do not underestimate this when taking this course as a physiology course.
This course covers very interesting material, but it requires a tremendous amount of work, and it can also be frustrating sometimes because the course is not organized very well.
This course was a mess. Maurice and Sujata's teaching styles are very different and don't really complement one another - Maurice goes very fast and has long problem sets that can be difficult to decipher while Sujata goes a lot slower and has problem sets that can be repetitive (same concepts over and over again). I don't feel like we were equipped with the knowledge in lecture (there is no section) to do well on the problem sets, and many times, the problem sets were not doable if we did not go to office hours. I don't think the TFs were all that helpful, seeing that they didn't have the answers to the problem sets themselves and didn't seem to possess any knowledge beyond what they took away from ES-53 when they took the class in previous years. The class was poorly organized - this is evident from the fact that the final started 20-25 mins late and the professors were constantly making corrections during the final.  Taking ES-53 honestly wasn't a very pleasant experience. The material is very interesting, but unfortunately, the class was very disappointing.
The material covered in this class is definitely very interesting and provides a very quantitative approach to human physiology which makes it less of a memorization class. However, Professor Maurice is the most disorganized professor I have had in Harvard which for me was the main thing that made this course extremely frustrating. Homeworks are supposed to be posted on Fridays and are due the following Wednesday, but they are constantly assigned late (or even forgotten to be assigned at all); the syllabus is useless for planning your time; although the professors aimed to do quantitative problems in class every week, that barely ever happened etc. If it's possible to avoid this class, I would suggest doing that, unless you are fine with chaos in your life.
This course does cover some interesting material, but it is not presented well. This class is fine if the workloads for your other classes are very low.
I would tell them to take the class because it is extremely interesting and that it caused me to declare bioengineering. However, all should be prepared to spend many many hours on the psets and the lab write-ups
This course is really interesting. Sujata's lecture material is easier but still as interesting, but I think Maurice's tends to be more rewarding. It's a good balance with the two of them.
Take it only if necessary for your concentration. It incurs too much stress and sleeplessness to be taken for just fun/elective.
If you are concentrating in BME, you have to take this class... It will be disorganized, the tests will be very long, homework and labs will be very time consuming, but that isn't going to change.
Only take this class if you are considering biomedical engineering. It is difficult and will hurt most of your gpa's but is helpful as a concentration requirement, not for pre-med's or biology majors. Sujata and Maurice are awesome and balance each other really well.
Be prepared to encounter a lot of material and disorganization. Also forming a study group can be very helpful for tackling psets and make sure to form a strong lab group.
It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness. This class was my first experience with any kind of engineering, and, as such, it was quite a challenging course; my brain had to do things it never had to before, but I came to like it. I may even love it one day. A strong community is formed through mutual suffering, haha, and the combination of professors gives this class a unique dynamic that you may remember for the rest of your life.
This class is very time consuming, but doable. Maurice and Sujata are both amazing professors, but this class is somewhat unorganized, so you will get the short end of the stick sometimes. In order to succeed in this class, you must go to class and you must listen in lecture (especially Maurice's). Overall, I really liked the class because of the professors and the material, but I didn't like how we had a problem set and a lab report due two days before the final.
though this class is challenging, it is incredibly interesting and the environment is very collaborative
Definitely take this course if you like math, biology and have some coding background (some MATLAB is definitely helpful)
This is a good course. Maurice's component was more enjoyable for me because it was more qualitative than Sujata's, which was more qualitative. I would recommend reading the textbook before lectures and not missing a single lecture because there is a lot covered in each class.
Not a horrible course, but it is time consuming and keep that in mind while putting together your schedule
When taking this class it is necessary to commit to actually working through the P-Sets. If instead you collaborate, it will be very difficult to grasp the quantitative material.
Though the course begins very vigorously with mathematical modeling and MATLAB simulations, going to Maurice's OH's helps tremendously because he ends up getting you started with part of it. In addition, the TF's OHs (particularly Anu's) help finish the PSets on Sunday, though set aside most of the day to complete it. The first and third exam reflect Maurice's lectures on quantitative analysis, so they are rather difficult, but Sujata's second exam, with a couple of questions from Maurice, tends to be more conceptual, and thus a little easier to grasp the material.
Don't take this unless you are seriously considering BME.  The class starts off very math and MATLAB coding heavy.  Don't underestimate how much MATLAB there is.  The psets until halfway through the semester were nearly all coding, and the labs are always coding.  Don't underestimate how long the lab writeups will take either.  Maurice does most of the quantitative stuff but he tends to mumble and seems very disorganized.  Sujata's material is extremely qualitative and she is still getting the hang of the class.  This feels a lot like a CS course for the first part of the semester because of all the coding, so be prepared.  Class always starts late (one time 20 minutes late) and sometimes go over.  The "quizzes" (actually midterms) always go over by 15-30 minutes.  They make mistakes in the psets, labs, and even the exams that they don't notice until someone asks them about it.    Overall, a very disorganized class, but u gotta take it if you're BME.
Sadly, although the material is very interesting, this class suffers from a lot of disorganization. This disorganization detracts a lot from the course and makes the course much more difficult than need be. You should know the material cold and have strong algebra skills if you wish to be successful in the class.
This class is hard, and you may feel like you don't know what you're doing at times.  But I can guarantee that this class will teach you a lot, and by the end of it you will be thanking yourself that you took it.
Get ready to learn Matlab. "This was CS50."
A good introduction to Biomed Engineering, and a little bit of a weed out class for the department. This needs to be your hard class for the semester because you will need to spend a lot of time on the assignments, labs, problems sets, and exams.
The material is very interesting and the class is worthwhile to take but only if you have a enough time to devote to understanding the material and labs and only if this is an area you are interested in continuing your study of, otherwise I would not recommend taking the course.
The upside: you'll learn a lot in this class, not because the professors spoon-feed you but because of the sheer amount of work you will do for it. I found that the professors both care a lot about whether you learn the material; they just have different ways of showing it. Professor Smith heaps work on you, while Professor Bhatia guides you step by step. I preferred Prof. Smith's teaching style because I learned more that way, but I'm sure others in the class appreciated Prof. Bhatia's style. The downside: this course is definitely disorganized. The disparity in teaching style can be jarring, and it was frustrating to have a huge problem set due a few days before a midterm that was a week before the final. If you put in the time and do work in groups, you should be fine.  Oh, and don't buy the textbook. It's not worth it.
You know what you're going to get with this class, hard work, a lot of matlab, and interesting intro to physiology from a quantitative perspective. Don't let disorganization and other crazy stuff that goes on distract you. Do your work and you'll get out the class and move on to bigger and better things.
This course requires a lot of time.  It is not very organized so be prepared for going with the flow of the semester. Matlab has a learning curve, and is an important part of the course.
Make sure to have some experience in Matlab, as Matlab is used extensively in the psets and labs. Additionally, this class is quite unstructured (lecture and assignment-wise) and thus requires quite a bit of self-teaching and effort on your own part to prepare well for exams.
This courses teaches you a great deal about how the body works through a quantitative approach, and also takes quite a deal of time.
Don't let this class discourage you from pursuing a degree in Biomedical Engineering. However, be prepared to be challenged.
Take this class if you are interested in biomedical engineering, but do not take it if you are not.
Make sure your lab partners are on point or you will regret the day you put this class on your study card.
I loved the material we learned about in this class and the labs were pretty neat.However, the textbook was generally not useful and lectures did not always present the material in the clearest manner making it difficult to fully understand the material. The Fox textbook was useful for the physiology side of things, but had nothing pertaining to the quantitative part of the course (which is a considerable component).It would have been helpful if there were a textbook or other secondary source which had explanations of lecture material (ie. GHK current equation or the pulmonary material). It was difficult to read the handwritten notes and homework solutions to study for tests. The handwritten solutions were often incomplete, skipping over parts of problems. In the future, the solutions would be more useful if more side notes were put into them explaining what was being done, and of course, if they were more complete.Also, the first few labs involve a steep learning curve of Matlab if you have never used Matlab before. I found some of the early labs took quite a bit of time and were pretty involved. However, the labs were definitely really interesting and Matlab is a useful skill to have, especially as an engineer. Generally, labs were not too problematic for me.
This course is very difficult and not particularly well organized. Be prepared to be frustrated by difficult assignments and labs for which you will not feel entirely prepared. Find a good lab group with which to work, and expect to go to office hours every week; labs take 9-10 man hours and it's completely impractical to do them by yourself. Problem sets are similar. Expect some heterogeneity in the styles and areas of emphasis of the different professors.
Really interesting material, but be prepared to spend a lot of time
If you are thinking about bioengineering or the life sciences general, take this class as early as possible. It WILL be difficult, but it will expose you to just about every element of biology that you will see in the future. The book is worth owning and studying for the MCATs.
This course is interesting, but difficult.  Professor Smith knows his material extremely well, and he will truly challenge you with his lectures, problem sets, and labs (the latter two which can be very matlab heavy).  Professor Bhatia has a much different style of teaching and her portion of the material is much more qualitative and has a pre-med class feel to it.
This course is difficult and time consuming.  The material is very interesting, but the problem sets (at least those from professor Smith) will be quite complicated and sometimes difficult to understand.  Lab reports are also gigantic.  Work in large groups.Do the readings.  They ARE helpful.  A word of caution, take time to understand formula derivations.  You will be expected to memorize them, pointless as some of them may be.  (Note:  Prof.  Smith might not even explain all the parts of a derivation).I walked out of this course feeling very good about everything that I learned, but I often hated on this course while I was in it.
Sometimes you might get frustrated about the disorganization in the course but the environment the professors and TFs provide is a very open and stimulating one and you form a close community with the people you work with.
It's not a very well-organized class.
The material is extremely interesting, but sometimes the structure of the class gets in the way of that.
This is a really interesting course that convers physiology from a mathematical/physical perspective. It's a lot of work, but what you put in is what you put out. I had opted out of pre-med but this class made me reconsider.
Be prepared for some bad scheduling conflicts and some disorganization.
you have to take it if you're bioengineering, but if you're not and you want to take it, maybe do it pass fail so you don't have to do a crazy amount of work (3-4x my other classes, at least)
This is a solid introductory course, but the teaching is abysmal. It is a BME requirement, so be prepared to work around the difficult teaching style.
You will learn a lot in this class and as long as you are willing to put in the necessary work, you will do fine. The labs and homeworks can be time consuming so be sure to start early.
I feel like this class is appropriate if you want to do engineering and its a good beginners engineering class too. After taking the class, I realized engineering wasn't for me even though I liked the class, professor, students and TFs in it--I was just more passionate about Chemistry in general than chemical/biomedical engineering. There's no real trick to getting an A in the class either so you won't find any "mind" games. Just know the material cold and be good at algebra. The only problem is if you are a stickler for punctuality and organization there will be occasions when you don't get this. I would recommend it to everyone as a senior spring sort of class because you do learn some interesting things, but I feel like it might be too heavy a work load for senior spring and there's not much point forcing it into you schedule if you're not an ES concentrator.
It was a really interesting class that covered a lot of material.  Problem sets take a really long time, even when you start early, and do not underestimate the amount of time labs will take you.  Get a really good lab group because you will spend a lot of time with them.  And definitely go to office hours or ask questions if you don't understand something.
The material of this class is really, really cool and you'll learn a lot. Having said that, it is very unorganized and expect times of lecture to start and end late, as well as assignments/exams to be moved from where they are on the syllabus. While I learned a lot from this class, it definitely felt like two separate classes between lecture and lab. The lab writeups can take anywhere from 8-12 hours between 3 people and are very demanding. If you are going to take this course, definitely have the time to commit to that and then some. In addition, the problem sets can be vague so make sure you utilize office hours or find a good study group.
The course is difficult but beneficial.  The labs are hard- make sure you pair yourself with good lab partners and get help (and know how to write code in MATLAB!).  Maurice is also a great professor, although he's reserved and can seem a little dry at first.
This course is very difficult, requires a higher level of thinking than most courses I had taken before it, and demands hours and hours of work each week. However it will be very rewarding. I learned a lot about physiology, about thinking like an engineer, and about clinical/physiological experimentation techniques. Also wrapped in there somewhere is learning to use Matlab. Try it for a week or two, but be prepared to drop it, this course is not for everyone. ES 53 has improved my ability to think rigorously and analytically, greatly increased my knowledge base for bioengineering, and confirmed my interest in the field. I recommend this course enthusiastically.
I hope you're ready to learn Matlab. There's a lot of it from the start. Don't be fooled by the first pset, they get much much harder. Although I love Professor Smith as a person, I do not think he respected us as students nor respected our time. The quizzes will take you until an hour after class is supposed to end. Get to know your classmates well, they'll save you from this class. I've heard that it gets better from here on out, though, so don't give up hope.
The material of this class is definitely quite interesting, though you should be aware that its more of a stepping stone to enlightenment rather than enlightening itself. Also, the disorganization of the class may frustrate you, be prepared to work with it.
I rated the class quite highly, but mainly because I really liked the material. Although Professor Smith was very flexible and helpful, he was also quite disorganized. We ended up having to cut out a lot of the material we were supposed to go over, and yet we still had a bunch of assignments and even a midterm during Reading Period to get us "caught up." Overall, I liked Professor Smith, but future students should be sure to keep tabs on him.
Be prepared for immense laboratory write-ups and difficult problem sets.
This class is a huge time commitment. The material is very interesting, but many homeworks are very long, and it really helps to have experience in coding for lab reports. Lab reports are shorter than they were in previous years, but coding for them takes a lot of time unless you are already familiar with it (eg. have taken cs50, or know how to use MATLAB already)
This course offers a quantitative approach to many of the phenomena studied in human anatomy/physiology; for that reason, expect to see numbers come up pretty often and be ready to work with them extensively (especially on laboratories).
If you take the time to do the problem sets well, you will really understand the material and ace the exams.
The class will serve to challenge you, by combining the difficult of physiology with that of quantitative problems. It requires effort and time, but it is quite worth it in the end. I feel like I've actually gained alot of understanding and knowledge from this class!
It is a lot of work but I learned the most from this course than any other I have ever taken.
Interesting course but lots of work.
interesting subject, will walk away from the class knowledgeable, a bit boring
The material that you are being taught is extremely interesting, but the tests and problem sets are difficult.
ES53 is a great foundation for biomedical engineers. It explains biology to the engineer, and applies engineering principles for the biologist.
If you're tolerant of disorganization and interesting in quantitative physiology, or planning to concentrate in Biomedical Engineering, this is the class for you.
Most people would only take this class when they are sure that they are concentrating in bioengineering or biomedical engineering. It is a very tough class and a lot of work has to be done, obviously, but it's definitely an engaging class. If you are up for a challenge and are aware of how much you need to learn, it is a great class to take.
It's interesting; the lab results are personalized and fun to know. Lab questions can be time-consuming (especially the Matlab ones), few resources for help available outside of office hours.
The content of this course is engaging, however requires a lot of proactive effort and work.
Required for BE but it is a tough intro course. Problem sets toward the second half of the year were difficult and require time at office hours and a good amount spent in groups. Plan to devote time and effort to this course. This course should be one of the main workload courses of the semester.
THIS IS THE HARDEST CLASS I TOOK EVER! IF YOU THINK CS50 IS HARD, THINK AGAIN. THE MAT LAB IS INSANE. THE THINGS YOU DO TO DATA IN MATLAB... OMG. ITS EASIER TO CURE CANCER THAN TO GET THROUGH THIS CLASS. SERIOUSLY DO NOT TAKE UNLESS YOU ARE SURE YOU ARE GOING TO DO BIOENGINEERING. but then again, i heard next year, sujata is teaching it herself, so it will probably be much easier. Maurice smith is the hardest professor on this campus. beware.
The MatLab sucks, but the key is to get a lab group with 3 members so it's less work. The TFs make this class. They're super dedicated and helpful. Kate was the best TF I've ever had (but she's graduating wah).
This course should not be called quantitative physiology. If you are expecting to learn how to mathematically model organ system function, you will be disappointed. It's essentially an anatomy and physiology course with a couple of equations sporadically included, which seems more suitable for pre-med students as opposed to bioengineers. Also, there is a significant MATLAB component to this course, which is frankly unfortunate. None of the assignments were challenging, but you will spend A LOT of time trying to figure out MATLAB.
Don't take this course unless you are very certain about your desire to pursue bioengineering, or you take joy in being challenged more than you have likely ever been challenged. You have to have some sort of enthusiasm for the material in order to get through this class. Take the midterms very seriously, they pretty much make your grade.
You may not understand everything Maurice teaches during class, but try to look it over afterwards and talk to him or a TF if you can't figure it out. You are very much responsible for everything he teaches, fully or not. But Sujata's portion is straightforward.
This class is very difficult and can be very frustrating sometimes, especially during Maurice's teaching period. He teaches very quickly and often mumbles a lot so it is very helpful to do some of the readings during his section. When Sujata teaches, she approaches the material very slowly and deliberately, trying to nail it into everyone's head almost. This approach is much more preferable than Maurice's but at some points it feels as though it is too slow. The workload in this course is very large. The labs can take a very long time to complete. Try to make sure and have someone in your lab group that has some good experience with Matlab. The p sets range greatly. Some of Sujata's take 1-2 hours whereas Maurice's can push 12 or so hours. On the bright side the material is so interesting and can be enough to get you through this difficult class.
This course can be very time-demanding, especially if you try to do all of the problem sets without help from the TFs, but if you do all the work it is easy to stay with the material and can be rewarding as you learn a lot of human physiology and common diseases/physical ailments.
Though this class is very difficult, the amount that you learn and the problem-solving/time-management skills that you develop are well worth it. Just be prepared for a huge challenge and something different than you've ever done before.
BEWARE! This class is extremely disorganized; the main reason why is was tolerable were the TFs, who essentially did all of the work, and helped put this class together. Only take this class if you're over 70% sure you want to major in BME. Or take it if you don't mind spending a ton of time in office hours, trying to make sense out of the PSet, studying for a midterm that is going to be unreasonably demanding (for the 45 mins you will have), and feeling frustrated because you're not sure if there's a PSet due next week. The class will probably be easier if Maurice doesn't teach, and it gets restructured.Nevertheless, the material was very interesting; it gives you a good idea of what BME feels like, and, in my opinion, may convince you to consider Med School (thanks to the lovely Sujata).
ES 53 is a challenging course, testing to see how far one can apply basic concepts in complicated systems.  One needs to be prepared to dedicate ample time on Psets and labs as well as take time to review lecture material.  The course can also be slightly overwhelming at times, so students should be prepared to handle a lot of course work in a short period of time.  However, the material is extremely interesting and definitely topics biomedical engineers would enjoy and appreciate.
Good Lord. As of 2015 when I took the class, the class was AWFUL! There are rumors Sujata is taking over-- we only had her for like 3 weeks so I'm not sure what to tell you-- she is very slow but it will probably be easier. It is obvious Maurice does not care about our actual learning-- he is unorganized and incomprehensible. He needs to teach the basics before diving into straight derivations for a week straight. What the hell is the point of walking us through the derivation if we don't know qualitatively what in God's name the equation means... Sujata's psets are good, Maurice's are so unbelievably long, poorly written, and are alllll math based such that even if we learn the math (thanks to TF ofice hours) WE KNOW THE MATH BUT DON'T KNOW WHAT THE HELL WE'RE DOING ACTUAL MEANS! What is the point of that?????? PSETS ARE WAY TOO HARD AND LONG. TESTS ARE SO HARD AND LONG. LABS ARE STRAIGHT DUMB, DONT TEACH US ANYTHING, AND ALSO HARD AND LONG. It's a joke that psets take 10x longer than labs but labs are worth more percent in your grade for this class. The class doesn't at all line up with textbook (don't waste your money buying it). The slides are great for Sujata as she teaches from them, awful for Maurice as he doesn't. If u miss one of his classes you're basically f*****-- make sre you have a good friend in the course. The class is A LOT OF WORK, like 15 hours a week on one pset if you really are very confused. Expect to spend your nights in TF OH (clear up all evenings from 8pm on now...) I chose to "recommend this course with reservations" because you WILL have to take this course if you are considering concentrating in BME, there is no way around it, so bless you. This course made me not want to concentrate in Biomedical Engineering anymore; it is an AWFUL introduction and basically a course in how to use Matlab, but many of my peers have decided to continue.
be prepared to work many late hours
The material in this class was fascinating and engaging. It made me think more critically and quantitatively about how the body works and why it goes wrong sometimes. About the class structure: Sujata's component was wonderful, organized and entirely manageable while Maurice's was highly interesting and challenging but also a lot more work and a bit more disorganized. Although the workload for this class is certainly a ton, all the work we do is really interesting.
It's OK to feel overwhelmed. Almost everyone in ES53 will feel overwhelmed at some point. The TFs are very kind and helpful and actually care about you as human beings. Don't be afraid to ask for extensions. If you're going through a rough time, explain and they will understand. Form study groups to finish PSETS and Matlabs together. You are not alone. Reaching out for help is not a sign of insufficiency. You are a human being. You belong to a community. You deserve respect.
ES53 puts physiological processes into a quantitative perspective, which is great for intro to bioengineering. You'll get very familiar with how to construct and analyze graphical representations of the cardiac cycle, oxygen saturation of hemoglobin in the blood, the sodium and potassium conductances during an action potential, and retinal ganglion responses to a light stimuli, as well as how to use laws of fluid dynamics to explain susceptibility to cardiovascular diseases like atherosclerosis, and apply mathematical models for gating channels that influence sodium and potassium conductance. Sujata and Maurice are incredible professors, and the teaching fellows are outstandingly dedicated and super helpful. Lots of group bonding at near-nightly office hours.
Hard class but interesting material and good teaching fellows.
very hard
Please do yourself a favor and do not enroll in this course, unless you are 100% certain you are concentrating BME. Even so this class will probably make you reconsider your decision and hate material you thought you would enjoy. To say this course is a horrible introduction to SEAS would be an understatement. I'm considering changing my concentration because if this course is representative of the entire department this is a department I don't want to be a part of. The execution of this course is beyond poor. The organization is terrible. There seems to be no correlation between what is learned in lecture and what is requested of student on problem sets and in labs. It's really sad because the material is interesting, and this could be a great class. Every year student hate the class and every year no changes are made. Never has a class made me feel so inadequate. By design the course sets students up for failure.
It is hard but very worth it. You will learn a lot and make lots of new friends along the same. The problem sets may seem daunting at first but it is very doable if you take your time to think through the materials and go to office hours.
Though this class is a very challenging class, it is also very rewarding. Be prepared to work very hard and spend a majority of your time on this class as it is very demanding but along the way you will garner a lot of knowledge .
Do not take this course unless required for BME concentration. Would definitely help if you have taken physics and calculus, and have experience with MATLAB
Go to everything and focus on understanding the processes involved.
This class has several labs and problems sets to be completed throughout the semester, which take a long time to complete.
You have to take it, so just brace yourselves. There's a good reason Q scores are so low. You will waste a lot of your valuable time and energy doing pointless assignments. But you will learn a lot. The course is not extremely well structured and there's a huge disconnect between the teaching staff, but hey, that's Harvard engineering for you.
This class is a requirement for BME students, hence why most of us take it. It seems like it is going to be interesting, and when you start off the year with Sujata it is. As soon as you get to Maurice, things all go downhill, and the disorganization and disconnect of the class consumes you. You will get through it, but only with the immense help of the TFs and of other students in the class.
It is extremely time demanding and difficult, but I have learned more from this class alone than all of high school biology. Very demanding, but very worth it.
Quite simply, this class is a gem, as we at Harvard like to put it. There is no finalonly a two-day take-home paperand very few quizzes over the course of the term. You have the opportunity to make ancient Mesopotamian food one night, and it actually is surprisingly good. Section field trips are awesome too.
It is a course worth taking for the material alone. Sujata's half of the course is very easy while Maurice's is tougher. Most of your work for the course will be on labs with matlab. The professors do not have the same idea of what they want the students to get out of the course, so it can be very disjointed. That being said, the subject matter is extremely interesting.
This is a very straightforward introduction to physiological systems analysis, and it will give you a good sense of whether or not bioengineering is right for you. The course itself isn't terribly demanding and the labs are very interesting.
This course will take a lot of dedication and hard work. Don't be fooled by the initial pace of the course. It gets very difficult very fast. Work towards a better understanding of Matlab, because labs will be very, very tough. Get a problem set group and make sure you understand the questions. It's a really tough class.
Prepare for some shenanigans. EOM
This class is extremely difficult but required for the Biomedical Engineering concentration. Make sure to use your TFs as they will be the only way to get through this course.
This course felt like a roller coaster ride. There were times when I was fully engaged in the material and felt comfortable with what we were doing in class and others where I couldn't tell you what we had done for the past three lectures. The fact that the course is split between two professors means that there is massive shift in the way the material is taught and tested when going from one to the other, but it doesn't necessarily have to be this way if the professors actually communicated with each other and with the class. The labs in this class were pretty interesting, but it often felt like they had only a little bit to do with the material in class.
Go to help sessions/office hours.
This course is very time consuming and slightly disorganized, and it can be difficult to manage problem sets on top of laboratory reports.  However, the class support is great, and you quickly learn to work collaboratively with your peers.  The material that you learn is extremely exciting and useful, and Dr. Smith and Dr. Bhatia are excellent lecturers.  You will enjoy the class, but be prepared to devote a lot of time to it!
This course is hard, you will struggle, but if you stay with it you will be happy you did. The material is interesting and everyone becomes good friends with each other by the end of the year through the mutual struggle of doing psets and preparing for labs and tests. You learn so much, not just material but methods of studying and testing as well as new ways to think.
If you take this course, be prepared for a somewhat disorganized class and a lot of work. Overall, however, the content you learn in this class is really really interesting and definitely worth all the trouble that this class may bring.
This class is a necessary evil as a biomedical engineering concentrator. Don't take it unless you're absolutely sure or pretty sure that BME is the concentration for you, but do not take the class with the idea that it's representative of the rest of the department or the rest of the experience as a BME concentrator. Be ready to hit the ground running the first few weeks, because the work is pretty front heavy in terms of psets and labs and learning how to make Matlab work. But on the bright side, everyone else who takes the class with you is also on the struggle bus, and your classmates become like a mini family
I can not express in words how horrible this class was. The professors were clearly intelligent and seemed to care about the material, but neither of them cared about the class. This is easily the most disorganized classes at Harvard and you should only take it if you need to concentrate in Bioengineering and if you have 20+ hours a week to do homework.
This course is very intensive - the lab and homework components are extremely laborious. On a positive note, the subject matter is extremely interesting and you will be rewarded for all your hard work during the semester.
This was the most rewarding and interesting class that I took this semester, but go into it with some things in mind. The first half of the course will take over your entire life. I was consistently staying up until 2/3am at office hours to finish problem sets, and I was not procrastinating at all. People would start the problem sets the day we got them, attend office hours every time, and still be working on them the night before. They're hard. Do not wait to go to office hours, and do not wait to find friends in the class to study with. Both Maurice's and Sujata's office hours and helpful, so make an effort to attend both. The class is definitely frontloaded, so if you can make it through the first midterm, you can definitely handle the second half of the course. The class is plagued with disorganization and bad communication, so be prepared to be frustrated and to reach out to Maurice and Sujata when they've left you in the dark. Despite all of the flaws, the material is great, and you will truly feel like you're learning useful stuff. Even though some of the problem sets absolutely sucked in terms of workload and difficulty, I always turned it in feeling proud of what I'd learned and what I knew how to do. You will learn REALLY cool stuff.
I kind of hated this class.  In the beginning of the semester, I would spend hours working on impossible problems on the psets--those kinds of problem where you read them and wonder if you ever even learned how to do that, since you have no idea where to begin.  On the first midterm I felt the same way, and so did everyone else since we all failed it.  I almost switched from BME because of this class.  However, after the first half, it really eased up and I was able to enjoy the material without stressing out so much about a heavy workload.  And, believe it or not, the material is actually incredibly interesting when you're not super frustrated by the psets.  My advice to future students is just to wait it out, since it does get easier.
The class is very unorganized overall. Don't get discouraged by Maurice's psets and quiz. They're much harder than Sujata's and it is possible to do well in the course even it seems like it is too difficult.
This class was incredibly interesting and I learned a great deal. It was also a lot of work when Maurice was teaching. We had both problem sets and labs every week, and the labs were often long, repetitive, and time consuming. The one advantage of this is that I got to know my lab partners very well. The problem sets could also be quite long and difficult. The class requires sharp problem solving skills and you really have to synthesize all of the information you have learned. I would be weary about taking this class with several other hard or time consuming classes, but I would definitely recommend it.
Not very well organized, but the material is very interesting! Go to the professors' office hours because they care a lot about you learning the material even if that sense does not come across in class.
This is a difficult class and not very well organized. The material is interesting.
Unless you're interested in concentrating in biomedical engineering (whether or A.B. or S.B.), I highly won't suggest taking this course. Yeah, the material is interesting. Yeah, there are some interesting labs. But the level of disorganization just takes away too much from the course. Prof. Smith makes things too hard and moves too quickly; Prof. Bhatia teaches things a bit too slowly (though she does try to make sure we get her material very well). There really isn't a balance. Problem sets range from 50 to 200 points (and also difficulty levels vary too), so the imbalance can be very taxing. If the course had a bit more organization and better support, it would be an awesome course to take. But at this point, it's too disorientating and you come out feeling that all the time you put into it was to waste.
The class is poorly organized and appears to have been for years. It's a absolute shame that nobody has made an effort to structure this course effectively, and nobody seems to want to. Teaming up with peers and holding your breath tell it's over is the only way to get through.
If you are concentrating in Biomedical Engineering, you have to take this course, so... If you can, try to make sure that you have a strong background in CS, math, physics, chemistry, and biology before you take this class. It's difficult, but you'll learn so much from this class and you'll come out stronger and smarter! I've personally learned so much about myself from going through the experience of taking this class, and I've personally really enjoyed the material taught despite the challenges. Overall, I'm glad I took this class, even though it has been the most difficult class I've taken at Harvard.
Do this only if you are seriously considering bioengineering--otherwise a lot of work.
Some parts of the class are really unstructured
This class will be one of the most difficult classes you take, but will likely be worth it. The benefits of this class are that it introduces you to the fascinating quantitative side of physiology, which no other discipline can teach. Unlike many other physiology classes, there is no emphasis on memorization. Instead, the class emphasizes understanding of how systems work, and how dysfunction arises, which makes the material very interesting and exciting to learn. 

However, the complete lack of organization makes this class a battle, so be prepared. To get the most out of the class, it's best to start your work early and find a good pset group. Dr. Smith's psets are extremely challenging, particularly the first few ones, but don't let that discourage you. As long as you attend most of the TFs' office hours, its possible to get through the psets. Find a group of people to work with, and check answers with them, as this will make things a lot easier. Dr. Smith holds office hours, which can be helpful, especially for difficult problem sets (like the visual system pset) so go to office hours. Don't worry if the workload in the first few weeks seems overwhelming, you learn to adapt to it, and when Dr. Bhatia starts teaching, the workload drastically decreases. Understanding MATLAB is important for the labs and psets throughout the semester, so make sure you understand the tutorials assigned at the start of the course. 

Exams in this class can be extremely demoralizing, particularly Dr. Smith's questions, because they can be very challenging. It's important to go into the course recognizing that you wont get high 80 or low 90% on exams, but understanding that a lower score does not mean that you don't understand the material. Don't be discouraged by a low score on the first midterm, because Dr. Bhatia puts questions on the second midterm to make it easier. 

Overall, this course was challenging but extremely interesting. Being in office hours for multiple hours a week, you'll definitely make friends, and the BME community is very close. Don't be scared off by the high amount of work in the beginning, as you will learn to cope with it. Good luck!
This class is brutal. The MATLAB assignments will drive you crazy, the psets will occasionally drive you insane. A reasonable way to think of it s that you are taught the alphabet and expected to write a novel for homework. Your mind will be blown by the awesomeness of the content but be warned, if you don't enjoy anatomy/biology, stay away.
It is a great introduction to the world of physiology and systems using mathematical models.
It can be a pretty frustrating class at times, and it will consume your life at the beginning of the summer.  Nevertheless, it is super interesting material.
The only reason you should take this class is as a Biomed requirement. It is so incredibly unorganized, unnecessarily difficult, and poorly taught that otherwise it is nowhere close to worth it. If you do have to take it, it's going to be rough for the first month or so, but then it gets easier for a while. Don't stress too much about the grade because it is a train wreck for everyone.
The class' material is very interesting, but if you're looking to just explore medicine, this definitely isn't the class to take. The Psets and labs are very difficult and can feel tedious and painful-- definitely make use of as many office hour sessions as you can. The general disorganization makes getting a grasp on already hard subject matter even more trying.
This class, overall, is very difficult. It is a lot of MATlab at the beginning of the course, which can be intimidating. Be ready for Problem sets that will take a minimum of four hours a week to complete. Quizzes are difficult. The class definitely keeps you on your feet. With that said, the teaching staff and TFs really care and help as much as they can. Would definitely recommend, if you are interested in BME and can handle a heavy course load.
Only take if required for your concentration. Very tough and demanding
I mean you have to take it so take it. But get ready for some frustration.
The material is interesting, but by the end I considered dropping BME. The teaching staff seems like they're trying, but the teaching itself is still lacking. Sujata focuses a lot on the content and Maurice focuses a lot on application, which is hard to get used to. Maurice mumbles a lot and Sujata is usually unavailable outside of class. The class in general.. really made me want to transfer to MIT.
