I took this class for what it is - a lot of experiential learning - but only as much as you put in. Don't be caught up in the "sexiness" of "startups". This class makes no sense to take if you're just interested in "faking" entrepreneurship.I went into the class with an idea for a project, and used it as an opportunity to gain feedback  from my community of peers. It is an enjoyable environment to be in where you learn by receiving and giving feedback. Take it for what it is, and do not hesitate to contribute. I use the word project, because it really isn't possible to run an actual "startup" for long in school without conflicting with your school work.Ultimately this is not a good class for a "wantrapreneur". It is a great place to try things and maybe risk failing, but you have to buy into it. While that is a great ideal, the realities of most Harvard students' many obligations make it a hard class to give your all every week. So you and your partners have to go into this class with a dedication and independent ability to track your own progress on your project. Some weeks I made considerable progress, other weeks I floundered. Take this if you have an idea or project and want to take it to the next level in a supportive community. This was one class I never wanted to miss, week in to week out.Paul Bottino and the TFs are your allies in your project pursuit, leverage them as a sounding board when you run into obstacles - even if they don't have specific expertise in that area you will learn by explaining your projects' problems to them.
This class presents a great environment for driven people who will get on with the necessary work when needed but it won't make you have a successful company just by showing up.
Amazing teacher, learned a lot, you get how much you put into this class
This course is really phenomenal. If you are fortunate enough to get in, truly make the most of it. You get to meet really cool kids at Harvard that think the same way you do and they can give you ideas that you never would have thought of.
If you have a startup this is a great way to not only free up time in your schedule to work on it, but you will actually find that the course offers great resources to help improve your startup, from advice on marketing to raising money to juggling start up life w/ school. It's great to meet all the student co-founders!
Such a great course. Really helps walk you through the struggles of being a founder and gives you the time necessary to seriously pursue a side project outside of class.
This is a course unlike many other offered at Harvard. It allows you to pursue a project of your own in a collaborative and entrepreneurial setting.
please have a business and do it. it's not worth it if you don't have a business idea you want to pursue.
If you are looking to create time in your schedule to focus on a startup, this is exactly the class for you.
The main function this course provides is giving students the time to work on their startups instead of working on a course that would require class attendance and homework time. Paul is a really nice guy, and he strives to create more of an entrepreneurial culture at Harvard. I really appreciate getting to know him and how much he believes in enabling creativity.Still, everything else this course doesthe RAD sessions and suchare complete garbage. I can probably watch the How to Start a Startup series in three days and learn 1000% more about startups than what I gained out of ES95r.The TFs are major flops. They judge our performance in the class based on our activity on this awful website they made (startuprad.com, you can probably make an account and comment on peoples startups because it probably has poor security and no sense of validations). This filthy website looks like a last minute CS50 project that I could have made with an improved UI and backend in about two hours. The grounds for grading in this class are stupid.Take this class if you dont care about your grades, or if you can write BS feedback for other peoples startups on a website that makes you feel uncomfortable on many levels.
Paul Bottino is amazing. He has helped encourage so many students to pursur their entrepreneurial dreams.
This is the best course I've ever taken at Harvard, hands-down and bar none. The fact that it exists is a testament to the excellence of Paul Bottino as an instructor and mentor, and every student with even the slightest inclination toward entrepreneurship should seriously consider joining Startup R&D. It's more than a class-- it's an unparalleled opportunity to do something incredible with your undergraduate education. If you're in doubt, go for it.
If you've got a startup that you're truly serious about working on, this is the class for you! You'll get excellent advice from both your peers and Mr. Bottino, and the class has pretty much no workload so you'll get extra time to work on your startup!
It is a great experience but only do this class if you are actually going to work on your start-up. Try to take step forwards and listen to the feedback from Mr. Bottino because it is very helpful.
If you are passionate about starting a company and very self driven then this is the perfect class for you.
This course is a good for giving you time to work on a startup. You sacrifice 2 hours a week to useless activities in the classroom, but get to work on your startup otherwise.
An easy class, yes, with absolutely no assignments. But an incredibly valuable one too.
If you are pursuing or wish to pursue a startup idea, this is a wonderful forum to do so.  Professor Bottino is a really awesome professor and he really cares about you and your startup.  For me, ES95 was a great class because I was already doing all the work needed for the class before taking it.  Highly recommended to anyone interested in pursuing their own idea.
1.  If you want to work on a startup while at Harvard, take this course. 
2.  If you won't to have the most educational experience of your career, found a startup while at Harvard.
3.  If you followed 2, then refer to 1.
Take class if you need the extra time to work on a project
If you have a startup, its nice that this course takes up an academic to work on it.
Awesome opportunity, but you have to really care about your idea. You'll get out what you put in. Work hard ~ at least ten hours a week, and you'll do well.
Gave me the mental space to dedicate more time to my start up and make some real progress this semester.  I spent a huge number of hours a week working on "this course" but what that really means is that I was working on my start up. All the work for this class were things that I needed to be doing for my business anyway (e.g. putting together a pitch). It was also really exciting to be in a class with other students working on start ups who could relate to the thoughts/feelings/emotions I was going through.
This is a fantastic class if you have a startup idea and want to have a structured space and time to let it take off
Bottino is amazing and will provide the guidance and advice you need when things are going smoothly or not quite so smoothly
This is a great class. While it might not offer all of the concrete backing you might be looking for to help guide the creation of your startup, it will provide you with an environment to solidify your ideas and talk with like minded people. Overall this is a great class if you want to pursue a startup of any kind.
thought some of the meetings were not super productive and kind of a waste of time, but it was nice talking with other students who were facing similar problems with their ventures.
Startup R&D is a great opportunity to work on a start-up and get great advice.
If you have a startup, this is a one-of-a-kind opportunity to work on it for course credit. How much you actually get out of the course will depend heavily on your own level of commitment and discipline - but if you can prioritize your startup over your other commitments and obligations (something that comes easily to entrepreneur in us but is difficult for the Harvard student in us), then you won't regret taking this course. The extra bandwidth is invaluable if you're trying to manage (or start) a startup during the semester, and it's also great to be part of a community of like-minded students who are facing similar challenges. My only regret is not being more disciplined myself, but a big part of the course experience is learning how to rely on yourself and your team as opposed to the external pressures and deadlines to which we're so accustomed. With that in mind, I will definitely be applying for a second semester, and would encourage you to do the same if you've got a startup that you need time to work on.
Only take this course if you are working on a venture and can't find enough time in your class schedule to work on it. Otherwise, it's probably not the best use of your time.
After 2 semesters in the class, I can safely say that ES95r has been my best experience at Harvard.  Without this class, I would never have been able to devote enough time into my startup to make it a reality. However, in addition to freeing up time in your schedule, the class provides amazing resources, in the form of one-on-one meetings with Paul, guest speakers, and group discussions. If you have a startup that you're already working on, or an idea that you're passionate about turning into a real company, take this class! However, don't think that this is a class if you're not ultra serious about your startup - even if you do get accepted into the class, you will quickly stand out from your highly driven, entrepreneurial peers.
Great course. Take it if you seriously want to work on your startup. Prepare to be self-motivated though. You'll receive valuable feedback and guidance, but at the end of the day you have to initiate things on your own.
This class is as easy or hard as you want to make it. If you care about your project, which most (or all) of us did, it is awesome and you will get a lot of work done. Being given credit to work on a start-up that you are passionate about is such a great opportunity.
This class is great for any student that is running a startup. It makes balancing startup work and class work much easier by essentially taking one class off of your schedule. Paul also really cares about the class and the teams. Be prepared to have to thrive independently, however. Also, I have no idea how this class is graded. Upon writing this, we have not yet received grades and I have honestly no idea whether or not I am going to get an A or a B.
Be prepared to be in charge of your own schedule.
This is an incredible course and Paul is a tremendous teacher and instructor. I have learned an enormous amount from him through ES95r. The course has given me the ability to think further through my ideas and refine my approach to building a startup. No other course exists at Harvard like ES95r and I highly recommend the class to anyone considering pursuing an idea or venture.
Great opportunity to get credit for working on an independent startup. Appears to work best if you have already created a product and are in the launch/marketing stage.
This class was easily one of the best I've taken at Harvard, and with the most practical application. If you are working on a startup, or have an idea for a startup, and would like to stick with it over the course of the semester then I strongly recommend checking out this course and seeing if it is a good fit.I cannot speak enough about how useful and cool this class is.  You get to work on your idea, get feedback from others, and help them with their projects. Learning about the different stages of the process and having the systems in place for learning more is terrific, and I know that I learned skills this semester that will help me well-beyond college.
This course provides a great avenue for learning about the various aspects of launching a start-up: funding, customer development, marketing, etc.
If you want to make something and really put your heart into it, this class is the perfect venue.
Be prepared to put a lot of time into your start-up.
You get as much as you put in. I loved my experience and the freedom to work on my startup half-time.
This course is great if you have a clear idea for a start-up and have either already begun developing it or plan to do so. Paul Bottino is an outstanding mentor and offers great guidance.
If you have a startup, take it for sure. Not only does the class allow you more time to put into your project, but Paul's feedback helps a lot in getting you on the right track. Plus, the guests that Paul brought in were great and helped you establish connections in the industry.
This is a great opportunity to pursue working on a startup as a part of your class schedule. Many students often feel guilty embarking on side projects that will distract from their academics. Having this class allowed me to work on something I love and feel even more justified to do so. I strongly recommend this class if you have and idea and the determination to make it succeed. This class can only give you what you put in. I learned that through out the semester and once I began to really devote my time, I began to see that I got what I had been working for.
Great class if you want to work on an existing start-up or want to start brand new.
Good for the self-directed and the motivated. Professor Bottino is very knowledgeable and can really put you on the right path.
The only reason I marked this class as "with reservations" was because it's not really a class for the average student.  It's a resource for serious entrepreneurs who need extra time to work on their project.  If you don't have something you will look like a fool.  Other than that, if you fit the bill this is a god send.
This class and Professor Bottino are great. It is not a typical class at all. All you do is work on your own start-up. Professor Bottino helps you understand what makes companies successful/failures and what the real world looks for in a company. He also brings in great outside people to meet to help you learn even more
Don't use this course to just sort of work on an idea. Really fully commit to your idea. I dedicated 20 hours a week to my startup!
You have to be self-driven and actually motivated and interested in the startup world to be able to take full advantage of this course. It's very easy to get lost and lose motivation if you take this course without a specific goal in mind.
This is an awesome class to take if you want to take your idea to the next level. Paul is extremely helpful and really invests himself in your project.
If you have a fleshed out business plan this course is a MUST!!! But, do not take the course just to take it...
Great way to build on your start-up and expand your network.  The more you put in, the more you get out.
If you're interested in doing a start up and currently have an idea/are working on something, this is a great class to give you the flexibility to manage academics and your personal entrepreneurial goals. Bottino is a great mentor and your classmates will all share your passion for start ups. The class becomes a great resource. You will get as much as you put into this class out of it. It is really helpful to learn how to effectively use your time. With no class requirements, you have to hold yourself accountable or you'll find yourself frustrated at the end of the semester.
This class is a great opportunity to explore future business opportunities. Prof. Bottino is an invaluable resource.
This class is a chance to follow your dreams with help from a great professor.
This is an excellent class which will teach you to be a better founder and teach you especially valuable metrics for evaluating yourself as a founder as well as evaluating your startup's progress over time. Working on your startup doesn't (and shouldn't, hopefully) feel like work anyway, so this class is essentially work-free, which is a bonus!
Do not take this course if you would just like a couple of hours a week to work on a "startup." Take this if you will dedicate your free time really to solving a problem.
Great class.  Provides a lot of previously unavailable tools to student entrepreneurs.  The teaching/advising is the best component of the course.
The individual meetings are great. It sounds like the group interactions are improving for the years to come, so I strongly recommend using this as a chance to make your ideas reality!
Prof. Bottino is extremely supportive, enthusiastic and helpful.
Paul Bottino will give you a lot of great advice but it is up to YOU to implement the advice.
If you are a student entrepreneur and want to work for startups/start startups, this class is for you. You will not regret it. I wish the university would provide more support for this class.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Paul Bottino is a phenomenal person to know and is incredibly helpful. Overall, ES95r is what you make of it. If you are driven and excited about a project/venture, this course can be extremely useful if you put the time into it.
Make sure the startup is something you are passionate about and something you are willing to work with through ups and downs. This class gives a lot of freedom so make sure you structure your time wisely and keep to it in a disciplined way. It's a great environment to learn many, many things about startups and about yourself if you are willing to work hard and take risks.
Amazing opportunity to pursue a very non-traditional education. This is very much a self-learning opportunity to work on and build your own start-up company. Prior to the course starting, having a solid start-up idea and more importantly TEAM is absolutely crucial.
If you would like the chance to work on a startup as a part of your academic schedule, take this. It was great to be able to know I could commit more time to my startup because it didnt mean i had to take time away from another class. The environment was great, Paul is great. I wish that the school could put more power behind entrepreneurship as a legitimate student path of study - as you learn so much about life in the process of working on a company.
Great class if you are truly serious about dedicating your free time to starting a company! Best to come in with a well-developed idea and semester game plan to make the most of this course
If you want to structure you startup then take this course! Also if you want to experience a part of the entrepreneurial side of the college then all the enthusiasm and support from this course will enable you to see this part of the college.
Paul is a rockstar. If you don't know him yet, take this course and make it your business to get to know him. His expertise and experience across a wide variety of disciplines make him an all-star advisor for any young and ambitious start-up team looking for unparalleled advice. You can tell he really cares about the success of every start-up team, and more importantly, makes an effort to do everything in his power to see that potential manifest itself in tangible success stories. In our case that meant laying the groundwork to lead us to a successful round of funding; with others that meant a quality product launch, a full-scale beta development, or a much-needed strategic pivot. In all cases, the guidance was invaluable. The course is also structured very well for what it strives to accomplish. I enjoyed how it incorporated a facet devoted to advancing your personal start-up and a facet allowing the whole group to get to know each other and learn about entrepreneurship together. I would say it's one of the best courses at Harvard, but these days every student and his dog touts that statement on this guide. So rather than another baseless statement, at the end of the day consider the following. Take this course to personally develop as an entrepreneur, to reap success for your start-up faster and more effectively than you could ever do independently, and to learn from a legend.
ES95r is truly amazing.  Professor Bottino is an unbelievable teacher, and he continuously goes above and beyond to make this course a great experience in the students' Harvard education.
You need to be very self motivated.  This course is about using your time well.  Paul expects you to really want to succeed and if you are just looking for an easy A this is not the class for you. Paul is great.  If you've got a good idea then this is the place to develop it.  Also, apply to i3 challenge! It's free money.
Literally the best course I've taken at Harvard. Amazing start-ups, amazing people, and an amazing instructor. If you have an idea and a team, use this class to allot time every week to advancing your startup. It's not easy: you end up putting in a lot of time and effort and you ultimately get out of it what you put in. With that in mind, this is not for everyone. I would recommend waiting until junior or senior year to take it, even if you have the skills. It requires a lot of maturity, which only comes with age and wisdom. So glad Harvard has opportunities like this and wish we had more!
Probably the best class I've taken
If you have a startup and a team, this class is a must take. A lot of great resources for you to succeed.
If you are an entrepreneur at Harvard, then you should take this course!
I think that this class if great if you have an actual startup project that you want to work on. It really does free up the workload. That being said, the discussion sessions and assignments seem like a pretty big waste of time.
Great course if you have a startup you want to work on. Very free-form, so you get time to actually work on your startup (but they won't force you, so it is very self-directed). Getting feedback from peers was also great.
This class is totally worth it if you think you want to dedicate your time to a business project. I'd strongly encourage you to think about projects you want to work on long-term, not just for the duration of the semester, because what you'll find is that it's very hard to achieve anything within just one semester - and that's totally ok! Over all, fun mix of people, Paul Bottino is great and I'm so happy to have had the opportunity to work on my business while at college and be surrounded by others in the same situation.
If you are very serious about starting a startup, take this course. Paul Bottino is great and will help you find the resources necessary to pursue your passions. This class will give you as much as you put in. If you are not serious, this class will seem like a chore.
Don't take this class if you want to slack off and have an easy semester. It's only worth your time if you put in the effort necessary to actually make progress on your company.
It gave me time and great feedback to focus on my startup
This class is a great opportunity to work on your startup at Harvard. It really allows you to put a lot of focus on it during the school year
If you have a good idea for a startup and are committed to putting the time and effort into developing it into a real company, then this is the class for you.
This class is incredible. Paul and the TF's are extremely positive and their feedback is priceless. If you have an idea, GO FOR IT. The class is an awesome resource for your startup, mostly because of the feedback you'll get from your peers and the TF's.
Take this class if you are working on your own startup.  It's an amazing way to get credit for work you are already doing, to meet other people in the startup scene at Harvard, and get some amazing support.  Great class!
take it if you are or want to be an entrepreneur
If you're interested in being part of a start-up, this class will help you find time in your schedule to devote to your project, which is really important.  Most of what you learn will come from your own experiences working on the start-up, which is by design; however, the classroom component was sometimes tedious.  I think more structure would have made class time more productive.
If you are on the fence about launching a start-up, just pitch to get into the course. You get to meet other Harvard students working on start-ups around campus and learn from them, as well as benefit from the resources given you (meeting space, guest lecturers). It can only help.
This class is really different from other ones at Harvard in that it is completely self-driven. There are no real assignments or tasks, but it is up to you to push your startup idea and resolve any complications as they arise. It's inspiring to see what all the other startup teams are doing and in general is an incredibly fun and interesting course.
This class turned my venture's business concept into an endeavor I will pursue over the summer-- I can't even compare where we were at the beginning of the semester to where we are today. Paul is a phenomenal instructor who cares deeply for students and their concepts. He is a priceless resource to us all, and the enthusiasm of the other students who enroll is nothing short of infectious. If you've got an idea-- go for it.
If you're going to take one course at harvard, make it this course.
Paul is an excellent resource and gives very good advice. The class portion of the course is missable and many of the members of the class do not put in enough work to make their contributions helpful.
Just take it. Think of something to create and make it happen for yourself with the amazing support of the Eng 95r team
Only take this class if you're really passionate about startups and have an idea that you really care about pursuing. There are no assignments or deadlines - everything that you do in this class is entirely on you. That being said, it's a waste of a course if you end the semester having accomplished nothing. Really leverage the advising resources and working space to bring your startup (or idea) forward. Only make the commitment to take this course if you know that you'll be able to devote ample time and energy to working on your startup, because it's very easy to fall into the trap of devoting more time to your other 3 classes given that this course has no homework. Make a strategic plan with specific milestones and work to achieve them. You don't have to get accepted to YC to make the best out of this class.
Great class to find time to work on your startup idea, though the class meetings themselves are occasionally less useful
For those who are driven to create a company or execute on an idea with or without guidance.
If you're working on a startup, I highly recommend taking this class. Paul Bottino is a great person to know and can help answer many of the questions you have about how to make your idea into reality. The actual content of the course aside (it changes from year to year), it is very nice to add a slot to your schedule focused on working on your startup (and getting course credit for it!).
Best class you will take at Harvard hands down.
I would recommend this course with enthusiasm to anyone who is motivated and really enjoys working on something that they have started and poured their hearts into.
If you want to work on a startup while still in school, this is an amazing resource. Go to office hours and get to know your classmates.
Everyone is nice and friendly but not super qualified to help. Take it because you get credit, but don't expect very much concrete value out.
This class is great if you're working on a startup and want to get class credit. The content of the course itself can get boring and repetitive at times, but it does allow you to get a lot of new opinions and feedback on your idea.
Amazing course to take to work on your startup
Startup RAD is such an awesome course, opening you up to the entrepreneurial community at Harvard. If you are working on a startup project that you believe in and are incredibly passionate about, this is such a great way to help you understand the potential pitfalls, and how to make it successful. The community and camaraderie between fellow entrepreneurs is fantastic, and the professor is very helpful.
Incredible class that gives you academic time to work on your business/project. For students that are doing this part-time or full-time, this is invaluable and provides you with a supportive student-founder network and the best possible grasp on the Harvard startup scene. Bottino is fantastic -- do not think twice about applying to this course if you are working on a business. That being said, don't really bother applying to this class if you don't have any traction or work-to-date on an idea.
TAKE THIS COURSE IF YOU ARE A REAL ENTREPRENEUR. This is the real deal. No theory. No case studies. This class is the platform for you to actually make it happen. It's not an internship. It's your company, your idea you are bringing to the world. Paul and the TFs are there with you as you launch and get through the messy world of startups. This class was hands down the most valuable class I've taken at Harvard. If you want to do a startup for real, this is for you. This course changed my career and life path for the better - all thanks to Paul and the amazing community of startups around you.
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. The class manifests as an excellent area to apply many areas of your 'learned' knowledge to real experiences and scenarios.
Third time in ES95r, and all I can say is that it keeps getting better and better. The key to a class like this is to cater to people that are at all different stages of a startup (ideation, early stage, raising, and hopefully beyond) by not making anyone do 'trivial' things. Pairing up for challenge sections, using slack to communicate, the RAD hack and the general network the course creates is phenomenal. If you have a startup idea, this is the course to take.
People definitely hyped up the RAD a lot, and I think I am mostly happy that I took it. I had the chance to get credit to work on my start-up and I became closer to a community of entrepreneurs. That being said, the actual 2 hours a week of class felt like a waste of time almost always. Prepare for lots of relatively boring conversations about your needs as a start-up when the realistic only thing you need is time. Paul is an experienced source of wisdom, but mostly knows a lot about marketing for consumer-facing products and such. Regardless, the RAD is awesome and gives you a chance to work on a start-up, which shouldn't be taken lightly.
Take this course if you're committed to putting in the work on your existing start-up or venture idea over the course of the semester!
This is a class that you must take if you are thinking about starting a venture in school.
An incredible course
I love this class. It gives me a space to work on my startup and it also is a place where I can get invaluable advice from my peers and mentors. I would recommend this course with a lot of enthusiasm.
This class gives you a nice framework to work on your startup with some great accountability checkpoints. But, besides the peer feedback sessions, the class doesn't give you a lot of concrete takeaways to your company.
Perhaps the best course at Harvard. Professor Bottino is genuinely excited about helping students learn through doing. I have learned more as a result of this course than almost any other class, in areas that are not taught anywhere at Harvard.
Professor Bottino, Lexi and Nina are amazing and will help you succeed in any way you can. They are fully dedicated to all the students in this class, and if you ever need feedback or help, they are there.
TAKE THIS COURSE IF YOU LOVE STARTUPS AND WANT TO TAKE YOUR STARTUP TO THE NEXT Level
This class is a great way to set aside structured time to work on your startup and also get a grade with it. The class is very discussion-oriented, so you get to know other students who are equally passionate about startups/entrepreneurship.
This class is very structured to help you with your startup, not bog you down with tedious busy-work. Excellent class and I learned a lot about how to be a successful entrepreneur.
You really need to come into the class prepared and driven. This is about you.
You get as much out of this class as you put in. If you engage in challenge sessions and pick the other members of the class's brains it can be immensely useful.
A great way to have time to work on your startup and be a part of a community of fellow entrepreneurs. Paul gives incredible advice.
Probably the only Harvard course that gives you a taste of the real world. Out of all my classes this semester I definitely learned the most from ES95r in terms of relevant skills (also took CS 124) but at the same time this course wasn't vocational at all. You definitely need a business idea or already established business if you're going to get that much out of this course though. Bottino is insanely helpful in whatever your business may be given his experience and vast network.
If you have an idea that you'd like to work on but don't have time for because of your other classes, DEFINITELY take this class and prepare to work hard on the idea.
This course is AMAZING!!! Take it, take it, take it! You won't regret it. Best class at Harvard, hands-down. Paul is dope.
The best way to focus on building a company while being a student here is to take this class
