A gem! Great way to learn about environmental instrumentation in a low-stress environment. Frank is really fantastic and cares a lot about individual students, always very approachable. You can meet multiple times to discuss your final project and find a topic that is interesting to you. The problem sets are very fair - everything you need to do them is covered in lecture. The labs are also relaxed and it's nice that you have a week to write them up. No exams :) It's great seeing the other students' final presentations at the end and getting exposure to all of their different research interests.
This class is a low stress exposure to environmental measurement techniques and provides students with foundational tools for being able to think about, understand, and evaluate measurement techniques.
This is a great class if you want to learn about environmental instrumentation. Frank is great and happy to help all the time. Very low time commitment but a lot of knowledge to be gained.
The course is interesting and encouraging for anyone who is considering doing research on campus. The professor cares for his students and takes the time to get to know everyone. I would definitely recommend this course if you are willing to adjust to a changing schedule.
This course is a survey of environmental instrumentation. It's really accessible and a great course to take if you need an upper level environmental engineering course.
dont take it, a waste of time
This was a fantastic course. It was taught in a seminar style in which the focus of the class is getting exposed to fascinating topics in environmental science. If you take the class seriously, you can learn a lot with very little stress.
Great class! Great Professor! Highly recommend
Frank is the man. With increased focus on the lab component, ES 166 will only become stronger as an offering in ESE.
A great course with unique material and low pressure throughout the semester. Frank is a great teacher who cares that you do well and enjoy the material.
The various types of instrumentation are interesting, Frank is a captivating lecturer and there is very little work. If you're looking for the most painless way to fulfill an engineering credit, look no further than 166.
There aren't many assignments and the breakdown of grading isn't necessarily clear from the start. Take every assignment seriously, because one bad grade could affect your entire semester. Otherwise Professor Keustch is a great teacher and tries to make the class enjoyable.
Dr.  Keutsch is one of the best professors I've had! He's extremely approachable and knowledgeable about basically any scientific topic (take him to your faculty dinner!). The course material is probably best suited for environmental and electrical engineers, and if the laboratory component is included next year, the class will be even better.
Probably the best class I've taken at Harvard. Ask questions and open yourself up to thinking in new ways.
Prof Keutsch is the best professor at Harvard College. The classes were so much fun and interesting and he makes learning fun and exciting.
