Smart questions will make you have a better understanding in research area of semiconductor physics.
You should completely take this course since it is an interesting subject taught by the best professor at Harvard
Take this course as early as possible. If I took this course in my first year, probably I would like to change my major.
Fantastic class for physical intuition and understanding.  Not particularly useful for detailed engineering and design because it's not the point of this class.
that it is one of the best calsses I took, and so far it was the best at Harvard. The Professor and tf care very much about the class and are trying not only to cover many many topics but rather focus on understanding and intuitive physical thinking
This is not a standard solid state class. This class will give you great inspirations but not knowledge itself. The latter needs to be learnt yourself. But Prof. Capasso is the best person to talk to if you are really into lasers.
You'll learn at least one thing that's very interesting in each class, which you may not find scouring books on the subject.
This course teaches you to understand semiconductor devices in a pragmatic way.  The lectures complement independent reading (which you ought to do to get the most out of the course) well.
If you have a good background on quantum mechanics and some background on electronics, you will understand the stuff better
This is a great class and covers some very useful information.
You will be stimulated by the discussions and questions, and learn along the way about the fascinating history and science of solid state and device physics from one of its latest key players.  A great experience.
This is an amazing class if you think you are somewhat familiar with solid state.  Regardless, Capasso is a really funny guy and you'll have fun.  He teaches the class in the "peer instruction" method.
There is a lot to learn, but it is a challenge to your ego, and can be frustrating at times.
Not an easy course, but a good one if you are working on semiconductor lasers.
It's really interesting and covers a wide array of topics in modern devices.
If you are genuinely interested in learning about semiconductor physics from an application perspective, you can't go wrong with this course.
Definitely worth taking this course if you want to learn optoelectronic device. You will learn a lot of useful concepts from the lecture and expect to read the technical details on your own.
If you're an undergraduate, be prepared to work really hard.
This course was excellent, and a refreshing break from more theoretically based classes. It will give you a much better intuition for semiconductor device physics, and especially experiments. I really enjoyed the group discussion questions, and having to be put on the spot to derive things was good practice for quals.
This class will give you much intuition about semiconductor physics and much more.  The professor is very enthusiastic and essential in giving you a new perspective on standard material.
Professor Capasso has a unique lecture style. You have a few minutes to puzzle over a question he poses, and then someone is selected at random to present an answer to the class. There is no penalty for wrong answers, but you must supply an answer even if you don't know. It's a little jarring at first, but once you get used to it the class is pretty fun.
Prof. Capasso is a great character and his stories are inspiring. He could certainly teach on of the best classes, but due to the poor course material and homeworks the class is just mediocre.
This course covers many important topics and keeps you engaged with the material. The problem is that it is difficult to follow the lectures, and asking questions is not encouraged.
One of the best course I've had. Though, it will be more useful if you have a background in solid state physics.
This course provides a great opportunity to gain a physical intuition for solid state systems.
I learned a lot from this course. However, I often felt that to do so, I had to waste a lot of time, due to poor organization.
You will learn intuitions as a good physicists when it comes to real devices.
It's a very different type of course.  Come into the course with enthusiasm to learn about the subject matter and you'll come away with a lot.  The professor runs the course that encourages more thinking rather than the usual rote lecture routine, but it definitely frames things in an interesting light.
Quite a lot of material overlap with Applied Physics 195.
This class is a great way to learn critical thinking and become familiar with the way scientific discussion takes place in a research atmosphere
It is a useful class especially if your research project is related to quantum devices or solid-state devices in general.
It may be a little daunting without proper background but the topics are incredibly interesting and its worth the effort.
Marko is an awesome professor. I came in with virtually no knowledge of quantum or the material but I took it because I found the topic interesting and Marko was kind of enough to sit down with me and made sure I understood everything going on in the class. I definitely enjoyed the course and learned so much.
Marko is the best! <3
The problem sets are difficult and large, but if you come into the class with background in solid state, quantum, and optics and you will do fine
You learn as much as you put it. Professor is a very intellect one, give you physics pictures instead of math equations.
