Be prepared to decipher the textbook
The material was very interesting, but the course is a little overwhelming if you don't have a strong chemistry background. The course requires a lot of work outside the class (I wasn't really able to finish a problem set without going to office hours). That being said, the teaching staff is very willing to help as long as you put in the extra time. Prof McKinney is a great teacher who wants everyone to understand the material.
It's a course that will challenge you to think about chemistry in a very intuitive manner
It is interesting. The final project is awesome, you get to do a lot of cool things. Just stay on top of the work and go to section and you're good.
Simply put, this is a terrible class. Despite having a 100-level number and a prerequisite, this class spends most of its time going very slowly over basic concepts. Even when you do learn new things, no attempt is made for students to gain insight into the fundamental concepts or develop physical intuition for the chemical processes. Instead, the focus is on formulaic approaches to calculating values to get answers to contrived problems. This class felt to me far like a dumbed-down high school class, despite the fact that it masquerades as a 100-level college class. 

This is without a doubt the worst class I have taken at Harvard, and the only one that I actively dislike going to. My classmates and I have literally been counting down the days of class left for the last few weeks of the semester.

Do not take this class.
This is a great class. Karena, Jordan, and Caroline are all incredibly helpful and nice. You see the material on assignments, tests, and labs, so there's a lot of reinforcement. The environmental applications are fascinating.
95% of the course covers chemical equilibria.  Honestly focuses on all of the meticulously derived, less exciting concepts of chemistry.  That being said it does fullfill a requirement, the labs are fairly painless, psets take between 6-10 hours, tests are difficult.
AMAZING instructors, great material. This course is one of the most useful and interesting courses I have taken at Harvard. Definitely worth your time.
This class was extremely interesting and well taught. Karena is amazing and makes the class very enjoyable. It is a tough class with high level learning and hard psets. Although the labs and psets balance out nicely to only have one assignment a week. For the EPS people who are taking this as your only chem class, it will be tough, so ideally having some type of chem background or spending more time to learn the basics will help a lot. Still take this class over any other option:)
This class was definitely not easy, even if you had a very robust chemistry background. The lectures are easy to understand but the exams and the problem sets take a significant amount of time. Just know what you're getting into if this is a concentration credit and make your schedule accordingly. The project at the end is very manageable if you have a good group and a topic that interests you.
This class was a great way to learn chemistry.  It's relevant since it is focused on environmental chemistry, and it's well organize because it follows a [well-written] textbook.  I felt that the psets and midterms were very fair.  Karena really cares about the course, and takes the time to make videos of examples to help you learn the more calculative-side of the course.  This also makes it easy to review for the tests.  

Also, if Jordan is still the TF, he's the best!!  Jordan may be one of the few TFs I've had here that knows more than just what is on the psets, and is able to teach it well.
I found this class to be the most difficult of all the ESE courses, but it's valuable material to learn, as well as the most comprehensive chemistry class I've taken.
I took this class to fulfill the "thermo" requirement for Biomedical Engineering (what a strange set of choices), and while it's not thermodynamics, I learned a lot of interesting water chemistry. The small class size made it possible to interact with the other students and Professor McKinney, who's very nice and helpful with questions. My favorite parts of the class were reading and discussing articles on subjects like acid rain, acid mine drainage, and arsenic poisoning, and writing a final project on pollution by a chemical compound of our choosing. Very manageable amount of work and fair tests.
As an environmental engineering concentrator, I was definitely glad I took this course. You get exposed to a wide variety of important concepts in environmental chemistry.
The problem sets were often released such that you only have 5 days to do them, so getting ahead is practically impossible.  Furthermore, the information needed to complete the problem sets often wasn't given until 1-2 days before it was due; and even then the problems on the problem set are sufficiently different from practice problems done in class to cause confusion.  Professor McKinney is very willing to help, but she also may not respond to emails promptly depending on how busy her schedule is.  It's understandable but difficult at times.
Make sure you can do some chemistry.
lots of work but you WILL LEARN LOTS OF ENVIRONMENTAL CHEMISTRY. you really will.
The material is difficult, so either read the textbook before lecture or go to office hours.  Exams were quite difficult.
Irrelevant because teacher is leaving but I would warn students while the class material isn't more difficult than typical harvard classes, it is very difficult because it by nature is a very small class and so it is hard for collaboration
better than Orgo presumably, but really not a great class at all.  teachers really just didnt care and it showed, and the subject matter was quite dry to begin with.
Only take it if you are really interested in soil chemistry! It was great and interesting to me because I was interested in it, but it is very boring if you don't care about the material. Also, the exams are difficult and difficult to study for, and your test grades may not reflect how much you feel like you've learned from the course.
Definitely easier and less painful than orgo, but it is poorly taught and extremely frustrating.
The class is relatively painless in that the topic matter is decently interesting and the homework is relatively straightforward. Be sure to stay relatively on top of the readings and attend section, as that will be sure to help you understand the class.
The class isn't too hard but the topics can be really dry sometimes. I would only recommend it to those really interested in what chemical processes go on in the environment, for example mineral chemistry etc.
I actually really enjoyed this class overall, as I feel like I learned a lot and it's very applicable to environmental issues. It's a great alternative to Orgo, and relevant to environmental science majors. However, definitely take note to ask for review sessions and review guides for the midterms. They will be helpful, but they won't be given to you unless to ask.
The assignments from this course are fair and you will do well if you go to section, do the homework, and go to office hours when you're confused. Professor Hansel explains concepts clearly in lecture and the exams purely take material from the lecture notes.
it was a horrible class to take, but the topics are extremely useful in real life application
This class is perfect if you love environmental chemistry. It's very different than any other chem class you'll encounter. The workload varies week to week.
Good alternative to thermo if thats whay you're considering
Requires good foundation in chemistry and earth sciences. Little overlap between lectures, readings and assignments.
Theoretically, the subject matter is interesting and it is one of the few classes of its kind at Harvard.  However, the class is not well taught or well-structured, so you'll have to master general chemistry beforehand and apply it to the concepts from class.
This class is super cool, but if they continue to alternate sections and labs each week, then you need to be on your toes about learning the material, since you can get lost pretty quick, and then they'll be asking you stuff on exams that you have no clue about. Collen Hansel is an amazing teacher.  The way this course applies chemistry to the real world is awesome. (No lie, I hated PS-1, but loved Soil Chemistry (not the class, but the subject)).  Definitely a much easier class to take instead of orgo.  Only complaint is that the TF's weren't very helpful, and the overall course could be more organized.
this is an intro chem course. do not expect to learn anything new, but instead to use basic principles with respect to soil.
I really enjoyed this class! I did, however, find that the teaching fellows were really hard to approach and largely unavailable. The TF was unwilling to meet with students outside of his or her 1-hour office hour each week. Even during weeks when their office hours were canceled because of a holiday, they would not meet with students, and told us to come to the next office hour or email them a question. The sections also don't happen every week - so sometimes, we would have questions unanswered for two weeks at a time.  The labs, however, are awesome. The lab teacher (not a TF) is so organized and so nice.
This class is great for concentrators in the Earth Sciences and other related fields. For others the material could be quite dry and possibly less enjoyable.
Since this course is an introductory course and serves a wide variety of backgrounds, you don't get quite in depth into many of the topics but it you are able to address important issues in soil and environmental chemistry so it is applicable. I would say only take this class if you care about soil chemistry, environmental contaminants, environmental issues. But if you do care you will feel good at the end of the class!
Easier than orgo, but you will not learn nearly as much. This course keeps improving so definitely shop it.
This course is very helpful in learning about environmental issues and how man is trying to rectify them. It can be a little difficult to follow sometimes; however, it will all the same provide you with an intriguing experience.
Very good introduction to environmental chemistry. Could be difficult if you don't keep up with the material, and boring if you aren't interested in the material, but is great if you are interested and paying attention.
You have to teach all of the material to yourself.  The professor and tfs are not very approachable.
This is tough class, but you learn a lot and Colleen is a fantastic teacher. The first few weeks may be tough, but as you become accustomed to the work you will like the class a lot.
You'd better go in knowing something about it already.
ES164 is a GREAT alternative to ES181 for biomedical engineering concentrators, and students who have this choice should really take advantage of it.  Also, the material is more interesting.
This was easily the worst course that I have taken during my time at Harvard.  For those who are ESPP or EPS concentrators and need to fulfill a chemistry requirement: please take Orgo.  It sounds more threatening, but after my experience this year, I cannot in good conscience advise anyone to touch this course with a 10 foot pole!
This is a great class to take to fulfill an upper division chemistry requirement. It treats environmentally important topics in chemistry, with a good emphasis on real-world applications. No topic is covered in too much depth, so if you don't like one topic you won't have to wait too long until the next one. Colleen is a very clear lecturer and the labs are fun. Don't expect to get a perfect grade without studying, but the problem sets and exams are certainly more reasonable than orgo. The topics are also much more interesting than orgo.
Worst class I've taken at Harvard. The material actually has the potential to be interesting. However, the teaching staff could care less about your performance in the course, and are extremely unresponsive. For example, they have email rules: give at least one business day to respond, and only during normal business hours (no weekend responses!). There were no practice problems for tests, final office hours are held a week before midterms, and students have to beg the teaching staff to post solutions. Unless something major is done to change up this course (like different teaching staff), don't take it - consider orgo.
I'd only recommend this to someone over taking Orgo, however there were points during the year when I wished I was taking Orgo because at least I would know exactly what to study.  However the final project and  doable integrated problem set over a final exam changed those feelings.
It was an average class.  Lectures were somewhat dull, but I feel like in the end I learned a lot.  It introduces you to some new chemistry topics and some interesting applications of them.
This class is awesome, especially if you like chemistry and environmental issues.  If you have the choice between this and organic chemistry, take this hands down.
Using outside resources may be necessary
If you must take this course to satisfy a requirement, then consider taking it. Understand that while it is probably easier than Chem 17, you will feel more frustrated and walk away without learning much. It is a very, very frustrating course. The professor and TFs are great people but they are not good teachers. They are also way too busy with their research or other classes to be teaching ES 164. I felt "dumb" in this class because I wasn't understanding any of the material; then I talked to everyone else in the class and they all felt the same.
It is very difficult.  Be prepared to spend a lot of time outside of class trying to learn the materials.  Take advantage of any office hours.
This course is interesting and great if you enjoy the material.
Problem sets take a very long time. Lectures did not prepare you for what the textbook problems ask of you.
I hope they fix the problems with this class, which I think mostly happened because it's a new class and the professor was adjusting...the professor and teaching fellow tried hard and wanted to make the course reasonable, but we had such long psets and the labs were a lot (long write-ups)...you basically had to go to office hours and even then it was really hard to get the homework done. Make sure you have some kind of chemistry background!!
This class is a lot of work and not very rewarding.  Office hours are very helpful though.
Start psets early, they look short but are very difficult.
You learn chemistry.  Be prepared to put in a lot of time.  It's nice having a final project and not a final exam.
Make sure you get help and know your general chemistry fundamentals or else this course will be quite difficult. The assignments aren't necessarily indicative of what will be on exams, which makes it extremely difficult. In addition, the problem sets take forever even if there are only 5 or 6 problems on them, so make sure to start them early and attend office hours to keep up.
Problem sets are very difficult and time consuming, labs are boring and time consuming, and exams are difficult. You will learn the material, but the class will require a lot of time outside of class because it is not super well taught.
i'd tell them that i hope the course improves a lot after the first time around.
This course is easily an EPS concentrator's best bet for fulfilling the chemistry requirement.  It is a lot more relevant to students like us than any organic or physical chemistry could ever be.  This course may also be useful to those looking for a chemistry class that is applicable to real world environmental problems.  However, this first year was rough, and there are a lot of kinks that need to be figured out before I would give it a stronger recommendation.
It was easier than Orgo in terms of material, but often very frustrating to struggle through the disorganization and confusion.
Beware, but maybe they've fixed it by now.
For ESPP concentrators, it's a hell-of-a-lot more useful than Chem 17, since it's focused on the ENVIRONMENT rather than on PHARMACEUTICALS. However, unless it gets vastly more organized by next year (and if it DOES get more organized, it will gt a LOT more difficult), you need a lot of patience to deal with this course. Meow.
parts of the course are interesting, some parts will be very tedious.
Without significant improvements, this course is suitable only for people with an advanced science background.
The teaching staff is very helpful and knowledgeable, and did everything they could to make sure this class worked. I really appreciate their hard work!
This class has a lot of potential, but was not taught successfully in its first year.
ESPP kids should DEFINITLY take this instead of orgo. It is very poorly organized and Cassandra doesn't really know what she's doing.
If the instructors make our recommended adjustments regarding difficulty and sections, this course will make a great alternative to Orgo for ESPP concentrators.
Only for people who like challenges and are very interested in the subject area and its applications.
If EPS or ESPP, it's a great alternative to orgo. If interested in environmental chemistry it's a great class in general...at least it ought to be the second time around.
Very interesting course material, but it's a new class so things are getting ironed out.
While the subject matter is interessting and important, the class was unclear and frustrating at times.
It is hard, but especially when you get to the end of the class when you begin to integrate what you have learned it gets really interesting!
It was really interesting and you learn a lot.
Be prepared for a difficult class that stretches your understanding, but you are better for it in the end because you come out with a real understanding of the basic ideas of how soil systems work. Especially if you are an ESPP concentrator - this is much better than Orgo or physics. The things you learn are actually applicable to environmental science and you get to look at real-world case studies of environmental problems.
I definitely recommend this course to ESPP concentrators.  Its very relevant and it will help you understand concepts that you discuss in other courses like ESPP 78.  Naturally, since this course is only2 years old, it still need improvement.  However, I guarantee that the teaching will be super supportive, and it will give youa  chance to explore resources at Harvard that you might not explore otherwise, especially if you are an espp concentrator whose only experience w/ science is giant courses like LS 1a and PS 1.  Its great to have so many people dedicated to a small class!
Colleen is a great lecturer and the material is really neat. It's a much more useful course for satisfying ESPP/EPS chem requirement than orgo!
As long as you are excited about the material, you will do fine (given that you understand chemistry).  The class is set up for you to succeed - graded work is fair and your grade is weighted towards problem sets and projects which you have complete control over.
This class gives meaning to PS1 or any other intro chemistry course. By the end, you not only gain a greater grasp of chemistry, but you are able to apply it in a meaningful way.
