really not fun at all.  do it only if you have to.  problem sets are long and unless you have an obsession with fluid dynamics, there are significantly better courses out there.
This class is best taken in junior or senior year, but it also really fun. I feel confident enough in my fluids knowledge, and feel prepared for graduate level classes in fluids.
Only take this course if you have to. Particularly if Auguste is teaching.
This course was extremely poorly taught and generally frustrating to be a part of. Prof. Auguste was the worst professor that I have had at Harvard. I have had many poor teachers in the engineering department, but if you asked them a direct question about course material they would know the answer. There were several times during the semester when Prof. Auguste could not answer relatively simple questions about material that she had brought up in lecture. I still don't know why dimples make a golf ball fly farther or how wings work. There were times when Prof. Auguste had to let the class go early because she wasn't prepared to teach an entire lecture, and still other times when she spent the first 10 minutes of lecture correcting all of her mistakes from the previous lecture. This level of teaching is completely unacceptable and should not be allowed.The problem sets could not be done unless you went to section the night before they were due and were told how to do them. It still meant that you had a late night ahead of you. The lab component of this course was a joke.Please do not take this course. There is no reason to take this course.
Only take it if you are prepared to put in a great deal of time.
This is an interesting class, but unfortunately did not teach me everything I was interested in learning about the topic.
professor is unorganized and ineffective.  There is no textbook and this class is essentially taught by TFs.
You can learn a great deal about many subjects that aren't covered in normal physics classes.
This class is really much more interesting than it sounds from the course description.  Professor Auguste is a good lecturer and makes sure to include examples from the real world, through in class demonstrations and videos -- she makes it clear that its not just theory.  The TFs are wonderful and always willing to help, and great teachers.  They put so much into this class.
Working on the psets with tfs and in groups is essential.
Love it or hate it, it's a requirement for engineering . . . I think that the experience really varies depending on who teaches it.
This course is a good intro to a difficult aspect of engineering. However,, it is taught in a theoretical way, not a hands-on way.
This year with Needleman as the professor, the class was pretty easy and didn't require much work. The labs were fun and easy, although at times the analysis could be rough. As one of those classes that you feel an engineer should take, you definitely should take it, but you're going to have to put the effort into it to get everything out of it.
Good class overall, but pretty disorganized and all over the place.
Only take this if it is a requirement.
The grading is kind of bizarre.  Almost your entire grade is determined by two exam.
The class improved over the semester. Next year it will be better
Unless lecture notes are provided, make sure you go to class every day because the lectures don't follow the textbook.
Poorly organized, but will probably be organized better the second time around.
If you're looking into this class you're probably required to take it.  Fluid dynamics can be horridly complex so be aware.  The class was poorly taught and unorganized and I did not get much from it.  That said, you can still squeak by and get a decent grade despite not learning anything.
Don't take this course unless absolutely necessary; take ES 125 instead.  Horribly unstable situation, so until they find a decent, knowledgeable professor and it stabilizes, under no circumstances should you take this course.
make sure there is a different teacher teaching it. and that its more organized
The material actually could be really interesting, but it was poorly taught, and I feel like I didn't really learn anything by the end of the semester.
Do not take if Needleman is teaching again, unless he improves many times over.
If you don't understand something go to John Kolinski's office hours. He is super good at this stuff.
This class isn't as hard as it is sometimes made out to be. The material is interesting and the psets are fun, so it is certainly worth taking.
do not take this class if Prof. Needleman is teaching it. He's one of the two worst professors I have had at Harvard, doesn't seem to care if the students understand the material, and doesn't guide you to readings that actually connect with the material on the tests and psets. His office hours were after the pset is due, before the new one is posted. He posts practice exams and old exams just two or three days in advance of the midterm/ exam. It seems to me that he deliberately chose to not teach/ teach poorly so that he doesn't have to teach this class again. On several psets, the 'suggested reading' had NO connection with the psets. It's hard to figure out the pset questions, not because the material is super difficult but because we don't learn it in class. It has the potential to be a useful class, but thanks to this professor, I have come away from this class learning little of use. The TFs, John and Charlie/Kechao, were really helpful.
Fantastic, conceptually oriented course.  I learned less equations (that I probably would have forgotten anyways) in this course than I learned in others, but I gained a lasting understanding of fluids. You will love professor Needleman.
Fluid Dynamics is a really interesting subject matter and it pertains to many real life problems. However, what is frustrating about this class is that often times you feel that you don't have as much direction, and there is quite alot of disorganization. The labs are really interesting and quite fun, and having one midterm can be positive but also be ready for disorganization.
You really need to be prepared to understand and handle the math in this course.
it is poorly taught which makes it difficult to get a grasp on the concepts
Ummmm, so like, you should probably have like a really like strong math 21b background. Also, don't like ummmm, soooooo, like get discouraged in the beginning when it like, ummmmm, sooooooooooooooooooooo isn't making sense cuz it gets easier. Right, exactly exactly
This course was a mess. Professor Needleman is funny and is able to make the subject exciting, but it was clear that it was his first time teaching. Time management during lecture was a problem and I don't think that we were able to cover as much as wanted during the semester. In studying for the final exam I read a lot of the book and thought that it was very interested and the material was awesome, then the final came and it was completely different from the practice problems suggested in the book. Don't know if the professor will learn from his mistakes and improve next year or if they change him, but something has to be different for this course to be good. We spent most of the time deriving equations than we did applying them. All the applications that I learned of fluid mechanics I learned on my own and during the labs, which were cool. TFs were helpful but they were not involved enough on the class to let us know what we needed to know. None of them really showed up to lecture so they didn't really know what was going on. They were very helpful during labs, however.
The math is a bit higher level than in other classes, but after taking the course you will have a much better understanding of the fluid mechanics and heat transport processes that we encounter in everyday life.
This class provided solid background in basic fluid mechanics that is an essential component of any engineering education.  The class was extremely well-taught.
If you are an engineer, I think it is the best course to fulfill your mechanics requirement. Very difficult. Would recommend contingent upon the person teaching the course.
I would recommend this course with enthusiasm only if it is instructed by the same teaching staff.
Prof. Hosoi is amazing and so is the rest of the teaching staff. But the course is very hard to understand.
I enjoyed having Prof. Hosoi as the professor, and I found the problem sets interesting, but I still would not have taken the class if it hadn't been a requirement.
Get ready for a conceptually demanding but the most interesting class of your career at Harvard.
The bottom line is that fluid dynamics is relevant to a number of disciplines and the material from this course will be of use to many students. If this describes you, then it's a valuable course to take, but don't expect it to be exciting in its own right.
"Likely to recommend" highly dependent on the professor teaching the course. Hosoi was somewhat of a godsend, and really steered what could have been a disaster of a course through a tolerable semester. The math was heavy, and it was easy to get lost during lecture due to algebra/calculus/multitude of Greek symbols. However, although the difficult math was introduced in class, we were rarely responsible for all of it on the exams.
Difficult course with interesting material.
It is very hard.
Professor Hosoi is fabulous. She has a great way of presenting material clearly and providing a number of real-life applications of the topics covered in the course. Highly recommended!
Only take this class if it is a requirement
very difficult, unrewarding
Professor Hosoi made the course fun and interesting.
helpful to pre-read material on both halves of course and more importantly the second half which covers fluid mechanics
It's a lot of fun and not too hard.  You get to use the 3D printer!
This course requires a great deal of work. The material is very challenging, and the problem sets are very time consuming. If you need to take this class, be prepared to work hard and spend a significant amount of time doing homework and studying for this class.
Really it is hard to prepare for this course. Just try to do as many applied practice problems as possible.
The material is obviously very important, the professor is very good and enthusiastic.  The class and material is very easy and yet the exams can be very difficult
The course material is made to look easy but the exams are made really hard. My main issue with the course was that it did not prepare us well enough for the class exams. I followed what was going on in the class but that was not sufficient for exam preparation which had questions that were very challenging and not similar to the problems on the psets. Overall, I am leaving this course with a vague understanding of fluid mechanics and not really confident that I have learned much from it. The structure of the course I felt was not very good
Although a great professor, felt I will never use fluid dynamics.
This class is difficult, but the material is interesting and covers a lot of ground.
This class is not very difficult, which, while nice in some ways, means it's also not very rigorous. Lectures were clear but a bit boring. Problem sets and exams were very straightforward.
Good course with a very good professor. The teaching was pretty good and we learned a lot. If Needleman teaches it, take the course.
If Needleman is teaching, TAKE THE COURSE. He is an amazing professor and really helps his students.
This course is very easy (depending on who teaches it), but definitely not boring. The stuff you learn here is interesting and develop your general intuition. The labs are short and fun most of the time.
Brush up your diffy-qs. Nothing too major, just be comfortable with what a gradient and a partial differential is.
Wait until this class has a competent professor (i.e. not Needleman or Ahn).
The class was not very difficult, but covered a good range of topics.
This course is very straightforward and gives a basic understanding of fluid dynamics. The assignment and exams are very, very easy - perhaps too much so
This course, in spring 13' was not difficult but has been known as a very difficult class, so be wary.
ES123 was a good course, definitely covers some interesting material.  Labs are also a lot of fun!
This class is just one for requirement. They're working to make it better, and it wasn't unbearable, but if you're taking it as an elective you're probably taking CS50 as an elective (for a grade) as well and need to look in places other than the Q guide for the kind of help you need.
Wasn't too difficult, was pretty interesting. Tests are very fair, bordering on too easy. Some organizational issues (especially with labs), but generally pretty interesting stuff.
Fluids as taught by Needleman was not too difficult; underneath the proofs the material is actually pretty interesting. Strategically consider who's teaching the class because the difficulty and quality of the course seems to have fluctuated wildly in the past few years.
If you want a good understanding of fluid mechanics, find another course. Taking AM 105 concurrently meant that I could learn, use, and understand the mathematical techniques to solve the differential equations used in fluid mechanics, because I did not learn this in ES 123.
From what I can tell, this course was taught a lot better this year than in past years. I think they are still working, though, on finding a good balance between making the course unnecessarily difficult/poorly taught (past years) and too easy (this year).
The class had a reasonable workload and the professor was very enthusiastic and helpful; he really wanted to students to do well and was available for students. It provides a pretty good background in fluid dynamics.
Professor Needleman tried to make the course as easy as possible (which he did), but it made the class a bit boring and you dont really learn a lot out of it.
An interesting, yet complex topic that pertains to many fields of engineering. After many years of abysmal reviews, this course has finally improved a lot. A lot of fluids is very mathematically rigorous, but Professor Needleman paced himself very well and this class does not overwhelm students with its material through its homework and exam.
if needleman is teaching, it should be good
Prof. Needleman really cares about his students. He and the teaching staff are readily accessible outside of class. This class is interesting and important, and if you're taking it it's probably because it's a requirement for you.
It really depends on who is teaching it. If Dr. Ahn teaches it again rather cross register at MIT for a better treatment of the material.
Do not take this unless you have to! This is one of the worst classes I have taken at Harvard. It was apparently much better in previous years, but if it stays the same, you won't learn much but you'll still suffer.
This class ruined semester.  The workload was ridiculously high, and the problem sets were impossible.
This was a really hard class, but doable if you have a decent math/physics background and if you take advantage of the ability to submit problem sets as a group.  The midterm and final were take-home, which while not fun, meant that you didn't need to memorize anything or work under a time constraint.  I enjoyed this class at times; while hard, it didn't take over my life like Physics 16 or CS50.  It's probably a requirement for you anyway.
It is a very disorganized class.
you're taking this class because you have to.  make sure you have the math background going on, or a lot of things that you think make sense don't.  i think if you had a diff eq background the class wouldn't seem so bad.  if the course is split up into sections for people with different backgrounds (and by major ie;me and non-me) then it will be good
Class was poorly run, extremely difficult, and not cohesive.  The take-home midterm and take-home final were extraordinarily difficult and not a proper test of what we had learned in the class.
This was the most awful horrendous class I have ever taken here. Clearly the professor was teaching it for the first time. Problem sets take forever, and I mean that literally. Midterms and finals were ridiculously long and hard even though they were takehome. The math never gets worked out fully in class. It was also at 8:30 in the morning, which really sucked.
This class is a necessary evil, and the material is by nature very difficult. All you can do really is put your head down and do it :/
I don't mind difficult courses or ones that require a lot of work but you eventually get a lot out of them. However, this class was a terrible experience. I think you really need to take a course on differential equations before taking this course, and you should brush up on multivariable calculus because they absolutely do not go over any basics. I'm really sorry to say that this course was the most miserable course I've ever taken at Harvard and probably led to this spring being the most intellectually unstimulating semester because I don't feel like I learned anything. Don't take this if it isn't a requirement because it's actually a poor excuse for a course at Harvard. You won't learn a thing unless the professor changes his lecture methods, the problem sets and exams become doable in a reasonable amount of time, and they use a different, more thorough textbook. I pulled all-nighters for each one of the take-home exams.
This is, without a close second, the worst course I have ever taken. The lectures were horrible, the textbook was unbelievably bad, sections were just like more lectures but by the TF. There was no way to learn the material. This made the problem sets miserable, and the test undoable. It was a mockery of a course. The sort of course I thought couldn't exist, that would be canceled halfway though if the administrators knew what was happening (they knew, and it wasn't).A lot of people badmouth courses on the Q guide. I am not one of those people. I don't think I have ever said this on a review before, but if Edward Ahn is teaching it, DON'T TAKE THIS COURSE. Seek any alternative. Take the MIT course. Wait another year. Do anything to avoid it. I do not throw this hyperbole around lightly: it is, BY FAR, the worst course I have taken or even heard of at Harvard. Avoid it at all costs.
Only take it if you have to.
This is not a fun class, and it is was a serious struggle to become engaged with the material.
if its taught the same way it was this year, this class will be really difficult. Be prepared to put time in
Don't take this class unless you absolutely have to. It's a lot of work! If you do, try to keep up with the material, and come to the lectures (take good notes).
Fluid mechanics and Heat transfer is absolutely critical if you ever want to be an engineer. But, be warned, this course is incredibly hard and incredibly poorly run.The TFs are entirely unhelpful. Some of the course material is even too hard for them. The take home exams are brutal. I spent 14 hours on the take home midterm. I spent 25 hours on the take home final. The professor is inexperienced, and doesn't seem to realize that nobody is understanding what is going on. Don't take this course unless you absolutely have to. You might want to consider taking fluids at MIT or somewhere else. This course will crush you, both physically and mentally.
Most students who take this course have no choice. It was not unbearable, just unorganized and poorly taught. Since you have to take it, I want to let students know it's not the end of the world- you'll survive!
This has absolutely been the worst class I've ever taken. It was difficult, time consuming, and generally miserable. Lectures were hard to follow and not helpful in completing any coursework. "Labs" were pretty much useless and consisted of watching someone perform a demo and then answering questions that were unrelated to that demo. Problem sets were often very long (the first one had 30 problems) and difficult. We were able to complete and turn in the problem sets in groups, which usually meant you would split it an only worry about your own portion. We were given 24 hours to complete a take home midterm that was almost as long as some of the problem sets (which could be split between 3 people). The final was more than twice as long, but fortunately, we had more time (I had almost nothing else to do during that period, but I still didn't finish). In the absence of significant changes, avoid this class at all costs. I don't think I learned anything and you probably won't either. Oh also, this class met at 8:30 AM on Monday and Wednesday with sections (also at 8:30) on Friday.
The tests and problem sets were unreasonably long and difficult, and the teaching staff wasn't prepared for office hours. The book was terrible, and often had no examples for chapters.
Work hard or you will fail.
Look for a better professor, never go with a new one
I would recommend this course with reservations. The truth is if you're planning to be an engineer, you have to take this course so I can't not recommend it. However, if you decide to enrol in this course be prepared. This is probably going to be one of the most challenging engineering courses that you take. This shouldn't discourage you from studying engineering, but don't come into this class thinking that it's going to be amazing. That said, go to lecture, go to office hours and try your best to find other textbooks that you think would be helpful in helping you learn the material. Good luck!
Do not enroll in this class unless strictly necessary. The class content is hard, but it is made much more obscure by the apathetic teaching of Professor Ahn and the disengaged teaching staff.
stay away from this class. I'm serious
This is a good engineering class. It's well taught, not that hard, and pretty interesting.
The teaching staff is amazing! The support is great, they clearly know and care about what they are teaching.
this class was very complicated, and requires lots of extra time outside of class to fully understand the content. the problem sets were unreasonable at some points, but you could easily get help from the teaching staff.
Shmuel is a lot of fun. He can be very demanding and blunt, but he is very sincere and cares about the subject material. The TFs put a lot of time into the class and this is one of those classes where you get out what you put in. Do not underestimate the class though
This was a good class to take concurrently with AM105, a lot of the concepts overlapped.  I thought the final project was a lot of fun and was genuinely interested in everyone's projects.  After taking this class, I can't help but notice so many cool fluid phenomena around me.  Difficult at times but I overall enjoyed this class.
This is a solid engineering course. Shmuel is super enthusiastic about the material, and the TFs are great! The math required for the psets is quite rigorous, which was difficult for students with weaker math backgrounds. Make sure you are comfortable solving simple differential. Also, the final project videos were so fun!
Good class. Interesting material, well-taught. Solid all around.
This is a class that I grew to enjoy more and more throughout the semester. While I was initially skeptical of the pages and pages of mathematical derivations I had in my notes after class, I started to better understand how all of the math applied to what we were learning. Professor Rubinstein does a great job of keeping the class engaged. Some of the psets can be difficult and take quite a while, but they ultimately made me feel like I learning something which I can't always say in my classes.
Put in the time to understand the concepts, and this will be a very useful class. Shmuel really cares about the class and the material, and is a real performer at the board, which makes lecture fun to attend. Definitely have a grasp on multivariable calc before this class.
Make sure you know how to use COMSOL, because they expect you to know how to use it without teaching you.  This class has all types of engineers in it, not just mechanical, so it is a great way to meet a lot of new people.
This class was surprisingly enjoyable. I found the content interesting, and Shmuel was a very clear and thoughtful lecturer. He ensured that we had a true understanding as to what was going on as opposed to superficial knowledge of how to solve problems. The workload was pretty significant and the content was difficult, but the teaching staff acknowledged and understood this and made up for it by giving ample help and grading fairly based on effort. The teaching staff may have been the best I've had at Harvard.
Great teaching staff that really wanted you to learn the material well.
Difficult course, but sections were extremely helpful and the TF's were always there to take the time to help.
great class! lectures are informative and entertaining, but you definitely need to go to section to get the psets done.
It's a solid class, Shmuel is amazing and is so supportive. You'll get as much as you put into the class.
Shmuel really cares about his students. Take the time to get to know him.
I really liked this course! The professor's enthusiasm for the material was truly inspiring and got me excited to study the material myself. You also really learn about how fluid mechanics is everywhere so you never feel that what you are learning is completely arbitrary. One piece of advice is to start the psets early though, I usually treated them within 48 hours of being due and it often didn't end well. If you start things early though and go to OH it's not too bad! Exams were very fair, and in general I would definitely recommend the course.
Fluids was pretty good overall. Psets, midterm, and final were all very fair. The project actually turned out being very fun.
ES 123 was my favorite course this semester. Professor Rubinstein turned out to be an awesome lecturer; he went at a great pace, had a fun/interesting way of explaining concepts, and is overall very kind and approachable. It was clear that he and the teaching staff were there to help us (and not leave us behind if we didn't understand the material), and I think it made a huge difference in how I felt about and approached ES 123. Sections are incredibly helpful and the p-sets are reasonable and indicative of exams. The material itself is pretty interesting, and the grading scheme, final exam, etc., all indicate that they want to see us succeed!
This course was very informative, with a great staff, and a very fun and informative final project. Shmuel was a great professor and really cared about the students in the class.
It's not an easy course, but a very doable course with the help of your friends and instructors. I feel that it's a pretty typical Harvard Engineering course--needs more work on the development side, but the instructors are smart; not extremely rigorous but it teaches you the basics that you'll need. There are a few really great takeaways that you will remember for a long time, so there's a good amount of long-term value. Plus, it's interesting stuff, assuming you're passionate about your concentration. Now, every day, when I see some fluid flow or other phenomenon, I always think back to the class and send a snapchat to my classmates.
Start your problem sets early, and go to section.
Don't take it with Shmuel. He's a nice man, but an awful teacher. Needleman is really clear, but Shmuel just makes you confused... Also, the class is really easy so you don't gain a rigorous understanding of fluid mechanics..
The material is meh, but it is not too difficult
The class is relatively easy so you don't learn the material that well and lectures aren't great. It's a pretty boring class in general although I will admit the professors do try really hard to make it exciting.
This class is relatively straight-forward.  Go to office hours.  The tfs are really helpful.  This could be a good sophomore spring class.  I took it as a junior but I think it would've gone well with es 120 in sophomore spring.  Taking this before taking thermo (ES 181) would have really helped me in thermo.  The conservation of mass stuff in this course is what thermo is all about.
The teaching staff is there to help you! They want you to succeed. There is hard material but you are incredibly supported.
Needleman's fluids class is much easier than the traditional fluids class, as far as I've heard. I feel like I learned a lot, but was never struggling to grasp concepts like I imagined I'd be. Definitely try to take the class when Needleman is teaching. He's a very nice professor and goes through everything in a very clear, concise manner. Rubinstein is also a wonderful mathematician and a great person to lead lectures, but they can move pretty slowly at times, and very quickly at other times. Just make sure to ask questions if you're confused, because he's happy to answer them. Overall, this was a very painless way to fulfill what is normally a horrible requirement.
the lectures are miserable, but all other aspects of the class run so smoothly. i have never enjoyed lab more and section and problem sets are very helpful with all material. the teaching staff other than the professors are excellent
This course was pretty solid. The teaching staff was nice and the course materials were in tune with the course lectures.
Along with some carefully applied (engineers') common sense, really taking the time to truly understand the derivations in this class will be your most valuable tool for success. Instructors are very accessible and will help you get the base understanding. Once you understand derivations, you will gain a sense for where other phenomena are coming from.
It's a great class.  Just make sure to keep up with the topics, read the textbook, and go to section and class!
Definitely get the textbook. I went to lecture every week and took notes, but there were many times when I needed to consult the textbook to make sure I was understanding the lectures fully. Get a p-set group together at the beginning of the semester as well!
Don't expect to understand too much in class but go for section and everything should become clearer
This class seems to have been greatly improved from what it was a couple of years ago. It's not too hard and the teaching staff is great.
You cannot avoid this course if you want to do BME. This course seriously made me question my decision to concentrate in BME or even attend Harvard SEAS. The subject was not made interesting, and its applications were not stressed enough. The theory was not discussed in much detail for it to become mathematically interesting. The lectures were repetitive and boring. They teach you to solve specific types of problems that seem obscure.
As with most engineering classes, you're taking this because you have to. However, different from most engineering classes, you are not doomed. This class is manageable, by all means.
Problem sets and tests are relatively straight forward but it is important to pay attention in lecture and/or read the book to get a good understanding of the fundamental concepts.
Professor Needleman and the teaching staff (especially Bryan) made this class enjoyable and relatively easy to understand.
This is a decent class but needs lots of improvement.  The new change in teaching staff has made the course somewhat more confusing.
This was literally one of my favorite course at Harvard. If I could design a course here, I would model it after ES 123.
This is class is not necessarily a difficult class but the way it was co-taught this year made the material difficult to learn. Professor Needleman is a great lecturer; clear and to the point. Unfortunately, I can't say the same about Professor Rubinstein - he often admits that he is nervous in front of the class and I couldn't comprehend or flow his train of thought many times, making it frustrating. There were several weeks where the homework/p-sets were on material that we had yet to go over in lecture so it was very hard to do the homework unless you went section. Because the lectures were very disorganized, the saving grace of this class was section. Bryan and Laura often went over many of the homework problems in section and this was really the only way I ever learned anything sometimes. I heard Schmuel will be teaching this class by himself next year so I would be careful - he's very enthusiastic about fluids but unfortunately, not the best teacher. Go to section. The exams are pretty fair, although they are only 3 problems long. The grading for this class seems rather ambiguous.
This is a much better class than previous years. Be prepared to go back through and reread material though.
Be prepared to put in a lot of work in order to do well.
If you can avoid this requirement or replace it with another better-taught course, do so; the lectures were atrocious, the material poorly presented, and as a result, the course as a whole felt dumbed down to make up for its own shortcomings in teaching.
Fluids can be a tough course, but Professor Needleman teaches it in a very accessible way. I would definitely recommend taking it because the topics are very useful in many engineering applications.
really enjoyed it, pacing was nice and allowed me to digest the material and learn well
This was probably one of my favorite engineering required courses! You are likely taking this because you have to. But it is really interesting material and not horribly difficult. Prof Needleman is a great lecturer and Laura is absolutely amazing. The workload is manageable as far as engineering courses go
A bit of a logistical mess this semester but still a really good class overall! The material is very interesting and the teaching staff is a fun, helpful group of people.
This class is very well taught but a well informed and coordinated teaching staff. Problem sets were clear and gave you the option of choosing to do some number of problems from a larger selection of potential problems. Lecture by Professor Needleman was very clear and sometimes funny. The midterms were tricky, but extremely fair. Section, review sessions, and office hours were all very helpful and well run, and the final project was a joy.
This class is required for most engineering, but the material is interesting and the professor teaches it well. The labs and COMSOL labs are frustrating and you aren't given very much help or structure. The exams are reasonable and divide the material into manageable sections.
Review of lecture notes as well as section attendance is crucial to your success in this course.
This class was one of the best learning experiences I have had in an engineering class. Grading was very fair but at the same time did not cause the same stress that grading often does. I learned many applicable skills in this course that I have already started using in other engineering courses and applications. I also found the lectures to be clear and well paced.
Homeworks are doable, best to find a solid group. Exams are directly related to homeworks. Grading policy is nice. Laura is a great TF who is very motivated to help students with projects and homework.
This year's iteration of the class was pretty good. The provlem sets were generally not too time consuming and the exams were fair. Section and TF office hours were great (Laura and Bez were great TF's). Material is very interesting and pretty well taught. The labs were a bit of a pain but from what I have heard they were better this year than in prior years.
Good course just stay on top of lectures and material.
The materials is super interesting. The problem set may be hard, but the exams are very manageable. The TFs were AMAZING, especially Laura, who always explain the material so well during section.
I struggled but most others didn't. Class is well taught and interesting but still was not perfect. Material can be difficult at times.
Fluids is actually a pretty cool topic, but this class structure makes this class much more frustrating than it needs to be. The constant changing of due dates, pset revisions, and lack of communication between teaching staff members made me want to pull my hair out sometimes. It took up less homework time than I expected, but the comsol, lab, lecture, and pset components add up to make the class more involved than it seems.
This class, while difficult and sometimes disorganized, it was very interesting and I enjoyed the course material a lot.
This course was an engineering gem in the sense that it isn't that hard or that much work and you walk away at the end of the day feeling like you've actually learned something. In addition, Dr Laura Adams is such a helpful, dedicated, wonderful TF and Professor Needleman is a clear, engaging lecturer. Definitely the best team to take fluids with.
This class was incredible. I really loved the subject matter and both Dan and the teaching staff (Laura and Bez) were accessible. They really wanted to make the course one that taught a lot but also wasn't unnecessary difficult. The problem sets were interesting and not overwhelmingly long or difficult. The labs were interesting. The COMSOL was also great. I think this class is one of the best engineering courses I've taken at Harvard.
Go to lectures and make sure you are engaged with the material. Make sure you ask the teaching staff when you are confused because they are very helpful. Section also helped with the homework's.
This review is for when the class is taught by Professor Needleman, TFs: Laura and Bezia (and some undergraduate TFs). The material is very interesting. Prof Needleman is a great lecturer and explains concepts well. TFs Laura and Bezia are also great at explaining things and responding to email questions in a timely basis. Laura's book on diffusion is the most helpful resource for the diffusion unit (which was the first third of the class). Both are very dedicated and will spend lots of time helping you if you ask. Try lots of problems and recognize the patterns in how to solve them. Making a flow chart can help.
This is a standard essential engineering class - it will be math heavy and require you to put in sufficient amount of work. However, you can learn some really cool stuff and if possible I highly recommend taking it with Needleman teaching it.
I don't know if this class is worth it, to be honest. If you're comfortable with 21a/b math and can mimic the problems done in lecture, you'll find it pretty easy. If that sounds boring to you, it will be.
This class was really well taught this semester. The teaching staff was always willing to help. Make sure you pick a good topic for the final project video. COMSOL labs will require a substantial amount of time.
I enjoyed the course. reach out for help. Laura is especially nice.
This class was conceptually challenging but was surprisingly manageable. Tests and homework assignments were fair, and the final project was a compelling way to explore an interesting phenomenon regarding fluids. Laura's supplementary notes are very useful.
I can't imagine a whole lot of people taking this class unless it's a concentration requirement, but with that said it is a relatively painless way to learn fluid dynamics.
The organization of this course is great and expectations are clear. The teaching staff does a great job at breaking down fluid mechanics and makes the material quite comprehendible. The psets vary in length and difficulty, so take a look early on to see how much time you'll need to allot. Additionally, attending the section really helped with the psets and understanding the material
Only take this course if you need it. There is way to much work - experimental lab, computational COMSOL lab AND problem sets (with one during reading period too). Lecture was not useful but Prof. Rubinstein takes attendance sometimes so you need to be there. Not much learning done in the classroom, more learning was done in section and at office hours.
keep in mind that this course is more an applied math class rather than an engineering class, which you may or may not enjoy. start problem sets early, and when studying for exams, focus on going over the problem set and practice exams because professor Rubinstein likes to draw from these problems. start on the video project early, and don't hesitate to seek help from the wonderful teaching staff!
You probably have to take this as a requirement, but if given the option, there are other classes that are more well taught and probably less strenuous.
This is a great introductory class on fluid mechanics but keep in mind that this will take a lot of time out of every week.
Be prepared for a lot of time spent on diffusion, a topic not normally covered in fluid dynamics. The topic is not rewarding as it is not at all applicable to the mechanical engineers.
This class is hard.  Hopefully it will get easier in the future but with 3 lectures, 1 section, and 1 lab every week it ended up being way more than 16 hours a week of a time commitment which was not nice.  Prof Rubinstein is a very good teacher and the lectures are easy to follow but be prepared to send hours in and out of office hours struggling the the problem sets.  Don't take this class unless it is a requirement.
It's the only way to satisfy the requirement, and it's pretty good, so hoorah.
Don't be afraid to take ES123 with one other difficult class - it's a very manageable class.
This is a required course for engineering students, so you know that you will have to take it eventually anyway. Better not to put it off since it is a considerable amount of work with problem sets, lab, and a final project. May be challenging at times, but the teaching staff is really dedicated to your success, which makes it enjoyable. Overall, not a bad class!
It's a lot of time and it's not fun.
This class is not too hard! Just time consuming. Make sure you do all the problem sets because they are very helpful in preparing for the exams.
The class overall is great! The lectures are engaging, except sometimes when derivations are occurring. But Shmuel is a great lecturer and really cares about your success. There is a large lab component, so be wary of taking too many lab courses in one semester with this one. A lot was accomplished with fair distribution of work throughout the whole semester. Go to lectures, but more importantly go to sections because that is where you will learn how to do homework problems. The final project was a lot of fun as well, although quite time consuming. Only buy the Munson book; did not even use the old one.
This class is not challenging in content, but it will demand a heavy weekly investment of your time with labs, figuring out COMSOL/Matlab, and at times rather long PSETs. I found that some problems did require you to go to office hours to figure out a more efficient method, especially if you don't have math background beyond differential equations. The exams were very fair and at times repeated questions from the midterm review questions as well as PSET questions. If you can do most of the PSETs by yourself, have a comfortable understanding of each PSET, and polish up areas of confusion with the TFs, the exams should actually be relatively straightforward. If you had to rely mostly on your peers to complete at least half or more of the PSET, then this course may seem a bit more challenging.
Can be really easy, or really hard, depending on the person.  Knowing how to deal with diffEQs is definitely useful
This class is one of the best I have taken at Harvard. Some of the problem sets towards the beginning and the first midterm are very tricky, but GO TO OFFICE HOURS! This class has hands down the best teaching staff, so use them! Once you get past the first midterm it is really smooth sailing. And the project is SO fun to work on, they really appreciate comedy and creativity, just make sure you start more than a couple days before it's due!
Fluid mechanics is a very interesting subject, and with this fun teaching staff, I think you will enjoy it. Shmuel is a great guy, and he will try his best to make you understand the material.
Obviously you are taking it because it's required (with the exception of a few crazy people). It's a course that will require a lot of your time, but the material will be interesting. Prof. Rubinstein cares a lot about the course, and is committed to making it better, but that doesn't mean easy (and it shouldn't be easy--it's engineering; get used to it!)
Not a bad class, much better than my experience in thermodynamics. Homework sets were well-written and well-documented. Labs weren't particularly insightful. Exams were fair representations of the material. Less emphasis on diffusion and more emphasis on useful concepts would serve future versions of this class better.
Prof. Rubinstein is excellent at teaching the concepts and clarifying any questions in class and lecture. The course team is also great and very supportive. Take this class and utilize  section and office hours to get a stronger foundation (and also do much better on the course)!
It is interesting, but extremely hard and not necessarily the best class.
great class, well taught, AMAZING teaching staff
This was a very interesting class. Shmuel was a great teacher and the TFs were very helpful. A lot of the homework requires that you go to section and office hours to complete.
ES 123 is a very good course. Each of the 3 main topics (hydrostatics, diffusion, and flow) is relevant to one of the types of engineering taking this course. Make sure to review multivariable calculus and vector operators beforehand because you'll use them a lot in class and on homeworks. Homeworks take a long time but the questions usually step you through how to complete the problem. It is hugely useful to know (or teach yourself) separation of variables before this course. The textbooks are good. The Comsol labs take time to complete but are very cool and you get introduced to some the details of finite element analysis which is very important. Office hours are great and the TFs are very helpful.
I'm sure you have to take this for a requirement if you are considering it.
If you have a strong background in linear algebra, you should do well in this course. However, if you barely got through it, you're in for a tougher time. Its a requirement for mechanical engineering though, so if you have to take it, know that Shmuel does his best to make it a good course.
Yowza. This class is pretty brutal in terms of time commitment.
It requires a lot of time.
ES123 will definitely be one of your high priority courses of the semesterthe problem sets will take a lot of time, effort, and visits to office hours to really understand, and the material (particularly diffusion) is sometimes difficult to graspbut I will say that it's a very fair course and one of the better engineering courses I've taken at Harvard. There was a good support system through the TFs, who were pretty helpful for the most part and tried their best to answer your questions, and Shmuel is incredibly nice and willing to help if you approach him. The work was hard, yes, but the exams were fair (and didn't throw any weird curveballs at you), and there weren't crazy expectations that weren't met by equal effort to teach you from the teaching staff. Also making the final project videos was actually pretty fun and cool!
You most likely have to take this class as a requirement, but Schmuel makes it pretty engaging and fair. The psets are quite intensive and require you to go to office hours to get them done, but they get more manageable in the second half of the semester. Sections are optional but I would recommend them.
Fluid Mechanics seems like a difficult subject and it definitely is. Professor Rubenstein and the teaching staff did an incredible job of making the material more approachable and helping me understand how to do fluid mechanics problems.
huge time commitment! also be prepared with matlab
This course is obnoxious but it's probably a concentration requirement for you so you'll just have to put up with it. The psets are much more difficult and time consuming than necessary, the lab and COMSOL sections are irritating and not very useful.  The final project is more of an exercise in video editing skills than in fluids knowledge.  The teaching staff was often barely able to help with pset questions, office hours were crowded, and the entire course was fairly poorly organized. Good luck, it'll be over eventually.
This is a difficult class very similar to my physics courses in the past. Material is covered very rapidly and conceptually, with homework and sections helping with the application of the concepts. I wouldn't take this as an elective, but for concentrators it's certainly not the worst engineering course out there and does a good job of teaching what it should.
One of the better lecture-based engineering courses I've taken. Professor and TFs are very knowledgeable, and office hours are incredibly helpful. Problem sets are challenging and will take time (and often essentially require collaboration with classmates), but the problems were applicable to real scenarios and weren't impossible.
This class is really difficult and takes up a lot of your time.
TAKE THIS CLASS - you will learn how amazing fluids are!! Shmuel does an amazing job collecting a huge support system of TFs and lab components so that there's a little something in this class for everyone. I had literally no idea how fluids worked, and the math we learned to describe them was beautiful. This may well be my favorite class at Harvard.Definitely be mindful that difficulty and enjoyment can differ depending on someone's concentration -- BME people seemed to feel less prepared than MechE or EE people.
Make sure to go to office hours. This class will take a ton of time. It is helpful to have taken AM105.
The material is very interesting, but the course is a ton of work. Definitely learned more about fluids, but I think there's a balance between psets being difficult and helping to facilitate learning, and being too difficult and ruining the experience of learning the material. I think this course was in the latter category.
Fluids is a very important class. The psets and exams are fair and some TFs are good, but overall, the course tries to get you to do too much work -- with computational, experimental labs and a final project that is a lot of busy work, don't underestimate the workload in the class. Overall do-able but I'd rather spend the time on the final project on more problems / learning.
Tough class but it is manageable if you have the time.
This course can be very enjoyable and actually fun, but only if you stay on top of your understanding of the material. I really recommend starting the problem sets as early as possible. Starting earlier does not always lead to finishing earlier, but it helps you understand the material better for the long run. The exams are all very similar to the problem set questions, so if you make an attempt to really understand the problem sets and go through the review material you will do just fine in this course. Section is optional for this course, so it might be hard to find motivation to go some weeks. However, section always left me feeling prepared with the right tools and concepts to tackle that weeks problem sets.
This class is really rigorous and really puts you through the wringer, but the teaching staff is huge and works really hard along with you!
Set aside a lot of time for HW.
This is a difficult class! This must be the only class you will commit a vast amount of time to, as you just won't be able to manage 3 hard classes with this one eating up most of your time. This one, another bioengineering, and two easy classes will probably be optimal, but just know, most of your time will be dedicated to this class.
