Requires an intense knowledge of reading primary literature.  Grading is harsh.
This class would be really fascinating for anyone interested in learning more about recent cutting-edge developments in synthetic biology and gentic engineering. The readings and literature used are really interesting and it's important to do them so you can actively participate during class. The problem sets are long, but also interesting in terms of concepts covered. If doing the lab section, be prepared to put in many hours of work, especially near the end of the semester, both for planning and executing experiments.
If you must take the course and have never done bacterial culturing/plasmid creation, consider doing the lab section. Even though its more work it is worth.
this is a really interesting class where you will learn a lot about synthetic bio and cell engineering. the guest lectures are cool too. lectures can sometimes feel like review of basic molecular/cellular bio but the papers are really cool and worth it prof joshi can sometimes be a hard grader, so make sure to talk to him to make sure you're on the right track
This is a good class to take if you are interested in pursuing any field in bioengineering because you will learn fundamentals of cellular behavior that will help with most fields (tissue eng, biomaterials, drug delivery).
This class give you a nice opportunity to read up on papers that are more oriented towards designing biological systems than solely trying to understand the ones that already exit. If you have already taken molecular and cell biology the material isn't really challenging, but it's interesting. The final project is fun and allow you to put some of the idea presented in lecture towards your own desired application. There were no exams, which was a plus.
interesting class, cutting edge-content, moderate workload, and Joshi is a reasonable person and good teacher; would have been nice to focus more on genome editing or to incorporate that into the lab
Good overview of topics related to cellular engineering. Helps you formulate a research direction for your PhD
Take this class if you have ever had an interest in cellular engineering.
Learned a lot from writing the problem sets by doing research on your own.
It course may not be suitable for beginner in cellular engineering as the professor assumes a solid background for all enrollee.
You have the opportunity to read many interesting papers; problem sets, literature presentations, and final projects are very helpful. However, the lectures are a bit uninspired, and mostly focus on reviewing topics from molecular/cell biology at or below the level of MCB 52/54, rather introducing recent findings/demonstrations/technologies in cell bioengineering.
Awesome class with great professor! We learned a lot of cool things about cell engineering and got experiences on proposal presentations.
Be prepared to participate during class. It will make the course more enjoyable.
I really enjoyed this course. It was very informative without feeling rushed or stressful (not too much time commitment per week), and the assignments and lectures were on-point.
This course is a very interesting one, and certainly the knowledge that is to be had in this course, while initially seeming simple and straightforward, is revolutionary - cellular engineering will be a major component of medical research in the next several decades. A number of fruitful cellular engineering research areas are emerging, and this course will provide students with exposure to those topics of interest. However, some organizational issues need to be addressed so that students can truly gain the most from this course.
Lab is time consuming but worth doing if you don't have cell engineering experience.
good class to take if you want to learn about basic lab techniques
Great course, especially if you have some comfort with molecular and cellular biology or biochemical engineering specifically. Involves both a significant classroom component and a significant lab component, the later of which can really take a lot of time depending in part on how you split work with your teammates. Professor Joshi is great. Lectures are great. Lab demos are great. I would recommend it, I learned a lot in this course.
The lab section of this class takes up a huge section of your time. If you're taking other time-consuming classes, I would seriously consider putting this off to a less busy semester.
Great class. Well taught with interesting material, but does take a ton of time.
Really enjoyed this class. Coming from a mechanical engineering/medical device background, it really helped me to develop my tissue culture skills. It was really well taught, and I enjoyed the lectures, journal club and lab demos. I would highly recommend it, although it does take a lot of hours, so be sure that other course workload allows it to get full benefit from class
Unless you plan on working specifically with 2D mammalian cell culture, it's not worth taking. Even if you do plan on that line of research, you'd probably be better off doing a rotation with some cell culture than taking this course.
This currently serves as an intro to cell engineering, but it is most beneficial in the context of wanting to join the disease biophysics group.In its current incarnation, you cannot realistically do research and take this course.  The time commitment is too strenuous.
Start everything early because it will take much longer than you think.Ask the teaching staff lots of questions about presentation styles and formatting.Be prepared to spend the majority of your term on the course.Project: Choose a simple project, take time to design control and experimental conditions well and analyze the resulting data using complex methods.
