This is the hardest class I have ever taken (and I've already survived a lot of engineering classes). The course moved so fast, and we basically covered 3 MIT courses worth of material. I wish I had secretary experience, because maybe then I would have been able to read the messy cursive handwriting of the professor that filled 300+ pages of a handwritten "book." That thing gave me a headache. Take this class if you want to spend 30 hours a week drowning in the darkness of ignorance and enduring repeated emotional and mental despair. Also, if I had a penny for every time the professor said, "You already know this, so I'll skip it," then I would be a millionaire. Unfortunately, I didn't know any of the things he skipped, and I never learned them either.
Worst class I've taken.
The iteration of this class with Prof. Spaepen was really hard--much harder than in previous years.  However, it was also really rewarding.  The book of lecture slides is what we were tested on on the final, so it's really helpful to know everything in it.
I want to be nice because Spaepen tries, he really tries.  But he was so disconnected from reality that learning anything was a challenge. He seems shocked whenever we don't know something about materials science, teaching everything in the class as though we already know it.  The basic strategy of teaching where you develop a strong foundation in the basics before moving onto advanced concepts seems to be totally lost.  The class notes are unreadable and as hard to follow as the lectures.  I was not taught materials science.  I taught myself.  This class can in no way take credit for my learning.  I learned in spite of it.
The material is very difficult to understand, but the actual workload is quite reasonable.  The more time you spend reading over the notes and working through the concepts until you could explain them yourself, the better you will do on the tests.  Your percentage grades will be low, but difficult problems create great learning opportunities.
This is definitely the most difficult class I've taken at Harvard, and I've taken a number of difficult ones. It's difficult both in terms of conceptual understanding and workload. Imagine surveying the whole field of chemistry and the whole field of physics in one course. Not just intro chemistry and intro physics. The whole field; both fields. That's ES190. There is very little guidance on how to psets because lecture doesn't actually cover any examples. Everyone is thrown into the deep end on this one. Don't take this course. To put my recommendation in perspective: I've now taken 28 courses, and I would recommend against only 3 total. This is one of them. Don't take this. You've been warned.
Overall, this class was a very negative experience, which felt like drinking through a fire hose. The material is difficult, and little effort were made to actually explain concepts clearly. Students were not given that much support on homework and class materials in general. Do not take if it is not required of you to take.
Only took this course as it was a requirement.  The pace was unreasonable for undergrads.  Spaepen definitely knows the material, but he needs to do a much better job in decreasing the speed in which he goes through the notes.  
The handwriting in the notes is also not that easy to decipher.
The TFs weren't too helpful at first, but improved later on.
Spaepen can be extremely condescending, especially during office hours or even during class when you ask him a question that he believes you should know as a "mechanical engineer" student.   Psets were brutal since we never had been given an example problems to use for  the concepts that he covered in class.
He also believes a lot in having students memorize derivations, and I don't think that that is practical for the real world when you can look up most of these formulas.
If Spaepen is teaching this class DO NOT TAKE IT. Create a scheduling conflict and try to take it at MIT. This is literally the worst class I have ever taken at Harvard.
a lot to cover
it's material that will probably be useful if going into an engineering field
I don't think you'd ever take a 100-level engineering class without being a concentrator, but it's a great set of useful and interesting information that explains why lots of other things (solid mechanics, thermodynamics, chemistry) are the way they are.
I did not enjoy this class. However as far as engineering classes go, this was definitely one of the most painless in terms of the difficulty. There was a lot of information to know, but nothing really heavily math based.
A not too difficult class on an interesting subject.
It will teach you a great deal about how most types of materials work.
Important material, even if it is presented directly from book
The class is required, so it's not like you have a choice. That said, it's at least an easy class you don't have to think about. Beware: the TFs are not your friends.
It was remedial.  Too bad you're probably REQUIRED to take it with NO OTHER OPTIONS AVAILABLE.
An interesting class, can be enjoyable based on the lectures.
The class is a broad overview of materials science, which should be worthwhile, although the grading in this case was very harsh.
This class is not well done.  It is very difficult to learn anything in lecture, and the tfs have trouble explaining most things in section, so the class is just very confused most of the time.  So much material is covered that you can't keep up.
This class is a mess. I wouldn't take it if you don't have to. The class covers so many topics, and it feels like you're taking a graduate level course. To make things worse, we had to follow the professor's notes instead of a real textbook.
It's tough! Maximize time with the TFs to understand these topics, and don't get distracted in lecture. It's not as hard as you've probably heard, but it's definitely a course that requires time, thought, and dedication. Enjoy it, though! It covers pretty much every topic we need to know in order to be successful mechanical engineers.
Brace yourself. To survive... you basically have to memorize the notebook. Go to sections (Tamara and Cathy were the best), don't be afraid to reach out to the TFs! Start your assignments early and work with other people. This class is HARD! Like literally... don't take it if you don't have to. It's been the bane of my existences
ES190 covers a huge amount of material, from pure physics of crystallography to engineering application of materials and some applied physics as well. It's a difficult course because it goes very fast. You must look up definitions online whenever you encounter terms that you don't understand. The first month (crystallography) is the most difficult part of the course - hang on and you'll learn some cool applications of alloys, polymers, etc. You must keep up with homeworks and lectures. Don't hesitate to ask lots of questions about the homeworks and reach out to TFs.
You know from the Q scores what you are getting into with this class. If possible, do not take with Spaepen, it is a big time/energy/stress machine. It was not like this before him, and will likely not be like this after him. He does awesome amazing materials science research outside of teaching, and expects you to get on his level in this class. Couple that with the fact that he cannot use or navigate isites/canvas, the "textbook" is 300 some pages of his difficult to read handwriting, and the TFs not holding useful sections. It becomes a very very difficult setting in which to learn.
Hard to get anything out of lectures since they're so theoretical. Rarely were examples used during class. Felt pretty lost the whole way through. Section and googling was where the learning really happened. I almost switched concentrations partly because of this course. Would not recommend unless you have to take it. If you do, I'm sorry.
Very difficult course, very cool content but extraordinarily ton of material.
It is extremely evident than Professor Spaepen is very intelligent. His method of teaching, however, is very outdated. He does not believe in any textbook so made a xeroxed 'textbook' of his own HAND-WRITTEN notes than are very unclear and can barely be read at times. He displays these notes on an overhead projector during class, which is his main way of teaching. At the least he could hire someone to type up these notes, add clear VISUALS, and possibly add some color. I know that may sound unnecessary to some, but for me, visuals are key to understanding something. Lectures were also disorganized. 90% of the time I was wondering what we were even talking about. He often jumped into lecture without letting us know what we were going to cover in class. Lectures were confusing - he would often write down equations without adequately explaining how they came about. I really hoped that this class would be amazing, but it was far from it. The only reason I think I learned some things was because I bought a textbook (the textbook that is used in most universities for this type of class).Professor Spaepen needs to entire the 21st century and realize that chalk to blackboard for a materials class is not the most conducive to learning.
