I think this is a good course to get a good idea of what materials are being used in biomedical applications. It also gives you good practice on how to write a research proposal.
Helpful and nice professor and very interesting topics.
This is a fantastic survey course on biomaterials. The professor and TF are very helpful, and the material is well-taught. Definitely take it if you are interested in the subject.
This is an interesting class! You are going to cover different topics in biomaterials. But be aware: the problem sets take a lot of time, especially if you are an undergrad. You are going to have a presentation about a paper and a research proposal, in groups.
If you are a biomedical engineer I would definitely recommend this course. The material is exciting, new and you learn a lot about the biomedical engineering design process.
Good class in that you get to learn cool material. It is better if you have a material science background to help you understand what is going on better. Work on problem sets early since they can be very time consuming.
The material is interesting, but as a new class it has some kinks to be worked out. The problem sets and assignments are on the less time intensive end on the engineering spectrum.
I gotta say I was fairly pleasantly surprised by the course. It's fairly minimally time-consuming, but definitely worth it for anyone interested in biomaterials (both the native ones for inspiration and the clinically applied versions). Good bang for your buck, and you really don't need to much prior knowledge.
The class provides a good overview of current research in biomaterials and engages you with the material through journal club presentations and a research proposal/market review for a new material.
This class gives a broad overview of many interesting natural systems and their synthetic analogs. If you are looking to develop insight to bioninspired design, this is a good course. However, if you are hoping to develop a thorough technical foundation in biomaterials, this is not the right course for you. I think the title of the course should be "Introduction to Bioinspired Design" because that is exactly what you will get from the course.
It's a great course with very structured syllabus, and Neel is a great instructor who gives great feedback on your assignments and projects. The course itself is supposedly independent of your academic background, but background in material science & engineering definitely helps.
If you want to get a broad overview of the ways Nature builds materials, the ways human uses these natural building principles to build synthetic materials,  and fully appreciate the interdisciplinarity of the biomaterials field, this is the course for you.
You should take this course if you want to learn about recent advancements in bioinspired materials. However, if you want to learn about the structure and chemistry specific polymers, metals, ceramics, and other biomaterials, I would suggest another course.
The course consists of problem sets, a literature review, and a final project that is designed as a research project proposal. It covers a wide range of topics in biological and biologically-inspired materials, and it likely would be quite useful to those interested in these topics.
