Mechanical engineering by building robots. What more do I have to say? Take this class.
This class was a blast! This course truly reaffirmed my passion for engineering. It is a great way to explore mechanical engineering while gaining very useful fabrication and design skills. The class is not very challenging or time consuming, especially if you utilize office hours. The final project (super awesome robot) was absolutely incredible. It was such a fun and exciting way to display our hard work. However, be cautious of taking multiple classes with major final projects because it is a bit of a time suck.
As a future engineer, this class is a must. You will learn the basic framework of skills necessary for upper level project-based classes and probably for your career as an engineer, such as machine shop experience with CNC mills, the lathe, drills, 3D printing, laser cutting, molding and especially computer-based modeling. This class has a very fair amount of work, especially for an engineering class, until the end of the semester, which is very hectic and will involve day after dat spent in the basement of Pierce completing your robot with your team. But it helps you grow closer to other fellow future engineers, is a very fun class, and I definitely recommend it to both engineers and people interested in the field in general.
This course was really fun and helpful in learning about what goes into making a functioning battery-powered car, however, the calculations for the car that you do end up being only minimally helpful and not really working out. Just roll with it and make the car work, don't focus as much on if it works *based* on your calculations.
This class is a great way to see if you are interested in mechanical engineering.  The class really gives an overview of mechanical engineering and is really fun.  During lab periods, we use what we learn in class to build a robot that competes in a competition at the end of the semester.  Great class!
This is a very cool class that's not too hard, although it is very time consuming especially at the end
Do the PSETS IN OFFICE HOURS! I found myself working on them over the weekend but the answers being wrong due to an error in the PSET or a tricky formula.
Have fun, be prepared to work hard and solve problems
Lab and the final project are the fun part of the course, while the lectures, psets, and tests can be a bit dry. If you go in with no experience you definitely learn a lot of new skills, though occasionally the quickly explained new concepts could be frustratingly hard to grasp. The enjoyability of the final project also depends a lot on your teammates and the amount of time you want to put into it.
a lot of fun
Lab is good, but class can be very frustrating, especially with psets and exams. Lecture isn't super informative, and isn't always worth the time.
Don't be afraid to ask questions. Not everything is clear and definitely get an early start on your project, it looks easy but it takes a lot of time.
it's definitely worth taking (it teaches you a lot) although can be boring sometimes
This class is a lot of fun if you put in the amount of time it deserves. Don't blow off the SolidWorks because those skills are so useful, and so much of what you learn in this class will apply to future engineering internships/jobs.(So you'll want to actually remember them!)
If you're thinking about engineering as a concentration, curious about engineering, or looking for an enjoyable class to take, I can't recommend this class enough. From beginning to end I enjoyed the class immensely and I had fun in the labs with my robot. Maybe my experience was rosier due to the great design team I had, but I definitely walked out of this class proud of the work I had done. I can say do the psets earlier than last minute so you can get some help: the office hours are phenomenal for getting help on harder problems. Also don't underestimate the exams: they're a lot trickier than they first appear and can catch you off guard, they're tests that will leave you hurrying to finish on time. But otherwise, don't be discouraged, the class is great.
Be prepared to have a fun time building a  robot.
It is an amazing class!
If you don't have much engineering experience, be prepared to spend a lot of time outside class trying to catch up.  Also, expect to spend a lot of your own time working on Turf Wars in the lab (which has sort of odd hours).
This course is a great introduction to the design process and engineering.
This class had an excellent lab component and allowed you to work in a machine shop using some interesting tools, especially the 2.5 axis mills.
This class served as a valuable introduction to engineering thought processes and basic lab work.
This class is fun and not too difficult. If you like building stuff then this is the class for you
Really cool to build an ATV out of a cordless screwdriver instead of taking a final.
Sometimes it may feel like this class is rather unorganized or slow; the material isn't difficult, but lectures don't seem to follow each other very smoothly.  The problem sets aren't bad at all, but in order to know how to do them you must attend lecture (since helpful notes are not posted on the iSite).  The real draw factor of this class is the ability to use the tools in the Teaching Labs (including the drill presses, the bandsaws, the mills, the laser cutter, and the 3D printer.  Through extensive use throughout the semester (and especially for the final project) you will get comfortable using these machines; in my opinion that is the most useful and fun thing that I learned via this class.
The practical skills you learn for mechanical engineering are amazing. You end up building an entire all-terrain vehicle at the end of the course!Keep up with lectures though as they can be dry and confusing. Many times after a confusing lecture  there isn't that much practice problems/worksheets to help resolve them.
It's awesome!
This is such a fun class. Psets and midterms aren't hard at all, and you get to make really cool things throughout the class. Its not a class where you stress out about your grade.
Make slots in you ATV chassis! THe ATV project will definitely become a bit annoying toward the middle of reading period, so making a well-defined SolidWorks model will make everything easier on you and your team. Also make sure you take good notes in class. If you don't, you'll definitely regret it when exams pop up.
ES 120 covers pretty much the same material in slightly more detail.  I think taking es 51 and es 120 simultaneously would be really good.  Don't be fooled by the low course catalog number.  This is a pretty hard class.  The lectures don't relate to the labs and the p sets are challenging.  That being said, the final project was fun.  Plan to spend a lot of time on it.
The lectures are a little dry and repetitive, but the final project is great.
I loved ES 51! The material was very interesting and useful and is taught at a relaxed pace. I loved being in the machine shop and working with my hands (mills! bandsaws! laser cutters!). The ATV project was also one of the most fun final projects I've ever worked on. From designing to making Solidworks models to assembling our ATV, I gained a lot of hands-on experience and never felt like I was just doing busy work. Professor Walsh is a great person to talk to and the teaching staff in the Undergraduate Teaching Labs were really helpful. The quality of the TF's, however, varied greatly. No matter what concentration you are (it's pretty accessible), if you like designing and building cool things, you should take this class!
Great class where you learn to use cool machinery, software, and tools.  The material is presented at a reasonable pace and the workload is very manageable.  Recommend it even if you don't want to be an engineer.  It gives you a great appreciate for the design and manufacture of products you use every day.
Its a great course and a great way to see if engineering is right for you. However it is quite unorganized at times. If that is something that would bother you maybe you should look for another fifty level intro to engineering.
I think it has the potential to be an awesome class, and before I took it, a lot of people said it was. I, however, found it to be somewhat disorganized (unclear instructions, staff often giving conflicting advice, etc.), and I don't think it lived up to all the hype. Despite this, working in the lab is a lot of fun and building a working ATV is very rewarding.
The lab component makes the course. You learn a lot of practical engineering skills, like machining and how to use Solidworks. The class isn't much work until the last couple of weeks, when you'll spend a lot of time in Pierce working on your ATV, which is time-consuming but rewarding. However, lectures are boring and the theoretical stuff isn't very interesting.
Somewhat disorganized, but material is very interesting.  Prof. Walsh is an OK lecturer, but what really makes the course is that fact that you get to create tangible projects.  The final project (building an ATV) was loads of fun and I did not mind putting in the hours.  If you think like and engineer, are decent at math, or have machine shop experience this class will be a breeze.
This class is great. The 3 lab projects make the class- especially the final ATV project, which takes a lot of time but is fun.
This class is really great for anyone interested in mechanical engineering. The labs are educational and culminate in an ATV contest. Be sure to have good SolidWorks models before proceeding to build anything.
While I found this class enjoyable and I learned a lot, I also found it very disorganized which made for a frustrating class.  They just sized up the class but did not really have the staff or capacity to do so.  There were not enough seats in the classroom.
Pretty chill and interesting class, although not as fun and awesome as ES50. Maybe I had set the bar too high.
This class is a blast!  Great introduction to Computer Aided Design and mechanical engineering in general.  If you loved it as much as I did, you won't even notice the time you put into it!
if you have little to no previous experience, this is a great starter course that will teach you a lot of the mech E basics!
This is the most enjoyable class I took at Harvard (and I'm a senior).
This class is a good intro to mechanical engineering but if you already have a good deal of experience, it can seem a little reiterative.  I didn't feel that I had a lot of opportunity to be creative in my designs as there always seemed to be one definitive design that outweighed all of the others.
It is a very strong introductory mechanical engineering course.
This is a great hands on course and if you're very into lab work, design and assembly, this is the class for you.
You will learn about stress and strain in this course, but not in the sense of physical properties of materials. This course is miserably organized, and Professor Walsh obviously could not care less about the experience of the students or the knowledge conveyed. The final project is literally a nightmare, and your eventual success or failure is essentially decided when your group is randomly assigned unless you want to personally spend ungodly amounts of hours in the lab doing work for your team (which some students did have to do to account for less competent members). The grading is entirely arbitrary, so best of luck getting the course staff to like you. I cannot recommend this to anyone for whom it is not an absolute necessity. 90% of your time spent will be on CAD software, so there's that.
You should be prepared to spend a LOT of time making the ATVs. This semester set a new bar for number of points won on the ATV obstacle course, so there is no excuse for not making yours work. Start early and get as much done before Thanksgiving as possible. Going to office hours at the beginning because familiarity with the format of the homework is worthwhile and cannot be known without the help of the TFs. This class is very cool because you get to build things but it is horribly taught and very inefficiently run. Going into the class knowing that might help you concentrate on learning how to become an engineer and getting as much out of lab as you can. One of the most useful skills you can learn, in my opinion, is how to design in Solidworks. My team invested a lot of time in Solidworks, putting in every screw, so that when we assembled our ATV in real life, we only had to manufacture each piece once. Don't be the team that cobbles pieces together and then builds the ATV model. You won't have learned anything that will serve you in a professional setting.
Great course, just expect to be spending a lot of time waiting for a machine to get free to use. Also don't underestimate the final project.
While the material covered was interesting (and using laser cutters and 3D printing was incredibly exciting), this class suffered from a debilitating lack of structure and organization. Expectations were rarely clear, and the lack of a section (where we could ask questions or get pset help) was frustrating. Expect to spend many extra hours in lab, not only when working on the final project but throughout the rest of the semester as well. Do not, however, underestimate the coolness of getting to learn a CAD program and build things -- it may be worth it.
It is a very helpful introductory course for engineering. You learn how to use everything in the engineering labs and gain experience both designing and manufacturing products. The final lab takes up a lot of time, but it is definitely doable and very rewarding in the end.
You will get good experience using the tools in the shop, but the 3 hr/wk time that is alotted to work on the labs is never enough, so you'll probably end up spending closer to 6-10 hrs/wk in the lab when it gets closer to deadlines.
If learning how to design and build mechanical parts sounds like fun, I highly recommend this course. The ATV project was one of the most challenging and time consuming activities to complete during reading period but was extremely rewarding.
ES51 teaches you a lot about machining and even helps you see objects you use in everyday life in a whole new way.  The course can be a little disorganized, and work tends to ebb and flow somewhat violently, but it's a great class and will help you find out if you want to major in Mechanical Engineering!
Very cool and interesting, highly recommend it.
Very poorly taught in my year. Conor did not give a damn.Learning how to use SolidWorks (a CAD program), the CNC milling machines, the lasercutter, and the machine shop tools was definitely the strength of this course. I had a lot of fun doing that. If building things is your thing, you're going to love this portion of the class.Unfortunately, there are quite a few things you have to look out for if you're taking this class with Conor Walsh:- Incorrect formulas in lecture. Conor gave out the incorrect formula in lecture two or three times this year, making the psets and some project work impossible without hounding the TFs during office hours. Watch out for that - google anything Conor puts up on the board that you end up using in your pset, because it may simply be incorrect. Conor has not fixed this mistake over the years, as students I have talked to from previous years have had this exact same problem for the exact same formulas.- Apathy from Conor. If you're getting any sort of real help with this course, it's through the TFs. Conor does not care.- Poor quality lab readings and psets. Many have glaring errors that make them difficult or impossible to complete without seeking the TFs for help.As far as time commitment goes, it's not so bad as long as you talk to the TFs whenever you come across some glaring error or misleading instructions in the lab writeups of psets (it'll take forever if you try to figure it out on your own).I'd recommend this course to ME concentrators (but it's a requirement anyways, so ha!), but would give my recommendation serious reservations for non ME people.
This is one of the most practical classes a mechanical engineer can take at Harvard. You'll get training on a variety of machines as well as on 3D modeling and design in Solidworks, and it's pretty satisfying to apply these design and manufacturing techniques to a relatively complex project (a miniature ATV designed to traverse an obstacle course). The final project will eat up your life for about two weeks, so plan accordingly. Otherwise the class is relatively easy.
This is a fairly easy and very fun class for students in all concentrations to take!  A very easy elective for engineers and a fun, easy lab class for non-engineers.
There is a lot on-your-own-time spent in lab messing with solidworks and trying to figure out what you are supposed to be doing.  Not a lot of direction from the staff, and rather dry lectures make it a bit boring and frustrating unless you find the subjects interesting.  Labs are fun if you do not mind figuring lots of things out on your own.
The theoretical part of the course is very easy and constitutes a nice into to mechanical engineering. The labs increase in difficulty but are very fun and engaging. Prepare to spend lots of time in the lab towards the end of the course - its fun and you will bond with your team mates.
do not procrastinate on the final project
If you're interested in engineering, or even if you're not, take this class! It's a great way to get your hands dirty and really build something you can take home and show your friends. The ATV project at the end meant a lot of time spent in lab, but it was a great learning experience. Problem sets and exams aren't difficult or time consuming, and Conor was a fantastic lecturer. The teaching staff and lab staff is also wonderful and incredibly helpful! They really care about your success and safety in the lab, which made going to lab actually fun.
The labs and final project are the biggest time commitment.
Great class where you actually get to build something, unlike the rest of Harvard's theory-based engineering courses.  Great lectures.
ES-51 is an excellent introduction to mechanical engineering course. By the end of the class you have a strong foundation in solid modeling on solidworks and basic machining. I found the class to be extremely enjoyable, and not very difficult, although you do end up spending a lot of time in lab. The final project is a great wrap-up to the course as teams of four construct ATV's from scratch and race them on an obstacle course.
LABS WERE SOOO MUCH FUN!  DO THIS CLASS!!!! ATV PROJECT IS AWESOME!
This class is not difficult conceptual, but if you are in a grade higher than a sophomore and have some machining experience, you probably won't learn very much, if anything. The labs also take a very long time, so be prepared.
It's an amazing course that gives you the hands-on design experience lacking in many of Harvard's engineering courses, but be prepared to spend a LOT of time on the final project
This is probably one of the most practical engineering courses in Harvard. There is barely any pset/busy work and 100% of what you will learn you will need to apply working in engineering. A must for anyone interested in mechanical design.
This class is fairly easy and painless until the final project. It takes a lot of time and, depending on your teammates, can take over your entire life. But it's really fun all the same, and it's really cool to have seen something through from concept to actual operation.
I would say that this class is a phenomenal introduction to mechanical engineering and is applicable to many fields.
You won't really learn much in this course. The material is extremely basic. It's a super easy intro to engineering. The final project, however, takes a TON of time. Get ready for an unhappy reading period.
Take this class as soon as possible! You learn so much and it is inspiring for work in all of your other classes. The hands on experience is so rewarding.
Even if you're not engineering, you should take this class for the amazing hands-on skills you learn. The teaching staff is dedicated (especially Pete) and is always there to help.
This class is a great way to gain lab experience and learn a ton of hands on engineering.
If you want get hands on  experience using both simple and advanced tools, and be able to appy that to design projects, this course is a must.
this is a great, hands-on introduction to mechanical engineering - it will definitely help you figure out if engineering is for you or not.  a very fun class overall, take it!!!
Make sure to study ALL of the material to prepare for the Quizzes.  Little things can easily be missed and cause you to lose a lot of points.
Very good class. Not too challenging and a very good intro class for aspiring engineers.
Good class, really helpful in learning about the machining tools in the labs.  Labs take a lot of work outside of class, especially the final project but I really enjoyed the projects.
Everything is pretty easy until the ATV design component at the end.
This is a great class! You'll learn a lot about engineering and machine/product design, but you'll also spend a lot of time outside of class on the final project and labs. It's not an easy class!
Take this class if you are at all interested in engineering design, machining, or prototyping.
Easy if you know physics, or make an effort to learn physics. The hands on lab is its real strength, worth taking just for that.
Take the class if your are heavily motivated to build new stuff. This is a heavily lab-based course, and most of the time will be spent in lab working on assignments and the final project.
If you are considering Mechanical Engineering, this is great introductory course which involves more engineering experience and practise.
This class is a great way of learning about the design process that engineers go through and then how start projects and work on them until you're satisfied. The final project involves building an All-terain vehicle which is a lot of fun, and the class culminates with the final competition between all the different vehicles. The lab component of the course is excellent. For the most part, lectures are well organized and coincide with the labs and provide helpful information for the final project. Some of the problem sets were tough, but overall the class was low-stress and fun. A good intro to computer design and mechanical engineering.
Such a fun course! Lectures/problem sets are disorganized, but the LAB SECTION makes up for it! It's really chill, Paul Loschak is amazing - so are the other people around lab (Jordan, if he sticks around). You get to meet other engineers, have fun, all while learning how to use machining equipment. As my first design project I learned a lot!
Problem sets aren't bad but during the later labs you will find yourself in lab quite often at odd hours. Its a good thing though because you learn a lot and its fun
Great introduction to machine shop and manufacturing. It has fun and practical applications of engineering concepts.
Easily one of the best, if not THE best course you will take at Harvard. Extremely practical. Requires a great deal of problem solving and creativity and it's actually just fun. I'm not the kind of person that gets super excited about school, but this course definitely generated enthusiasm and got me interested/involved.
This class is a great way to get some mechanical engineering lab time, but the teaching is at times confusing or disjointed
This is a phenomenal course. You will learn not only learn fundamental engineering concepts, but  will gain the practical skills of actually learning how to build things. If you are someone who likes designing/engineering/building, this is the course for you. Also, you should take this course purely for the reason that you will be able to use groundbreaking machines (3D printer, CNC mill, and my personal favorite: the laser cutter), to build your parts.
If you show passion to this class, you will get paid back a lot.
Amazing class; hands-on experience on everything covered in class. Unlimited access to machine-shop, as long as you have a partner. In this course, you learn much more than your average harvard course. The final project involving building an all terrain vehicle is unparalleled.
This class is epic. You will love it. The final project is hard and VERY time consuming, so heads up. But it is more than worthwhile -- it's a great class.
This class is amazing. It is a ton of fun and you enjoy all of the time you spend working on it
you learn so much PRACTICAL useful knowledge.. all engineers should be required to take this course. you learn how to design and use all of the equipment in pierce.
The workload of this class is definitely manageable for the most part; however, at the end of the semester, you will be spending a lot of your time in lab (at least a few hours most days, sometimes entire days in and out of Pierce) doing the final project (an ATV), so plan accordingly. A lot of people were taking both CS50 and ES51, so their final projects coincided and it was hard to balance (but entirely doable). It's a great introduction to the actual physical prototyping and fabrication process, and to the machinery. People in or looking into the engineering concentration should strongly consider taking this class. The course material isn't hard (there's other ES classes for that) but the experience actually going through the design process is essential.
This is a great class for any engineer to take. One of the few chances you'll get to do something really hands on. It's very practical and useful. Lab is not well organized but much better from years' past so I've heard.
Take this class if you want to get hands on experience with designing and building things, knowing how things work, using tools, and making your own stuff from scratch - including an ATV at the end of the course. This class and its teaching staff is fun and laid back. I recommend it to everyone.
Keep up with the problem sets and work so the exams don't surprise you.  Learn what's actually important in design and fabrication and what's not.  Learn SolidWorks really well, or you'll have wasted a great opportunity.  A great class if Conor is teaching.
If you plan on being an engineer or just want to do some hands on work then this class is a must.  Its one of the few classes where you get to build something cool - in this case a little ATV that can navigate an obstacle course.Lectures are pretty interesting and applicable to real engineering, as are psets. You'll spend a fair amount of time in lab especially at the end of the semester, but its worth it.If you've never done machining, you get to learn how to use the mills, laser cutter, bandsaws, 3D printer, etc. which is cool
If you want to be a mechanical engineer, this class is essential.
Take it! Fun class, you get to build all sorts of stuff, laid back and really a pleasure.
This course is a great introduction to engineering.  It covers basic theory in multiple aspects of the engineering sciences, teaches basic use of machine tools, and engineering software.  The final project is exciting and puts everything you learned over the semester into practice.  If you have no experience in engineering or plan on concentrating in engineering this course is an ideal introduction/compliment; it is one of the few courses at Harvard that focuses on design and rapid prototyping rather than theory.
A great class to help you figure out if you want to pursue engineering or not. The most important thing I learned from this semester came about 2 weeks into term when I realized that engineering was too dull for me. Harvard's best option for exploring the field, very glad to have taken it as a freshman.
This is an extremely fun class that will have you using some really cool technology to build  a wide variety of projects.  The final car design will be an exciting challenge that you will want to spend all of your free time on.
This class is a great introduction. Conor and Neil are great!
Time consuming, but the best course I've taken so far except for maybe CS50.
This class is great for anyone who wants to get a more hands-on design and building experience. The theoretical content is very easy and straightforward, but you will spend a lot of time in the lab, especially for the final project. I would definitely recommend taking this class, whether as an engineering requirement or as an elective.
This course was a bit disorganized at times given that it was the first year being offered in a while. But it is a very unique course at Harvard in that you will gain enormous and valuable hands on experience building things. I may never take another Engineering course, but I have come out of this course with confidence building things and even used machine shop skills to construct a project for another course.
This class was the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. You don't have to be an engineering major to take it, as it would be interesting for anyone from any concentration. It's not rocks for jocks but it's also not nearly going to overload you with work.
Take it in the fall with Conor if possible, but either semester, the class is relatively easy to manage and teaches you a ton of practical skills.
If you have an elective, and you are studying engineering, or you have any interest in actually building something that can climb a ramp, make sharp turns and drive (i.e. the ATV (all terrain vehicle) project) I would highly recommend this. The ATV project will take up hours and hours of each day towards the end, but having a working ATV that can make it up the ramp and drive around the course: it was incredible.
The course definitely needs some polishing, but it is a fun, hands-on introduction to engineering at Harvard.  We briefly discuss the physics behind our projects, then jump right into lab each week.  There's plenty of room for mistakes and changes on the path to the final product.
Great class- lots of fun, learned a lot.  3 hour labs flew by.  Lectures weren't really that helpful but the midterms were easy so it didn't really matter.  Bulk of the learning goes on in lab.  ATV project takes a good chunk of time- start building things early.
Class is excellent for teaching what's on the course description. It definitely accomplishes all of its goals. If this class interests you, definitely try to get in.
A really great class that gives a tremendous amount of hands-on experience in building and design, unlike many other Harvard engineering courses. It's also a really great introductory course to the engineering field and this class taught me a lot. The material isn't too difficult and the work load is low key, where the vast majority of time and effort will be spent in lab.
This course is pretty sweet and is also easy. If you have taken es120, the first half of the course will be somewhat of a review.
the lab component (3 projects) is extremely rewarding, interesting, and fun.
This class is the shit, but the last project will take lots of time.
The technical aspect is fun, but if you take this course without having taken any previous engineering course, prepare to struggle with the concepts.
The final project takes more time than the sum of every other part of this course.
Get started on the ATV project early, so that it's fun and not just a giant project that has to get done.
This class is a lot of fun and you'll learn some practical machining skills which could be helpful for later courses or even personal projects. The coursework itself is also pretty easy and the problem sets/midterms are not too hard. The final ATV project was pretty time consuming so keep that in mind for the second half of the semester.
This class is so much fun! It is a great engineering class, and no engineering experience is necessary. The labs are so great, and the hands-on learning is fantastic.
Amazing class. Definitely recommend for engineers and non-engineers alike. I now know how to prototype, use the laser cutter, CNC mill, etc. expect to spend 3-4 hours every week in lab. Psets will take ~3 hours/week. Then for the ATV project, expect to spend 20 hours in lab that last week.
Only take this class if you are willing to spend a lot of time in lab and get your hands dirty. If that's not something you want to do, or would enjoy doing, don't take this class.
Work on your labs early.  Last minute milling is the worst kind of pressure.  But just love it.  Enjoy what you're doing.
It's awesome. Take it.
Kesner is new, so it's understandable that his lectures were generally quite bad. The TFs were far and beyond the best instructors in this class. Each was knowledgable in his own way, so it took time to figure out who was best to approach for which question, but once this was learned, they worked well as a toolbox. The lectures were boring, repetitive, unclear, and awkward. The labs are fun, not very ambitious, and laid back. The midterms were supremely easy. The problem sets were inconsistent, some being insanely easy and some being surprisingly hard. The last lab was amazingly time consuming. Estimate the time you'll spend in the lab for it, and double that. Then double it again. It is a time vacuum at an inconvenient time.
The labs are great. The ATV contest at the end of the semester takes a lot of time, but that's because you want to spend that time on it! You get to learn about the basics of what it takes to actually engineer something from scratch... then apply it to your projects in lab. The midterms are easy. No final - just the ATV contest. Problem sets are usually easy but can have a curve ball every now and then. It's a great class and every engineer interested in building something should take it.
An exciting hands-on alternative to the boring theoretical engineering classes at Harvard.
Generally speaking, the class is pretty easy up until the final project. The final project then has the tendency to consume your life so plan accordingly during finals.
If you want to learn some actually useful skill sets take the course.
Hands-on experience makes this a unique course among introductory, non-VES courses.
This class is a great introduction to mechanical engineering. It's interactive, design-oriented and inspires creativity.
take this class
Great practical course
This is one of the most fun classes you will take at Harvard! It is completely hands-on and a very rewarding experience for engineering and humanities concentrators alike.
You need to have an intuitive grasp of physics in order to do well in this course. That said, this course is really interesting, exposes you to material Harvard is not known for, and has a cool hands-on component.
This is a good introductory class to take in order to actually engineer something in an engineering class.  Beware of the extensive amt of time you'll need to spend on the final project.  This WILL eat up your reading period.  The topics covered in lecture can be quite dry (I can't speak about Conor but) Sam's delivery was not very polished so it was tough to be attentive all the time.  Most of the stuff covered in all lectures combined can be learned on your own by reading <25 Wikipedia/How stuff works articles.  Take this class for the labs and bonding with your fellow (non)engineering students.
Excellent course, just has a few bugs to work out in the lectures. The labs are exciting, and you get a lot of useful hands-on experience with various tools from drill presses and band saws to laser cutters and 3D printers.
Dr Kesner is the best.He's a very friendly teacher and an excellent lecturer. Dr Kesner would help find a solution whenever you have accommodation problems. He would listen to your feedback and not hesitate to talk to you in private. Take this class if Dr Kesner is teaching it!
This class will destroy your reading period and is pretty hard, but teaches you a lot about engineering.
Lab component of this class is a great hands on experience. Be prepared to spend your life in the machine shop two weeks before the final project is due, though the previous 10 weeks are very managable.
This is a fantastically fun class that I loved taking as an elective. I really enjoyed some hands-on practical education that I don't often get at Harvard. Professor Faas is super approachable and I loved the final project designing and building a robot for Turf Wars
Know what you're signing up for
I learned a great deal in this class.  The lab was so fun, and Dr. Faas and the entire teaching staff is awesome.  Everyone wants you to do well, which makes the environment an overwhelmingly positive one.
ES51 is a crash-course in design and robotics suitable for anyone who wants to try their hand at construction and design. Hands-on tool training and problem solving bring concepts into three dimensions. The projects can be time consuming (particularly in reading period), but seeing something go from sketches to a moving, functional model is really cool.
Just take this course for the awesome lab section which is 3 hours once a week. They basically teach you how to build stuff using all the Harvard resources such as 3D printing, milling, lathing, drilling, moulding and most importantly they teach you how to do CAD models from scratch. I am a CS concentrator and I found this course extremely useful and I reckon it would be useful for all the other.I wouldn't be worried too much about the amount of workload. During the semester it's only one short Pset a week. Never took me longer than 3 hours. The time-consuming part starts when you are about to build your own remote-controlled robot but it is towards the end of the semester (it used to be reading period but they reorganized the course which makes it a lot better now) when usually there isn't much going on with other courses.So course not only is useful but also fun so if you'd like to try a work in a machine shop - just go for it.
I would tell students that the lab component of this course is fantastic bu that the lecture component can seem very unclear and leave you lost.
really fun! I took it pass/fail, and it was still a fair amount of time because of the labs, but I learned a lot and didn't have to stress about my grade.
I took this class pass/fail because I wanted to learn how to use stuff in a machine shop (drill press, band saws, laser cutter, etc.) without worrying about my grades on the midterms or psets.Highly recommend the class pass/fail! If you are worried about your grade, the lack of consistency in information disseminated to students might frustrate you.
You learn some really great things in this class - very hands on, practical, and engaging. It was hard for me because I didn't feel I had the physics background to understand some of the concepts though. The final project is a huge time sink, but no final exam. The teaching staff and TFs was AMAZING. Lab is great! If you don't understand material, ask for help early!
The class will undoubtedly provide opportunities to get involved with hands-on opportunities. I would recommend going into the class without any pre-conceived ideas about engineering, as the course may cause new views about engineering.
The class is a good place to build engineering relationships. You might find yourself working late and struggling with your group in turf wars and its a good bonding time.
This course is great if you want to learn the basics to engineering design and get a hands-on mechanical engineering introduction. The one component that stood out to me as a drawback was the intensive lab time near the end of the course. I spent far too many hours towards the end working to complete the final project, and I wish this workload could be even better dispersed throughout the semester.
This is a great introductory course to mechanical engineering, even if you aren't a mech. eng. concentrator. The project component is incredibly interesting and fun and though the final project requires quite a few extra hours I thoroughly enjoyed working on it. This class gives great engineering experience and is incredibly useful in building necessary engineering skills.
Gives a good idea of what mechanical engineering is about, but the course materials are often not relevant to the pests/exams
This is a great class to take for any engineer.  You learn every machining technique imaginable.  It is so useful
This is a great class: it gives you so much hands on experience and the teaching staff is dedicated to helping you learn the material and to gain experience in the lab. The class is sometimes disorganized, but overall, I would highly recommend.
Working in lab is really cool. Lecture can be boring sometimes. Try to pay attention though otherwise problem sets will take longer.
This class is taught extremely well and Dr. Faas is one of the best teachers I've ever had.  Lab is fun and engaging and everything you do in ES51 is very rewarding because you are producing physical products.  If you put in the time, which you'll want to, this class is a lot of fun and the turf wars competition is a great culmination of all you will have learned and achieved.
The class seems fun from the outside but there is a good amount of work involved and problem sets and exams can hurt you
This course will level you up in your ability to design things, work in teams, and machine stuff that works. Be mindful of the time commitment; the Turf Wars component of the class can and will eat all your free time (and then some) in the last third of the semester, so it's best to take it when you're not taking an otherwise heavy courseload. You'll get out of it what you put in: take a leap of faith and put your all in, and you won't regret it.Frontload prototyping as early as possible. Work with your team, but don't hesitate to work solo or in pairs between scheduled lab times; the larger your team, the less likely you are to have much time when everyone will be available.  Simple and reliable >>>> complex and fragile.
ES 51 will provide you with the opportunity to work with several programs including SolidWorks, CNC milling, 3D printing, Laser cutting, and working in the shop. This course is a wonderful introduction to engineering.
This is a really great introduction to mechanical engineering that will give you a lot of hands-on experience. Make sure to go to lecture so you can pick up the handouts, and stay on top of tasks (lab notebooks) for lab. Turf Wars can be really fun
Abide by all of the planning guides that they give with rojects to avoid late nights in the lab. Use your TFs; they are great sources of information and guidance.
Use all the lab time you have efficiently, as you never know when you will have a drawback. Ther's no such thing as being ahead.
The class is a great introduction to mechanical engineering.  For the first half you are mainly gearing up for Turf Wars.  The second half is where a large portion of the learning comes in as you go through the design process and work with a team to build a robot.
This class is a great opportunity to get a taste of mechanical engineering. Definitely take it if you are interested in building a robot from the ground up.
So many opportunities to have fun with 3D printing, laser cutting, etc.!
If you are willing to commit the time, this could definitely be one of the highlights of your time at Harvard. There's just something about building your own robot from scratch that's undeniably appealing.
It hardly takes any time at all (short problem sets) until the final project, which is really fun and rewarding (design and build a little car) but involves many hours of work.
This class is a great introduction to the process of designing and building something. You learn a lot of SolidWorks and how to design something well before you build it. The lab projects are by far the best part of the course, especially the final ATV project, which takes up a huge amount of time but also gives you a ton of hands on experience. The lectures are pretty dry though, and the problem sets are okay. Still, overall it is a great introduction into mechanical engineering.
This class can be fun, but the lectures are hard to follow. Be ready to do some reading/learning on your own.
This class was contrived and somewhat stale this year, but upon conversations with the teaching staff after the course and hearing about the changes that are taking place, I am EXTREMELY excited to see what the course looks like next fall.
Take it for the labs/ATV project; they're well structured and you learn a lot. You probably won't come out feeling like you have an indepth understanding of any particular academic topic. It's an intro course in that respect.
great intro to mechanical engineering
Take this class for the lab. The labs are really fun and if you are interested in using all of the machines and such you will enjoy this a lot. Lectures are very dull but also not very important so you can probably just copy the equations off the video and never attend.
I took this course pass/fail just to get some exposure to what engineering is like, I'm not an engineering concentrator. The labs were fun and I learned a lot but the all the assignments weren't really worth it. The problem sets are challenging if you don't have prior engineering background and take up a lot of time.
The lab component of this class was incredible. I doubt there are many other schools that will let you blow hundreds of dollars 3D printing and laser cutting materials to test your designs. The projects (especially the ATV project) are fun, and you definitely learn a lot about the design process. Be prepared to sit through some dull lectures, although some are very interesting. If you enjoy building and designing though, this class is definitely for you.
Great class, but be weary of the final project. We spent 13 hours a day in the lab for pretty much every day of reading period to get it finished. Hopefully they'll change something about it next year (either give you more time or have labs earlier on that teach you how to do certain components).
Awesome hands on stuff, but be aware that the final project (while fun) will suck up your entire reading period. So don't take it if you have other reading period commitments.
This is a great course to learn about mechanical engineering.
This class is very interesting and the lab portion is very fun.
If you don't know if you want to take engineering or not, take this course, because it will show you want you have to go through in engineering classes at harvard. If you were like me, who realized that engineering was not the right choice, drop the class during the time. You will definitely suffer at the end of the semester when they ask you to build an ATV from scratch and you literally spend your life in the lab when you rather do other things. If you like math and problem solving and engineering, then you might like this course. Definitely do not take this course as an elective because at the end it will consume your life.
This course convinced me not to study engineering. I had many friends who enjoyed it, but I had several issues with the course. The lectures are unorganized and didn't focus on the right things, with too much time focused on derivations. The final project was fun, but be prepared to spend hours, and I mean hours, in the lab during reading period.
Take this class if you are interested in design as well as how things are made.
I don't think words can capture my thoughts about the class. I think it's a class that definitely should be shopped.
Deterred me from continuing with engineering. Final project requires a significant time investment. Psets are not too bad honestly, it's the tests, which tend to include problem types unlike those on psets or even previous tests that make this course difficult.
Go for office hours, consult your TFs and rewatch the lecture videos from time to time.
It's a class you should take, but it needs some fixing. Learning to use the machines in the lab is the best part.
the project is a lot of work
This class was good but not quite as great as it should have been. There are two lecturers, Prof Howe and  Prof Faas, and they have really different teaching styles. Faas teaches more directly and uses lecture slides which are then posted to the isite (so helpful for psets and you don't even have to take notes). Howe goes really really fast and writes on the board so there are no slides to review. Also, he does tons of proofs so if that's not your thing you might not really enjoy his lectures as much.Everything is taped and a lot of people skip most of the lectures but I found it was more helpful to be there than to watch them afterwards. There is very minimal reading and you can get by without it if you pay attention in class. The midterms weren't too bad and mostly similar to the psets but on the second one there was one really random hard question with tons of physics that NO ONE understood and no one had ever seen before in class. Luckily they are curved.Labs are okay, they are long though and sometimes it feels like you are doing a lot of busy work and waiting around for other people to be done. Of course, in the later labs you will be pulling 8 hour days and allnighters just to finish on time. Put in the time at the beginning to learn solidworks because you will absolutely need it later on and you don't want to be suffering for hours trying to model simple things. For the projects, get your materials early because they tend to run out fast, if you are in a Friday lab there will be next to nothing left.Overall good class as long as you are willing to jump through a few hoops and overlook the snags. I'd recommend it to anyone who likes engineering or physics but I don't think it would be a "fun" or "easy A" class just to take for an elective.
The class is overall well-taught and you will learn a lot. The teaching fellows are there to help you and labs are relatively easy. Midterms are not too difficult and you will learn a lot. However, the final project for this class is very frustrating, especially if your group is not good or your group members do not show a genuine interest in building the ATV car. Plan and think ahead or you will spend your entire reading period trying to make a ATV car work.
It is an interesting class, the labs are great, and the material is not actually very difficult, but lectures could be difficult to follow.
This class was a wonderful introduction to mechanical engineering and the design process, and I feel that I am a far more competent human being for having taken it.  The skills learned in this class can be applied across a wide variety of disciplines, and I would recommend it to anyone.
This class is very hands on, but sometimes very frustrating in that it is difficult to get something to work the first time; the only way to get around it is to accumulate experience, and there is no better place to get it than in the classroom or lab with guidance from the TF's and lab instructors.
It's easy to have little things like the design work book or the worksheets add up over time and hurt your total score.
As long as you get a good team it should be lots of fun.
Take this class if you're willing to put in the work to make the most of the final project. Lectures and assignments aren't great, but it's worth it for the machine shop and project experience.
Understand what a great time commitment you are making, carefully choose the other courses you are taking so that you don't overwhelm yourself too much in one semester. Also know, that this course has a great group project component with teammates your don't get to choose, so developing good interpersonal skills is key.
If you're considering concentrating in mechanical engineering, definitely take this course. If you're considering this course as an elective, know that you'll learn 3 main things: Solidworks, manufacturing techniques, and design principles. Solidworks or other CAD is relatively easy to learn outside of a course. Manufacturing techniques can also be learned outside of a course, but it's more difficult. Finally, online materials for design principles seem to be terrible. Therefore, if you're interested in improving your mechanical designs, even as a hobby, this course is probably worth it.
There is a lot of value in having to build a robot from scratch in a team under time and material constraints.
This course will consume a lot of your time so be wary of pursing it with a heavy course schedule.
I recommend to people who want to go into engineering.
You learn alot and its really fun. Its just annoying that there are so many little things to keep track of like worksheets, notebook, and mandatory class.
Be ready to spend a lot of time in lab
The experience in this course definitely depends a lot on how much you're willing to invest in it, but also on your luck as your teammates will be a crucial part of your project.
It's really fun but time-commitment wise it's probably going to be your hardest class and hardest extracurricular.
This course is a great way to start off mechanical engineering! The professor is great and very helpful as long as you show a constant effort.
a very engaging class that I would advise anyone considering an engineering concentration or a career in robotics to try out.
Overall, I had a great experience in ES 51 and think that it is a valuable course for all engineers and worth taking, just be sure that you have time in your schedule. This course, while not particularly difficult, is very time-consuming with lecture, lab, the weekly problem set, your design notebook, weekly worksheets, and a variety of deadlines to meet for the final project (design review presentations, robot demonstrations, etc.) all going on at once. Having a dedicated team helps a lot for meeting deadlines and doing well in the final competition, though you do not choose your team. As for what you will get out of it:From the more theoretical side, you will learn about dimensioning and tolerancing, DC motors, beam deflection, power transmission (gears, belts, pulleys, etc) some general design principles, and more theory that will apply to the construction of your robot. On the hands-on side, this course is great for giving you CAD (Solidworks) experience,  machine shop experience, and experience with bandsaws, drill presses, lathes, CNC mills, 3D printing, lasercutting, and various techniques for preparing and cleaning up machined parts. Creating the final robot in a team is definitely a valuable experience and you can take a lot away from it.
Communicate everything with your group mates
This class takes a ton of time, it is essentially two classes. Its a very hands on intro engineering class that will teach you about the design process and overall is a great course, even for someone not concentrating in mech e, but just be prepared to work a ton (and hope you get someone who loves robots and Solidworks in your lab group)
Work from this course ramps up considerably in the second half of the semester, as teams are working on robots. It really depends on what team you're assigned to - this will determine how much support you get as you work on the robot.
Great learning but a lot of work and time commitment
This class is hell for athletes and anybody who would have trouble coming to work in the labs before 6:00 PM. For anybody that is interested in computer-aided machine design or just building things in general, please please please please take this class.
This class is a lot of work, but it is rewarding to be able to come out of it with a robot and machining experience.
Only worth it if you really want to learn how to build things or want to be an engineer.
This class has a large time commitment, especially towards the end of the semester. If some of your team members aren't pulling their weight you might end up living in the labs. Also be aware that trying to end up on the same team as a good friend is probably not a good idea unless you are already very confident in their work ethic - you won't be friends anymore if you end up pulling their weight.
The labs are very good and useful. Turf wars gets people engaged really well and the project is fun to do. Lectures can sometimes be hard to follow.
The class is fun overall, but it is a large load on top of your other three classes. Be on top of your schedule if you take this class. Start Psets early. It's very easy to push it to the night before it's due. Don't do that.
Take this class if you are considering Mechanical Engineering. It truly sets the foundation for the rest of your engineering classes and gives you the vital skills in terms of CADding and machine shop skills.
Based mostly on how good of a group you get
This class is really cool because you can build a robot, but it took up an incredible amount of time and many aspects of the course were frustrating. If you've built robots before and enjoyed it, you'll probably love this class. If you don't have experience, it can often feel overwhelming. We spent SO many hours in the lab, many of them because we didn't have the experience to foresee problems in our robot. I found many members of the teaching staff quite useful and fun, but sometimes they offered very frustrating criticism without really helping you understand how to do better.The exams, psets, and lectures are fair and you learn a fair bit, even if it's not the most interesting all of the time.
This course is extremely unorganized and involves a great deal of busy work. I spent a large amount of time on it this semester but feel as though I learned very little. You probably have to take it for a concentration requirement, but otherwise, stay away.
This is a great class if you keep on top of the workload and make an effort to really work in a team environment. There is a lot of work to do, however, so time management is key, but you learn a lot.
Take this class if you want a structured way to design in a team and literally build a robot! It's a ton of fun and whether you plan on becoming an engineer or not, it truly is an amazing gen ed.
This class is an excellent introduction to the basics of mechanical engineering and the machine shop--just remember to keep up to date with your engineering notebook!
I would caution taking this course unless you are very interested and invested in the material. While Daniela is very caring and involved in the course, lectures could be very broad and unclear what needs to be known. If you don't have prior knowledge of mechanical engineering or physics, it can seem like you're being thrown into psets and the robot project. There was also a lot of busy work that felt unnecessary but was a pain to do. The material covered is a very broad overview of mechanical engineering and does not focus on the specifics of how to design for certain demands. Because it is so broad, not calculations-oriented, and focuses on construction in lab, I think it is not representative of other mechanical engineering classes.The robot project was a large source of stress to me since I did not have any experience and felt lost for most of it. Also, depending on your group, you can get really screwed over! Once the construction of the robot starts, expect to spend A LOT of time in the lab (and trying to locate TFs to supervise you). If you're interested and willing to spend the time, you can learn a lot about how to design and computer model things.
Be prepared to put in a lot of time while building your robot. Overall, a very formative and engaging course.
It is a great class that introduces a solid background to mechanical engineering, and really get to learn how to use necessary tools in building a robot.
Great look into what life as a mechie could be like. Rigorous yet realistic as far as workload for engineering concentrator.
This is an excellent class to find out if you want to go into engineering.
The lab section of this class is the best part about it. The TFs are really helpful, and most of the students were too. Lectures are well run but not terribly informative (the slides are posted online, so if you could theoretically skip all lectures), and the material covered in class was far easier than the problem sets. Midterms aren't hard to score an A or A- on but are confusing. The final project is a team effort, so it's very unfortunate if you get stuck in a bad team.
I went into this class suspecting to concentrate in Mech Eng. I'm leaving this class still in the same position. Not super excited to be on board with it, but not totally against it. I have kind of conflicting feelings about the course. I thought the course material itself was decent, and I liked building a robot from scratch; however, the course was very tedious at times. There was just a lot of random stuff that was always going on and that we had to do. I get that they probably all had learning objectives and stuff, but it just got really annoying. I think the course could cut some fat off all the different requirements the students have to fulfill.
Work hard on psets and keep it simple in lab
Great class for future mechies or even students who just love to build and think creatively.
This class is really fun because you get to build the robot the entire semester. It ends up being quite a lot of work, but if you are interested in building and engineering, it isn't too bad. The material itself is a bit difficult, especially if you do not have a strong background in physics. I recommend doing the problem sets with a buddy. Overall, you learn a lot about basic technical engineering principles and build a robot, which is fun.
The most difficult thing isn't the material or even designing and creating your robot. It's learning to effectively work in a team.
If you get stressed out easily, be cautious when signing up for this course. Tensions can run very high at the end of the semester when the robots are due, which can be a very unpleasant experience for some.
Go to office hours and become best friends with all the TFs because they're all awesome. Also, it may seem like some of your peers know everything there is to know about engineering but don't get discouraged because they really don't.
Very hands-on experience, and good introduction to mechanical engineering.
This class is super unbalanced. At the beginning of the year, the class has a very light workload (~2-3 hours a week) but at the end when the project is ramping up, there's a huge amount of work.
Course requires significant amount of effort towards the end of the class, but its all important things to know to be an engineer. Pretty fair and fun otherwise, but the exams are hard.
This class is a great introduction to the mechanical engineering design world. Start on projects early. Do psets independently first, before asking for help. Don't hesitate to talk to Daniela early about any problems you have with teammates.
It is a lot of fun if you enjoy seeing a whole process through from beginning to end, working with your hands, and/or working on a team. This class has really opened up the way I see structures and mechanism in the world - I can usually tell how they're made now. Dr. Faas is very nice and approachable. All the TF's this semester were helpful. Don't be discouraged if you feel like you're on a learning curve - the whole class is a learning curve - that's the fun!
Take it only if you have to; there's little support, and you'll lose sleep over a robot, which will end up being super disappointing. Think about high school projects, where (chances are) you did all the work. Well, the ES 51 project was a bit worse- people have very strong opinions, force them on the robot, and then do no work at all.
This course is a great introduction to all main aspects of mechanical engineering. If you are considering concentrating in engineering, this course is a must!
Labs in this class are really fun, getting to build a robot with classmates is a really rewarding experience. Lectures are a little dry, and you do most of your learning from psets. Great TFs, so use their help, and try not to get behind in the class. Study well for the midterms, because they make up a large percentage of your grade.
This course is a must for any aspiring Mechanical Engineering concentrator (and it is literally a concentration requirement). The content is engaging and exciting, the problem set workload is very reasonable, and Professor Faas teaches excellently, with skill and passion.
The entirety of the class is based around a final team project. If you get saddled with a terrible team, you will spend far more time than you ever thought possible doing work for this class. It's unfair how much your experience in this class will depend on who your group is.
On the whole, it's great and absolutely necessary! I learned a lot about design and building things in general - the Turfwars final project is excellent. As an introductory course, ES51 is not designed to be an incredibly difficult one, but it can be an incredible time commitment, especially in the latter half of the semester.
It's rewarding in the end, but it might be very confusing and stressful in the weeks leading up to Turf Wars.
This class is a lot of fun, and if you can stay on top of your final project throughout the year, the class ends up being very stress free and enjoyable.
I very much enjoyed this class and I think that I have learned a lot about engineering. However, this class is somewhat disorganized and the midterms are very rushed. The project portion of the class was the best aspect.
Fun, hands-on opportunity to gain general building and designing skills that will be helpful beyond the course.
Definitely take this class if you're thinking about a concentration in engineering, especially if mechanical. It is a really hands on course both with regard to computer design and in physical manufacturing. This class gave me a chance to work on a team while doing something I really enjoyed, building a robot for a competition.
Psets are cake. Lab is sweet. Make an effort to get to know your group and to promote a friendly dynamic with them; this makes a huge difference. Also be organized and actually get work done every lab period and you'll do great in the competition.
This is one of the best courses at Harvard. The psets are straightforward: relatively small but they make sure you're learning the material (which I think is the best way to structure psets). At the end of the course you will be the type of person who can operate high-tech machinery, laser cutters, etc, which is awesome. Be prepared to spend most of your reading period in the lab.
IF YOU LIKE BUILDING STUFF AND ENGINEERING THIS CLASS IS 10/10
This class will take a lot of time and is sometimes frustrating. Your experience in the course depends primarily on who you are working with on the final robot. Stay on top of the material or else it will pile up for the midterms.
Starts slow then picks up very quickly
This course will help you determine if you'd like to concentrate in engineering or not.
This is a really fun course. You will get to use a CNC milling machine, a laser cutter, learn how to cut and drill holes in metal, how to design things on a 3-D design software, and 3-D print some of your designs. At the end of the course, you get to design and build a robot with which you will compete with other teams. It was amazing seeing all the pieces of the course coming together in this final project. 

You do need to know some physics for this class, but it isn't something you can't easily pick up if you really haven't taken it before and have taken pre-calculus. I would ask the staff for a list of topics you should review before they apply these concepts in class so you know where people are getting the answers from.
ES51 is a very time consuming class, but also a very fun one.
It's a solid class--may not be the most exciting, but as far as intro engineering requirements go, it's pretty decent. Not too much work, very manageable, and easy to do well as long as you care. Not a bad gen ed either.
This course is aimed to be equally aimed at mechanical engineering concentrators and Humanities students taking it as an elective; it does the latter too well to be good for the former.  For engineers, if you don't take it freshman year it's not a good use of your time except for the labs; for everyone else, it could be a fun course.  If you have any background in robotics, manufacturing, or college-level physics, I wouldn't recommend this course.
This class is a good introduction to mechanical engineering and a good way to make sure that you want to do mechanical engineering.
Awesome class, you learn lots of important basic engineering things and get exposed to many machines. You also learn SolidWorks which is so useful, so make a point of learning it. The staff is amazing and its not incredibly time consuming.
I would say it can be a lot of fun, but it depends on how good/nice your team is and you will have to do a lot on your own. Can be a time drain.
cool class! It's all real. You apply what you learn
ES51 is an amazing, hands on crash course on what it is like to be an engineer in the real world. If you are undecided and curious about mechanical engineering, let this course decide for you. You will either fall in love with the subject and develop necessary skills for the rest of your life, or you will realize it is not for you and had an amazing semester working with other brilliant people and have a good overall understanding of the design process. Crucial for innovators and people looking to develop skills to fabricate ideas into reality. Intimately integrated with the undergraduate teaching labs to create a comprehensive engineering design experience. Machine shop and lab after hours access a plus.
ES51 is an excellent course for people who like to build things and have the math skills to handle in-depth calculations. I did poorly on the problem sets and exams because my math level simply wasn't where it needed to be, but I loved the final project and if you like to make things and mess around in the machine shop this class is worth a try.
I feel the goal of this course is the final project, which was a lot of fun (but a lot of work as well). This course also gives you a good overview of the aspects in engineering design.
ES 51 is a great engineering course with excellent teaching staff and lots of hands-on lab work. The theory/lecture is well-taught and the teaching staff is available for office hours/willing to answer questions about problem sets and lab. You'll learn a lot in lab sections about how to operate the different machines in the undergraduate teaching labs and about designing parts/assemblies. Office hours are extremely helpful, and the undergraduate teaching lab staff is great.
The lectures and classes are not great but the design portion of the course is fun and interesting.
If you like making things or have an inclination towards math and science I recommend the class. The PSETs take a while, but the labs are basically arts and crafts that use math.
The final project is fun, but time consuming. Other than that you can get through pretty easily with the lecture slides and Psets, exams aren't too daunting.
This class is incredible simply because of the final project. The class itself isn't the best right now, and it will likely be improved in the future, but the enormous amount of time I spent on the project was extremely enjoyable and very valuable.
If you think you want to be a mechanical engineer, take this course, because by the end you'll know for sure either way
good class and should get better with time
I would stress to future students that this class provides a great introduction to the field of mechanical engineering and mechanical design, and provides a unique experience as it if often taken by students outside of the engineering concentrations.
You'll definitely have lots of fun in the labs, learning great skills like laser cutting, drilling, CNC milling, and 3D printing.  Lectures will be a tad boring at times, but these are essential for the exams.  Be warned, although it is an engineering course there is a significant amount of qualitative work since this is more of a design class, while the quantitative aspect is quite dumbed down (perhaps a bit too much) to basic algebra.  Daniela and Donal are great, I think it's mainly just the class that's still in the process of improving (for instance, this was the first year they did Turf Wars as the final project, so things will probably change in the future).  Also, although the projects are done in teams, be sure to contribute your fair share, since a decent portion of the grade is based on individual performance.  Overall, class was all right, not amazing but not too bad.
Diffficulty: 3.5/5. It is a great class. A lot of work, but very worth it. Simple is the key in the final project.
