ES 50 is an excellent course for students who are considering concentrating in the engineering sciences.  The course covers a broad variety of interesting topics, and helps to promote an appreciation of some of the electrical devices (computers, digital cameras, radios) that we use every day.
Want a Science A thats not a joke but is practical? Take this.
Obviously recommend to potential concentrators, but AWFUL senior spring elective.
You learn so many cool things about how electronics works.
If you're not sure about engineering, this is a great class to take as a freshman.
Know some of this stuff beforehand.
it's a great core but you'll probably have to put in more work than for another science a. also: never take this class when marko loncar teaches. he is awful.(more on why that is later)
It's a great course with really interesting topics whether you're an engineer or not - take it!
only if Lancor is not teaching
One could definitely skip it if thinking of concentrating in EECS but it certainly provides a good background for more Electrical Engineering courses. Also, it generates enthusiasm about the subject matter.
That the class is a very good introduction into electrical engineering, but it does help if someone is interested in the material; if not, it is harder to follow and comprehend, especially during some of the lectures. But either way, it is a good starter class that will help one decide whether he/she likes the subject material and wants to continue doing engineering.
This is a great introduction to electrical engineering! Take this with CS50!
take the class so long as zickler is teaching
Be sure to check who is teaching it...
It's not the easiest way to fulfill a Science A core, but it's probably the best balance of engagingness and difficulty.  It's a fun introduction to electrical engineering.
It is a real interesting class, and the majority of labs are actually pretty fun.
The material is interesting and the course is relatively painless, but it depends on the professor a lot. I think the lectures could have been a lot better with higher attendance if they were presented in a more engaging way. But I like the idea behind the course, and how it presents various areas of electrical engineering, allowing the students to figure out what they're interested in more specifically.
It's a fun, useful, and not painful way to fulfill a science requirement, especially if you're interested in electronics. Problem sets aren't super-long, especially in the second half of the course.
Previous knowledge of programming and calculus/trigonometry suggested
Poorly taught
This is a fun and useful course for everyone. It is a great introduction to the field, and freshmen should take it, because it won't kill your schedule. Professor Loncar is  knowledgeable, committed to teaching, genuinely caring of his students.
It's an easy class and a good introduction to engineering
It's an enjoyable course that teaches you about how technology today works. Fun to know, and even moreso to try it out in lab. =) Teaching might be a bit disorganized, but...nothing visiting office hours can't fix. Professors and TFs are very friendly and approachable too! It's a great hardware complement to CS50's software component. =)
very hard
Never give up, trust your instincts.
Don't be scared of math and physics - those portions of the class are not that difficult. Be prepared for critical thinking and problem solving.
This class will consume more time than necessary. It moves so slow, yet the problem sets are so tedious you can't avoid spending substantial amounts of time on them (despite often having learned like half a questions worth of information over a week). The labs are similarly uninformative; you can easily complete them by following the instructions without once needing to have a conscious thought. Lastly, the exams seem to trip some people up but you can learn everything you need just by reading over the released exams the night before. Lastly the final project is so much work to make requiring a lot of skills the class doesn't teach you if you want it to come out nice or interesting. Overall a fine class if you want a gen ed to waste your time and not teach you anything.
This class was difficult, but the TFs, professors and other instructors are tremendously supportive. Office hours are always extremely helpful, and the TFs lead problem sessions. If you're even remotely interested in electrical engineering, then take this class. You'll get a lot of hands-on experience.
There are easier gen-eds to take if you need to fulfill a SPU. This course was not easy. The labs are long. The problem sets are difficult... and long. The midterms are way harder than the practice exams and crush your soul when you are taking them. I'm just joking on the crushing the soul part, only partially. But the midterms this year were quite tough. I did end up learning a lot from the class. Plus the free shirt at the end of the course is nice.
if you are interested, take it.  but if you dont want to work a ton, and don't really care about electronics, it's going to be a lot of work
This class was okay: it wasn't awful nor amazing (save for the midterms which were much harder than the psets). However, I will say that this class is not the same when Loncar and Lombardo were teaching it. Its a lot harder and much more time consuming. If you were thinking that this class was an easy A, it isn't anymore. The class no longer gives you extra credit on assignments that it did last year and its not as "chill." Take it when Loncar comes back.
This is a pretty good introduction to electrical engineering. The lectures are a bit slow for people who are empirically inclined, and for those people the class doesn't quite have enough mathy/proofy stuff of the theorems or rules stated in class. Otherwise, labs are pretty interesting (and only 3 hours each week), homeworks are really chill, and the exams are really reasonable. Doing the final project is fun too.
Only take this course if you're willing to endure arbitrarily graded, poorly written, and challenging exams, cookie cutter labs, and poorly worded problem sets for a fun, rewarding, and challenging final project. Also, beware of who's teaching the course. Chris is very helpful and frequently available to help. However, Gu sometimes cancelled office hours without prior notice, was not helpful when it came to complex parts of questions on the problem set, and often didn't listen closely to students' questions. In terms of TFs, Peyton, Greg, and Joy were great! Try to avoid Jessica.
I would tell future students to think about what they want to get out of this course. I would not recommend that someone take this class for the sole purpose of fulfilling a general education requirement.
This is a fun class. The PSets are pretty easy, but the problem solving sections are super helpful, especially because some of the questions can be unclear of what they are asking. The labs are low stress, and are relatively easy, but sometimes the TFs are needed to clarify things. The final project is also pretty fun. You won't learn that much of the material from the theoretical side, but you get an understanding of what EE is all about, and get a good glimpse into how electronics work.
It's dope AF
AMAZING course! Take it! you will learn a lot! go to office hours, profs are really awesome.
This class is definitely not a gem Gen-Ed, you have to actually do a lot of work and the concepts aren't that easy to grasp immediately.
It is not as easy as it was once advertised to be, but nonetheless a great class!
I loved this class. Having never taken engineering before, it gave me the chance to do real work with circuits, without having to be completely thrown headfirst into the subject.
A fun course; challenging but not excessively so.  The TF team is very helpful and wants you to succeed.  For your final project, make sure you get someone on your team who knows how to code.
Fun gen-ed that is easy if you're majoring in something technical. Cool to work with hands-on things. Didn't learn as much as I expected though.
The problem session reviews with Peyton really helped me do the psets (otherwise they were really difficult). Chris' office hours really helped simplify and clarify the concepts. Gu is a really nice and smart professor who also clarifies concepts really well individually, but during lecture I found myself lost (when he taught). The first half of the class I found myself putting in a lot of time and effort into the course but not getting a lot out of it.
powerful tool
This class is awesome.
Don't think of Es-50 as CS-50's engineering brother! ES-50 is easier, and the final projects are much funner! If you do a project with arduino, you'll be able to make cool projects with the class knowledge.
A nice introduction to circuits, but it's not exactly approachable to people who aren't interested in doing math or programming.
Extremely unhappy with this class, I feel like I did not learn anything particularly useful about EE and circuits. Several digital topics were presented in an unintuitive manner, such as the logic component. The MATLAB component was assigned with no formal, effective MATLAB introduction. There is no textbook or section component, so if the lecturer is ineffective finding supplemental material can be challenging. Hopefully they add a lot more structure to the class, it needs it.
This is a fascinating course that teaches you very interesting fundamentals about the modern world around you. You will need to dedicate the time to pay attention in lecture as well as follow along with the material, otherwise the PSETs will be nigh impossible. However, if you do follow along diligently then they are usually pretty straightforward. Also, PSET review nights are lifesavers if you are having trouble, so spend the time to go to them.
Very enjoyable course material, but you have to teach yourself a lot (googling things online on the course website, online forums) to be able to do the homework and prepare for exams.
Obviously, if you're interested in EE and don't have much background, take this class. If you're looking for an easy Gen Ed, this may or may not be your class, depending how much you like quantitative thinking/equation solving/coding. If you're someone like me who just wanted to see what EE was about, I guess this class does that well. Analog circuits aren't terribly interesting, unfortunately, but as someone interested in CS/math, I found digital circuits to be really cool. The final project is awesome!
This class is great if you are interested at all in understanding the technology around us and would like to just see if engineering is for you. I definitely got a lot out of the course and thoroughly enjoyed it.
I took this for fun my senior fall. I'm happy about it. I really learned a lot of good "dad" skills that I think my future kids will appreciate
If you're looking for an SPU gem, this is no longer the class for you. As an English major looking for an interesting, useful way to satisfy SPU, this class was really difficult for me. Some of the material is cool, but it's also really confusing at times. I learned a lot, but I also felt that my quiz grades definitely did not reflect that.
I can only speak to this course as taught by Prof Gu, in which case I believe that you must be ready to learn on your own when he is teaching. I liked the class and learned a lot, but it was not from the lectures which were confusing and frustrating, despite having some charisma. Because Prof Gu taught the first half, I was lacking the fundamentals for later on in the class.
You'll have to muddle through the lectures in this course but it is worth it for the final project.
It's not as easy as you think.
I agree with the previous evaluations that the first half was definitely more difficult in terms of workload, calculations, and conceptual understanding. However, office hours are extremely helpful as are the problem sessions so it's definitely possible to get an excellent grade (and this is coming from someone who used to leave the lectures feeling completely clueless...). The course has interesting content throughout the whole semester and the final project was fun to work on. The labs aren't difficult, but I don't feel like I am comfortable working with circuits yet; I would have liked even more hands-on experience, personally.
Having experience with physics and coding is very helpful, and it is a lot more work without that background
Take ES52
The course is pretty frustrating. The content is not ridiculously hard, it is just presented in a bulk way that makes it hard to pick apart. The final project is fun, but beware getting teammates that don't want to work or that have little prowess in coding/engineering.
This is a fantastic SPU compared to the others, save maybe the science of cooking (which is lotteried). You learn the skills to make so many cool things with arduinos and LEDs and speakers and sensors. Plus, if you're a CS concentrator, you can DOUBLE COUNT this for both SPU and concentration requirement!
This class is as hard as you make it for yourself. The PSETs are relatively trivial, but the final project can be as difficult as you want it to be.
This course is a lot of fun and gives you a basic understanding of the electronics which we use so indispensably every day. Definitely worth taking for SPU gen-ed, or even otherwise!Be warned, though, that the course is not as easy/laid back as it used to be (or as its reputation said it was). Profs Gu and Lombardo have stepped it up to a degree and made it more rigorous - but this isn't a bad thing! You will genuinely learn a lot and enjoy it, but be prepared to put in an adequate amount of time.Oh and DEFINITELY go to homework office hours for psets. They will make your life infinitely easier and in fact will help you better learn the material.
Most of the course is an easy way to fulfill SPU, but the final project is dramatically out of scale with the rest of the course. Prepare for an easy semester, but block out lots of time during reading period for final project struggles.
Its fun
ES50 was FUN. The material was super interesting, the labs were great, and the final project experience was awesome. However, not everyone will be as inherently interested in electronics as I was, so it won't be this awesome for everyone. As a senior who has done a good bit of computer science and mathematics, I found this class quite easy, but I know other people find it challenging. In any case, the professors and TFs and very enthusiastic and helpful, so there's lots of support. The section of the class (digital) was easier and more interesting than was the second half (analog).
This class's workload and difficulty have certainly increased since last year - probably because Gu made the problem sets and quizzes this semester. I thought it would be a manageable way of fulfilling my SPU requirement, but unfortunately it wasn't. It would've been even worse if I had no programming experience since we had to use Arduino and Mat Lab (the latter of which we used for one question in one problem set but was a great deal of pain to me). If you are not a math/science person, this probably shouldn't be your choice for an SPU. But the class is cool and you do learn a lot.
Just hope you're the type of person for whom the physics of electrical engineering comes easily. Turns out, I wasn't.
If Gu is still teaching, be weary. He skips steps when lecturing and going over problems, brushes over hard materials that he'll still quiz you on, and is not sympathetic, understanding or even really nice. It's not really a "gem" anymore, and you'll have to put in some work. Chris and the TFs are awesome though, and you definitely can do well and learn.
This class is a somewhat interesting and hands on introduction to EE, but the lectures are poorly taught and the material is not presented in a way conducive to fundamental learning (more cramming of specific tactics and examples).
Go to the homework sessions. They are super helpful for doing the PSETs and it makes sense of the info covered in lecture.
If you do not have a background in EE or want to concentrate in it, this is probably not the course for you.
I dont think this course is good if you dont have a lot of background information already.You will struggle.
If you are thinking of taking electrical engineering you must take the course so you know what you expect. If you are an engineering concentrator,it would serve you more good if you take the course. If you are looking for a course where you get to play with LEDs and learn the magic behind circuits, this is the course for you.
It's a nice overview of different aspects of EE
Fun gen ed that counts for physics without being boring like physics.
It's a great class taught by a great professor. Coursework does not take up too much time either.
Definitely take this class. The material is a good introductory hardware compliment to programming, especially if you're thinking about Engineering Sciences. Professor Loncar is amazing, and will literally spend hours in office hours to make sure you understand the material.
This class is great for humanities types with little background in engineering but a genuine interest.
Very interesting broad sweep of electrical engineering topics.
It is a very interesting course. Not hard.
Great, accessible professor in a really nice, small and intimate department.
Most of the students in the class are either concentrating or planning on concentrating in engineering sciences or related fields, so the feel of the course is more like a concentration requirement course, rather than a gen ed elective. That being said, if you're comfortable with math and physics, I think this is a great gen ed to take to learn a bit about the basics of electrical engineering. Marko is really passionate about his teaching, and if you go to office hours, he's willing to spend time working through all your questions.
This is a fascinating overview of electrical engineering.  The topics are taught in an interesting manner and cover all kinds of branches in electrical engineering.  The labs are great: very hands-on and interesting.  If you are considering any kind of engineering, or if you want a basic and painless introduction to everything from image manipulation and file compression to basic robotics take this course!
Awesome, useful, easy gen ed.
Resistance is futile.
Have fun with the final project, and don't be afraid to take on something really cool that might require a lot of work. It'll be worth it.
The whole class is great, but if you have any doubts, the final project seals the deal.
This is a great course. The final project is one of the best academic experiences I have had at Harvard. The psets are pretty typical for a seas course and if you are taking it for a gened/are not very comfortable with ee you will probably want to go to OH (But OH/the TFs are great, so that not too bad).
This class is a great overview class, both for people thinking of concentrating in EE and for people just interested in the subject matter.  The professors and TFs are great, the psets are helpful and never feel pointless, and the final project is a great time.
It is being dumbed down each year, but it was fun.
For sure take this class. It's mad easy (both workload and grading), and you'll actually learn a good deal in it.
This class is one of a kind and was one of the best classes I've taken here. The material is interesting and the final project, though daunting, was a great experience. Professor Loncar and Professor Hu make the class very manageable and are extremely encouraging.
may be my favorite class of freshman year, as quintessential as CS50
The final project is an incredible chance to build something yourself and be proud of it. Loved this course.
LOVED THIS CLASS. took it senior spring, wish I took it way earlier. If you're a CS concentrator, you should definitely take this to learn about hardware. if you're not, you should definitely take this to have a fun SPU gen-ed. The teaching staff were great, and the topics are fascinating.
It increases your understanding of basic electrical enginering principles by giving you hands on experience with circuitry and programming
fun class!
ES50 is a great course. I took it purely as an elective and am so happy I did. The labs and final project are the highlight of the course, and both are a lot of fun. The lectures can be a bit dry. Problem sets take a decent amount of time but are very doable if you give yourself more than one night and work in groups, and you will learn most of the course material through problem sets. I definitely came away with a better understanding of how all of the electronics around me actually work. The course has a really relaxed, informal atmosphere (sort of like CS50) and the professors are fantastic and super involved with students.
This class is rewarding in the end. The concepts may be difficult to understand at times, but the final project really reinforces the concepts that you find most interesting and making something really neat and carrying out an idea that you envision beforehand is really cool. Plus, Marko and Evelyn are two of the best, most invested professors you'll ever meet and they make so much effort to get to know the class and make sure everyone is getting the most from ES 50. It is a great introductory class to engineering and one that will definitely not disappoint if you're at all curious about engineering.
ES 50 was the best gen ed experience I could have asked for. Yes, it's definitely more challenging than a gen ed-only SPU course- but it's also way, way more interesting. I had some basics physics background and no CS background (I would recommend having at least one or the other), and found the TFs and instructors incredibly supportive of my very elementary questions & confusion. Take this class for gen ed credit if: - You are prepared to expend some actual hours and brain cells on the pset/labs/etc, in exchange for learning the basics of digital logic gates, circuitry, compressing digital images, and other super-nifty information about your computer's intestines. - You had a soft spot for math/science-y stuff back in high school and are excited to geek out about it once again, including being able to say you built a robot for your final project (SO much more impressive than another 15-page paper.) - You'd rather have a lot of fun, stay engaged in lectures, and enjoy puzzling out psets, in exchange for working harder than you'd have to in SPU 23809: The Legos of Life.
While the workload is very manageable, be prepared for the psets to get significantly harder at the end of the course.
You will likely learn most of the material from psets, section (which are extremely helpful; Trevor is a great TF!), and lab, so don't be distressed about that. Lectures are more for just exposing you to the concepts. With so many office hours, it is definitely doable to not spend Thursday night in Lev D-Hall until 2 AM finishing your pset. I have only done that once out of 8(?) psets!
Take this class! It is a great introductory course for both those who are considering going into electrical engineering and those who just want an interesting class that is fun and different. It may seem really overwhelming at first since there are students with all kinds of backgrounds/experience in the class but even if you have no background, you'll do great as long as you go to lectures and work through the problem sets.The final project is also a really fun component of the course.
Great class
You will feel very productive while taking ES50. In fact, after finishing with labs and the final project, you would have achieved something, and could see it work in front of your eyes (unlike when you finish a pset).
Go to Marko and Evelyn's office hours. They are very eager to help students. Start thinking about our final project early on. even though it's not mandatory, Go to section because it helps with problem sets.
If you need to fill your GenEd, this is an OK way to do it. The final project is a really awesome cap to the class and leaves a nice taste in your mouth. The lectures are not great and the psets are OK. Labs are pretty good, especially if you like your TF. Recommending with reservations: be interested in EE or be in a position where you have to take the course. FInd good final project partnersyou can do some really cool stuff if you put your mind (and skills!) to work.
The class exploded in terms of size, so it seemed that the teaching staff was rather disorganized, but I would highly recommend going to office hours and the optional sections. They were helpful, and if you are like me and hate large lecture settings (I tend to ask less questions), they give you a chance to interact on a more personal level with the teaching staff so they can clarify things for you.
This is an excellent course. Not too difficult, especially if you have any CS or E&M background (though it is not by any means necessary). Marko and Evelyn are so approachable and wonderful to be around.
This class was a lot of fun, though not the most structured experience. The final project really helped solidify some of the concepts learned in the class, and I definitely feel like a have learned the very basic components of electrical engineering
Come take a painless introduction to the engineering world! Very easy to do well in, just put in the required hours, get a good grade, and walk away with an understanding of a whole new world!
Lectures and homework are generally easy. Final project is by far the most important experience in the class, out of which you can get exactly what you are interested in putting in. You can build really cool, hard, advanced projects and the kind of support and feedback from staff, even SEAS instructors outside class, was just impressive. Prof. Loncar (who will insist on being called by his first name, Marko) is an awesome professor, fun lecturer and extremely helpful with the projects (just to give an example, in the week the projects were due he stayed up until 4 am in the lab and ordered pizza for everyone a couple of nights).
This course is fantastic! Take it and you will really enjoy the material you will learn and working on the final project!
This course was a great experience. There is so much help available if you're just willing to reach out. A TF once pulled an all-nighter with us while we were doing our problem sets, explaining some topics that we didn't quite understand yet. Evelyn and Marko are really great. They are one of the nicest professors I've met in my time here. Overall a great experience. Highly recommend it for anyone considering Engineering Sciences.
This is a great way to be introduced to the world of electrical engineering.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  The material you learn and the labs/projects you get to work on is really engaging and applicable to your own lives (whether you end up going into engineering or not).  The lecture material/slides and organization of the course can sometimes be a little confusing, but the teaching staff really puts their best effort to making this class about learning awesome electrical engineering skills and just having fun.  There are ample opportunities to earn extra credit, and if you genuinely put your best effort forward, you'll definitely do well in the class.  You can literally access the teaching staff 24/7 because of the plethora of office hours and the use of an online forum (Piaza) for the course.  By the end of the course, I learned so much about building my own little trinkets that I now feel comfortable taking on my own DIY projects and understanding how machines work!  I highly recommend this course for anyone who just wants to learn how to build stuff, tinker with circuits, and just have fun!
It is really hard but definitely worth it.
If you put time and effort outside of the lectures into meeting with the professors and asking TFs for help, you will understand the material a lot better than if you just went to lecture.  Definitely take advantage of Marko and Evelyn who are friendly, approachable, and always willing to help.  As long as you work hard in the class, put time into the psets and labs, and do acceptable on the midterm/final project, you will get an A.
The class is very disorganized but Marko is a great professor and is always willing to help you!  He holds tons of office hours and is just overall a really nice guy.  Labs are usually boring and problem sets can be a drag as they get harder.  The final project is a lot of fun.
This class is a good one to take if you want to taste the lab experience here at Harvard. You will learn how to implement circuits fairly well and solve the basic circuitry problems. But be aware that this class will not be nearly as difficult as introduction to engineering class that is typically offered at other schools based on what I hear from my engineering friends at other schools.
Lots of fun, not difficult, and stimulates your creativity.
Take this class!!!  Even if you're not an engineering concentrator, it satisfies a gen ed and it's super accessible to people outside the concentration.  The material is really interesting, I feel like I learned a lot, and it was still not hard to get a good grade.  The teaching staff is all extremely accessible and hosts tons of office hours and extra review sessions, and the final project is a lot of fun!  So glad that I took ES50.
This is a great course. The professors and TFs are all super helpful and excited about teaching the material, the homework was not too time consuming, and you definitely feel like you are learning useful stuff that you might even be able to use in the future, regardless of your concentration. The final project was also really fun. Definitely recommend!
Course did everything it set out to do and more. It taught me so much about general EE concepts that are so applicable and helpful to so many other things. Great for anyone, even humanities concentrators to take. I could not recommend this course more highly.
HONESTLY my best class yet. FUNNEST. and i'm not only talking about the practicals. I'm talking about the material. The material itself was so interesting! I can't stress how much you should take this class enough. Marko and Evelyn are literally the best.
This is one the best classes you're ever take here with the most AWESOME Professors! Go for it!!!
Even if you aren't even interested in engineering as a concentration, this is a wonderful class that everyone should take, even those in humanities. It doesn't have the intimidation nor time commitment of CS 50, but you leave feeling incredibly accomplished. Great class!
it is fun!
This is by far the best, most fun, most engaging, most well-taught class that I have taken so far.  This class is miles ahead of CS50 in terms of lectures, labs, and PSETs.  I enjoyed every minute of it, and would recommend this to anyone thinking about doing engineering, and even those that are not.  Marko and Evelyn tailor the class to students of all disciplines, and I think that everyone, regardless of academic background, will do well in the class.  Marko and Evelyn are excellent instructors, and I really appreciate that they make themselves readily available multiple times a week, EVERY week, and especially around final project time.
Great class. Take it if you want to understand the basics of EE. Lots of help is available and there's no reason not to get an A (I didn't work that hard and got one). As a non-engineer, I felt completely comfortable.
This is a great way to satisfy your SPU requirement, especially if you have any interest at all in finding out about electronics and circuitry! You get hands on experience in the lab with some really cool tools, and even if you don't choose to pursue electrical engineering, you learn some really cool things in the class.
ES50 is a super fun class, from which you'll gain a huge exposition into the world of electrical engineering, and at the end, you'll get a glimpse on where EE is headed in the future. It's not hard to get an A - but there's so much more to get out of the class that's reliant on what you put in. Do the bonus problems, go above and beyond, and you'll get something much more valuable out of the class than a grade.
The final project is a lot of fun!
Marko is awesome; the final project is the biggest determinant of your final grade.
amazing class. not to hard has no midterm and no final. labs are a ton of fun. everything you learn is applicable and interesting. i recommend this class to everyone. no prior knowledge is needed.
This class is a lot of fun and not very hard. Lectures are mostly good but sometimes disorganized. The final project is by far the best part of the course. It's an excellent way to fulfill the SPU gen-ed.
Marko and Evelyn are so supportive. In fact, all the TFs are great. If you get a great group for your project and ask for lots of help, you'll get it. One of the few courses at Harvard where you actually learn because things are fun, people are nice, and not just to get that grade.
The course was very straightforward, and offers plenty of opportunities for success.  It is an intro class, but as a gen ed, it does not talk down to you, and really teaches you something (unlike countless other SPUs that I shopped).  The project is a bit time-intensive at the end, but I can honestly say I learned something this semester.  Also, the course staff are always available and always helpful.
Take this class if you are truly interested in electronics. Don't take it if you are looking for an easy Gen-Ed. Although the material isn't too difficult, the time commitment is very high (labs, frustrating problem sets, final project, etc.).
This class is a lot of fun. The labs are interactive and enjoyable. The real gem, though, is the final project where the class lets students be creative almost without bounds.
ES 50 shouldn't trouble you too much, and you'll learn about what it means to be an electrical engineer
great class, not too hard
It is a course that requires a lot of work and is difficult material, but it is not necessarily graded on how well you do.
This class was one of the most amazing classes I have taken at Harvard.  The professors are passionate, the material is interesting, and the work is fulfilling and not overwhelming.  I learned a great deal from this class and it made me want to be an electrical engineer.  If you are considering engineering, please take this class and make an effort to meet the professors (although they are so phenomenal that THEY are often the ones who make the effort to meet with YOU).  I loved this course.
Take this if you really want an intro to electrical engineering that is broad, but not deep. Also, be prepared to do a lot of self-study (or find yourself a study buddy/study group) because the lectures and content aren't very structured, and they'll seem easy until you have to apply the knowledge to labs and p-sets.
Make sure you really want to take it. It's not a good course if you just want to satisfy an SPU credit. Also, if you're a humanities person, beware the psets.
Come if you want to have a basic start in electrical engineering.
Take it if you want an easy, interesting SPU. Or if you want to know how basic electronics work. Or if you just want to have a ton of fun :).
Strengths:  The final project is AWESOME.  Most exciting assignment of my schooling.  Marko is a very dedicated teacher pouring hours upon hours of time into this class.  He stayed up til 4am working on our ES50 final projects with us.  Very few professors or TFs would do the same. The class is very fun, low-stress, and still learned a lot!  Take the class if you're genuinely passionate.  You can take it as a gem, but you won't get as much out of it as other gem classes.Weaknesses: The class became too big.  It had a very small class feel and lacked the organization needed to run such a large class smoothly.  When there are many students, individual effort is hard to gauge so more emphasis must be put on consistent, objective evaluations.  Psets required a TF to be able to read and understand oftentimes.
Don't take this class if you're not an engineering major or are really, really interested in getting a smattering of random things in electrical engineering
great class, but the lab's aren't well run.
This isn't just CS50... it's not the same type of atmosphere and it can actually get quite difficult at times especially if you aren't as inherently interested in engineering. There are easier SPU's you could take if engineering doesn't come naturally to you. That said, final project was fun. And if you like engineering and circuits and all that stuff... this will be right up your alley
IT'S REALLY EASY.
Pretty easy up until logic and circuits. Then the material gets more difficult, but nothing too unmanageable if you consult TFs or the Marko/Evelyn for help
ES 50 is a great class with a great teaching staff. The lab component is very hands-on and the final project is a lot of fun. It's a very low-stress, relaxed class that still teaches you a lot.
ES50 is such a great and unique experience. Awesome professors, interesting material, and a final project instead of a final! Not exactly an easy class, but I totally recommend it!
Marko was fantastic, but he's leaving, so watch out for that.
With other introductory level engineering courses as a reference point, this course has a greater hands-on component than any other.
I took this class as a 2nd semester senior, pursuing a joint concentration in music and french literature, and loved it. Totally worth taking; Marko and Evelyn are great. The material is tricky, but totally approachable, even to someone who had to ask whether the sine of 0 or the cosine of 0 is equal to 1 on the first day. The assignments are well-constructed, so you never feel like you're doing busy work. Learned lots, great class.
It's much easier if your technical minded.
This class is awesome. The teachers are great and the end of the year project is a lot of fun.
This class is an easy and fun introduction to electrical engineering. Marko and Evelyn really show how much they care about the class and will go well beyond what's expected when it comes to helping students. Honestly, I didn't feel the need to go to lecture because it was slow for me, and the homework wasn't difficult to do until the very end of the semester. However, almost all the labs are really fun and hands on. In no other class do you get to blast Katy Perry music in lab and in the homework and use lasers to transmit the music! I'm also a CS concentrator, which made the small amount of coding in this class pretty easy. In my opinion, the project at the end of the semester was the best part of the class. It allows you to be creative, work on a team, and build something tangible that you can show off at the end of the semester. I took ES50 for a GenEd, and I can't see any better way to fulfill this requirement!
Like to do things with your hands? Like science? Want to learn about engineering? Want to do SPU in a legit way? THis is the course!
As a senior who has never studied engineering or science here, I STRONGLY endorse this course! It covers topics that you engage with all the time--computers, photo, video, amplifiers, and circuits--and I feel like I can now look at an object and think logically about how the hardware might work. The only thing to know is that there are weekly labs and assignments, although this year there was only 1 midterm and a final project without final exam, which I found to be much better for learning and will hopefully be the same in the future.
This is one of the best engineering classes that is inclusive to all people regardless of discipline.
This is a great class for an overview of electrical engineering. Both Marko and Evelyn are incredibly committed to the course and go to great lengths to make themselves available to students willing to seek them out. The lectures cover a lot of interesting material, however not all of it pops up on problem sets and quizzes. At times the quantity of information in the lectures can feel overwhelming and can even make it difficult to pick out the most important concepts.
This class is great, but you need to put in a lot of effort to understand EVERYTHING.  This course covers a lot of topics.
The best part about ES50 is the professors and the teaching staff who are all ALWAYS willing to help and cater to YOUR needs. The class itself seems a little unorganized at times, but again, the support base is always there for you. The material also seems to be a little random at times--you end up learning a lot of processes for how to do certain things, but I think the big picture gets a little lost. The final project season at the end is super stressful but also super fun and totally worth it!!
This is an incredible class. Dont let the SEAS name scare you away. If you go to this school you are capable of taking this class and getting an A. Marko and Evelyn are extremely invested in their students and love exposing people to their field who might not otherwise come into contact with electrical engineering. I loved this class so much I'm going to try to be a CA next year to make sure everyone gets an equally good experience.
The final project part is sweet!
Take this class! The professors really care about the class, and are dedicated to making ES50 as good as it can be.  Keep in mind though that you will get out of it what you put into it (as with most science courses here). It's not extremely difficult, either (even if you don't have a strong math / science background).
This is an incredible introductory course. It is interesting and hands-on and is a great way to get a good grasp on engineering!
AMAZING class.  It was so much fun.  Evelyn and Marko are the best, most sincerely caring professors I have ever encountered.  They will go leaps and bounds to make themselves available; they are so much fun to talk to and genuinely just want students to learn.  The class is not graded super harshly, so I was able to focus more on learning than worry about scores and points.  The labs are super fun and you get to do some really cool things.  The final project is superbly rewarding.  You will learn a ton, particularly how to build something out of nothing - which is the coolest thing ever!
labs are annoying, test is kinda hard, but ultimately awesome. take it, especially if you're cs... sounds very impressive :p
Take this class. Marko is SO SWEET AND SO HELPFUL. He is one of those professor's whose enthusiasm for the material makes you want to learn. He's an absolute genius and very funny to talk to--go to his office hours and attend the meals he hosts. Evelyn is so sweet and calming and wonderful--anything you don't understand, definitely approach her, she's awesome. The class was interesting throughout, but the project was SO FUN. I learned so much about electronics and circuitry and voltage/amperage/amplification, etc etc etc. I will caution, to get good results (and to really enjoy it), you will put A LOT of time in. Leading up to the project I spent several days (and nights) in the lab for 10+ hours troubleshooting, rebuilding, coding, etc. What made it okay though was that MARKO WAS THERE TOOO! He would be at the lab every night helping well past midnight, ordering pizza for everyone working, and being generally a badass. So many people told me coming to Harvard that going to a major research institution meant that my professors would not have time to interact with me and that I would be hard-pressed to get any face time with them--not true in this case!!! It makes a world of difference in how hard you are willing to work when the course staff is also willing to work that hard.
Start your project early and ideally with a partner.
Amazing class with a lot of hands-on learning and very caring professors.
This class is great because it is centered around the final project which is a lot of fun, and the professors will help you resolve any trouble you have with the class or any falling behind.
Very interesting and fun class. Definitely need to take, even if you're not planning on being an engineering concentrator. Not that time consuming, and staff is great
This is a wonderful class to take as an engineering elective, and also for outsiders to get a better understanding of engineering. You might want to have taken CS50 ahead of time so that you can contribute more to your final project, but it's not necessary. Marko and Evelyn are really awesome and I'm glad that I took this class!
The class is great, but you really have to keep up with the work.
THE BEST SPU EVER. I took it as a social studies junior who didn't bring a calculator to college, and absolutely loved it. Especially if you're looking to explore something new and get out of your comfort zone (while still getting a lot of support from amazing professors and TFs), you should take it! The psets and labs will take you a while, but for the amount of applicable and hands on knowledge you learn, it's worth it.
ES 50 is fantastic. Great introduction, not too hard, instructors are passionate. Not super well organized this year but will probably get better now that they have a handle on the course going from ~40 to ~170.
Take this class, you will understand many things about daily real life applications.
this is an amazing intro course. Marko is a great professor who knows a LOT about what he's teaching about. I thought the topics were chosen well and I feel as though I got a great overview/intro to all of them. Problem sets were sometimes difficult, but if you understand the material, they are a total breeze. Tests are actually not that hard, just be prepared to study for it and take all the practice tests you can. Labs can be long, but are also pretty fun. Final projects are pretty cool, a great chance to get creative!Abishai was an amazing TF, sadly he won't be around next year to provide the amazing staff support again. Also, Marko's lectures can be dry sometimes, especially during the more math-y parts. I really enjoyed talking about the concepts though, and Marko knows so much that he can really provide a good understanding for why everything works the way it does.
Really fun, really interesting, really great professor.
This is a fantastic class! I recommend it to anyone, regardless of concentration. Some of the concepts are difficult, but there are so many bonus points that you shouldn't have to worry about the grade if you put in enough time and effort.
The course is advertised as very accessible to EVERYONE, but this is only the case to a certain extent. You will not get much out of the course without a thorough understanding of physics, as well as an assumed background in electrical engineering/technology. Problem sets are impossible to do without spoon-fed guidance from the TF.  Lectures aren't easily understood and labs could be alot cooler. I did not know what was going on until I attended optional problem set sections.   I felt lost during the first lecture, so catching up was an issue from the very beginning. Still, the culture bred by the course head, TFs and students makes you glad to have enrolled. The final project is one of the best experiences IN this class. The possibilities for what you can create by the end of one semester are limitless and this is most impressive; I am so glad to have gone through that process. Without the final project, this course would not be worth it. I've learned so much that I didn't learn in lecture just by BUILDING.
ES50 is a great introductory course to electrical engineering.  You will be amazed by how much you learn and how much the course staff is willing to help you learn.
The staff is absolutely amazing and it is great intro class if you are considering engineering or the hard sciences. If not, it is still a very interesting class.
This class was a lot of fun! Prof. Loncar and the TF's were great! Additionally, the final project was a lot of fun to work on and gave great hands on experience. After taking this class, you will have a much better idea of how all your electronics work. This is a must take at Harvard!
I loved this class. I've thought about being an engineer and this class has fully convinced me to concentrate in engineering.  I found much of the material we learned interesting, especially because it all can be applied to real life (like how ATM's and cruise control work).  Professor Loncar is awesome and a great lecturer.  Overall a fantastic class.
This class has much more, and harder, work than your average Gen Ed. Don't take it expecting it to be easy. The problem sets are much more difficult than the material presented in lecture. Expect to stay in office hours until 2 am on Thursdays. The psets and exams make the class not worth the trouble overall.The final project is rewarding, and the best part of the class. Marko's extremely accessible, and wants to engage with students.
ES50 has the best teaching staff ever.
A very fun yet educational course.  As long as you keep up with the Psets and ask questions immediately when you don't understand you will be fine.
If you're scientific/mathematically-minded, it's a pretty painless course and won't be very much work. Nice way to fulfill SPU or elective spot, with a fun project component at the end if you like to get your hands dirty. Personally, I'm not fond of Prof. Loncar's lecturing style, but he is honestly among the most devoted and sincerely helpful of professors I have ever heard of, period. He'll hang around evening labs, stick around extra hours during project time, and generally go out of his way to help out with anything.
I recommend to take this class even if you don't want to be an engineer. The material taught is so wide that you learn so much in one semester.  I took this class not knowing I wanted to be an electrical engineer. However now, I am more than confident about my choice. The final projects were so impressive. I was amazed by the different end products I saw during the fair. We built an quad-copter while teams have built laser balls. The staff is incredibly helpful and I don't think I can find anything I didn't like in the class.Prof. Loncar and Abishai Vase deserve all the prices they got this year!
This class is really interesting and, for me, answered questions that I've had my entire life! :)  Electrical engineering is a really cool topic and the class covers a really broad range of topics.
Even if you don't think you'll be an ES concentrator, this class is still interesting and manageable. It also fills a Gen Ed, which is helpful. And if nothing else, you'll get to make something useful with the project.
Circuits are rough, and the midterms aren't *hard* so much as they require you to be able to work very, very fast.  Beyond that, though, it's a really fun & worthwhile class, and final projects are a blast.  Definitely a fun way to fulfill the physical universe gened.
Evaluate your background before taking this class. My previous work in CS, Physics (E/M), and robotics overlapped quite a bit with the material in this class. Also realize that the material in this class is very very shallow. Although it is a survey course, and you do get some breadth, the lack of depth makes you feel like you're not learning very much at all. If you're a math, CS, or physics concentrator, you will definitely find this class way too easy and boring. Marko is very enthusiastic about the material, but he isn't always the best lecturer in class. He is very good in person though! The labs and the psets were not interesting and often annoying. If you don't have too much background, this would be a gentle introduction. If you're looking for a heftier EE class, consider Physics 123 or maybe one of the upper-level ES classes.
This class is amazing. You will learn so much about how all of our everyday devices work in a hands on environment. The final project was a ton of fun and a great experience and the teaching staff are incredible. Professor Loncar is one of the greatest teachers I have ever had. Take this course!!!
Don't take this course. You won't learn anything... concrete. I came out feeling disappointed. The lectures are completely ineffective and incoherent. The labs are just not relevant to anything- you are given a set of instructions you need to follow. There is nothing concrete about this course.
Professor Loncar is a wonderful teacher and the class is fantastic!
This is truly an incredible course. The best I have taken so far at Harvard.
Take this course!!  So much fun and super chill.  Plenty of help available if you need it.  Killer labs.
ES50 is an excellent course that provides a wonderful overview of electrical engineering. The teaching staff is incredibly motivated to help students understand by all means necessary. You can spend infinite hours with Prof. Loncar and the TFs outside of class getting help understanding. The assessments are fair, the labs are fun and interesting, the material is applicable and awesome. Take it!
It was definitely a great class to take with friends :) the problem sets are great learning experiences, and every person on the teaching staff is extremely willing to help you (shout-out to Abishai!). However, don't let high grades on the p-sets early in the year fool you -- the midterms ARE hard and it is possible to fall behind on the material once you start getting to op-amps. I'm still unsure where the extra resistor should be placed. And 100% make sure you go to office hours -- I often found them much more helpful than the actual lectures. The final project is really fun too by the way -- do something that you'll be proud of, and it'll be the most rewarding part of the class :)
This class is super accesible to people who have ABSOLUTELY no background in engineering/Computer Science/College Level Physics. This class is hands down the best class that I've taken at Harvard so far.
It is not as difficult to get through as CS50, but is still incredibly rewarding. Prof Loncar is awesome! Take the course!
Really funEasy classLearn to do some really cool stuff
Great introduction to EE and fun too!
The teaching staff is really great. it will change next year, but I think the enthusiasm to teach such interesting material will be there and transfer into the new TF's
You will not be able to find a class here with a more passionate professor and more dedicated TFs. Professor Loncar and everyone involved in making this course possible devote so much time into making sure you succeed that it's difficult not to. If you have little engineering or physics background but still want to take the class, I encourage you to do so! Professor Loncar's office is always open and the TFs are willing to help at all hours, literally - even at 4:30am.
This class was by the far the best I have taken at Harvard. Not only will you learn a ton, but you will leave with a set of applicable skills and hopefully a love for electronics.
This class is a lot of work, but you will learn a lot of cool stuff. Abishai and Marko are great, but the class will probably be very different without them next year.
This class is awesome! Prof. Loncar is the best!!
ES 50 is AWESOME!! It's a fun, relatively easy class that teaches you all about a lot of different topics in electrical engineering. Plus Professor Loncar (one of the teachers next year) is the best. All in all, ES 50 was the best class I have taken at Harvard in two semesters.
Definitely take this class, regardless of your concentration. EE is an extremely useful subject and will only grow in importance as society becomes more and more technologically advanced. Hence, it is definitely great for both 1) those who want to major in EE and don't have much prior experience and 2) those who do not want to major in EE but want to expand their horizons (as they definitely should).
Good.
This is a great class if you pay attention to lectures and do the reading when you are confused.  Material is awesome, and there are few better feelings in the world than making some concrete with your own bare hands.At the same time, this course could become disorganized if there's not a strong head TF.
ES50 is great. The material is interesting and enjoyable, and it's a very manageable course even for someone like me who is not an engineer or a prospective engineer. Circuits are without question the most difficult component, but the problem sets are excellent predictors of exam questions, and doing the problem sets really reinforces your understanding of the material. Marko is incredibly friendly and approachable; he makes an effort to get to know everyone in the class. Plus, he's an interesting lecturer. This is a course you don't want to miss if you have an interest in electrical engineering!
It has been my favorite class so far.  It explains a lot of interesting electronic systems that I always just accepted as working but never knew how.  It also encourages students to think creatively to discover solutions to the problem set questions and to real problems they face in their final projects.  Overall it is an excellent course.
Keep up with the material and go to office hours, where you'll get a lot of help on the problem sets and learn a lot. Use the final projets to do something awesome - they will fund it and let you really get your hands dirty with something interesting to you.
JUST TAKE THE CLASS, ITS AWESOME!!!
ES50: It's all gravy until you hit circuit analysis, and from there it's rough seas. Abishai's problem sessions were extremely helpful for both understanding content and getting homework done, but I'm not sure how it'll be next year as he is graduating. The final project is an absolute blast, which puts the class firmly in the "recommend with enthusiasm" bracket so far as I am concerned.
Pretty easy if you bother to pay attention. The course staff is extremely accessible, although now that Abishai has graduated it might become much less so.
The first four weeks are rather easy. If you can multiply fractions on a calculator, you are set for the first four weeks. When Op-Amps started, very few people actually understood what was going on. Go to office hours frequently once Op-Amps start. Wouldn't recommend this course to someone with any significant background in circuits. You can probably learn Op-Amps on your own and take a more advanced course. Op-Amps are basically the only thing you see in this course that you didn't see in high school if you took any circuits in high school
Take this class if you enjoy or want to learn electrical engineering. The class is designed to have minimal stress and to ensure that everyone enjoys their time in the class.
This was by far my favorite class I've taken so far. The TF's and professor are all so excited to help you learn and that made the course for me.
It can take a lot of work, but it is a great class, and very hands on. You wouldn't have believed at the beginning you would be capable of producing something the final project you end up with.
Exactly what you expect: a relatively fun, easy introduction to the world of electrical engineering. If you've taken physics before, some of the material will be familiar, but you'll still get a lot out of the class. Make sure to pick a good lab partner - you'll likely end up doing the final project with them.
The final project is so fun and the teachers make sure they give everyone attention even though it's a large class.
Ive wanted to tai this course since freshmen year and was not disappointed. The teaching staff is awesome, you learn some pretty awesome material that is very relevant to modern society and, if you plan it right, the final project is an incredibly fulfilling experience.
Great course that introduces concepts of electrical engineering in a fun, hands-on, and mostly stress free environment
This class is fun and enjoyable if you are willing to put in the effort to truly understand the concepts and the theory behind the problems you'll be asked to ponder over.
Discovered my love for engineering in this class!
The Good: Guys, this class is a good excuse to learn a ton of engineering. I am a social science major and I did fine so don't be afraid. They will help you. They will help you a ton. Marko WANTS you to love the material and he will do everything in his power to make this happen. Go to office hours, go to section, you will be fine I promise and you will be glad that you challenged yourself.The Bad: Disorganization is the name of the game. Our class was about 200 people which was a ton more than they ever had before. As such, the class was fairly disorganize. Odds are, this will have been worked out by next year.The Ugly: The quiz. If you are not a science person it might be hard for you (as it was for me). But its only worth 15% of your grade so don't let it deter you.Overall: TAKE THIS CLASS. ES50 IS THE BEST SPU YOU CAN TAKE.
This class is a good survey for electrical engineering. It is also good for filling a gen-ed, but because I am a science concentrator, I wanted a more rigorous course that gave me a better idea about what the field is like. This course is relatively easy and if you want a class that stresses project-based work, the ES50 fair is the way to go and it is a lot of fun. Evelyn is a great teacher and makes everything very clear. Marco was a bit confusing during lectures but helped a lot during the projects. Together they balance out. Much of the material in this course is self-taught. Overall, this course is relatively easy and fun because of the ES 50 fair.
ES50 is a great class, that has trouble balancing the work for the students who are dedicated engineers, and students that are just taking the class as an elective. As someone who took it for a gened, the information I learned was very useful, but some parts felt like they were geared towards engineers who could use them in future classes.
This is an absolutely incredible class! I am a senior concentrating in History and Literature (i.e. haven't done science since high school), and wanted to do something with numbers again before graduating. The workload is more than manageable (BUT GO TO OFFICE HOURS!!), the labs were interesting, and, above all, the instructors were some of the best I've had at Harvard! Although there were more than 200 people in the class this year, Evelyn and Marko had a better grasp on people's names than some professors I've had in humanities seminars. The first few weeks may be a bit difficult if you've never worked with circuits before, but the final project is worth sticking around for!
It's a fun course, but it does come with work! Especially at the beginning, I've felt like I've needed to bank on high school physics knowledge rather than the stuff we learned in class.
It is a great class for people who want to go into electrical engineering or some form of engineering. The final project was great because you had something you could call your own at the end of the course.
This is a great SPU if you want to learn a lot without having to put a ton of hours into the class or worry about your grade.
Make sure you are really interested in the topic before taking this class.  Most people seemed to have fun in the class, but if you aren't interested in the material, it can be boring at times.
Very relaxed yet very educational. Some work but fun.
Only around half the course is actually electrical engineering, and I wish I had considered that more before enrolling. This material came easily to me because I am a CS concentrator, but I still had to work my way through hours of long psets and labs that weren't very challenging or interesting to me. The final project is a great time but I ultimately wished I took something a little more different for my SPU (maybe astronomy).
If you like high q scores and big classes where no one shows up for lecture, go for it.
Took it as a senior for SPU. Learned a lot. Extremely helpful and resourceful professors and teaching staff. Lectures often difficult to follow, but the slides are good. As someone who had never seen circuits before, the first few psets had sort of a steep learning curve, but it all worked out. Probably best way to satisfy SPU. Also flexible for thesis writers.
This course is a phenomenal introduction to engineering, especially for people like me who had no formal experience in this subject prior to this class.  The combination of classroom learning in lecture and hands-on learning in lab led to a great learning experience overall.  At times it may seem a bit easy, but that's because Marko and Evelyn don't want to make this a burden on the students, but instead want to see them succeed, especially when the students' work throughout the semester culminates in a final project.  This class certainly increased my interest in engineering, potentially as my concentration.  Even if it doesn't do the same for you, it's still a really practical class to take, especially as our world becomes more and more technologically dependent.  Plus, it's a great way to fulfill the Science of the Physical Universe requirement!  It was my favorite class this semester, and I'm confident that it will be worth your time.  Marko and Evelyn are some of the nicest professors you'll meet at Harvard, especially because they're so accessible and love to interact with students.  Overall, take it!
Marko and Evelyn are great, but the class really didn't live up to its reputation this year. It felt as though the teaching staff were completely unprepared for the large number of students who decided to take the class and it messed up their entire schedule for the semester. The material was incredibly easy, as was the midterm, and the lack of a final or any real assessment after the midterm removed any incentive to continue coming to class for the last half of the semester. I really enjoyed the final project, which gave students a ton of freedom to create some really impressive projects. Marko and Evelyn were very supportive and did everything they could to try and help the students succeed. Lab was very dependent on the quality of your lab's TF, which ranged from absolutely terrible to amazing.
ES50 is the ideal General Education course; you learn a lot of interesting information without much effort. Lab is a lot of fun (especially if you find a partner you enjoy working with), and although I have no complaints about lecture, I learned the majority of the course material in lab. The professors (and in my experience, the TFs) care a lot about the success and well-being of their students.
Marathon office hours are the best.
Not well structured but not too hard overall, good choice for SPU gen ed requirement
It wasn't well organized, but if you are looking for a gen ed in SPU and don't want a ton of work and like building things it could be cool.
Great class. Learned a bunch and had fun doing it.
If you came to Harvard expecting to be mind blown, take this class!
The class was disorganized and too large. The professors obviously had very good intentions and cared a lot about their students but it was hard for them to manage a large class. Psets were too long and verbose.
As someone who had never taken a physics class before, I found ES 50 to be a tough class, not simply because of the material but because lectures were not clearly organized and accessible to people with no background in physics. Labs and the final project were enjoyable, but lectures were not as helpful as they could have been for teaching concepts. Nonetheless, if you work hard and focus on understanding concepts, you'll do well in the class.
You should know how things work and how to tinker to make new things which is what this class does. Best way to fill your SPU requirement if you are looking for a real class that you'll learn from. There is a lot of help available but it may not be immediately obvious how to find it. Even if you've never done something like this before, there is no reason that you won't do well in the course if you seek help when you need it.
if you want an easy class (to pass) but a hard class (to understand), this is the one for you. lectures are slightly confusing and are very, very broad.
This was a fun course to take pass/fail as a senior spring fifth class type of elective. However, the final project is very time consuming, and so are many of the problem sets! Don't underestimate the workload of this course.
Fun way to satisfy SPU, lots of circuits though.
The most laid-back engineering course ever (low low workload), but still learned a lot.  If you have any background in E+M the first few weeks will be boring, but the class picks up quickly and starts covering really interesting material.  It's also intended to be an easy A.  Final projects are a blast.
This class is easy and fun. It is a good introduction to engineering and electronics and by the end of the course you can do some pretty cool things if you want to push yourself. It doesn't go quite as in depth as other intro engineering courses would so if you have some background already you may want to take one of the higher level classes here.
Fun and not too difficult.
Please don't take this. Harvard's ES is still in its infancy, and the class certainly reflects that. You won't learn anything and you'll be wasting your time.
This class is advertised as one for anyone, regardless of background. However, be ready to put a LOT of work into it. There are labs, Psets, midterm, and a final project. Everything takes time to understand, and the teachers are often unable to explain the material in an understandable way.
This course will teach you how to begin to think like an engineer, which is to say, there is always more than one way to solve a problem, and chances are there is a better way to solve it than the one you came up with.
Be prepared to work a lot on the final project, but, if you choose something you like, it will be worth it.  Also, very few people attend lectures, which can be a reason to take the course.  However, the relationships you will forge from the people you meet in lecture are worth it.
Overall, a really fun and informative class. However, if you are actually interested in pursuing anything related to electrical engineering, I would suggest not taking this class and taking ES 52 instead. This class was far too general and glossed over too many things to really be called an "introduction to electrical engineering" class. If you're considering EE, you likely won't learn much of anything in this class; you probably already know most of it. For everyone else though, it's a nice way to see how all the the electrical gadgets around you work.
It's a good intro class, if you simply want to explore Electrical Engineering. If you already know much about the subject, consider skipping this class.
This is a great way to knock out the SPU requirement, but beware of the class being harder in future years. The average on the midterm was literally above 100% this year, so I would expect it to be harder. That said, this course is definitely, definitely accessible to anyone and was really fun.
Buy the textbooks and talk to the professors and TF's! It's really easy to fall behind and get lost, so be on top of your game.
Final project is a great way to end the course. The first half of the course is useful and you learn a lot. The second half was very poor and unstructured.
Good, fun, not-too-difficult introduction to electrical engineering. The lectures can be dry but usually bring up cool applications of the material that you see every day. The labs are a lot of fun, and the final projects are AWESOME. Especially take if Evelyn or Marco is teaching, as they are really fun and very invested in all of the students.
This course was interesting and fun in many waysbuilding things from scratch is pretty much the coolest thing everbut if you're a non-science concentrator, beware.
Great class! Easy workload and fun material.
This class was terribly organized. But Evelyn and Marko are nice and willing to meet individually. I wouldn't recommend this class unless they reorganize the course significantly. PSETs, study review materials, labs often contained mistakes and the homework difficulty often felt incompatible with what was actually taught.
As they are, the lectures just aren't that helpful. Use the book. Start the psets early and get help, even before the material's supposed to be covered. That's how you'll learn it.
If you don't feel comfortable with the subject, I honestly don't recommend it for senior spring. In the Q guide from before, people said the course was fairly low-stress and not too large a workload. For me, this was not at all true. I took physics in high school but haven't taken any since then, and it was hard for me to understand the material without remembering this background. Labs were also long and psets were fairly time consuming. I really enjoyed the final project but in general, I often felt confused in this class and didn't know how to clarify things--I would just always try to go to office hours because that was the only way I could get through the psets. That being said, I will admit I just did not have enough time to put into this course. With more time to put in or if I had a stronger background in the subject, it may not have been so hard. But I do think you have to be committed to the class if you want to do well/enjoy it at all.
You should expect to do work for this class. The quality and fun of the final project is really up to you.
It is the best introduction for someone who wants to major in electrical engineering
As a History concentrator, I found this course to be a great way to branch out and learn something completely new!  There is a lot of help and support from the TFs, and the professors are really understanding.  Everyone WANTED me to succeed!  The final project is a great way to apply your new knowledge and build something cool.  The only thing I would say is that if you do not have CS experience, find a friend FAST who does.  Also, be prepared to put a lot of time in -- there are lectures, three hour labs, and a lot of pset time.
Take initiative, make sure you take advantage of all the great teaching
If you really want an introduction to electrical engineering, this is not the class to take. This is more of a fun elective to get some exposure in the area.
This is a great intro to electrical engineering and a great way to fulfill SPU. As a humanities concentrator, I was very satisfied with the course, even though I was unfamiliar with the field initially. The psets are not too hard, and grading is very generous. In addition, the final project is a great opportunity to create something that demonstrates your understanding of the material. Sometimes lectures were a bit disorganized/the pacing was off, but it was ultimately a solid course with a very supportive teaching staff.
This is a wonderful course. I enrolled apprehensively because I needed a gen ed that would fulfill SPU and couldn't find anything else. I was scared because I didn't take physics in high school and engineering has always been this huge enigma to me that definitely did not fit in with my humanities-based education. But I ended up loving the class! Although lectures were sometimes confusing, section and office hours helped me understand the material better, and when I worked on homework with friends, I was sometimes the most knowledgeable person at the table. I also remembered how much I like math! Would highly recommend this course to anyone looking to fulfill a gen ed, or anyone who is interested in engineering. Geared toward people with all sorts of different backgrounds and academic specialties, it's a rewarding and fun class, provided you put in the time it takes to learn the material and get comfortable with it.
Great way to have fun actually building things!
By far one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. This class inspired me to continue with engineering in the future.
This is a great class that gives a great introduction to electrical engineering. Difficult if you have never seen this stuff before, but not excessively so.
This is a broad and inspiring introduction to electrical engineering, and you've gotta take it even if it's for the food!
Cool class! Final project is great. Marko is hilarious, and Evelyn is the nicest.
don't take this as a third pset class. but generates cool enthusiasm at a basic level.
ES50 is great. Low intensity, high value. Just what you want from an SPU! The teaching staff is incredibly supportive. As a note, I found section far more useful than lecture (and the slides and videos are online), so do what makes sense for you!
It's fun, it's easy, it's interesting, and you'll get to create something really cool.
If you are looking for a pretty easy class that will expose you to some low-level engineering and want to fulfill your SPU requirement, this course would be good for you.  The midterm is easy and the final project is really a good time and it is fun to do something hands on that applies a lot of what the course teaches you.  The lab hours fly by too.
Fun class, quite easy if you're a math/science concentrator. But it's cool that you actually get to apply your knowledge to make a working product at the end.
Marko and Evelyn have created an interesting course that gives a broad introduction to electrical engineering.  While it can sometimes become boring and lecture attendance wanes significantly towards the end of the semester, the final project makes it all worthwhile.
Fun class - if you've taken physics in high school and done things with circuits / are quantitatively minded this course is a nice light workload. Cool material.
Fantastic course! A great way to learn a lot of interesting and useful information that will enrich your understanding of the world around you.
I would recommend taking ES50.  It is an extremely manageable workload, the labs are cool, and the final project is an awesome part of the semester.  I would be wary, however, of the lectures, which are very poorly attended and can be difficult to understand.  That being said, the midterm and the homeworks do not require a deep understanding of the extremely challenging concepts, which sort of de-incentivizes attending lectures.
Lectures are not helpful, especially the lectures explaining circuits. Circuits were poorly taught. Final projects were fun though!
As a computer science concentrator, this was a perfect 4th class to go along with a tough schedule. It was very interesting and not demanding at all. The weekly problem sets are done very quickly and the one exam is easy if you can do the problem sets. Great class!
Find a good study partner. Subject material is super interesting, but the instructors do not teach the material so you need to teach yourself.
This an easy course which is quite interesting and well run. The work load is not bad at all and you learn a lot about the basics of electrical engineering. Definitely take this course if you are looking to fulfill a general education requirement, or if you are just interested in a basic engineering class.
Marko is a great guy. The material covered has a huge range, but it's not too difficult to stay on top of things.
The material in this course is applicable to everything that is occurring in the world around you, which makes the material immensely applicable and important. The build-up to when you begin creating your final project is a lot of fun and the course is definitely worth the work.
Great class
It makes you understand more about electricity which is good. It is not very challenging, so it can be taken as an easier class amongst harder classes.
I would tell future students how much this course will teach them about circuits and electrical engineering. It goes far beyond just evaluating how much voltage is dissipated across a resistor, and goes up to the point of designing your own circuits for an independent final project.
Probably one of the best gen-ed courses I've taken here, in terms of the workload/knowledge exchange rate. It's not a trivial course by any means but it was easy enough that I didn't have to stress out about exams/psets, and still found myself learning a lot of concepts that I wasn't familiar with previously.
This is a great introductory course for non-engineering concentrators! Its very doable (ie not terribly difficult) and you learn a signifiant amount. Be prepared to put in significant amounts of time though.
This class provides a great introduction to the concepts behind circuitry and general electrical engineering.  The laboratory activities are rewarding, and the final project offers a great way to practice skills learned in class.  Additionally, Marko and Evelyn are enthusiastic instructors who offer a lot of support to students.  However, the laboratory assignments were often a bit difficult to follow, especially to those not trained in computer science, and it was frustrating to encounter issues with machinery that we were not trained to use.  One of the greatest resources of this course are the sections and problem sessions: please take advantage of them.  Overall, I enjoyed this course!
Great introduction to Electrical Engineering!
It's a great way to get introduced to engineering in general and you learn a lot more than you expect by the end of it. Probably one of the most useful technical disciplines too - you can do a ton with EE, and if you're thinking about concentrating, this will probably convince you to continue.
Nice introduction to EE with great teaching staff who are dedicated to helping you learn. I would not recommend taking this class if you haven't at least taken high school physics.
Take it! A great overview of electrical engineering with a fantastic, supportive teaching staff who are all genuinely excited about the material. Office hours are super helpful for psets, labs are fun, and the final project was a blast.
Tons of work for a gen ed
The class is a fun intro to electrical engineering. I learned a lot even though I had already taken physics and although there were some difficulties along the way I am very glad that I took the course. Finishing the final project was exciting and I felt like I had truly accomplished something.
This course is great! It is a great introduction to electrical engineering. It is engaging and requires minimal time commitment, except at the end for the final project, you will spend all of reading period in the lab, but it will be worth it.
This is a great hands on class and the best way to fulfill spu requirement
One of the best SPUs for non-science majors!
The course was a bit disorganized but I did end up learning a lot. I would take this class if you're able to function amid chaos. Also, go to section!
As far as SPU goes, this is not your typical "gem" option. That being said, it is probably among the most interesting. Lab is admittedly incredibly frustrating, but this class gave me a real world understanding of so many technologies. The final project is also a really cool opportunity to build something awesome, although beware that it takes a lot of time and the material learned in class doesnt actually fully prepare you. I am glad I took this class because it was always something that I thought I would be interested in. Marko and Chris also love teaching, which is great.
Basic knowledge of coding is helpful, especially for final projects.
It is a fun class. Teaches a lot. Don't expect much from the lectures though (unless the format is going to change) or the sections (almost non-existent). But the lab hours are awesome.
This is a great class to fulfill your Gen Ed requirement. The labs can be both frustrating and enjoyable, the homework is relatively easy with ample opportunity for extra credit, and the final project is truly an awesome experience to practically do something in the field that entices you. I felt the course to be very generous when it came to grading, but like I said above, there is often some frustration with a lack of understanding of labs and certain homework problems -- but in the greater (grade) scheme of things, this does not matter.
It was a fun and exciting way to explore concepts. It taught us to apply our knowledge through the labs. It also allowed us to further develop our teamwork skills through the unique and enjoyable final project.
This is a great course! TFs are really helpful and try their best to make you succeed. Marko is an incredible professor and will take a lot of time and energy to help you. Make sure you pay attention in lecture, as some of the material can be tough at first, but nothing is obscenely hard, and the TFs and professors will always be around to help.
ES50 is fun and interesting. It is definitely work intensive however. I took the course because I was interested in learning how electronics work and get an intro into building a device through the final project. I'm happy to say that I wasn't disappointed. Despite the long hours in lab, working on psets, and building my final project, I learned a lot and got a taste of engineering. It's a fun SPU and well worth it for those who like science/physics/math. I recommend it!
It's a very good introduction to electrical engineering.
The project is a lot of work, but it's really a lot of fun!
You will not believe how much you have learned by the time you finish this class. I am still amazed that I was actually able to think of and build my project.
Really cool to learn about how everyday stuff works. Lecture is bleh.
ES50 is a very practical course; half the things you learn will be like puzzle-solving (op amps, for example), and half the things you learn will seem like either CS50 or a harmonics lesson in physics. Be aware that while there's a lot of guidance for the psets and assignments and usually TFs are amazing during lab, it's sometimes disorganized (for instance, the date of the final project fair changed a couple weeks before the end of the semester, and the nature of the fair was pretty unclear to us until very close to the date). Additionally, you have to really ask for help for the final project if you don't know what you're doing, so that's also difficult. Overall, would take again, but be a lot more proactive (annoying?) in getting help.
"The more you don't know, the more you learn!" Marko often said this, and I think it really was kind of the mantra/theme of the whole course. The teaching team was dedicated and readily available. The professors had a genuine enthusiasm for the material. Overall, the course was a lot of fun, and I learned a lot. Wish more classes at Harvard were run this way. Highly recommend.
The first half on circuits is the toughest part; if you have some CS background, the last half on digital systems will be pretty easy.
Only take this course if you want a fun elective or are considering concentrating in electrical engineering. If you are set on electrical engineering, take a more advanced course.
The course gives a great introduction to electrical engineering!
You have to make it to the end to get the true enjoyment of the course. The final project is the best part.
If you are at all interested in electrical engineering, I would recommend taking this course. The material is very manageable, the labs are fun, and the final project is very rewarding. The course is somewhat disorganized, but not to the point that it is a real detriment to the course.
This class is a great intro for Electrical Engineering. The final project is really fun and you get to make something cool. I would recommend for people interested in any engineering field.
If you don't plan on becoming an electrical engineer, do not take this class. It was a headache learning all of the different concepts that were breezed through in lecture. If you have a decent background with small circuits and want to take this course for the gen ed, go for it, otherwise, be prepared to work hard.
Would recommend to students genuinely interested in hardware.  Was a fairly significant amount of work for an elective class.  Any background in E&M is beneficial but not necessary.
Take this course if you want to kill a GenEd but also learn something really cool. Everyone should take ES50; the stuff you learn here makes you more of a person, in the same way that reading Shakespeare does. Like with reading Shakespeare, ES50 is something you might not use one day but is such a key part of everyday life that everyone should take it.
I lucked out with having people to do PSETS with who either had some CS or Physics background (that I didn't). But, I'm glad I took it!!
First thing: Marko and Chris are both great professors who are amazingly invested in the course and the students, and they really looked like they wanted to make it accessible to everyone. That said, there were times where the psets and labs were ambiguous, and were difficult to complete not because they were inherently difficult, but because they were unclear. As someone with a bit of a science and CS background, it was simple enough to follow the topics, but that is despite the fact that they were not taught in the most accessible way. Still, given enough effort, I think most people succeed in it, and it never hurts to learn how to do some basic (yet cool!) EE stuff.
This is an "easy" class, but you'll still do a fair amount of work.  My favorite and least favorite part of the class was the final project: I really bonded with my group and made friends with a lot of other people in the class during our mutual struggle for hours in the lab during reading period.  Marko was in the lab at 11 on a Saturday night helping us out, and he even brought us doughnuts, which is so awesome of him.  However, the project did take up ALL of my time.  It was a really rewarding experience in the end, and I feel like I got a lot out of it.  If I had the choice, I would definitely take this class again.  Also, fun fact, there are a lot more guys than girls in this class.
A good way to satisfy SPU. It was more work than I anticipated, but worth it. The material is interesting. Most of the Ifs are really engaged with the material and willing to put in a lot of time to help you with whatever you need. The final project is a good experience - it's pretty cool what people can put together. And Professor Loncar is fantastic.
Fun projects, and it's easy to stay on top. Just don't procrastinate.
This course has very interesting labs and the final project is a blast to do. Lectures can be dull and the entire class is a tad disorganized.
You do learn a lot about the course - labs are fun, the final project is rewarding, and there isn't that much work compared to other courses. However, there can be a lot of disorganization, lack of help, and confusion sometimes. The class has great potential - it just needs to be more supportive to students (in terms of materials and questions) and organized (duedates, psets, etc). There were definitely times when I got a lot of help, especially after getting closer to TFs, but especially at the beginning as a freshmen, it was tough. Aside from some rough patches though, you learn a lot of electronics and I am consider going into EE after this - so there was definitely some effect.
Absolutely amazing. Dont graduate without taking this course
You won't learn how to actually build much until you do the final project
Very hard but very rewarding. the final project is a lot of fun
Fun class! Can be a lot of work and can be VERY disorganized.
ES50 is a great introduction to circuits and electrical engineering. Unless you are genuinely interested in electrical engineering you will probably be tempted to slack off, but even then you will come away with somewhat of a better understanding of how electronics work. I didn't enjoy lecture and thought the course materials (basically the lecture slides) were hard to sift through, but psets and labs help you learn the material.
ES50 is great mostly because you get to build a ridiculously fun final project in the end. You can survive the course without actually going to lecture but they are really interesting when you do go and you get to build pretty fun things in lab. I think it's a great class to take as an elective if you want to do more hands on things.
The final project is so much fun! The labs are sometimes frustrating.
It's not the most rigorous class.
Take this course. It's a lot of fun.
The project component of the class was the best part. The lectures are kind of bland, and they could be improved with some demonstrations. Lectures are also an hour and a half, which are too long in my opinion for the material covered. Feedback on assignments in the course is not very consistent. The professors care a lot about the students though, and overall it was pretty painless.
Until the lab component is fixed and the professors begin to realize much more organization is involved in running a course that's so large, I am unlikely to recommend this course. Formal labs should have ended much earlier to allow us extra time on the final project. Labs are absolutely terrible: long, confusing, and often, dysfunctional.
The class is super fun if you're interesting in learning how things work and other electrical stuff... Lectures are fun and really interesting. the Quiz is hard but totally doable if you're on top of practice problems and problem sets.
If you are even thinking about engineering you should take it!
ES50 tries to cover an ambitious number of topics in a short amount of time. ES50 assumes that you don't know enough about math and physics to really go into depth about a lot of topics, until Chris teaches about transistors in last few lectures. This is great class  if you're interested in any easy, fun way to fulfill the science of the physical universe requirement, but if you want a serious introduction to electrical engineering, I would recommend ES 153 (Physics 123) if you care at all about physics, or ES 52 otherwise. That said, the labs and final project are a lot of fun. Be prepared to spend a lot of time on your final project during reading period!
If you are interested in the material and want to walk away with some tangible skills while picking up a Gen Ed credit, then this is the class for you. It will require you to put in some effort, but you are able to reap the rewards of your labor. There are bonus points on the psets, labs rarely take the full 3 hours, and you get to do a creative final project! This class was my dream come true. If Marko Loncar teaches this course, then definitely take it in the future.
Fun and easy although more work then i expected
This course taught me a great deal about electrical engineering, which is great. However, the lectures are sometimes confusing and many times not applicable to the psets. I feel that I could have learned the material better if the course were taught better. The final project is very cool though!
