If you are a science graduate student and are interested in science and society, I recommend this course as a refreshing break from problem sets. It is a nice change to talk about science from a distance, and to explore how it is communicated to and understood by society at large.
Great professor, chance to do a different kind of writing, get to learning about news industry.
I think one of the things that really made this course work was that it was targeted at graduate students. The fact that the majority of the students in the course were enrolled in various graduate programs made for interesting discussions, and virtually everyone had relevant experiences to share.  Speaking as a graduate student in the sciences, courses like this are rare-- I think this was the first seminar class I've taken since I was an undergraduate.
Read as many science based news as possible
I highly recommend that budding scientists, as well as those who are simply interested in science and policy, take this course. It prepares you to interface with the public and to give back to society in a way that not many classes do at the graduate level. The readings, course exercises, and lectures are useful, practically speaking, and I learned a lot.
It is a great way to improve writing and communication skills, especially for breaking subject matter into a form the public can understand and want to know.
If you have aspirations to be a scientist, take this course so that you can improve your ability to communicate with the public and remove the shroud of mystery that they think science is surrounded by.If you want to be a journalist, take this course for Cornelia's industry-wise feedback, it really helps!
Great class - you'll definitely improve your ability to write about science for both scientists and non-scientists.
It is great to get so much experience thinking about how to talk to non-scientists about technical concepts.
This is a great class for developing the skills to communicating science to a wider audience. While it is not about writing science (as in a scientific paper), but rather writing *about* science, I felt that it is helpful in writing your papers more effectively as well.
