Would not take if not required. Three or four lectures were spent talking about how energy is a nebulous concept. The lectures don't relate back to the homework enough (the relevant stuff was glossed over very, very quickly). Labs were kind of boring. Suo's notes are good.
Professor Suo is (imo) an excellent teacher, who has a very clear understanding on how to teach a subject. It might not fit everyone, but if you like getting the big picture first, this class is for you. His big picture teaching is so clear that I didn't have to go to any sections, and I maybe opened up the book 5 times in total. The lectures, notes and slides contained everything I needed.
Prof Suo is amazing and is such an energetic lecturer and makes the material very accessible. He (as well as the TFs) are also super willing to help and answer questions and hold extra office hours
Do not take this class if Professor Suo is teaching it. Lectures are ineffective at preparing for midterms and psets. Feedback on assignments is late and vague.
All in all not that difficult a class, but only because the sum of what we learned could be written on a single sheet of paper. Professor Suo is an energetic lecturer and he clearly knows his stuff, but the homework, labs, and midterms seemed to be handled entirely by the TFs, who were either interested in helping but poor at communicating, or ok at communicating but completely disinterested. This is probably a requirement if you're even looking at it, so if you have to take it know that the textbook is probably your best friend. Most homework and quiz problems can be solved with information from the book, whereas they could not be solved with information from lectures, which are interesting but not really related to your grade.
This class would probably be good with a different
Great course on Thermodynamics. Very conceptual based, but if you pay attention, lectures are worth it. Prepare for a disconnect between lectures and practice problems; practice on your own and go to section!
Lectures are not helpful, mostly at the beggining, so read the book, go to section and OH. Ted is the best TF, so use his OH and his section the most. Labs are also fairly long so be ready to put in some extra time.
This was the worst class I have taken at my time at Harvard. As an aspiring engineer, I hope to learn about physical phenomena, how the engineering marvels of the 21st century work, what are good engineering principles, and how to apply this knowledge to designing new technologies - this course satisfied none of these. While thermodynamics is naturally a difficult subject to teach, this course still fell extremely short of my expectations and those of many of my peers.For one, the lectures were ineffective at teaching us the material. Zhigang creates his own material, and as such, the material has not been reviewed by multiple sources as would the content of a textbook. The lectures do not cover the right material in order to give students a good understanding of the physical phenomena we studied. I learned more by reading the textbook during the 55 minutes of class than I did attending it. I estimate that half the class ended up not attending lecture by the end of the semester.Homeworks were all created for the first time this semester. I was shocked that none of the material from previous thermo classes were at the very least recycled/integrated into this course. Most of the problem sets were busy work, either repetitive tasks in looking up data from steam tables and interpolating data or plug-and-chugging values into mathematical formulas. In addition, many of the math problems were proofs that involved simplistic algebra that gave no physical intuition regarding the important, relevant, physical phenomena. Few exercises were given about how we might apply this knowledge to designing engineering systems.Labs failed to be interesting and useful assignments. For example, one lab involved us measuring the efficiency of light bulbs, which involved taking data from thermocouples for two hours. Another lab lasted an hour because data were collected by teaching staff instead of students, and one of the experiments failed to produce data, hence ending lab early. Exams were fair representations of what was presented in class, but were not indicative of whether we have become better engineers. By reading the textbook and not attending lecture, I scored a standard deviation above the mean on one of the midterms, which provides some indication of the effectiveness of lectures. Grading is not standardized, some of the TFs will grade much more harshly than others.Having given my criticism, I must also offer constructive suggestions that, you, as a potential student of this class, can offer the teaching staff, in order to make it an experience that you deserve as an engineering student:- lectures should be more organized, cover the right material to give students a good understanding of the concepts, draw from reliable sources, and provide more applicable examples of how we can apply this knowledge to becoming better engineers- homeworks should be more standardized, emphasize physical intuition over busy work, and give exercises for how we can design good engineering systems- labs should be re-designed and cover experiments that are interesting, efficient, and give us value for our time as students in the lab- grading should be standardized to make sure that the personal opinions of TFs does not trump the value or effort given by the student
If you're taking this class because you want to learn thermodynamics, don't take this class. You MIGHT get a vague, wishy-washy, metaphorical understanding of what entropy is, but other than that, I didn't feel like I learned any science. I taught myself a lot about how engines work though, so I guess that was cool?
Even though Professor Suo made the course very accessible if you invested the time, the course was still difficult. The subject of thermodynamics is just a difficult topic that takes a lot of time to understand it. The sheer amount of things you have to know make the class difficult! Definitely a tough class to take if you don't have ~15 hours per week at least to invest in it! But if Suo is teaching it, it might be more enjoyable than during other semesters!
problem sets are the best way to learn the material, lectures are not too useful but still are interesting discussions sometimes.
It sucks. Material is hard and not a great job is done of presenting it.
This is the worst course I've ever taken in my life. Professor Suo is an awful educator. If you want to learn something about Thermodynamics, this course is not for you. Professor Suo tells us that the textbook is wrong from time to time and then gives us completely bizarre concepts to learn. Do not take this class if Suo is teaching.
Really interesting. Very relevant for all aspects of engineering. Difficult
Professor Suo is not an effective lecturer for Thermodynamics. He is way more philosophical than practical. He discussed the philosophy and the meaning of energy and heat more than he laid a foundation for problem solving. Could have been effective for some students...definitely not for me.
the course was tough because of the teaching style and not necessarily the content. students had to teach themselves the material because nothing was really gained from being at lecture
I would be unlikely to highly recommend this course in its current iteration, with the professor and structure it currently has.
The material for the course is interesting, though often difficult to understand intuitively. It's a bit of a weird class because, in many respects, understanding the big picture concepts doesn't really correlate that much with doing well in the course.
Lectures were largely irrelevant to the material that was on psets and quizzes. The textbook was the best resource, but it was often difficult to learn material just by reading from the book. The teaching staff as a whole seemed very disjointed, as the TFs each wrote a problem for the psets, but often did not know how to explain another TF's problem. It was significantly less work than last year's class judging by the Q reviews, but you have to learn the material mostly through reading the textbook
The subject matter in this course is extremely interesting. It's a really cool application of engineering principles. However, the way it was taught this semester was extremely disorganized and therefore very frustrating. Lectures were unhelpful, and I had to learn most of the course material on my own with the help of TFs. The material really isn't that difficult if you make an effort to stay caught up, but don't expect to stay caught up without going out of your way to meet with TFs the moment things seem confusing.
The class material is sometimes very dry but Professor Suo is always excited to teach and keeps lecture interesting. The problem sets were difficult because much of lecture was theoretical while the homework was purely solving problems.
This class is a requirement for most engineering students, so you likely don't have a choice in having to take this class. That said, this has been one of the more enjoyable engineering classes I have taken at Harvard. Granted, the TFs were not always on the same page regarding course material (e.g. how they taught it), which made the class feel disorganized at times, but the psets and exams were all VERY fair. No surprises for sure, and it definitely wasn't as difficult this year as I have heard it has been in past years.
you don't need to read the book every week, going to lecture and doing the psets is enough
This course is amazing, and I loved every minute of it. It's a lot of fun to begin the year with the broader concepts and, by the end of the year, be able to complete an energy analysis of real world engines. The teaching staff is very engaged and eager to help students succeed, especially Professor Suo.
Very interesting subject. Prepare yourself.
You have to take the course for engineering, but I would see who is teaching.
I was disappointed at the quality of the lectures in this course. Even though the TFs were very helpful I often felt that there was a significant disconnect between lecture and the problem sets/exams.
it can be a lot of work, but you also learn a lot. I'd recommend the class for fun pass fail
This year the course was taught with Professor Suo, who is extremely animated and excited about the material. While the first few lectures are engaging because of him, they slowly become less and less useful and interesting for exams, homeworks and labs. In other words, lectures were not necessary. Lectures focused too much on derivations of equation and less on actual content. The sections were helpful in getting the homeworks done, though sometimes were a bit boring. The course itself had difficult content and thermo is not an easy concept to teach. Taught by Suo, the exams were hard to study for because he expected you to memorize everything basically. The homework lengths were reasonable but changed week to week based on TFs.
Temper your expectations -- this class fits the bill perfectly for a classic engineering course, with relatively little connection between lecture and applied concepts, and general disorganization but by a teaching staff who genuinely does care a lot about helping you learn.
A solid coverage of thermodynamic concepts. Psets are challenging but not unreasonable, definitely take advantage of OH.
Professor Suo taught this course well and one of the best parts is the teaching staff. They are very willing to help you (as is everyone else in the class) and the course offers many materials (text book, lecture notes, section notes, review notes, office hours) that can help you do well.
I definitely expected this course to be harder than it was.  That being said, it wasn't easy, but if you have a good study group and go to office hours you'll be set
Pretty much everyone taking it has to take it for a requirement. If it didn't fulfill anything for someone, I'd tell them not to take it.
if you don't have to take it, please don't. Possibly my hardest class yet but I can't forsee how much easier it could possibly be
go to sections and office hours - they are immensely helpful if the TFs are nearly as helpful as they were this year. course is frustrating and time consuming, but i defintiely gained a knowledge of thermodynamics.  wish material on HE 2 was covered longer and perhaps less topics were covered.
You better strap yourself down to whatever chair you're sitting on, because this is going to be a rough f**king ride.
Its a decent engineering course. Not as exciting as some courses, but the material is interesting enough. It is more targeted towards mechanical engineering, which was a little frustrating at times for a biomedical engineer, but i still felt like i learned a lot
This class is hard and time consuming but not as bad as I'd been led to believe going in. Start the problem sets early , GO TO OFFICE HOURS, do lots of practice problems in preparation for exams, and you'll get through it in one piece.
Find yourself a good study buddy. You're going to need them.
Be thankful that Aziz is not teaching the course next year.
Enough said.
You have to take it.
Much like what people have said for eons about this class, it's a great class and you learn a lot but it will take a huge amount of time. The course is extremely well organized, in my opinion. Do capitalize on Aziz's availability (OHs and class time), he understands the material really well and he is more than happy to explain things if you only ask.
Really interesting but difficult material.
ES181 is vital to a good engineering background. Challenging but rewarding course.
Get ready to devote ridiculous hours to this class. Just to keep up, you have to spend about 12 hours for each pset and 3 hours for the weekly reading. The good news is that the class is taught well, and there are countless resources to help you.
Chances are you have to take this class - it's not easy but it is well structured which helps tremendously.
Go to office hours. And section even though it's optional.
You have to take the course, so set your jaw and deal with it. I would be shocked if you enjoyed it, but at least you bond with other engineers over your shared misery.
If you are a physics student, this class is a much easier alternative to Physics 181. You will still learn all of the material necessary for the GRE and, unless statistical mechanics is necessary for the field you're going into, you'll probably leave with more applicable knowledge from this course. Aziz is a much clearer lecturer than most physics professors.
Incredibly difficult material presented just about as well as it can be.
You're probably only looking into this course because it's a requirement, so you'll most likely take it regardless of what I say. Anyway, the class isn't as awful as it sounds, but it's still a pretty big pain! Just be sure to actually engage yourself with the reading, as that's where you'll learn most of what you know in the course. It's easy to just skim through and not actually absorb anything, but don't do that! Also, try to start your psets early and study for midterms using the practice problems provided. If you do all of those things, you should be pretty set in the course, and should be able to learn a decent amount!
You will learn a huge amount, but it takes a lot of time--be prepared to work hard and go to office hours when you can.
This course is a requirement for engineering, but the material is actually quite useful.  While it does require a significant amount of outside work (between psets, readings, studying for reading quizzes,labs, lab write-ups, etc.), if you put in the effort, it really isn't that bad.  Definitely make use of sections and office hours!
This class will be the most challenging class you take at Harvard, but the supportive staff and professor make it all worth it. You can and will be able to master the material, and you will feel amazing when you do. This is the type of class which is so challenging students in the class form a type of bond that makes it feel close and fun.
The concepts are not really that hard, but putting them to use is often difficult and unwieldly.  The class is not very interesting but is well taught.  As far as workload, the entirety of my thursday afternoon/night each week was sacrificed, but other than that it wasn't too bad.  It's a fairly tough course, but nothing you can't handle.
Usually the only people taking the class are people who need it for requirements.  I definitely learned a lot in this class and it wasn't nearly as bad as what I heard.  Psets would take an average of like 8 hours which really wasn't bad.  Some people would start it at office hours the day or day before it was due.
This was actually one of my favorite classes. The material is hard, but it is taught incredibly well. There are a lot of resources to help you understand the material. If you're up for working hard, this will be a very rewarding class
Great engineering class. Material is fun and problem sets contain realistic industrial problems about energy generation, engine operations, and electrochemistry. Great teaching staff. Concepts and calculations are always related back to industrial applications. Lectures are engaging and interesting; sections and office hours helpful in completing problem sets. Labs are interesting.
It will be hard and time consuming but worth it.
Only and I repeat only take it if you absolutely have to. Probably one of the hardest classes at Harvard. In many situations even the tf's did not know what was going on and struggled to help the students.
As long as you are willing to dedicate two nights to the psets a week then it is manageable. It was difficult but certainly not impossible. Nevertheless, this has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard as it has taught me so much about a very interesting subject.
There is a lot of reading but it is very helpful and necessary to understanding the lectures.  The problem sets are not easy but if you go to office hours they are pretty doable.  The tests are hard and pretty long.
I found this class hard. The course material is not impossible, and if you commit the time to the course that it requires, you'll do well. But it does consume a considerable amount of time between the readings and problem sets.
This is a very difficult but rewarding class.  The amount of time you put in will determine what you get out.
Only take this class if it is required of you!
This is a requirement for many engineers, so you probably don't get to choose whether to take this class. It's not great, but you'll live.
The class is very difficult, but judging by the previous semesters' Q scores, it seems the course is improving.
I mean, it's thermo. If you have to take it, you likely already know the deal and it doesn't really matter what it's like. If you don't SPECIFICALLY have to take this course but want to be an engineer, take it anyway. The content is pretty interesting--you'll have a lot of "oh, so THAT'S how that works" moments. You'll learn the inner workings of power plants, refrigerators/heat pumps, jet and automotive engines, etc. It's pretty cool. What's more, you'll gain a deeper understanding of concepts like energy and entropy, not to mention exergy. You may or may not face an existential crisis on the implications of entropy generation and exergy destruction on the fate of the universe--this is normal. You'll learn what it really means for things to occur spontaneously and clever ways to extract work out of systems. Overall, a good and thought-provoking course. Fundamental to being an engineer.
This is a really hard class.  The lectures get to be a little confusing.  Go to section, and go to office hours for p set help.
This class is a lot of work. Depending on the week, a problem set can take 20+ hours. Furthermore, there are reading quizzes every class and 3 labs/lab reports you have to complete in the semester. Everything really adds up and if you fall behind, it can be difficult to catch up (especially at the end of the semester). The final was also ridiculously hard this semester (mean was 44%). However, if you do put in the effort, you will learn a ton and some of the material can be interesting. Unfortunately, thermodynamics was not very intuitive to me so learning it was very challenging. The TFs are super helpful; make sure you go to office hours!
A challenging, but interesting class which requires a significant amount of time and effort. However, the teaching staff did everything in their power to help out and make a difficult subject understandable. Most of them have taken the course and with that insight, they were generally quite good at explaining things.
It's a very good, worthwhile, rigorous class, especially if you put the time into it and make good use of TFs/ OHs.
Very time consuming engineering requirement.  I wouldn't put yourself through it unless you are very interested in work, heat, energy, enthalpy, and exergy and have 15-20 extra hours per week.  That said, Aziz does a great job making sure you learn the material thoroughly.
This course is very challenging and a major time investment. You learn the concepts of thermodynamic very thoroughly and rigorously - in a way that may not be fun during the semester but will leave you satisfied at the end of it. Thermodynamics is one of those subjects that will change the way you understand the Universe, and will change the way you think and approach problems. While Aziz can be very dry in his lectures, he does care that you learn the material and emerge from the course a better engineer. Also, while very theoretical, it does have the distinction of being an engineering course that covers very practical topics (engines, power plants, fuel cells, etc.) that aren't usually covered in other Harvard engineering courses - topics that are important both to be an engineer but also to be an informed citizen. I recommend this course (although chances are you don't have much of a choice in taking it), but be prepared to devote a large amount of time/mental effort to it.
The course was extremely difficult but is the engineering class where I have learned the most. The level of rigor is necessary because the course material is also difficult. Homework takes a very long time each week but is where a lot of the learning takes place. The final exam was extremely and unexpectedly difficult but the midterms were more fair.
You have to be prepared to put in the work for this class so have room in your schedule to do well in this class.
The lectures, assignments, readings, reading quizzes, exams, etc, etc (the list goes on...) were each the worst I have experienced for any class in any of my last four years at Harvard. I feel like I learned nothing in lecture because he assumed we had learned everything from the readings. Instead, we did overly simplified example problems that taught us no general concepts but also failed to teach us problem solving strategies. This might be an effective format if I learned everything from the readings, but the readings were so dense that I spent hours reading for every lecture and still did not understand the material to the level he expected when I walked into lecture. The assignments took more than 20 hours every week, and I could only finish them if I went to office hours. This is mostly because we were completely unprepared through lectures to do the problem sets.The exams were extremely random and either only tested on a very small subset of the material we were supposed to have studied (midterm 2) or were so ridiculously difficult that they were not a fair representation of what we had learned (the final exam, on which the mean was a 17.7/40). I got more than a standard deviation above the mean on the first exam, more than 1.5 standard deviations above the mean on the second exam, and a standard deviation below the mean on the final exam. I studied many, many, many more hours for the final exam than I did for each of the midterms. The exams were incredibly random and not representative of what we knew but rather how lucky we could get in receiving partial credit.Lastly, it was absolutely absurd that part of our grade was based on the class evaluating a rough draft of Aziz's own textbook. This is not a textbook editing class, and no part of our grade should include us evaluating our professor's own textbook rough draft. I felt extremely offended and used by this.
This class is very intense.  You can easily expect to spend around 15-16 hours on the psets - especially in the after pset3 onwards.  Lectures are very annoying - and many times, easily able to skip.  The final exam was too hard and even Aziz noted that down!
The material you will learn in this course is incredibly useful.  However, it's not an easy path to get there.  I highly recommend office hours, as doing work without others will take forever.  Be prepared to put a lot of time into this course, otherwise you won't understand topics fully.  In this class, every new topic is heavily reliant on prior material.  Be prepared to make lots of assumptions and approximations in your problem sets and spend way too much time interpolating values from tables.
Do your readings, take the time to learn the material on the psets.
if there is an easier way to get the thermo requirement for your degree, you may want to consider the other options just for the sake of time. However, Prof. Aziz is a good teacher and you might find the material pretty interesting. if thermo isn't a requirement for your concentration.. what are you doing here?
This class is extremely difficult and time-consuming. Only take it if you need it for mechanical engineering. The class is doable, but be prepared for it to be your hardest class of the semester. Make sure you have the time to put into this class, otherwise it will be too hard. Also, go to section and office hours, since the TFs are super helpful.
Between labs, readings, problem sets, section, and important office hours, this class demanded upwards of 20 hours per week.  Unfortunately I only managed to find between 10 and 15 hours per week, and that definitely showed.  The final exam was absurdly difficult, but the other tests were fine.  I don't think this was the best class to learn thermodynamics.  I would probably recommend taking it elsewhere if given the option.
This class is intense. Reading quizzes every lecture. Lengthy psets. Hard tests. Should really only take if you need to for Engineering credit or you are SUPERRRRR interested in this kind of material.
Prof Aziz does a great job with this course.  It is a very tough topic to teach in college since there is so much material and not a lot of time to teach it.  Make sure to attend every section, and as many OHs as you can.  Make sure to really learn the material when doing the psets so that the exams will not be too difficult.
Only take this course if you have to.
It is good information my friend, but it comes at great cost.
This is an extremely difficult course, but there are loads of resources to help you, so make use of them. There are a solid team of capable TF's and a lot of office hours, so if you are having trouble go to the. Read the readings, go to lecture, and go to office hours for the psets. Without doing each of these things every week, you CANNOT succeed in this course, plain and simple.
Its very challenging at first, but this is not really a reflection of the teaching staff or Professor Aziz, but rather just how difficult the material is to grasp at first. Once you know how to do problems, it becomes easier, and actually pretty interesting. Be prepared to put in a lot of work in to really understanding the material, but overall there isn't a lot of busy work. Problem sets really take long only because is difficult the understand how to do them the first go around, but when you revisit the material for the final it becomes much easier.
It's a tough class, but also very informative.
This class takes time especially the readings.
The class is conceptually challenging and takes a decent amount of time. Yet,  I found the material very interesting and engaging once you get the hang of it. The major problem with the course, however, is that the lectures, the problem sets and the exams are all very different.
This course has in past years clearly been very well taught. This year, about two-thirds of the way through the class, prof. Aziz switched from the textbook he has always used to a series of disconnected handouts that he wrote, some of which are chapters from his as-yet incomplete textbook. This made learning extremely difficult during the most challenging part of the semester. If he either completes those chapters (ie writes examples and chapter summaries and an index and so on), or switches back to primarily assigning readings from the other textbook, then this should return to being a high-work high-reward course. Until then it will be high-work, low-reward, and I would recommend avoiding it for as long as possible, in the hope that you can either get a different professor or take the course after prof. Aziz has finished his book (or switched completely back to the Borgnakke textbook). One way or another, very challenging course. Probably the most heavy-lifting a mechanical or biomedical engineer will do at Harvard without taking grad courses.
It is very time-consuming due to the reading quizzes every class and the long problem sets. Also, the lectures were not helpful at all.
It is difficult, but worth it!
The subject matter is fairly interesting (for example, you'll learn how a refrigerator or car engine or fuel cell work) but prepared for a lot of work. The midterms are very difficult, and there's an absurd amount of reading on top of the normal workload. But you're probably taking this because you have to, so be cheered by the fact that it is doable, especially with the help of section and office hours.
Though you learn thermodynamics very thoroughly in this class, Professor Aziz makes the course harder than it has to be (in my opinion). Expect problem sets that will take you 10+ hours, exams with impossible problems (that don't look like the homework problems, at all), and not much quantitative guidance in class (he focuses on conceptual learning). The reading quizzes are also a pain. However, this year Professor Aziz realized how much we were struggling in the class so hopefully he's going to make some changes.
The course requires that you put in a significant amount of effort to get a lot out of it
The concepts taught in the class were very interesting, but the class as a whole was a disaster.  Both of our midterms were unfair.  One was too long and the other we were given an impossible problem.  The problem sets took a very long time.  I felt like I did not have any time to spend on my other classes.  The course book was very good, but anything the professor wrote, including problem set questions and exams, was wordy and confusing. It was hard to understand what he was explaining or asking.  With the two midterms that got screwed up, it was impossible to know where one stood in the class.  I had no idea if I was on the verge of failing or how I had to do on the final to get a decent grade.  He did recover slightly on the final.  The final was very fair, and was actually a perfect exam in my opinion.  Overall I think this could be a great class.  The material is interesting and relevant and in the end I did learn a lot, but administratively this class needs to improve before I would recommend it to anybody.
Basic concepts are poorly taught, when taught at all, in lecture. Lectures and readings distributed are confusingly worded and hard to follow. Try to find a source from which you can learn the material from, if you can't learn on your own from the textbook. The course gets significantly harder in the second half. Make sure to go to section and office hours, as they are very helpful in being able to complete the problem sets (which in the second half of the course are otherwise close to impossible).
Despite the difficulty of this course, I learned a lot and came to like thermodynamics as a subject. I would recommend balancing this course carefully with other courses because of the workload (about thirty hours per week and more during exam weeks).
This is a difficult course, plain and simple. Going to section and office hours helps tremendously in understanding the equations
Prepare to work hard but everything is accessible. Stay on top of your work and you will be sure to do well. Professor Aziz is very accessible and the course as a whole is an essential understanding for your engineering background.
I really liked this course.  It was hard, but that should be expected.  Problem sets were challenging, but not so bad that people had to get help on every question, like some classes.  Professor Aziz is helpful and very concerned that we understand the big concepts.  The midterms were really rough -- that was the worst part.  Having this as my hardest class made for a challenging but still manageable semester.  I recommend this to ALL engineering concentrators ... yeah, you might be able to get around this requirement, but don't!  My favourite ES class so far.
It is so much work but very interesting
Thermo is a difficult, but awesome course. As an engineering student, it is one of those courses you should take. Professor Aziz puts a lot into the course, and by the end you'll be amazed by how much material you've learned. Know that it does require a lot of time, so be careful with the rest of your courseload.
To put it simply, thermodynamics is a tough subject.  Professor Aziz is a fantastic professor and truly understands what topics are more difficult for students to understand.  However, be prepared for 10+ hour problem sets and labs towards the end of the semester as the conceptual difficulty of the material picks up.  Be wary of taking this class with multiple other "very difficult" classes.
This course is very hard. plain and simple. you're going to get your butt kicked. I haven't gotten my final grade yet, but the only thing I can pray for is a generous curve.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. The course covers a great deal of material that is very challenging, but it is precisely this that makes it so rewarding. This course greatly increased my understanding of how the world works and I would recommend this to anyone who is willing to work very hard and be rewarded accordingly. The material that this course covers is innately interesting because it is simultaneously very philosophical and quantitative. Be prepared to work hard, but know that Prof. Aziz is very approachable, really interested in his students and a pleasure to interact with.
Take it if you must for your concentration. Don't come near this course if you aren't an engineer.
This is a very difficult and time consuming class. Bless you if you take it for anything but concentration credit.
This class was one of the most time-consuming, difficult classes I've taken here at Harvard. It's made me question whether or not I want to be a Mechanical Engineer.
Although it is a tough class, it is very rewarding. Just remember to keep up with work. Unfortunately,  the material was so tough that even when we did all our problem sets on time and did all the readings, the exams were often still extremely hard to most students in the class. Potential students should understand that they will probably struggle a lot through the course, unless it is reshaped dramatically in some way, but that's just a mere consequence of having so much material to cover. A must-take class for an engineer.
If Professor Aziz is teaching it, do NOT take this unless its required.  The material should be interesting, but he is confusing, frustrating, and rude.
necessary information for any mechanical, nuclear, or chemical engineer. but this course needs to get it's s*** together. aziz is nice and approachable, but lecture was extremely ineffective this year.
this is an introductory course;  really, thermo is as fundamental to science as shakespeare is to literature.  understand the concepts broadly for the exams because the problems are quite unpredictable.  if you've ever wondered what the big fuss is about regarding the laws of thermo, you'll soon realize how powerful/useful they are through this class.
KEEP UP. If you fall behind it will snowball immediately and you will be miserable. Not exaggerating. Be prepared for this course. Study hard, study early, there is simply too much material to try to cram. Go to office hours - it will save you hours and make sure you actually know what you're doing, instead of just thinking you know what you're doing while doing it wrong. Form a study group. Do. Not. Take. This. Class. Lightly.
This is one of those rare classes that will teach you more than you've ever known, take up more of your time in work than any other, remain interesting throughout and still clobber you in assessments. I have never so enjoyed and felt so proud of my work in a class in which I have felt so utterly defeated. No engineer should graduate without Thermo.
Thermo is an important class to take as an engineer and a VERY demanding one so it shouldn't be taken lightly. Try to balance your schedule so that you don't have too many difficult or time consuming courses at the same time if you want to do well. On a weekly basis, there is a problem set and a fair bit of reading followed by a reading quiz. The quizzes are technically optional, but doing the reading as the class goes on is really the only way to keep up. The addition of the three labs and the two midterms thrown in every few weeks means you almost always have something to do for this class. All that being said, as difficult as this class is, you will learn a lot and find it to be very rewarding if you put in the time and effort. My best advice: do everything as its assigned and do not fall behind (even though there are late weeks). It will take much longer to do things on your own and catch up than it will to do them the rest of the class.
This class is hard.  The material leading up to the second midterm is fascinating but you need to keep up with the reading and the homework.  The last unit on chemistry is really confusing so be ready.  Reach out to the TFs and get help on the hws.
This course manages to take familiar concepts and make them confusing. Prepare for something truly dreadful. It's a real shame because the material is genuinely interesting, but the class is just god awful.
One of the hallmark classes for any engineer-be prepared to pour your heart and soul into this class, along with an ungodly amount of work. The material picks up a lot material-wise and pacing-wise after the first midterm, so stay on top of your game by doing the readings, working in groups, and going to office hours. Despite this, it is a very rewarding class by the sheer overwhelming amount of material you learn.
don't take any other time consuming classes this semester
This course is a lot of work. But .... this is the upper level engineering class in which I have learned the most material and concepts out of all of the upper level engineering courses which I have taken here. Expect to spend a lot of time on psets, the first psets take less time but they become more time consuming as the semester goes on. Make sure to go to office hours and to participate in class if you don't want to be lost in the course.
Well taught, good class but the workload of 2-3 classes in one. It is ridiculously hard to keep up with the amount of material that is thrown at you
Every engineer has to take this class, but be prepared it is a hard subject to learn and very time consuming.
You will need to spend a lot of time studying and working on homework, because the lectures only explain how to think about a system conceptually, but not how to calculate values etc.
You learn a lot, but the class is a fair amount of work, and the content isn't the easiest.  Not as bad as it is made out to be.
If you have to take this class you have no choice.  If you are a biomedical engineer take mcb 199 or statistical thermodynamics at MIT--unfortunately it wasn't offered this year.  This class is about macroscale mechanical systems.  If you're looking forward to learning about reaction dynamics, and love things at the molecular level instead of the macroscale level, then take physics 181 and the other bme choices for thermo. In a class filled with mechanical engineers, this may not be the best choice.
The homework starts out easy then becomes increasingly tougher and more tedious as the semester progresses. Professor Suo, although a great guy, really dropped the ball with his teaching this semester. I feel like lecture did not contribute to my learning of thermodynamics. Although this was a class of around 60 students, by then end of the semester, less than 10 students were showing up regularly. On a positive note, the labs were not tiresome nor time intensive and in my opinion really helped me grasp some of the more concrete ideas in the course. Also, the TFs were always available to help.
An interesting course which more deeply develops ideas we have used/applied in other courses.
Great topic though difficult.
This class is very blah. Its not particularly exciting (though I feel like it potentially could be), but its not a bad class either. Its a great alternative to taking the horrific experience that is Physics 181 (though you'll have to teach yourself Stat Mech at some point).
Dr. Suo is a wonderful lecturer, who cares a lot about ensuring students know the essential concepts. Unfortunately, if you want problem-solving covered in class, no such luck. Go to section and/or office hours!
Get ready to "work".
it's a great class for anyone fascinated by fridges and heat pumps... but for everyone else, it'll probably be a pretty dismal experience. and while the teaching was generally above mediocre, what was gone over in class was not great preparation for the psets and exams.
I would only take this if you have to. This is definitely one of the worst classes I have taken at Harvard. I was actually excited to take it because I think thermo is a cool subject and it's important for engineers to know, but this was a huge disappointment. Lectures weren't useful and the class is pretty disorganized in general.
This class is really instructor-dependent and therefore changes from year to year. Do careful research on whoever is teaching it in a given year and don't take it unless you have to.
Go to lecture - the lectures are not directly pertinent to the homework, but they greatly improve comprehension of concepts. Read the textbook. All the homework and exam questions come from the textbook.
Try to do the readings before class even if just skimming.
If you have the time, the desire, and the prerequisite knowledge, then this course has a lot to offer you.
run away while you still can! Unless you are a high achiever because this class will take you and your GPA down.
If you're looking at this course you probably are required to take it.  Next year its being taught by a different professor.Its definitely not an easy course and requires a lot of work but the material is pretty interesting and the teaching staff is good about giving you the help you need.  As long as you work hard and pay attention, you'll be fine.Also, actually do the reading for the reading quizzes instead of just skimming, it will pay dividends in the long run.
You will get a lot out of this class if you put a lot into the class. The reading quizzes were tedious, but it helped keep you on track. Don't take this course if you have a lot of other time consuming classes, but if you are an engineering concentrator, don't be afraid of this class either.
this is a hard class, but interesting material. tfs are very useful in learning how to answer the problems.
lots of reading from the text book
It's tremendously useful.
The material is very interesting, and you definitely learn a lot by the end of the course. It can change your way of seeing and understanding the physical world.
Thermodynamics is a fascinating subject, but it is also one of those classes in which the material is going to be difficult. The teaching staff is fantastic and are sure to support you along the way, and provide you many possibilities to redeem yourself. However, one thing to keep in mind is that the class is going to require alot of time and effort on your part. The problem sets require you to not only be able to regurgitate equations, but also to apply the concepts in different ways. This is one of those classes in which you should probably work in study groups, as sometimes the most effective way of understanding is through discussion.
Don't take any hard classes at the same time that you take this one.
Be prepared.
The class covers a fascinating topic and you will learn a great deal about thermodynamics in a lot of different applications. The syllabus is a little off because it tries to cover a little too much and ends up glossing over some important things too quickly.
The class is very difficultr and requires a lot of time. Getting help through section and office hours is very important.
Tough class and the problem sets will take a long time to solve so start early and go to office hours. Work in groups and DON'T fall behind on the readings! Even though the handouts Professor Aziz gives out can be overwhelming, they are your friends. I really recommend this class. It has been the best engineering course I've taken and Professor Aziz goes out of his way to help you understand. He is really organized and is willing to go the extra mile to help you understand.
Very hard, but rewarding.
There's a high chance this will be one of the most difficult courses an engineering student is required to take, but at the same time it's extremely rewarding. The course covers a ton of material, and by the end of the semester you feel like you've actually learned something - pretty much the quintessential engineering class.
be prepared to work a lot! do the readings, go to lectures, keep up with the material. start the homework early!
The material is quite challenging, but if you work hard enough, you will have a much better understanding of the engineering processes that have become essential to modern life.
You learn a ton, but be prepared to put in an ungodly amount of work.  Find friends to help you get through it, and rely on the TFs (and professor) to help you out when you have questions.  You can't really avoid the class, but be prepared and don't try to take it alongside more than one other really hard one.
Put in the hours and this course can be incredibly gratifying. I absolutely loved Professor Aziz and I think the material, although complex and sometimes hard to follow, is extremely interesting and relevant.
Take Physics 181 if you are interested in the theory. This course is good for mechanical engineers, however.
Read on your own. Read ahead.
Unless the professor changes, I would not recommend this class.  If you can learn well from a book alone, you may enjoy the class.
It was a piece of garbage.
The material is interesting, but learning it (at least enough to pass exams) largely requires being able to devote enough time to re-teach oneself the material.  I would only recommend it in the event that you have to take the class for engineering or in the event that you've got plenty of time to devote to the class.
Although sometime painful, keep going to lecture.  And ask if you do not know what the instructor wrote on the board.
