This class was fun and interesting mainly due to the teaching style and attitude of Dr. Suo.  I could easily see this class being terrible if not taught in an engaging manner.
If taken with Suo, guaranteed to be awesome.
This class is awesome! Just going to Prof. Suo's lectures made up for the difficulty of the problem sets. At first, he seemed demanding, always calling on people who wouldn't talk, but really, by the end of the course, he had endeared himself to everyone, and he was perhaps my favorite professor this term.
The difficulty of the course escalates as the semester goes on.
attend lectures and keep up with the reading
It was a lot of fun and very practical
Prof Suo is the best professor at Harvard, beacause he is a good teacher and because he, unlike most professors, seems to be in touch with the student population
good prof
Take this class with Suo- he is an excellent teacher.
This course is an excellent engineering class that will prove to you that all of the math you have learned has a purpose. It gets increasingly difficult throughout the semester, especially the last unit, so don't slack off midway through.
If you're an engineering concentrator you'll have to take this class anyways. This is one of the better requirements though.
It's a lot of fun and really useful.
The material was presented in a very straightforward and understandable way. The textbook was very good. Overall, the class was a good introduction to solid mechanics.
Very interesting applications of physics to real world scenarios.  But a lack of content difficulty is compensated by excessive amounts of material, leaving a somewhat bad taste at times.
It's a hard class and requires a lot of time and effort.
Avoid if possible.
solid course: problem sets are difficult but doable and exams are fair.  However, there is very little hand-holding and students are largely on their own.
way too much work
RUN FOR YOUR LIFE.
That the class in general is not 100% organized, but the material is interesting.
The professor is great and willing to help but the material is tough to grasp (especially right away). The TFs were found last minute and they weren't that much of a help to me personally so be sure to work in groups!
The course provided a solid background for continuing on with engineering and materials science.
The material is very interesting, and professor Vlassak is great.  The grading seemed pretty arbitrary when I took it, but hopefully they'll work to improve that.
If you're interested, it's well worth taking.
This is a good course that is not too demanding for the Mechanics Engineering Sciences requirement. It's surprising how much theory is involved in simple stress and strain.
I hated this class with all my heart and soul and mind.
It is a good class and you learn a lot but be prepared to work hard on the problem sets.
Don't try to half-ass this course.
Material and lectures are straight out of textbook. Hence, the class is pretty straightforward. But psets take at least 5 -6 hours per week. And grading of labs is a bit haywire.
The course comes with a large workload.
It's alright, but if you're not concentrating in Engineering, you might find it to be a little more trouble than it's worth.
If you ever want to be an engineer or build something substantial, this class is a must.
get ready to do a lot of problem sets
Horrible class organization which loses the students. Great professor.
Difficult requirement course, but the professor is very nice
This is a great course for mechanical engineers in which you get to apply the theoretical concepts of mechanics to actual structures and see how they behave.
An interesting class to start. Does get a bit dry towards the end of the semester.
Material is engaging, requires thinking since problems cannot be solved by methodically "plugging and chugging"
It is a basic concentration requirement, but don't think you can jump into this class with no experience at all in the area! That was my mistake. Take one of the introduction courses to engineering.
Joost is super friendly and he tries really hard to make his lectures interesting.  The TFs in my year were really cool too.  The course is essentially straight from the book, and if you have the discipline to keep up, you will probably do well.
Might sound boring going into it, but actually pretty interesting. I feel it will be really useful for anyone planning on continuing with any kind of engineering.
Fairly challenging but very rewarding. The problem sets and labs are time-consuming, but they really help you to learn (upon finishing, you never feel like you've wasted your time). The design competition at the end of the semester is a great way to apply everything you've learned and really see the subject material come to life.
It is a very difficult course, but very interesting if you like engineering
Professor Vlassak is great! The TFs are too! The lectures are great in helping you understand the concepts of the material and the homework drills on problem solving. The labs were educational and not painful to write as in other classes. The exams had fair questions, but the time was limited.
Take this class only if you really need to.
Make sure you like the material.  If so, you can have a good time and learn a lot; if not, you're in for a pretty miserable and probably confusing semester.  Get started on the psets before Thursday night.
This class is very well taught, and the teaching staff make it fun, too. You learn a lot and hopefully make some friends; it's definitely a good ES class.
Overall this was a pretty good mechanics course.  Professor Vlassak is pretty good teacher (he definitely knows his stuff) and teaches you a lot of important material.  I feel like I learned a lot about mechanics.  Weekly problems sets were a good length and level of difficulty - you could for the most part figure everything out on your own and in a reasonable amount of time and feel like you understood the material after completing the psets which was nice.  There were three 2 hour labs during the semester which were fairly interesting and well done, though the lab reports were rather long and tedious, but still doable.  The design competition at the end of year was fun (If you have chance to learn to use solidworks well, it will pay dividends in the future).  The first midterm and the final exam were rather nit-picky and annoying.  But overall I enjoyed the class and feel like I learned a lot.
Try to get around taking this course.
Individually, some of the concepts of ES120 can be a little dry, but combined together, the analysis and understanding of stresses can actually be pretty impressive. It's not necessarily exciting, but it's a solid class.
This class was well taught and had interesting topics. It's a must for mechanical engineers, and the FEA component was cool as well.
The tests are very similar to the p sets.  Study for them by doing problems in the book from each section and checking your answers in the back of the book.  Definitely study for the tests because they're really doable if you do.
As a required course for Mech E.. Make sure to read the textbook.  You can actually skip class on occasions
Keep up with the material however you need to..whether by lectures or just by the book (which is actually really helpful).
The class material is interesting but reading the book to understand how to do the problem sets is necessary to be able to do them.
This course is an excellent introduction to solids and the material is taught with great passion by Prof. Vlassak. Sure most of the time we are deriving expressions but once you master these the problems you are able to solve by hand is quite remarkable and eye opening.
This course isn't bad if you put in the time throughout the year. The material's not extremely difficult, but it can be new. Take the time to ask questions if you don't understand something instead of waiting for the last minute. Exams aren't bad and are similar to book problems (some are from the book actually) -- just make sure to study for them by doing some problems outside of the psets. There are only two labs a year that require reports, and the design challenge at the end is ungraded. Labs aren't difficult, though they can get long. COMSOL and Solidworks are taught, which is helpful for engineering.
Solid class, not too difficult.  Necessary for mechanical engineering, and has a pretty cool final project.
The pace of the class quickens exponentially  after the first midterm. And There are no practice problems or practice exams to further help your studying
It's a challenging course.  Try to keep up with the material as much as you can.
Take advantage of office hours.
Only take if required for mechanical engineering.
Do lots of problems from the book and you will be fine.
Its sad that every mechanical engineer has to take this, because it is so poorly taught and organized.  But because everyone has to take it and its enrollment is growing as there are more mechanical engineers, they see no need to reform it.
Only take as a concentration requirement
A good introduction class for mechanical engineers. Cover a lot of material close to the surface.
It's a somewhat dry course. If you don't keep on top of it, you will fall behind.
Be careful and do NOT underestimate the Exams.
Really hard class.
excellent course for anyone interested in the civil engineering (properties of materials).
The professor is great and the material is pretty interesting, but the support structure is pretty much non-existent in this class. The lecture follows straight from the textbook, all homework problems are textbook problems, the sections simply go over the equations for each chapter instead of providing extra practice with the material, and the midterms are haywire. I highly suggest learning through the textbook and spending extra time to make sure you understand the material.
Read the textbook; it helps immensely.  This course is very practical and logical. Frankly, it is also really fun.  The problem-solving is challenging without being overly tedious.  There is a lack of tedious algebra on problem sets (with torsional and bending dynamics being notable exceptions).  The problem sets are very fair, and they are straight out of the book, which means that strange, novel things don't often come up on the problem sets. The lectures are very clear and succinct, and the textbook is amazing.  Read the textbook; it helps a lot.
Professor Vlassak is a great teacher! This class is not extremely difficult, but it requires a lot of work. If you want to do well, take the time to study and really understand the concepts. The class is slightly boring because we talk about beams the entire semester. That being said, if you're taking this class, it's probably a requirement for you anyway so it doesn't matter if its interesting or not. Section is not too helpful.
Straightforward, but material isn't all that interesting.
This class has difficult exams and assignments but is graded pretty leniently . All in all, it's a good introduction to solid mechanics.
This class by itself is fine, but you should make sure that you have a solid background in mechanics or you'll spend tons of hours struggling to understand where equations/numbers/assumptions come from.
ES 120 is fun and interesting; it's the quintessential mechanical engineering course, but the tests are way too difficult.
This course is a lot of fun.  You will definitely begin to see the engineering of structures all around you and you begin to use course knowledge in your everyday life, for fun or for real.  I am really glad I took this course.A word of caution however.  The homework assignments are very straight-forward, especially since you can check answers in the text.  The midterms, however (not so much the final), will be much more difficult.  But don't fear them.  Everybody has a difficult time.If you are thinking about mechanical engineering, or if you are just looking to gain some odds-and-ends engineering experience, this is a good course for it.  Vlassak is a nice instructor (both in teaching and in personality).
A great class on solid mechanics that is well taught. Well taught classes are rare at SEAS. Do not underestimate the midterms and finals as they can be tricky...if you fail to prepare you might as well prepare to fail.
The material is really interesting - its one of the few classes you'll take in the sciences/engineering departments with an immediate real-world context. However, be prepared to teach yourself almost entirely, because what is covered in lectures is vastly insufficient to complete the psets. The first exam is impossible (even by the end of the course) and the labs are kind of awful, but chances are, you probably have to take this course, so just get through it.
ES 120 covers interesting material but the course has some pitfalls.  Vlassack means well but is not the most effective lecturer; he pretty much follows the textbook word for word except for dynamics (where additional material would be really helpful if you aren't an expert at differential equations).  Watch out for the first midterm, but things get better after that.  If you are not an engineering concentrator I would not recommend this course.
Pretty good course, problem sets are very hard but a good course.
Joost is very enthusiastic about this material.  The book is great and the class is a solid foundation for higher level classes.
You will learn a lot in this class, but it is pretty difficult. The problem sets range from taking 3-10ish hours. The exams are DIFFICULT and have problems you have never seen before and you will likely run out of time. Try to maximize partial credit by skipping the hardest problems and doing easier ones first.
Just be diligent. The best thing you can do is to keep up in the book, and work through the example problems on your own. Read the chapter summaries when he finishes each chapter, and make sure you understood everything. I didn't do this until it was time to study for the final, and realized a lot of things that would've made the homework easier along the way.
Prof. Suo is one of the best teachers I have met, the material was interesting and empowering, you learn a lot in this class.
If Suo is teaching the class his lectures and humor alone are worth stopping by at least during shopping week if you have any interest in solid mechanics.
ES 120 is an awesome course on solid mechanics. The material is interesting and the lectures are engaging and interesting; lecture notes and the textbook are excellent resources for understanding the material and completing the problem sets. Sections are extremely helpful for problem sets and overall understanding. Office hours are great. Examples in class are cool and give an idea of how this field is applied to  real-life engineering analysis.
If you don't have a solid grasp of physics and mechanics already be ready to catch up or go to sections and pay attention in lecture.
You're taking this because you're an engineer and have to. Nothing to say about it.
The course is more work than I thought it would be. However, I feel as though I learned a lot about mechanics and relevant software.
It's a great course that teaches you a lot of useful information. Professor Suo is super enthusiastic, just be prepared for ALOT of work at the end.
Great lecturer. A lot of work, but definitely worth the experience.
Professor Suo is hilarious. He makes what is really very dry subject matter bearable during lecture. That being said, this course can be extremely frustrating. I feel like my deep understanding of the material was really hurt by the fact that teaching was so focused on using the correct procedure. I would often lose points on assignments just for not doing things the way I was taught. Also, if there's a final pset  that you don't have to turn in released a week and a half before the final exam, be damn sure you understand that pset at least as well as the rest of the course material.
Suo is a great lecturer and is very good at teaching the materials of this course. At times the homework is annoying because it takes forever to finish and the problems are beyond what we learned in class.
Read the book!  Lectures are not always that helpful for the homework.  The course is fairly interesting and the problems get to be pretty fun.
Difficult class, but Prof. Suo is extremely enthusiastic and willing to help.
be prepared to work
Extremely useful information. Definitely necessary if you want to understand basic structural mechanics. Occasionally the labs will take you a very long time and exams can be a lot of memorizing, but overall, useful.
Just read prof. Suo's notes and you will be fine. Also, be prepared for one of the quiz problems to be trickier than usual. You will learn a lot and start to understand structures in a much deeper way. ALSO, PROFESSOR SUO IS THE BEST!
Homework really help with understanding the material.
Professor Suo is a great lecturer, he is super funny and quirky. His notes are heavenly for doing homework. Overall a good class but as usual with engineering classes it takes time.
Pretty easy class if you have a good mechanics background.  Straightforward assignments and exams.  Final project is not bad at all.
I took this class as an elective - While I don't regret it, I definitely felt that I was not fully prepared for it, both mentally and academically. I really enjoyed learning the materials, and Professor Suo's lectures are fantastically entertaining. Definitely take advantage of all the resources available for you to help succeed in the class.
The course was well-taught, both in lectures and in sections, and the material is intriguing. The problem sets and exams are fair, although the final did not at all do a good job at evenly covering the course. The only downside is that I've heard Prof. Suo is not likely to continue teaching the course.
This is a straightforward class on beam bending.
ES120 is an amazing class. Professor Vlassak is great, loved how he just writes everything on the board without once looking at notes! I really loved the material covered, FINALLY something that has real world applications (not like stupid boxes in physics). I'm probably gonna change to Mechanical Engineering because of ES120. :)
Good class with a lot of applicable engineering topics, but often misguided with lack of feedback and/or information. Professor is very nice though!
It's a cool class. Why wouldn't you want to learn the many ways beams could break?
This is a really awesome course and one of my favorites at Harvard so far. I feel like I learned a lot about how solids bend, deform, pull apart, and do just about anything. The lectures were a bit boring, but packed with information and made reading completely unnecessary. The PSets were difficult, but could easily be completed, and the TFs were really great. My only complaint is that the exams were very bad. They were unnecessarily difficult (maybe not difficult, but "tricky"), and I feel that they were very poor indicators of course knowledge. If the midterms and final were better, then I'd really have nothing negative to say about the class itself. The lab component was definitely a joke though, and really didn't teach anyone more about the material, and just caused pointless pain by requiring lengthy lab reports.
You probably have to take this class for your concentration, so enjoy! It's not that hard, but it's also not that interesting.
ES120 is a solid class, and Vlassak run predictable lectures with the intent of walking students through multiple practice problems. While the in-class derivations may be tedious at times, it is cool to understand the math and physics behind the concepts we are learning. Problem sets are from the textbook, and although they can be a bit difficult (don't leave them until the last night), the material is exactly what was covered in class. Sadly, there are no practice exams, so make sure you understand the problem sets very well.
The class is boring, but the professor is good. You are probably taking this course because it is a requirement, so there isn't much choice you have. You will learn a lot, but the material is not the most interesting
It is very interesting, but very difficult.
Only take if necessary
Not the most interesting class, but important to know the material.
If you are interested in understanding physical mechanics, this is an important course to take. It does a good job of introducing the basic stresses that cause failure in structural elements, which is important for any kind of engineering.
The course is very well paced and the material is very concrete. Generally not a very stressful course. I wouldn't recommend this as a "for fun" class simply because if you're not in engineering, the material might be a little dry. If you're in engineering and this is a course you can take, it's a solid course.If you do take it, you should keep a tally on how many times chalk is broken.
Good course overall.  Utilize section and office hours.
Get yourself a copy of the textbook and read it thoroughly.  By reading the textbook you will be able to figure 80% of the course.  The rest you figure out in lecture or office hours.
it is super hard
This course is actually a very effective introduction to solid mechanics. The material isn't always the most interesting, but the class is definitely doable.  Make use of office hours!
This is an important class, unfortunately it is not taught very well. There are no lecture notes or recorded lectures, exams that can seem unrelated to the material, no practice exams, and problem sets go from taking three or four hours a week (or for most of us a night) to taking seven to eight hours. Since you are likely convinced of studying mechanical engineering in some form (if you are considering this class) you should know that it is not all that bad. Go to office hours for the problem sets, if you have time go to the "sections" hosted by some of the TFs because you will really learn the material from them. You will also get very close with your classmates, I made some great friends in this class through the pset grind.
This is a fantastic class!  Professor Vlassak is an amazing person and please go to his office hours!  The TFs were amazing as well!  The material is definitely challenging, but this is a great class to fully dive into the engineering concentration with.
I found that the lectures were not helpful in doing the psets or the midterms/final. The professor is incredibly theoretical and spends lectures deriving the equations instead of using examples to show how those equations can be used practically (which is what is required in the pset). The book is great and you will find that you almost entirely rely on it to get through the course. The material isn't that hard but make sure you don't leave it all until the end.
This course will take some time and will be something that you need to diligently keep up with. Read the textbook! It is the key to the course.
This class is reasonable in a time and difficulty sense and is very well taught. You will be a better engineer from taking this class. Do it
ES 120 is a core course for any type of engineer (BioE or MechE). It is a difficult class but very do-able because it follows the textbook very closely. Exams were difficult but are curved reasonably.
Great course for mechanical engineers and people who find this topic interesting. Lectures include a lot of very interesting proofs that are hard to follow at times. Textbook is definitely optional with a lot of the textbook being online.
You are likely looking at this class because you are engineering. It is not the worst one of the requirements and has a very manageable workload as far as engineering courses go
Read the book and go to office hours. Lecture isn't that helpful, so the book and the TFs will become your best friends. Doesn't require significant time contribution. Like most engineering classes at Harvard, not very well organized.
If you're planning to be a mechanical engineering major, you have to take this course. Definitely do the homework early and don't start homework the night before it is due. Vlassak is awesome and is so excited about this material, so take advantage of his OH.
This class is terrible. The lectures are hard to follow and boring. The teaching staff is not helpful. Exams are far too long, are graded arbitrarily, and do not match up with the review problems provided at all. We were given a dynamics question on the first exam after having spent only one lecture deriving one dynamics equation (no problem set questions, no review questions, not in textbook reading). This class is incredibly poorly taught but you have to take it.
This class isn't particularly difficult for an engineering class but it's not taught in a cohesive or engaging manner. The tests are frustrating and expectations are not clear.
Those who run the course are nice and helpful, but there are a few things that were slightly annoying:  First of all, no practice tests are provided, and each of the midterms were pretty brutal, so you just kinda had to study a little bit and cross your fingers, because that is all you could really do.  Also, some of the homework problems were annoying, because he didn't really expect us to be able to complete them, but if we tried a decent amount, we were usually given full credit.
This class focuses on rigorous simple theory rather than furthering applied skills to design the best mechanical structures.
Lecture was not too helpful because the book had most of the information, but he does some derivations in class on problems that are not in the book so those notes are important to get. Homework cannot be done without help from the TF's.
The material for this course is super interesting and integral to the studies of a mechanical engineer. I think it is worth it to invest a bit more time into this course because it is a bit challenging and is so important. The course was quite manageable in general. If necessary, you could finish the problem sets in one night. Of course, that situation is not ideal and best for your learning. However, it is nice to know that you can have that flexibility. There are only two labs, which are quite simple. Really the only difficult part of the course is the exams. They are very different from the problem sets and Professor Vlassak does not create any preparation material. As a whole, this was a great class.
The class is dry and the psets take a decent amount of time to complete. However, the TFs are very helpful and you should utilize them frequently.
"Solid" class. Time commitment wasn't awful for engineering but the psets still take a lot of time. The exams are also really challenging. Professor Vlassak is a really nice guy though, and you'll get to know your classmates well from office hours by the end, so it's over a good experience.
I really loved this course and Joost is the best. The tests can be challenging, but they make you think outside of the box! He has really great examples and he's a very interesting guy.
If you are taking this class, you have to take it. This is not an elective course, nor did I love it, but as far as engineering classes go it wasn't too bad.
The lectures are boring. Joost is a very intelligent and nice guy, but not a good teacher. He is not accessible outside of class. His lectures are boring and could be modernized.
exams are hard
Great course, extremely straightforward. The TFs are happy to help you out as well, and are very accessible.
This is an essential class for engineering. If you're taking this class you're probably doing it because you have to. It's not a bad class but not really enjoyable either. Joost is great but the subject matter is very dry.
This class is very poorly structured. Unfortunately, as a mechanical engineer, I don't have a choice whether or not to take the class, so it is really awful that I had to endure a class into which it seems that a minimal amount of time was invested. Our first midterm literally involved having to print out and bring our own equation packet and then tear out our own notebook paper to write the test on. A midterm! Very unprofessional. The midterms and final were also incredibly difficult. Lecture is pretty dull because it is essentially the textbook in verbal form, with the same examples from the textbook, which are already discussed very well in the textbook. Only about 8 people were in lecture by the end of the semester. There were also no resources to aid in your success in this class. There were no practice tests or suggested exercises or even a detailed syllabus to aid in studying for midterms/final. It was difficult to succeed in this class without going way out of your way to learn the material. The professor didn't seem to help that much. All this said, you don't really have a choice if you're an engineer, so just hope that it improves before you take it, I guess!
This class felt like the teaching staff and professor did not really care too much about the students. Sections felt unimportant and the professor did not care whether students showed up to class or not. Lectures were confusing and difficult to follow. This is one of the classes where nearly everyone is unprepared and so exam averages were in the 60s.
You probably will have to take it as a requirement.
I would say that this class is relatively easy and the low workload makes it a good class for someone to take if they want to focus on other courses that they find more interesting. For most people I believe they can find a more interesting way to fulfill whatever credit this may satisfy.
Prof. Vlassak cares a lot about the students in this course and is clearly very passionate about the material. It was amazing to watch him lecture for an hour and not glance down at his notes ones during complex derivations and example problems. This course required a decent bit of work outside of class on problem sets and the occasional lab report, but it was generally very manageable.
This class is not a bad/boring class by any means, nor is it a joy to take. You just sort of slog through it, which I guess can be said for many classes in SEAS. The psets and lectures borrow from the text heavily, which actually isn't a negative for me, it gives you a trusted guide to follow from and holds a basis for the class. Don't fret about this course at all.
Go to HW help/section or pay good attention in class.
