Take this course if you are capable of driving your own investigation into the field of drug delivery.  Do not expect to be inspired by the lectures but rather, by your own engagement with the material presented.
It is a great overview to an interesting topic that will have a lot of new research and development in the upcoming years.
Read all the paper and keep them in mind during lecture and discussion.  Ask more questions of the instructor.
That there is a laboratory component that requires time and effort beyond that reflected in the course listing online.
It's a survey course of drug delivery and very applicable to medicine and the pharmaceutical industry.
It is a great elective for anyone interested in biomedical engineering, drug development, or healthcare/biotech entrepreneurship.
A good overview.
This was a great class.
The class was more about entrepreneurship in drug delivery, with case studies, rather then about the science of drug delivery.  I wish we learned more about the actual science of drug delivery.  Some of the speakers we had were not relevant to drug delivery, and only relevant to entrepreneurship and designing products.  Sometimes, I thought we lost sight of the science.
Super easy class.  If you want a good grade and little work outside of class, this is the class for you.
This class was very low-stress, and the topics covered were extremely relevant to anyone thinking of entering into pharmaceuticals, medical devices, etc. There was a nice balance of guest lecturers who talked about their experience in the drug industry, as well as lectures by Sujata covering things like FDA regulation, drug marketing, etc. A very enjoyable class.
You will get as much out as you put in. The class isn't work intensive, but if you do the assign readings and put some time into thinking about your project, you will benefit from the course.
This course is low-stress and VERY interesting!
Interesting course, not too much work.
This is a perfect, low-key fifth class for engineering concentrators.
If you're looking for a super low stress class this is the one for you. You only get what you want out of it but I recommend actually listening to the lectures and spending time thinking about your design project. From the lectures I learned a lot about current biomedical research and also about various branches of the field I would like to go into- like entrepreneurship. Also Sujata is one of the most genuinely caring professors you will ever have, so it's hard to let her down!
broad overview of drug delivery innovation systems. + networking with professionals in this field. Great for birds eye view of this engineering field.
Great class. Would highly recommend. Sujata's a great professor, and you'll learn a lot in a very laid back class.
The course is great and has a lot of very interesting material. However, since the course is new, it may take a few iterations to iron out the kinks.
This class is very interesting and brings in speakers from areas you would otherwise not have access to. It was easy but thought provoking and I learned a lot--this is exactly what a college class should be. Do justice to yourself and the class and only take if you are interested in the material!
This course is really one in which you get out of it what you put into it--I would recommend really taking advantage of all the intelligent and talented guest speakers and listening to what they have to say, rather than just passively completing the class assignments. Overall, this is a nice course to get an overview of drug development, and I enjoyed it.
This is an awesome engineering elective! Sujata is absolutely fantastic, and I would say most of the guest lecturers were quite renowned in their research and were inspiring. Definitely a low stress class!
This tends to be one of the more low-stress classes in the Engineering Sciences department and because of that, I think I was better able to thoroughly enjoy it. Some of the speaker lectures were a bit dry, but a good majority of them were extremely interesting and applicable. Prof. Bhatia really cares about her students and she makes the course relatively painless. The 5 product assignments (2-pages each) are easily done in a few hours if you're diligent about what you want for your product. The 3 problem sets we had were also pretty painless as they weren't too long and could be answered with just a bit of online research. Overall, if you want a class that you can simply enjoy and not stress too much about, take it!
A hidden gem. One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. The course load is light but rewarding. You shouldn't miss a lecture because you learn something important at each one.
This was a very manageable class that gives a basic introduction into different modes of drug delivery. It offers a mix between a chemical, biological, and engineering perspective and draws upon lots of real examples. An overall enjoyable, laid-back class.
Definitely take this course if Jim is teaching it again! Jim is incredibly enthusiastic towards the subject material and has an immense amount of experience in the drug industry. The assignments are not too difficult and you end up learning a lot about the process of designing a drug, running pharmacokinetic tests and conducting pre-clinical and clinical trials.
Very interesting class. Assignments did not feel like busy work and allowed us to actually think about the material. Prof. Wright is a great speaker and made lectures very engaging.
Great class! I really liked the lectures and Jim's enthusiasm. Class does not require a lot of work either.
Take this class. Even if you are not in bioengineering, take this class. If you have any interest in drug delivery then definitely take this class. It is very manageable (very low workload) and teaches you a lot. Could not recommend any class over this and definitely one of the best ones I have taken at Harvard.
This is a very easy way to fulfill your engineering electives! Jim really cares about his students. He is also super kind. He came on Sunday because some friends and I needed more help on the problem set! He is obviously very knowledgable in the field of drug delivery. I would definitely take the class if he teaches it again. There were only four problem sets that determine your grade and they were all very fair. Overall, this is a nice class to take if your other classes are more time consuming.
This was amazing. If you are at all interested in how molecules get turned into medicines, take this class. You'll receive a brief history of how various drug delivery challenges have been approached and learn how to understand various assays commonly used in drug development, in addition to understanding concerns on the "human" side of development. In terms of work, we had 4 psets, roughly every two weeks, and they are incredibly manageable. The course staff are also incredibly friendly and nice. Jim and our TF, Aaron, were willing to hold extra office hours whenever, and were extremely amenable to extensions for any reason. I learned so much in this supportive environment, and would strongly encourage any prospective students to take this class!
Excellent class! Professor Wright is great and I learned a lot without too much stress.
Even if you aren't in the pharmaceutical field, I think this course is incredibly valuable. You learn about pharmacokinetics, basic concepts in drug delivery (eg., nanoparticles, IV), toxicology, and the process of drug development. Professor Wright is an incredible teacher and learning from him was a privilege.
This course provides a nice overview on developing drug delivery systems. You will learn practical skills in the engineering of delivery systems in the context of various real-world case studies. If you are interested in getting involved in pharma/biotech, this course is a must take!
If you have even a slight interest in the pharmaceutical or biotech industry, this course is worth looking into.
This is a beautiful course. While it is technically an upper-level engineering elective, the material is not so challenging especially if Professor Wright is teaching - he'll bring all the enthusiasm and tangible aspects of drug delivery into the course! I feel like I've learned some profound concepts that will sure be useful later down in my career (whatever that may entail) related to biomedical engineering (or life in general - we'll all take medicine at some point, right?) It is not only helpful to know how small molecules can have such an incredible effect on the human body and how we can deliver it effectively, but it is also helpful not to be drowning in tedious work that the overall aim of the subject matter is lost. The assignment load was pretty light, so I felt as though i could truly learn for learning's sake in this course.
This is a great way to get an engineering elective without killing your course load. It is low work load and very interesting the psets take a while but you usually have 2 weeks to do them and the teaching staff is very helpful with them. Great class to take!!!
Drug delivery: walk in the steps of an expert as he and his teaching staff take you through the process of developing drugs, teaching you how AIDS, schizophrenia, cancer, and so many diseases are being affected by new modes of drug delivery.
Really interesting material and great lectures. Time commitment very low, and low-stress. I had a lot of fun, and it was a great senior spring class.
The psets were very helpful in learning the material. Professor Wright was also very accessible and provided lots of help on it
If Professor Wright is teaching do your self a favor and take this class! He is a wonderful lecturer and person. The class is manageable and fun.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Consider taking it especially if its taught by Mr Wright, he is passionate and extremely knowledgable and knows a lot of people in the field as well. Its not easy but extremely fulfilling. You learn more than you can imagine
Great class. Interesting introduction to drug delivery techniques and problems. Excellent course to take given some basic familiarity with drug design.
This is a great course and Jim is a great lecturer with extensive experience and enormous enthusiasm. This would be the perfect course for those who plan on a career in pharmaceutical companies as Jim will introduce a lot of practical considerations in drug development and delivery, also a number of guests from large companies are invited for talks.
This class provided a great overview of the types of challenges we face in formulating and evaluating new drugs, and learning through stories from the professor's own experiences made for especially interesting lectures.
This was hands down the best class I've taken at Harvard.  Professor Wright puts more effort into the course than any other professor I've ever had, and the result is truly interesting and meaningful lectures, extremely reasonable assignments, and an overall fantastic experience.  This was a great way to learn about the science involved in drug delivery, as well as the external factors involved in how a pharmaceutical product gets developed.
If you're really passionate on learning how drug delivery and the pharmaceutical industry operate, you should definitely take this class. I hope Prof. Jim Wright teaches it again!!
This class is very unique and awesome. Pay attention during lecture because everything is interesting.
Easy and fun class to take if you're interested in the topic!
The teacher was great, the class material is incredibly accessible. Best engineering elective
