take it if you want to learn more cell biology at a grad student level and if you like learning about the quantitative aspect of biology
Its a useful class for the right students. If you're a physical scientist looking for how to read biological papers and talk the language of cell biology, this is a very useful class. If you're a biologist, you're going to be to frustrated with the pace but you'll still learn some interesting quantitative stuff.
This is a great overview of what happens in biological studies recently especially for those without biology backgrounds.
Only take this class if you don't know what DNA is
The class is good for someone who wants a basic introduction to cell biology and has no previous knowledge.
Dan Needleman is a great experimentalist. Take this class if you are a quantitative person who doesn't know a lot of experimental cell biology. Also, Dan is pretty much awesome.
Great course for engineering and physics students who want to learn cell biology.
A good introduction to biology.  Requires little previous knowledge.
While the class advertises itself as Quantitative Cell Biology, in truth cell bio is just too big a topic to cover successfully in one semester while still learning about the quantitative tools and analyses. Dan Needleman focuses a lot on his own research involving microtubules and structural proteins, so if you're into that stuff, you'll appreciate the course a lot more--and he's a brilliant, friendly, enthusiastic guy. Not a general cell biology course by any means.
Nice if you want to learn about cell bio in a non-intensive way
Do not take this course if you have any background in biology whatsoever. You will be bored!
If you are interested in learning about some of the experimental techniques and physical phenomena associated with cell biology, this is an appropriate course for you.  It provides a basic overview of cell biology for those with primarily physical sciences backgrounds.
Great class.  Didn't consume too much time and I learned a lot.
A really interesting look at cell biology from a quantitative perspective. Made me think about cell biology in a different way
