One of the best MechE classes at Harvard.
Practice your examples. Listen in lecture.
Good course. Material is generally presented very clearly. Follows directly from kinematics - it's easy to understand the concepts as long as you put in the time and effort to follow the lectures and do all the problem sets.
This is a great class.  I really enjoyed the lectures and the problem sets were very manageable.  When you finish the problem sets you really feel like you have learned the material.
Katia is an amazing professor, but be prepared for a load of tedious unnecessary work.
Katia is an amazing professor. She really breaks down problem solving and sometimes lectures are only dedicated to this, which I think is the most effective form of teaching. She basically holds your hand during lecture working through problems so that you can feel better prepared to tackle PSETs.
ES125 is a great course and is very well taught. Lectures are clear and interesting. There are plenty of example problems to help in undestanding the material. The material is interesting and relevant to mechanical engineering. Homework calculations take a long time but the homeworks are reasonable and definitely help in learning the mateiral. Great course.
Great class! Lectures are great and correlate directly to the homework. Also, do the homework. They are long but replace studying and practice. Prepare for a few final weeks of a lot of work and final projects. Don't trust the practice tests they offer; study for something harder.
Not the most interesting material, but Professor Bertoldi is an excellent lecturer and it was very rare that I felt lost during the course. The work is manageable and there is plenty of practice material that will prepare you for the midterms. The final exam might be a different story, as this year the practice material was significantly easier than what was on the final exam.
Pretty easy ES class- the math required to do the calculations is often harder than the concepts themselves.  The final project was very easy and straightforward
its a very well taught class but its extremely hard
This class was extremely well organized, and it built on itself from the beginning. Exams were difficult, but fair. The subject matter was a bit dry, but it was well-taught.
Professor Bertoldi is a wonderful person and teaches this class incredibly well. Her office hours were a great place to work on the psets. Her lectures also do a great job teaching you how to handle the problems, and she provides all her lecture notes online.
Go to class, they are super helpful, taught well and with plenty of examples. The homework is mathematically involved so give yourself plenty of time, once you get the material of the week the pset is not hard, just long, it really is all about understanding how the system works and after that is just math. You should have a basic notion of Newtonian mechanics, so if you took AP50 for physics this may be more challenging
This is the most straightforward engineering class that I have taken at Harvard. Katia is a great teacher and the material is taught very well. The homework, while it takes some time to do, is very helpful in understanding the material and getting you ready for tests.
The class rapidly gets more challenging after the midway point of the semester.
If you are studying engineering, this is a solid class to take. The workload is reasonable and it is well taught, even if the material itself is a little dry.
one of the best taught required engineering classes i've taken. prof. wood is excellent and really helpful outside of class as well.
As far as Eng-Sci classes go, ES125 is as good as it gets.
This is an interesting and fun class with a cool project.
This was a great class.  It's pretty straightforward and really interesting.  Katia is a great professor.  This class isn't too challenging.  Section was always pretty helpful with the p sets.  There are only 3 labs, and they were all really enjoyable.
This class is a good introduction to mechanical systems and vibrations.
Do as many practice problems as possible to become more familiar with mapping out systems with the right equations.
Solid mech engineering class. Make sure you put in the work to understand the problem sets in order to do well in the class.
This is a great class for getting to know more about Mechanical Engineering.  It is well taught and definitely worth your time.
This course is a fun engineering class. The workload isn't too bad and the teaching staff is helpful.
I really enjoyed this class and thought that it was a very well taught and organized. Katia goes over concepts in lecture, and then gives examples that demonstrate the new concepts. The p-sets expand on these concepts without being too difficult, and the tests are fair evaluations of how you know the material. Not the hardest nor the easiest engineering course here. This class has both a final and final project but the project isn't all that time consuming and it's a fun contest (the modified egg-drop) but overall I thought this was a terrific course.
This class is very moderate in difficulty, interest, and intensity. It is straightforward, thorough, and clearly taught. I personally prefer the less predictable nature of 15a problems
The class is a bit easy. You learn a few methods and then apply them to a lot of systems. Great class for an easier senior semester. The staff is helpful and they make sure you really understand the material.
The best class I've taken in the Engineering Sciences department. Material and expectations were presented clearly, and it wasn't too hard.
A great class for learning how to model many real life situations.
This course is not a lot of work compared to many other ES courses, but it accomplishes exactly what its description says the course sets out to teach.
As concentration requirements go, this class is a breath of fresh air. Katia's excellent as a professor; for some reason she's one of the few professors who has mastered the proper sequence of lectures (teach a concept, work through some examples, and expect a reasonable extrapolation of mastery on that week's pset), and while its clear how relevant the material is to any mechanical engineer's future career, the workload is never overwhelming.
The class is very well taught. Katia is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard. The material might appear a little boring at times, but it is definitely useful.
Many of the psets were almost fun, figuring out systems was like a puzzle. Then you get into the second half of the semester and its just hard, but overall an interesting and useful course
Katia is a great teacher.
katia is a wonderful instructor; shes approachable and her teaching style includes many examples so you'll see the breadth of problems and won't feel (as) helpless once the pset is assigned.  KNOW how to draw free body diagrams.  take this class as a sophomore because the subject matter is not tremendously difficult so get it over with early if its a requirement for you!
This is the quintessential engineering course.  The workload is fair, Katia is wonderful to work with, and the labs engage the material appropriately.
I wish I had spent more time in section and at office hours. There are a few psets that would have been rescued if I had worked with others ... Grading is a little harsh. If you get the equations of motion wrong in part a), you get point deductions in b) and c) and d) wherever you use your incorrect solution from a).
Katia is one of the best lecturers in the department. She presented the material in a very straightforward manner, and the exams are very similar to past exams. A review on newtonian physics and differential equations would be helpful.
Take it. Katia's so great, super engaging and sweet and her lecture notes are awesome. Unfortunately Heather's graduating - she was a great TF. The material's not too tough, the problem sets are absolutely manageable and I even found them fun. The final project isn't too stressful but very cool - however, I didn't feel I knew enough to design the best egg drop ever. No matter, be creative!!
Katia was an enthusiastic professor. Every engineer needs to take this course, and it is well done by Katia.
I would encourage future students to take this course if they planned to take more upper level engineering courses. I would also recommend any class taught by Professor Bertoldi. She really does an excellent job of explaining engineering concepts.
If they are engineers, I would say that they HAVE TO take it. If not, there is no need and it doesn't help in real life applications other than engineering
Don't take the final project super seriously - it's meant to be fun and an exploration of ideas you've learned in the class.
This class does a great job of not trying to cram too much material into the semester.  It is one of the few classes I've taken where I feel I actually understand ALL of the course material.  It also draws on concepts that are covered in the 21 series math and physics of mechanics courses so its more about application rather than new concepts.  All in all a great course!  And Katia is awesome!  Also, be sure to check out the lecture notes on the iSite, super helpful.
This class is refreshing compared to many others in the engineering department. The lectures are well structured and follow a simple pattern: one lecture of introducing a new topic, then one lecture of example problems based on that topic. Then repeat with a new topic. And it works. Katia is enthusiastic, teaches the topics clearly, and consistently checks to see if everyone is following along. She truly cares that the material is conveyed clearly. The psets are difficult but manageable. The exams were difficult but fair and tested what we actually learned. The final project was fun and a great way to apply what we learned in the class. Great course overall.
This class is great! Professor Bertoldi is wonderful and I learned a lot of useful and interesting things. The exams are very fair. I would highly recommend it.
Katia is a great professor and the course is fun and interesting if you like mechanics problems.
This course is great and teaches a lot of useful concepts, especially Laplace. Katia is also a wonderful teacher!
Always make sure to ask question as soon as you discover you don't understand something. Katia is a great professor and will re-explain something however many times it takes for you to understand it.
A really straightforward class that's pretty interesting and very clearly taught.  Katia is great!
Professor Bertoldi is amazing! She is so enthusiastic about the material. She took us to GE Aviation to see engine testing.  Doesn't get much better than that...
If you want to learn about mechanical vibrations, this is your class! I understand the subject area much better thanks to all of the various modes of reinforcing it.
The course material is great, and Katia is an excellent professor. I have some beef with the labs, but that's not surprising. Labs are tricky to set up, and for the most part they were fairly instructional. The material is taught well and thoroughly.
The exams are straightforward. Go to lecture and you will do great in the course. The psets get to be quite long near the end.
Professor Bertoldi is awesome, and if you enjoyed Newtonian mechanics in physics, this is the class for you.
If you stay on top of the work its not too bad. Katia is really good at explaining material for the most part, even though sometimes topics of whizzed by
GREAT course.  Katia is an absolutely stellar lecturer and is super considerate.  Fantastic materials, really interesting final project.
If you take good notes in lectures, then homework and exams will be easy.
Very straight forward course with fair exams. Although you will have NO idea what to expect for the exams. First midterm was easy/moderate, second was easy and the final was HARD.
Class was pretty fun.  Wasn't as difficult as some other engineering classes.  Everything you needed to know (including examples) is explicitly taught in lecture which is nice.
Use the TFs! Katia is awesome too!
Fairly narrow range of material presented, and you're given an entire semester to cover it. If you can understand the major concepts (there are only a few) and become familiar with the arsenal of equations (there are a fair number), this class should be fairly easy.
Willingness to be ready for anything (such as many schedule and assignment changes) and being able to go with the flow are essential.  Other than that, it's a very useful, enjoyable class.  Be sure to ask with questions at an early stage before (potentially) getting behind.
vibrations are sexy!
work isnt that bad, the matlab parts of the homework were the most challenging as well as the bicycle project, but the lectures are pretty well taught, and the exams are not bad at all
This class is very interesting, but not the most interesting. If you're taking it as an engineering requirement, don't worry, it can be pretty fun.
A straightforward class that can be conquered, if necessary, by blind application of a couple handy formulas.  Take your cue from the course administration, and don't over-stress.
Although not a pre-requisite,being generally comfortable with solving 2nd order ODE's is a big plus.
Take this class only if you're absolutely compelled.  It is as bland and uninteresting as it is tedious and annoying.  This class made me realize I don't want to be an engineer.
Professor Howe is amazing, and this class is fun and very relevant. Vibrations occur everywhere, and as an engineer, it's very important to understand them - this course walks you through it step by step, making it very clear.
Labs are applicable but write-ups are tedious. P
It was fine.  Boring because the topic is boring, but fine.
m*(d^2x/dt^2) + c*(dx/dt) + k*(x) = F(t) --> be prepared to see that a lot.
Take it to brush up on mechanics if you're a physics concentrator, but prepared to be bored with the material up until Laplace Transforms, convolution, and Lagrange's equation (unless you took Physics 16). Do not take it in lieu of Physics 151. Good to take in conjunction with AM 105a - otherwise, Laplace and fourier Transforms are redundant material.
It's a decent class- but mostly I liked it for it's applications to electrical engineering
good stuff to know
The course is useful if you care about springs and vibrational systems, but it is unlikely to inspire any love for the topic and is somewhat painful.
I thought the material covered was very important and interesting, and the lectures were good, but the class could have been better organized and clearer in its assignments.
Go wild on the accelerometer projects! It's amazing the kinds of things you can do with them!
Fun
It's super interesting and applicable.  I was not going to the golf presentation at first, but honestly the presentation really inspired me and further fueled my desire to become an inventor.
It's a good course that does teach you a lot, but it helps a lot to go in with some knowledge of differential equations.
The course is interesting and helps you understand and model the motions of many objects.
Katia is a great professor. The class is fair, organized, and interesting. The material is pretty math-heavy, and the psets are sometimes pretty difficult, but if you make use of OH and section, you'll be fine.
If you're planning on taking this course it is most likely because you are required to. Be prepared for a class thats mostly math and not very much 'engineering.'
Extremely good course and very important for any mechanical engineer. Strongly suggest you take it even if you are in other forms of engineering.
Katia is a great lecturer, and the class is very well balanced. Basic concept eventually open doors to various other topics, of which Katia touches upon in the final month. Psets don't take more than 8 hours, and average probably 5 or 6. Labs this year are still uninteresting, but the final project is enjoyable.
ES 125 was by far the best course I've taken in SEAS. Professor Bertoldi gave awesome lectures that were super useful, and she almost never asked questions on the PSets that were on material that she hadn't covered. The PSets were certainly tedious with really ugly, irrational numbers and definitely required you to use your head a bit, but they were a lot of fun to do and were never absurdly difficult. I feel that we learned some very powerful tools in this course, and it was one of the most important courses that I've taken for my Mechanical Engineering concentration so far. I'd love to take more classes with Katia, because this one was really great. Don't miss out on it!
On of the best MechE classes. Katia is energetic and a good lecturer and is quite helpful outside of class too.  Lectures were so good I didn't even really need the book, just used my lecture notes for the pests.  Exams weren't easy but pretty fair and doable.
Katia is awesome. One of the chillest professor I've ever had.
Start problem sets early.
Very important class and the problems are fun.  Difficult tests and psets--allot a lot of time for the psets.
Good class
This course did a good job of teaching the material, especially reducing oscillating systems to simpler analogues and solving their equations of motion.  Although I thought it a generally weaker course than Physics 15b, I think that the overall teaching structure and strategy is good.
The material is not that difficult, and lectures have a good format. However, the assignments were very long and tedious. They weren't that difficult, but single questions could take about 2 hours to get through. I feel like a lot of this class was teaching you to be a human calculator. Most of the time spent on problems was spent solving differential equations, not actually doing mechanical systems analysis. The labs were a nightmare. This year, we were randomly assigned to groups we had to work in the whole semester. It was so difficult to find a time we could all meet, and I feel like some of the frequencies we had to achieve were impossible. We just randomly guessed and checked values, and received no support from the teaching staff. Also, the final project was crap. We spent so much time building an egg-drop apparatus, only to be screwed over by a flaw in the scoring. The group that won ended up breaking their egg every single time, but they were rewarded for having such a light, short system. If you take this class, you should probably just tape a spring to the platform and then you will win for sure.
Concise, clear, straightforward teaching. Could easily have been much harder to learn this material. One of the stronger SEAS courses.

Course features a lot of spring-dashpot-mass and free body diagram type physics questions you're used to from AP physics. Material towards the end of the class becomes similar to what is taught in AM 105. The final group project is not too time consuming with a decent team, and there are no surprises in the psets. Lecture notes are acceptable as an occasional replacement for attending lecture if you're into that sort of thing.

Know MATLAB before taking this class. If you don't know MATLAB, be sure to be diligent about OHs and section and start early, otherwise you will not know how to do some problems  towards the middle/end of the semester.

Katia is a cool person and is very helpful and friendly. Recommended class.
