this is perhaps the best course ever. energy is a very exciting field, but it is difficult to get an understanding of all the technologies out there, and this course provides a platform to present the different options available. also the professor and TAs teach the course with great enthusiasm.
This class gives an excellent survey of energy technologies.  I recommend it to anyone who sees themselves doing work with energy, the environment, or climate.
The material is definitely interesting and relevant to the class' stated purpose, but the couse is not terribly well executed.
It is probably nearly impossible to teach a technical subject satisfactorily to a mixed audience; I thought this course was too easy conceptually, but also somewhat time-consuming. This course is technical enough to challenge students with less math/thermo background, but doesn't cover enough thermo to be especially useful for practical purposes or to be very satisfying to those with more background.  This course does provide a useful overview of the issues and lots of practice with back-of-envelope calculations. The material is interesting and likely the logistics will become more streamlined next time it is taught.
good class, with a lot of potential to be great after a few iterations. Be prepared to spend some time on the sets and dont be afraid to ask questions
Great way to learn about energy technology
This class has a great aim, but it needs a few iterations before it becomes the great class that it could be.
It helps to open eyes.
I think for a class for your PhD requirement, it is a good workload however if this is for the consortium and you are taking time out of your research to do it.. the workload is a lot for class that doesn't count.
very well-designed course - the instructors go into every detail possible within the time constraints; the problem sets are a must!
A very comprehensive course on energy technologies, yet weekly assignments focus a little too much on tedious numeric calculations, rather than expanding understanding.
The course requires some knowledge of physics, but is kept to a very basic level. If you've seen it before, it will be easy, and if not, readings, lectures and sections will give you everything you need to know.
This class rocks!
This is great class--extremely interesting and relevant.
The course is easy and the material is interesting, though we never go further than an introduction into any one particular topic.
An excellent course if you want to gain a solid understanding of the primary issues confronting the energy challenge.
This course provides a nice introduction to the many energy sources being used or investigated currently.  It does not cover any one topic in great depth but is instead an overview of many.
You learn about energy systems in this class in a mathematical way.
There is a serious quantitative/scientific component requring either a background in thermodynamics or a determination to learn thermodynamics.
Great course to give a survey of a large number of enegy sources. Problem sets and the midterm were more numerical problem solving whereas the lectures were topical with just enough science to give an understanding of how it all works.
Review general physics and chemistry.
I would tell students that this class is a good way to get a grasp on the basics of the science behind various energy technologies and gain a good overall idea of the current energy landscape.
Very interesting material that is presented in an easy to understand way.
This course is way cool.  Totally changed my perspective on energy.  I guarantee that you will learn something new and cool.
Great course where you learn a lot about environmental issues and energy resources. Problem sets were simple except a few and the final paper was fair. Lectures were interesting, but a bit dry at times. Great class and not too painful of a class.
This is a demanding class, especially if you're not in science or engineering, but it's well prepared and interesting.  If you're interested in energy, this is a very worthwhile class.
If you'd like to understand the technical details of energy generation, this is the place to be.
Even though I took this class considering myself as decently-knowledgeable about energy and with strong opinions on it, the class made me rethink and consider more of the real-life obstacles to solving the energy crisis.
You need strong basic science (physics and chemistry mostly) and more than a little calculus to appreciate this course.
If you are interested in energy technology and finding a technical solution, you should be in this class.
A good overview of energy technology. I really loved that economics was part of it.
This class is pretty low commitment and gives a good overview of different technologies. However, it's not really an engineering class. There are many  non-engineering students in the class and some of the material is covered in a very cursory manner. Don't leave the final project off until the last few days - it takes a fair amount of time.
It is extremely hard to make a course that is challenging enough for engineers, but not devastating for non-engineers. Engineers should approach the course as a useful survey, and use the opportunity to further explore certain topics that interest them more. Non-engineers should be prepared to learn intro physics very quickly. A good homework discussion group is essential--this is where you will work out the "kinks" in your understanding.
Great overview of current energy technology and challenges, must-take for students interested in entering the energy sector.
Very informative, concrete information is presented. The course gives a working understanding of thermodynamics and translates it to solving the larger scale problem of energy.
great class to learn about different energy technologies. professor is knowledgable and accessible outside of class.
Important class to take to approach energy from a theoretical point of view. Great beginning to understand physical limitations of energy systems and generally how energy systems basically work.
This course gave an excellent overview of energy technologies but be sure to beef up on some basic physics if you haven't had it in a while
If you are interested in the relevant technologies for energy production and our global energy resources, this course gives a wealth of useful, applicable background information.
Great way to gain indepth technical understanding behind energy production and evaluate economic feasibility of different technologies.
If you are not 300% interested, never consider taking this course.
The class covers a lot of material and was overall rather interesting. However, for a course that is relatively easy, it takes a lot of time outside of class to complete the readings and homework sets.
You will learn so much in this course and can focus on the areas that interest you the most, especially when it comes to the final paper. The course is well designed to directly apply the material to real world problems (as it should given the topic of the course). The broader your scientific background, the more I think you can get out of this course, to keep all the material from being too overwhelming.
The content is really neat and comprehensive. Sometimes lecture is a little boring and sometimes the problem sets are a bit annoying, but it's worth it overall.
Thermodynamics would help a lot, but not absolutely necessary if you're willing to put in the time.
it's an interesting survey course
This class is an amazing overview of the current energy market and technologies. It certainly is much more breadth than depth with each lecture focused on a different topic, but it still manages to covers a fair amount of detail on each topic in the allotted time. It's not super challenging to anyone with a strong science background, but thermodynamics and basic economics would be really helpful throughout. Although, I did not have either a formal thermodynamics course or economics course before, so don't let that be a deterrent - I actually found the economic analysis problems to be the most rewarding because they gave a good sense of what the energy market actually looks like and gives perspective to frame the various technologies. Homework is manageable and the final project is a lot of fun if you pick a topic that's interesting to you. Highly recommended for anyone interested in energy, but also provides a skill set that is pretty widely applicable.
Quite boring, no need to go to lecture, they don't help you with the problem sets anyway which are tedious and unnecessarily difficult
This course provides a good overview of a lot of different aspects of energy technology with enough technical detail to really understand them.
Great if you want an introduction to different energy technologies.
Excellent broad overview of current energy technologies, but more work than anticipated.
If you don't have a strong stem background, ideally from an engineering POV, I would recommend taking the 229 (pass/fail) version of the course.
A great class if you're interested in learning more about the fundamental science and engineering behind energy tech. Solid way to get an understanding of the state of the tech, and the open problems, in basically every energy field. There's a lot of emphasis places on formal thermodynamics at the start, which is cool to learn, but not super useful. Lectures are pretty dry, and the readings get a bit tedious. That said, definitely a class worth taking if you want to think deeply about energy from an engineering perspective.
It is a class that makes you think about the "energy problem" and about global warming in a different way.
This course is an excellent way to learn about the different energy technologies that currently exist and an introduction into how effective the technology might be in mitigating climate change. Be prepared to spend several hours with the course reading assignment if you really want to learn the details about the energy technology at hand. I would recommend identifying which technologies you want to know the detailed physics and thermodynamics and chemistry for; if you try to do this for every single energy technology, you will have to dedicate a lot of time to the class.
I have never got so little out of any class. The course is titled energy technology but the actual material is on thermo, kinetics, electromagnetics, mechanics. I had no idea what we were supposed to learn from each module. If you are interested in this course, just find out when the guest lectures are and attend those. Those are actually very informative.
I would encourage this class if you have an interest in a broad range of energy technologies and have a substantial background in engineering/science and mathematics. The topics are really interesting and you have the capability to learn a lot if you apply yourself to the course.
Uniquely broad and highly applicable, compared to other SEAS/College courses. Real-world impact for technologies we discuss the scientific/engineering bases of in other SEAS classes, and all taught with cross-disciplinary considerations. If you think energy is cool and spend your time voluntarily following the energy tech scene, you can't not take this course. Professor Aziz teaches the course with a finger on the pulse of industry, and his enthusiasm for the subject and for what's happening in the field is much appreciated among the other ES courses. The interface of the class (lots of reading in advance to be prepared for a quick assessment/overview of each technology) is often difficult, but having access to the overwhelming cross-section of material is very cool. I also found being able to dive in and analyze something you're interested in as a final project was very worthwhile, though the tools for a successful final project were not exactly clear from/taught in the course. There is a section on "the economics" of the technologies - take that section seriously.
This was a great class! Sometimes the psets were a bit lengthy, but the material is very rewarding.
This course is graded at the graduate level, but do not be intimidated! Most graduate students do not care about grades so you will do fine. This course covers the technology behind basically all the most important sources of energy for the next 100+ years. You also have a final project that allows you to explore one topic in depth. Unlikely other classes offered on energy and the environment, this course focuses on the technology with less attention given to environmental concerns and public policy. This course allows you to speak more intelligently about the future of energy and compliments other classes on energy/environmental policy and science. I would definitely recommend this course to undergrads who are interested in energy (ESE, EPS, ESPP, etc.).
The course is very dry but if you buy into it you will learn a lot about the energy field. I cannot stress enough that there is a ton of valuable information in this course. The work itself can be tedious but the problems are on interesting topics.
The class is quite challenging but it has totally transformative. If you have are passionate about energy or climate change but are worried about the engineering component (I certainly was deficient in this department), I still think you should give it a go. It is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard!
