DO NOT TAKE UNLESS REQUIRED. It's a shame that this is a requirement, but it is. Just suffer through if you're a Mech E, and stay away if you're not.
This class was pretty boring
The semester design project is very interesting and you can learn a lot if you perform calculations you learn in this course, use common sense, and ask lots of questions at office hours. Important to read the textbook and review lecture notes before doing problem sets. Interesting material with lots of cool applications.
This class in the past seems to have been more demanding of the students. This year seems to have reached a better balance between challenge and work demanded. I expect future years to perfect this balance.
This class is bad but you have to take it.  If you're mechanical you have no choice.  Or schedule a conflict and take it at MIT.
This course was a waste of a semester and a poor reflection of the Harvard engineering department. Professor Clarke did not treat lectures seriously, so we did not learn all the topics we needed to. I am disappointed that such an important part of my engineering curriculum has been overlooked. Be prepared to teach yourself everything on the psets. Go to section if you can - it was great because the material that should have been in lecture is covered there. Also, the project is pretty miserable. There are no set expectations or grading guidelines. Make sure you stick up for your project and ask Clarke a lot of questions about what he wants your group to do so you don't get blindsided by something later.
It is a lot more work than I initially thought- I have spent more time with my group working on this final project than any single assignment I've yet completed in college, and we are still not done. I do feel as though I'm applying heat transfer principles well, and learning-- it's just much more difficult than rote problem set classes.
This course was difficult due to the fact that there isn't much of a support structure. Make sure to read the textbook on your own and re-familiarize yourself with your thermo topics.
requires a lot of work but very beneficial
This course was pretty disorganized and its goals of a project/assignment/homework problem and knowing what was expected of us were often left unclear.
A "necessary" evil
WORST ENGINEERING CLASS TAKEN AT HARVARD... Clarke needs to improve the course tremendously.  The psets had too many errors, and most of the times, the grad school TFs agreed that they had no idea what Clarke was asking for.  The final project was the worst where Clarke kept changing his mind about the approach to solving our proposal... and made us do extra calculations for two weeks that went against our entire initial set of findings.. to be told later that he had made a mistake.The TFs would grade lab reports without any guidelines present and no comments.. Same with homework.  The sections were useless where the TFs did not even go over practice problems that would help us on the homework..
Don't take this course unless you have to.
There were many speed bumps along the way in this course--problem sets had many errors, there was a noticeable lack of communication between the professor and TFs, the second exam questioned your ability to make a good cheat sheet more so than your knowledge of heat transfer, and the lab component of the course was unnecessarily demanding. However, by the end of the course I knew heat transfer well enough to apply it to real world situations, Professor Clarke is a kind and thought provoking professor, and the end of year BBQ was a lot of fun.
The most poorly organized badly taught engineering class for mechanical engineers. It's only in its second year which is partially why it's so unorganized, but wow. It's bad! You will not learn anything unless you teach yourself from the book. The problem sets are confusing and you always have to go to ohs, the TFs don't speak English, and Professor Clarke is a nice person but not the best as a prof. - stultifying lectures.
The material is so interesting and this class should be enjoyable, but due to Prof. Clarke's lack of organization and the course's misguided assignments (and mostly everything) it was the worst class I've taken at Harvard. It's too bad, right now at least, that it is required for ME. Hopefully the class can be improved so it can actually be an enjoyable requirement.
Take it if you must. Else hold off until the course improves.
The material is incredibly useful and important if you're trying to be an engineer. The class is still a little rough around the edges, although it's only in its second year.
Doesn't matter if I recommend it, because most likely you have to take it. Do the psets in a group, pay attention in lecture, and try to take notes on any important equations.
This is probably a requirement that you must take.
This class is very disorganized and sometimes very dull. The lectures are very boring and much of the class did not attend. The midterms were very hard to study for because there was no preparation material provided.
Very disorganized with very few class resources
This class is poorly taught and lecture is pretty boring. Lecture did not help at all in my understanding of heat transfer concepts, and there was no section component to the class that could supplement (or primarily) teach these concepts. If there was, our TF would not have been effective at teaching it either because he did not seem to understand the concepts either. I spent the entire semester teaching myself the concepts and equations from the really well-written textbook, and later realized that the material is pretty damn cool and interesting, it just isn't taught well by Professor Clarke. The one redeeming quality about this course is the final project, which is actually a semester long project on one of a few specified topics such as retrofitting a building, designing a solar trough plant, and designing a solar tower plant. I learned a lot from this project and enjoyed working on it throughout the semester, and our weekly team meetings with Professor Clarke were useful and he provided very helpful feedback. I did ultimately learn some things about heat transfer, but overall, this class is still poorly taught and I would not enthusiastically recommend this class at all.
This class involves a lot of self teaching.  Professor Clarke means well but not much is gained from lecture as he usually goes over the book.  Key to the class is ready the textbook.
This was the least structured class I've ever taken.  There were no practice tests.  The professor was vague in every assignment description.  The TF didn't really do anything.  Bad class.
This course is a concentration requirement for mechanical engineers. It is not a huge workload, with psets often only being every other week. However, lectures were not the best (the textbook is as or more helpful), and exams were difficult but scored generously.
Material is interesting but this is a hard class. Lectures are not very helpful, the project is where you learn the most.
DIfficult, but do-able for design students interested in heat transfer
Read the textbook- I tried to get by without reading at first and just referencing the textbook when trying to solve problems, but the course really follows the book closely. Even if you don't absorb all the information on your first read even just knowing where everything is in the book and having a sense for what types of problems exist is really valuable.
Don't push off the project til the last minute--it's harder than it looks.
This is a good course, well taught, with practical homeworks, labs, and projects. David Clarke is a really nice professor. Find out for yourself why this class is good.
I warn them of it's difficulty - I took it for because I wanted to be more familiar with the concepts of heat transfer.  I had enough stress over other course work which I didn't want this class to add - though at times it did.
A rough beginning, but once you tough out the radiation bit the rest of the course goes quite smoothly.
Take notes quickly, unless the professor gives you note packets. Read the book ahead of lectures! The book will be your friend and best resource. The final design project; meet regularly and advance throughout the semester if you want to do a good job. Midterms are a mix of memorization and math, so add both on your cheat sheet. Homework was manageable, but try to do well on those as there are only 6. Finally, Professor Clarke is a great guy. Get to know him; he really cares about your success.
Professor Clarke is a very nice person, and you can see that he really cares for the students. However, I found that I had to do a lot of the learning in my room from the textbook, because the lectures were not as efficient as they could have been. I recommend taking this course after fluid mechanics since they cover the same equations, but for different physics.
Heat transfer is super important and good to know. We can find the principle everywhere We live.
