This course was fantasticwe had a ton of fun, learned a decent amount, and made some great pickles/yogurt/cheese/everything. There is absolutely no downside. Pia is the best.
Really fun class! Take it if you want to learn about fermentation/food in a very hands on way.
BEST CLASS AT HARVARD. end of story. If you are interested in fermentation, definitely take this class. Pia is absolutely incredible!
This class is really great and Pia is such a sweet, nice, helpful person. This is more useful if you come in with ideas and an interest in fermentation to begin with, because a lot of the work is very self directed. It was very unstructured last year but I think Pia is ironing out the kinks. Overall, so glad I took the class.
This is a super fun class!! Pia is AMAZING and you get to do your own fermentation project (yummy)
This class is an amazing experience!!! It's one of Harvard's hidden gems. Pia Sorensen is an excellent professor who emphasizes hands-on work and makes the material accessible to everyone. This class basically teaches you aspects of science, cooking, and biology in a very hands-on way that's motivated by your own curiosity. Even if you think you'd have no interest in fermentation, you should take this class: it's easy, you learn a lot of practical skills, and the knowledge will follow you. You'll be able to brew your own beer and prepare delicious foods and drinks.
Incredible class! You will make delicious foods. Learning how to do at home fermentations is actually a skill I will use in life after Harvard. The course material is interesting, the project is fun, the assignments are easy, the teaching staff is brilliant. This class was perfect. It's too bad that it will be lotteried next year because I'm sure it's getting ridiculously good q scores. I hope you take this class!
This is one of the best classes I've taken! The coursework is incredibly engaging, and the class itself is just really fun. It's great as a follow up to science of cooking, and Pia's great as an instructor. Would definitely recommend this class with enthusiasm (even if fermentation itself sounds really specific as a topic)!
Take this course!!! Pia is amazing and cares about the students. You learn a lot in a low-stress, low-workload environment, and it is a really fun and engaging way to explore something new!
It was an incredibly chill and fun new class and Pia is honestly the best person ever. It doesn't fulfill any requirements at the moment but was a fantastic senior spring class where you just get to explore any area of fermentation you want. From making cheese and ginger beer in class to wine for some of the final projects, everything was amazing and delicious and you could really take your exploration as far as you wanted. Just don't slack too long on the final project because it's actually a really cool area of research that can net you some great results if you put actual time/effort in .
The second half of the experiment was focused around an experiment, so really put some time into thinking about your design so that the second half of your class doesn't end up being a waste of time or a complete failure.
Best class ever. Take it with friends but don't tell too many people so it stays small and doesn't have to be lotteried.
This is an amazing class. My favorite class in four years of college. How often can you get credit for learning about beer?
Prepare yourself for an experience like no other that is so student driven and incredibly engaging, you won't even believe you go to Harvard.
AMAZING course. If you have any interest at all in fermentation, microbiology, physiology of taste, components of flavor, lab work, food, etc. take it. Prof Sorenson is an absolute gem -- great to talk to and very enthusiastic about the material.
You should definitely be interested with food, and be comfortable developing an experimental question and project.
This course was so great. Pia is the nicest person and a great professor. I learned a lot about food science and fermentation, and it was such a fun course. Every day this class was a nice change of pace from boring lectures. Definitely take this class!
DON'T TELL ANY OF YOUR FRIENDS!! This is absolutely the best class at Harvard and Pia and Mia are so passionate about the topic. The more people you tell, the more people are going to lottery, lowering your chances. Don't worry about taking this class with friends because everyone in the class will be just as interested in fermentation as you are. An interest in fermentation/chemistry is a must and will make this class so much better than it already is. TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!!!!!
This was the most fun elective ever. You ferment food and then you eat it, while learning the whole time. The field trips are really interesting.
This class is awesome and you are going to have such a great time learning about microbe biology, fermentation chemistry, and taste and flavor perception! The workload is super light and Pia really lets your interests lead the way in your learning. Do not be too ambitious in your final project ideas- I think it is easy to dream big, realize your time and budget limits, and subsequently be set back
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard in the last 3 years. You have the freedom to do whatever you want, and honestly, that's the environment that you learn the best in. Because you're both engaged in lecture and in active lab work, you're continuously absorbing the material, while learning applicable food making skills! There are easy assignments that you have to do each week (mainly about exploring topics that interest you), and the final project is a more elaborate version of that! You learn to engage, speak publicly, and challenge yourself.
The best course I have taken at Harvard. Good luck with the lottery!
This is the BEST class at Harvard. Apply, apply, apply if you can. Pia and Mai form an unstoppable teaching duo, the recipes are fun and engaging, the assignments are manageable and enjoyable, and the final project is totally open for whatever interests you. Fermentation will be your new favorite topic.
Like so many have said, this course is a must takePia is exceptional. Mai, if she's still the TA, is a doll. The material is so interestinggoing to class was exciting and a highlight of my day when we had class.  The field trips are particularly special and extend the learning experience of the hands-on sessions in class. Find people you are comfortable spending a lot of time with outside of class in preparation or the final project. It is preferable to work in groups with at least one other person so the workload is enjoyable.
Best course I've taken! Pia is absolutely fantastic and cares so much about every student really getting something out of the course. If you're a foodie, this is the class for YOU. Such an incredible way to understand more about food and a culinary device that has gained increasing popularity in recent years. Loved this class so much! Great for senior spring.
This class is one of the most interesting experiences I've had at Harvard. It's truly a gem of a class, and Pia and Mai are a gem of a teaching staff power duo. The things that we did in this classlike fermenting mead, making mozzarella, visiting the Tufts tasting lab, touring Gingko Bioworkswere absolutely incredible, like 'how is this even happening to me in a class at Harvard' incredible. It's so so so much fun, and you also learn a surprising amount about fermentation given how chill the class is. If you like cooking, TAKE THIS CLASS. If you like hands on stuff, TAKE THIS CLASS. Or I guess, lottery for this class, because there were like 80 people who lotteried for 20 seats.
This class in incredible! You get to learn about how fermentation works, how flavor works, and then you get to actually try what you learned out. It's just so cool to learn about all of the different chemistry and biology behind food in an abstract sense and then dive down and get to actually try it and see how it works for yourself. The final project is a wonderful way to then decide what about all of the incredible things you learn pushes you towards and then explore that even further. You'll come out wanting to get supplies for fermenting on your own and regaling all of your friends over dinner about just how flavor works.
Most engaging and useful class I've taken at Harvard
This class is super low-stress. It's not ALL fun and delicious games, but it is MOSTLY fun and delicious games. This is not a biochemistry course, or even a microbial ecology course. It is a survey of all of the interesting topics in fermentation, including biochemistry and microbial ecology. Enough to pique your interest and expose you to the field, but not an in-depth research experience. You will make and eat many wonderful and sometimes weird things! 10/10 would recommend.
take take take! so fun and so chill
Definitely take this class if you're interested in fermentation! Start planning your final project early and talk to the course staff about your ideas. Reach out to the guest speakers and ask them about your project ideas. The class isn't hard but you should make it challenge YOU. It's one of those classes that Harvard offers that you can't find anywhere else and you should use this experience and resources to challenge yourself.
This is a gem of a course - Pia and Mai were really offering this class because they're interested in the subject matter of fermentation. You learn a lot without worrying too much about grades at all. Lottery for it if you can!
What an incredible class. You get to explore basically anything that interests you. And you'll explore in great depth and detail. Honestly one of the best science classes I've ever taken. If you want to understand the principles behind the fermentation of cheese, chocolate, wine, beer, pickles, etc., you MUST take this class. And who knows, you might end up brewing a few of these things yourself by the time you get to the final assignment ;) ;) ;)Also, Pia is one of the best professors you'll encounter while at Harvard. She's enthusiastic, so so so extremely kind and helpful, and she's willing to provide you with the resources and time you need to have an amazing learning experience. Take the class. Do it!
This class is so fun and truly pretty relaxing, Pia is one of the most wonderful people and you would be lucky to get to spend time with her in a class!
You learn so much from this class! The style of it is to be very hand on and engaging. You get to listen to expert speakers on different topics and hone in on something that isn't often taught. If you have the opportunity to take this class you definitely should.
This class is the best! Don't tell your friends about it because you want to be sure to win the lottery! Pia is amazing and super sweet, and it is a really amazing class. It is super hands on, and most days you just get to ferment fun things. Take this if you want to have a fun and interesting learning experience!
This class is AMAZING!!!!! If you are interested in food, flavors, science, etc, this class is perfect for you. Prof. Sorensen is awesome and fosters a great community within the classroom! I would highly recommend this class.
Be ready for some new aromas ;)  In all seriousness, this class was really inspiring to get a look into food as science.  You get an appreciation for how difficult and how much of an art making demented food really is.
One of the best classes offered at Harvard because it is interning but doesn't have a burdensome workload.
You really feel like you've learned a lot about fermentation by the end of the course, but it's never too stressful (and almost always fun).
Probably the most enjoyable class I've taken in 4 years at Harvard. Wonderful, encouraging staff and students who get pumped about cooking and fermenting. It's a chill course, but do yourself (and your classmates) a favor and take it out of genuine interest.
