this is a great engineering class. you learn a lot and it isn't super painful like most engineering classes.
Be prepared to brush up on your math - differential equations, vector calculus, etc.
It's not the best class; it's not that hard but not particularly rewarding.  I guess it's kind of useful to understanding hydrology.
Interesting class where you end up understanding a lot, but most of the learning just comes from listening to Professor Rice since many of the problems were beyond my scope without significant help.
Relevant groundwater information is the body of the material, but lack in advanced math experience will leave you behind.
I don't think I would recommend it to non-engineering concentrators, but it makes a great engineering elective if you are willing to work.
You'll learn a ton, and Professor Rice is wonderful.  Be ready for a lot of math, but if you keep up with the homeworks and extra problems, you'll be totally fine for the exams.
It is a hard class, but you learn a lot.  It is very calculus heavy, so be prepared to remember back to math 21a and 21b material.  Also, know the homework problems because all exam problems are based off of them.  Professor Rice is very approachable so ask questions if you do not understand the material.
you'll go through the entire course not knowing what you're doing. until the night before the final. then everything (including the diff EQ's) will click. this class is very math-y so don't take it unless you're pretty comfortable with math.
If you put in the work, the class will be worth it. It is also important to be interested in hydrology.
Really hard and not all that interesting. I did not enjoy this class.
That the material is very interesting because concepts are usually derived from physical principles and assumptions but have important real-world applications. Also, Professor Rice does a great job presenting the material so that it is easy to understand and use, and is very good at answering questions/explaining concepts.
\
Good class if you're at all interested in groundwater, remediation, pumping, water pollution, among other areas of groundwater science.
I think all ESE students should take this course, because hydrology is a big part of most environmental engineering jobs. The first day might seem intimidating in its math level, but it was actually one of the easiest engineering classes I've taken here. Professor Rice is great, but maybe underestimates how much of a workload we can handle: assignments were interesting, but very short.
It has a relatively light workload and is interesting if you're into civil/environmental engineering
The course is challenging because of the math involved, but taking a hydrology course is important especially for environmental engineers. The lab component of the course is very cool.
You will learn a lot in this class and get a good grade but only if you consistently put in work outside of class. Many of the derivations require additional time outside of lecture to understand them and to be able to do the homework problems.
