Make sure that you understand what the teaching staff is looking for.
We all took this course because we were required to, not by choice. It's sort of like a right of passage.
The course has some problems, but if you want to interact closely with classmates and professors, more closely than in any of your other courses, this class will force you to do that.
it's the kind of course where the more time you put in, the more you get out of the class.
This class was a huge time sink -- it basically took up all my spare time for the entire semester. It was good to get to work in a group and experience working on a project, but the format of the class needs to be improved.
Pain.  ES 96 is lots of pain.  But it's also an eyeopener for the sort of work Harvard engineers will (presumably) do in the "real world."
This class is required for SB engineers.
This course is a true engineering experience, complete with all its pain and frustration. It is, however, fulfilling at the end to realize that you have done a project from start to finish, solved a problem, and created something that people might actually pay attention to.
It's much different than other classes. You work as a team on a common goal, and learn a lot along the way. It's good preparation for how the real world might work.
The course load is rather light for the semester until the last two weeks of class where it becomes extremely hectic.  Definitely worth taking.
This course does not teach you anything!
Perhaps not "enjoyable," in the way that a film literature or positive psychology class is enjoyable, but this class is very rewarding, and you will feel that you've accomplished a lot.
Its a very different class, makes you step out of your comfort zone and learn some unusual real life stuff.
Teaches valuable skills for working in a group setting. Has a lot of presentations.
This class was probably the most useful course I took at Harvard. I had no idea what was going on most of the time, but at the end I produced a piece of work that I was really proud of. But, if you're going to take this course, don't take anything else with a lot of deliverables at the end of the semester. The workload increases exponentially as you approach the end of the semester.
This is a great course, and if Prof. Howe still teaches it (like in '09-'10), it'll still be good.  The quality of your experience in the second half, which is focused on a really big project, depends partly on the composition of the small group you're working with, and you may not get to choose who's on your team.  But you learn a lot about "engineering consulting" -- about how to use your quantitative skills to make decisions in the real world.  Be aware that there is NOT necessarily a physical final project, as you might have expected from a class called "Engineering Design Seminar."  "Design" is used very loosely.
It's a very good excercise at going thorough the engineering process and a fairly fail-proof environment to make all the stupid mistakes so that you learn from them and don't do them later.
The course is very different than other Harvard courses. It requires a lot of commitment to your group.
the work increases at the end of the semester drastically, so spread out and do what you think you should be doing earlier on. the class hours are longer than listed.
What you get out of it depends on how much you put into it. Students need to be very independent and motivated in order to actually get worthwhile work done. But it was a good learning experience in group dynamics..
Only take this class if it is required of you. And if you are not required to take this class and yet you choose to do so, for the sake of your classmates, please have a solid background in engineering and/or other quantitative studies.
This is a fabulous class if you are willing to put in the work.  The beginning of the semester starts out slow, but don't take that as an indication for the rest of the semester.  It easily will start to become 20-30 hours of work a week.  You will need to spend a significant amount of time outside of class meeting with your team to work, so try to plan your other classes accordingly.  A lot of this class is about self-imposed deadlines, but you should definitely not push off any work.  It will become unmanageable towards the end of the semester.  Order your supplies early- they take forever to come in.
Only take this class is if you must (if you're on the SB track). This class is not fun, and they expect you to know things that you may have not learned yet. They claim that they can help you learn whatever you don't know, but let's be real, you can't learn 5 classes worth of material in one single class by a teaching staff that is not an expert in those areas. I definitely think that this class is important preparation for ES 100, but I really think that they should try to make it more engaging, provide more "teaching" and not just a ton of criticizing, and let the students know what they actually want from them.
Definitely take this class if you are planning on doing anything related to engineering after graduation. I learned a lot about the design process, presenting, and interacting with clients. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU ARE NOT AN ENGINEERING CONCENTRATOR. If you are a non-engineering student who is not going to help with the project, just don't take this class. Only take it if you are willing to contribute to the project. It is a very time consuming class (especially during reading period), but also very rewarding.
If you are looking at this course, you are probably required to take it for the SB. It is whatever you make of it, but if you work hard, you can make a really cool project. But to warn you, it does require a LOT of work, especially as you near the final presentation
If you have the time to dedicate (or are an engineering concentrator and have no choice), this class is an amazing opportunity and is very rewarding. If you're not willing to dedicate the time to it, though, it's just a horrible struggle (and your classmates don't particularly appreciate you, either). I'm really glad I took this before my thesis, I'd strongly advise taking it junior year. (Side note: if you can take it with Dave Mooney, DO. He's a really great mentor for these projects.)
The class is challenging and frustrating, but if you contribute and do your best, you will feel good about your final project in the end. Most of the challenges are around learning to work with such a large and varied group, so if you can clearly define a part of the project to work on for the semester that is yours and yours alone, you will succeed.
Do not depend on anyone to do any of your work. It will not get done.
Like most BME classes, sorry guys, you have to take this. This class, over all, was a much larger time commitment than I had anticipated. You are not only expected to be at every class, but also to meet multiple times a week outside of class. Honestly, the expectation seems to be that you will spend every free moment of your life on this course. Don't take it with a heavy load.
Be prepared to put in a lot of hours to this class.  It will be a lot of work and worth it only part of the time.  In the beginning the class was easy and simple and didn't seem difficult.  This changed by the midway point when the actual design portion of the class started.
ES96 is a chance to really explore your interest in Engineering.  This has been my favorite course at Harvard thus far.  You are given the rare opportunity (as an Undergrad at least) to seek out a project and see it to completion (or at least somewhere close to completion =) ).  Beware, however, the time commitment can be quite significant towards the end of the semester.
Your grade lives or dies according to the group. Everyone is depending on you, and you are depending on everyone else. Work accordingly. And believe me, you will work, and you might even learn a ton of new things along the way. We were immensely lucky to have worked with real doctors and patients from Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center.
This is a very difficult, but incredibly rewarding class. You get out of it what you put in, so definitely take advantage of the opportunities this class has to offer.
This class was one of the few times I came out of it thinking that I actually learned something very tangible, from working as a team, meeting deadlines, and learning on your own and immediately applying it. I thoroughly enjoyed getting to know the team and working together to create a great solution.
The course is pretty cool. This semester, we were able to learn the basics of the design process, and then actually have the chance to prototype a real device. That being said, it is a LOT of work, especially towards the end of the semester. I spent the majority of reading period, and a lot of finals period, working on the project. So just be careful with taking too many other difficult courses at the same time.
It's a great class where you get to work in groups. If you like doing hands on projects this is for you. But, be warned, a big focus of the class is also presentation skills, so its not a party all the time. Also, the pace picks up a lot at the end.
this is a class unlike any engineering course at Harvard. when you get to work on a project with 15 other people, you realize how much more difficult it is to finalize a real project in real life.
Put it a lot of work early on into the semester. Every one-hour assignment you could have done in January/February will magnify by April.
For what is is, it's done pretty well. You will not create a really amazing polished product at the end, but you'll create something that's pretty cool and the process is very important.
Do the section with Barry Griffin. Avoid Woody Yang
Great course if they maintain the design component.  Do everything you can to get into the design section rather than the research section; this holds even if you are not a design engineer.  Also be aware that this class is very heavily end-loaded; you will do almost nothing for two months, and then it will take over your life for the last month.
very time consuming and hard but well worth it
Be prepared for a course that will challenge you to actually complete a project and design something. It's something to be proud of but also quite stressful
This class requires a lot of teamwork and you must divide the responsibilities in order to get everything done on time.
Words cannot effectively describe this class. You won't know what it's like until you take it, and since SB engineers have to, it doesn't really matter. The pain you will feel in this class may be unbearable for some of you (not all, because it really depends on which section you have and what aspect of each project you end up working on), but when you come out of it at the end, you'll understand how much you've gained from that pain. Your engineering education would not be complete without this course. It's ridiculously necessary.
If you are looking to take this class, it means you are an SB candidate and have to take it regardless.  The nature of this class changes every year depending on what projects are chosen.  If there are multiple sections available take the one that lets you actually build something (the Farming Group this year).  Otherwise you will get to your senior year and have to do you Design Project without ever having step foot in the shop and knowing how to build things.  This class is what you make of.  Come up with a cool project idea and endure the 1st half of the class on the design process and other stuff and then you're cut loose and allowed to do your best.  There is also an emphasis on presentation skills.
The exposure to real-life engineering problems and processes you will get from this class are unique and invaluable. However, you should expect the course to be intimately related to the personalities/coaching methods of your professors and be prepared to adapt your approach to the material to their expectations. Also, be aware that the project you are assigned to has no predetermined solution. The semester will be full of frustrations, especially if the project is not well-defined.
This was the most painful class I've taken here, but also the class in which I've learned the most. In retrospect, it was necessary for the professors to be so hard on us throughout the semester, but don't come in to the class expecting an easy ride.
Prepare to spend more than 15-20 hours per week on this class. You reap what you sow. The people that you work with in your small group may determine what type of experience you have with the course.
I heard a lot of rough reviews about this class from upperclassmen, so I was rather wary going into it. In retrospect, though, while the class did indeed have its rough times, it was an extremely valuable and unique undergrad experience.
AWESOME.
Choose the right section!
The sooner you figure out the problem, the easier you life will be.
The class allows you to feel the pressure and excitement of designing a solution to a problem with access to funding, help from experts and professors, and a unique area of focus.  It is a good way to get ready for a Senior Thesis.
its tough and the professors seem hard on you sometimes but its all about helping you to produce something worthwhile and meaningful. Be open to criticism in this class, and make sure everyone in your group is on top of the problem at hand. this is a group effort!
The class was a lot of fun - it was great to be able to work on something that was actually applicable to real problems, and we were given the freedom to think creatively and spend time building our ideas.
The skills you develop in this class are easily transferrable to other non-engineering areas so it's definitely worth it.
Good class to take to get a different perspective into engineering. Might have its up's and down's but in the end, not so bad. Is a class more geared toward 'presentation skills' as an engineer instead of 'producing a hard product/solution'.
ES96 is a requirement for SB engineering, so there's no avoiding it.  Having said this, it provides a valuable opportunity to see the grind and gruel of pursuing a messy project, and working with team members of greatly varying skill and effort.  They also show cue comments from previous years at the beginning of class, so you can be assured they do read (some of) them.
It's required if you want to do a Bachelor of Science degree.
A necessary evil. Hope that individuals in your group speak your language and are similarly motivated.
ES 96 can at times be frustrating, but close interaction with senior faculty and a potentially meaningful real-world project make the class worthwhile.
The course that gave me the most grief this semester, especially due to push-and-pull passive-aggressiveness within groups.  The workload itself is not too intense, with much less actual work required than other ES and physical sciences courses.  It's kind of a trial by fire for SB students - you take it, you survive, and you may come out as a better engineer if that's what you want.
As long as you know what you're getting into which is consulting and not engineering, it's an interesting experience.
This class can be interesting but it's what you make of it.
Don't take this unless you have to. When you do, you'll either care about the project and end up picking up the work of all the people who are incompetent or don't care, or you'll be one of the people who are incompetent and don't care.
Best class I've taken at Harvard - I learned so much about engineering by integrating a bunch of discrete knowledge from different places into making one dress. Plus the mentality of the class - results are the only thing that matters - is incredibly motivating. Parker is great at pushing people - it's up to you how you react to him.
If you take Professor Parker's section, be aware that you will be held to the highest standard of your life.  You will endure a lot of criticism that you may not see as constructive.  You will work much harder than you have worked for other engineering classes, under much more pressure.  But you will accomplish something very fulfilling, and you will be proud of yourself at the end of the semester.
If there are multiple sections, or multiple working groups within a section, pick yours carefully, because it will drastically affect your semester.
if you are in parker's section, have resilience. no matter what he tells you, he is not the end all be all, even though he walks around like he is. he takes himself way to seriously, but the good news is you don't have to. whether he fails you or praises you is not an indication of your real world potential. don't let him get you down. you're better than that.
This class is by far the most difficult semester-long courses I have ever experienced.  You really have to work your butt off in odrer to succeed.  But assuming you really have passion for your project and put in a worthy amount of work, you will walk away feeling really proud of your accomplishments and will have had plenty of bonding time with other engineers and faculty.
It is worth it if you are required to take it, but beware of how much time it requires if you do not have to take it.
If you have to take this class, you will get the most out of it with Prof. Parker's section. He will push you to your absolute limit and then some, but you will leave the course having learned many specific engineering skills, and broader engineering skills that will help you later. You will feel like an engineer, finally. However, please only take Parker's section if you are willing to put most/all of your time this semester into ES96. If you don't have enough time to put into this class, you will not get nearly as much out of it. You will also let down the other members of your class who are your teammates and therefore their lives will be miserable because they will have to spend MORE time on Es96. Put a lot of effort into your other classes early in the semester so when you stop going to those classes or doing work for them later in the semester, you will still be fine. This class REALLY picks up in the last month, so try to get a head start as soon as you can. Try to pick a section where you have some interest or background knowledge, as it will make the project more fun (but you should still probably pick Parker). If you have the time to put into this class, it will change your life in a great way. You'll become close with your teammates and it's the most practical engineering experience you'll ever get at Harvard. If not, you will probably be miserable, get a bad grade, and not get much out of the experience.
Be ready to spend quite a few hours per week in this course.
The class is based off of a great idea - one project, one team, one outcome. Some tweaks are needed to turn that idea into a great class.
This is painful, but I'm willing to write this for you, future student. I feel morally compelled to think about last semester one last time for your sake before I bury it deep and just keep the lessons I've learned on tab for future notice. But before I tell you about the storm I've weathered, just know that if I could send a note back in time to myself from January that either reads "do it" or "don't do it," I would send "do it."From the trembling I experienced on the first day of class due to Professor Parker's intimidating stature, I knew that ES96 with Professor Parker would be unlike any class I had ever taken at Harvard.  From day 1, I was enticed by Professor Parker's sternness, his absolute command over the class, and his uncompromising harshness.  He was a lunatic, and proud of it.  I had never taken a class taught by a lunatic before. I had never been pushed by a militaristically demanding authority in my life, let alone in an academic context.  But I thought to myself, I can handle it. I have friends in the class, and I know that I will be able to impress him. What I failed to recognize at that point was the infectiousness of the crazy.  That was not a class with 1 crazy authority figure. No, it was actually a class with 1 crazy authority figure and 12 students who would quickly become crazy themselves.  Professor Parker planned the crazy.  He knew how to manipulate people to use "peer pressure" as a powerful tool to effect productivity. The class was a constant stress. Every 3 or 4 days you were responsible for presenting to the class what you've accomplished since last class using a thoughtful narrative expressed through powerpoint slides. In my first presentation, Professor Parker asked if one of my slides was a joke. To give a few highlights of the semester, I was told to "cut the undergraduate crap and start acting like a real engineer if that's what I want to do with my life." I was told that the physical pain of not sleeping for a night could not possibly be worse than the psychological pain I would endure by coming into class with unfinished slides. The last class involved Professor Parker telling us about all the young men and women whom he had sent home in caskets draped with American flags, and how they could not even begin to imagine the opportunities that we have here at Harvard.  Our client did not come to see our presentation of the product we made for them, the other professor of the class stopped coming to class roughly halfway through the semester, and I had anxiety attacks for the first time in my life.   To be fair, I did learn a lot about the design process. Professor Parker did not limit us with a budget. We were given free reins to explore and build anything we wanted to achieve our client's goals. It was fun at times, and I made a lot of friends with fellow engineers.  I could go on for pages, but let me just conclude by telling you to read every response on the Q with skepticism because Professor Parker told us he would read our Q Scores before deciding on our final grades. He also had us rank every student in the class (including ourselves) in order of how much that person contributed to the final product in typical reality television show fashion. Through this class, I learned to run from crazy. It is the most important lesson I could have learned, and some people don't learn it until well after college.  It is never too late to quit. You can tell yourself that your situation will get better, but things don't just get better--you need to make them better. If you don't want crazy in your life, then you need to walk away from it. Along with learning how to solder, and sew, and make presentation slides, and give presentations, and how to image samples using different microscopes, and how to use a spectrophotometer, and how to reach out to teaching staff, learning to run from crazy was a major takeaway from this class that I will keep with me for years to come.
I mean, you gotta take it.
It is a unique class at Harvard that exposes you to real life problems. It is very challenging and gives you a heads up of what to expect in your professional career if you intend to work as an Engineer after you graduate. It is really frustrating at times, partly due to lack of organization from the teaching staff, partly due to the laziness of some your classmates, partly due to changes in the circumstances such as the clients' needs, but believe it or not, this is how real life is!
Start prototyping early!
You are graded by your class mates and teaching staff on overall contribution and things you could have done better. Need to do a fair share of work and communicate well with rest of class. Assessed on what you get done.
Take this class with Prof. Habbal. Avi, Jackie, Kevin and Joe were amazing.
If you are shopping this course you probably have to take this course no matter what. It does represent a large time requirement and it will be a time crunch at the end of the term.
ES 96 with Kit Parker is an emotional roller-coaster. You will put more time into this course (40+ hours a week) than any other course you have taken before. I found this course to be incredibly rewarding - feeling a lot of my experiences as an engineer, and experiences working in groups, come full circle in a very cool way. However, it will be incredibly challenging and should not be signed up for lightly. Professor Parker is very difficult to work with. He will be very capricious, distracted, emotional, and unhelpful, but will also inspire you to bring out your best. Another element of this course, not to be taken lightly, is that you will be working with twelve other gifted engineers. Working in a group that large, especially one of opinionated Harvard students, is challenging to say the least - however I am of the strong opinion that this kind of group experience is invaluable.In short, this is a course that will frustrate you, push you to your limit, and make you grow in a big way throughout the semester. Depending on the day you ask me I will either say I hated this course or that it was one of the best I've ever taken. So I recommend the challenge, it was definitely one of the more growthful and rewarding experiences I've ever had, but only if you're willing to commit yourself fully to it.
You really need to have the time to put in and figure out what things are important to spend a bunch of time on for the class and what isn't.  It will be painful, but you'll have a very different, educational  experience than you've had in any of your other classes.  I had two other moderate-difficult engineering classes with this one....do not take three other hard classes.
Everyone should experience 96, even if it's not required for all SB's anymore. One of the few classes with the opportunity to see life beyond engineering school, to be influenced and to influence the "real world". You will hear [horror] stories about the class and they are likely all true. But you will learn so much about yourself and how you like to be led, taught, work, etc. You will question and suffer through Prof Parker's teaching methods. Some things he does help a lot (presentations) and some things are just stressful and feel very destructive (peer rankings).In all, take the course, and take it with Professor Parker. But clear out your schedule, find an outlet for the stress, and brace yourself.
Be prepared to work hard, and you better have thick skin.  Ultimately very rewarding.
This class does a good job in showing students what engineering consulting, but much of the time the class gets trampled on silly discussions and details that make the experience less rewarding. Take the class as an engineering, but please make sure you chose the right section and MORE IMPORTANTLY, the correct professor/s.
This class is a terrible part of the engineering requirements, but unfortunately we all have to suffer through it.  This class will cause endless amounts of frustration, as it's impossible to see the bigger picture purpose of what you're doing. In order to do well in this class, you will need to work extremely hard outside of class and provide lots of documentation of doing so.  You will need to draw lots of attention to yourself and also essentially make everyone else look bad by doing so if you want to get a good grade.  You should also write lots of things in your lab notebook, even if they don't seem relevant.
It's an intense course. Prepare to buckle down.
This class will push you like no other class at Harvard. It will prepare you for the real world and show you a glimpse of what life is like outside the Harvard bubble. It will require tremendous amounts of work, and you will receive several tongue-lashings every time you screw up. You will learn to manage your boss. You will learn to work in a team. You will learn to work with a client. You will learn to pull all-nighters.
Don't take this course with three other engineering courses. The last two weeks will be HELL.
You're only going to take this as a requirement so it doesn't matter anyway.
This class helped convince me not to be an engineer after graduation.
I loved this course because of the project and the team bonds that were formed within it.  To qualify this, I would not have enjoyed this course at all if we didn't have a team of dedicated troopers depending on us.  If we were doing this project inside of Harvard, it would not have been fulfilling
If you're doing the SB, sorry you have to take it. Else, don't take it.
This class was an extreme amount of work. In the end, it was very rewarding, and I really enjoyed our project, my teammates, and the teaching staff. But you should be prepared.
You get what you put into it.
Be ready for a course where the people who do the most work do not get the best grade.  Students become obnoxious with trying to promote themselves and make it seem like they did a lot of work when in fact they did not.  Also, the people who do little work spend all of their time filling up their lab notebooks making it seem like they did a lot while the students who actually do the work don't have time to write much in theirs.
The workload that I put into this course was the equivalent of three of my hardest engineering classes over the last three years put together. It was completely absurd. I'm not exaggerating. For about the last three weeks of the semester, I basically didn't go to any of my other classes, and only averaged about 4 hours of sleep a night over that time period. I basically lived in the basement of Maxwell Dworkin. That being said though, the final presentation was worth it. The client, the MSP, were some of the most impressive and inspiring people I have ever worked with, and giving a presentation that was good and benefited them made the whole semester worthwhile. I wouldn't recommend this class to anyone who doesn't have a ton of free time on their hands, but the reward at the end was worth it, although I can barely believe I'm admitting that. It was a course unlike any other you will ever take. Just taking a course with Professor Parker is the experience of a lifetime, haha. But ES96 is entirely what you make of it. If you put in a ton of time and effort, you will get a lot out of it. Otherwise, you'll get nothing. It's not a course for the faint of heart.
This class was the hardest of my semester, but was also the most rewarding.  You will be pushed to the limit, but the product you create in the end will have been worth it.
This class has its highs and lows. The highs include learning cool things while working on a real world problem and being able to design and deliver an actual product. The lows include all the logistics of needing to keep a notebook and the fact that you have to deal with students who do not do or contribute anything. It is frustrating when you wonder whether or not the course faculty can pick up the fact that some students are not doing any work while others are doing it all.
You have to take it, so there's that. Work and work and work. Not real preparation for a start-up, but probably close to a (slow-moving) engineering design firm
Obviously you have to take it if you're an engineer. It is a very painful, very long, and very difficult course which no one should take unless they have to. Meager work-to-reward ratio. You can count on zero hands the number of sections which go the whole semester without someone crying in class.
Just like every other year, your experience with ES96 depends on your section, your classmates, and your willingness to do well with the project. Do not expect this class to be about design but rather it's a class where the students need to determine what the problem actually is and then realize what the best solution is. Then depending on your section, you may or may not be able to build something. The professors can be helpful, but what they don't tell you is that the students are the ones who should be running the class. Elect one or two people to be the class leaders - or you can rotate through who the leader ill be week by week. But it was very helpful to have a student set an agenda for class so that you only spent your class time on what matters. And it was really helpful to have a student make sure everything was organized and people were responsible for their part of the project. And finally, if you aren't spending a significant amount of time on this class in the beginning of the semester, you will be spending a lot more time on it at the end. This should be your most time intensive class of the semester, so take that into consideration. The final presentation and report are not taken lightly.
An amazing experience.  Prof. Parker expects far more than any other Prof, but pushing through and trying to meet his expectations is worth it.  If you stick it out and are still standing at the end you will be better for it.  This course has taught me far more than any other course at Harvard.
Do everything in your power to avoid being in a section taught by Professor Parker or Professor Yang. They have no respect for student's time or commitments outside of the class. To them, this class is the only one you're taking and it's "supposed to be hard". Expect unwarranted personal attacks, bad tempers, cursing, unreasonable time requests. They treat you like you are a grad student in that they expect you to drop whatever you are doing at any time and be at their beck and call to work on ES96. This wouldn't be bad if this were literally your only class during the semester - in fact, it would be quite interesting, challenging and rewarding work - but under the realistic constraints of having to take 3-4 other courses simultaneously, buckle up, because this is going to be a semester of hell.
Miserable! We got attacked during lecture regularly, and the expectations of us changed weekly.
Be prepared for this class to take a lot of time if taken with Professor Parker.
If you take this class with Professor Parker, you will learn is how to cope with a difficult and demanding boss, how to work harder than you've ever worked before, how to sacrifice social life and sleep, how to scrape by in your other classes, and how to push a project to completion despite the unreasonableness of the timeline and scope of the project. This is not an enjoyable course and if you choose to take it your semester will very likely be quite miserable.
Great class where students have the opportunity to gather real world engineering experience. Takes quite an amount of time, but is worth it in the end!
The Anderson/McKinney section has an amazing teaching staff. Really get to know them and ask them any questions you have about engineering. You won't be disappointed in the teaching staff. Your classmates will also most likely be pretty solid in terms of working together to get something done, but there might be people you work better with. Just be aware that you should be flexible in your working styles and don't flake - the entire team depends on every part working, so your part is crucial, no matter what part of the project you're on.
This course requires 2 things.  Thick skin and an absurd time commitment.  However, if you are committed to putting the work in and not afraid to receive feedback at the most critical level, you will not regret taking this course.
Do not take this class if you plan on having any outside life, performing well in any of your other classes, or need praise or clear expectations. However, it has been one of the top five most formative experiences of my life, and I am incredibly grateful for the class, my peers, the skills I learned, the product I created, the connections with powerful and brilliant minds, and the interaction with the most invested professor I have ever encountered. He's incredibly busy, but his desire to see you succeed and accomplish perfection is truly inspiring.
This class should definitely be one of your priorities in whatever semester you choose to take this is, because it will be a serious time commitment.  That aside, working with Jim, Karena, Marco, and Norton in the Anderson Group Labs is REALLY AWESOME and I highly recommend it.  Especially if you are interested in atmospheric chemistry and may do something along these lines for your thesis.
Have to be self-motivated to do well and stay on top of this course. Developing that motivation yourself is the most important way you'd be able to benefit.
Parker is one of the worst professors I have ever had and I have no idea how he is allowed to teach. His expectations are unrealistic and he contributes nothing himself. He expects you to do the stupidest things without questioning him. Wasted so much time doing the most useless things. Dont be stupid and take this class.
this class gives great experience with working in a team to complete high detail engineering projects. the staff gave great attention to each of us to make sure we were making progress and learning as much as possible.
The Anderson group is great! They are always willing to help, and they are reasonable with deadlines.  You'll work long hours, but learn a lot in the process.
This class is very time-consuming and demanding, but it is one of the best classes you will take as an engineering student. It teaches you how to work together as a team and use everything you have learned thus far to accomplish something that you can be proud of and look back on someday.
Take with anyone but Kit Parker.
Be prepared for one helluva semester.  This course is by far the most demanding course but by far the course that I feel I've benefitted from.  I've taken with me academic lessons, life values, and new relationships from this course.  We were also able to complete an extremely fascinating project that hopefully redefines the way people approach BBQ.
This class was a waste of time. We did not really even learn the design process. Presentations seemed repetitive and superfluous. The teaching staff already knew what we were supposed to do, so we had little input. The project scope was too grand and too complex that it could truly be grasped by students, making us 100% reliant on the teaching staff. While this class is supposed ot be student-run this just wasn't the most feasible when working with complex optics and structures that are very expensive. The idea of prototyping something was not really manageable in this class. Take the BBQ class instead.
This is a difficult but very fulfilling course just as your engineering career will be
This class will test you as an engineer and human being. I pretty much said goodbye to a well adjusted social life as I pulled all-nighters, had early saturday morning labs, was berated by the professor, but also praised. Prepare yourself. Don't take 5 classes if you're taking this, you will only let down the rest of your team. If you don't do well with harsh intense criticism, don't work with Parker. If you wo
This class was "life changing" for me. It reaffirmed my love for engineering and gave me career direction. However, the style in which it is given is far from any hard class. There is much more than academics involved. Professor Parker will make this class personal. At moments he will cross the line because he expects nothing less than perfect (and there s no such thing as perfect in his eyes). His methods of motivation are effective but harsh. This class will teach you what it's like to be working in the most competitive and high stress environment you will most likely ever encounter as a professional engineer. This class should not be taken lightly. It is no normal fourth class. It is the equivalent of two highly demanding and highly rigorous courses. There are many reasons why you should not take this class; however, these reasons are the same as those that would discourage you from taking what are sometimes the most rewarding jobs. Yes I felt very pressured and yes I was overworked beyond any imaginable standard but if I had to take this class all over again, I would take it in a heartbeat. It taught me skills that are essential for an engineer (more than any other class I have taken) and has educated me on what it's like to be working in some of the most high stress environments out there.
In many aspects, it was a waste of time. Sure, you learn the design process, but I could have learned the fundamentals in a day long workshop. Students had minimal input on the design. Many times I would design something, just to have it be rejected and modified to the specificities of the teaching staff. Many hours were spent readjusting something I did not even design. This class had a lot of potential, but the fact is that what I created, I cannot say was my own. Therefore, I am not proud of my work, and feel as if I have nothing to show for this class. Sure, we went through the "design process" reiterating and readjusting things, but those changes were not my thoughts - they were the teaching staff.ES 96 should choose something that is more creative and less precise and accurate in order for students to truly grow. ***This project was too narrow and there were too many specifications handicapping students from truly deisnging something that they can call their own.*****
You will spend too much time on this class, and Professor Parker can be annoyingly tedious.  He's a nice guy, but I didn't care for him as a professor.  If you can avoid a class with Parker, you probably should.
As I'm sure you've heard countless times before, ES96 is hard work, but it is incredibly rewarding. It isn't a class that gives you a problem to solve, but rather a class that makes you define a problem to solve and that is actually one of the biggest challenges. By the time that you take this course, you will have plenty of knowledge already that can be used to solve many kinds of problems so that part won't be too challenging. It will be hard work, but not too terribly challenging. What is tricky is on defining your problem, but once you learn how to do this, you become a much better engineer and person.
Be careful about taking this course. There will be little guidance the first few weeks, but the teaching staff will fully expect that you already know what you're doing. They won't pamper you, and they will be harsh most of the time. Expect to be doing ONLY this course the last two weeks of school, and your entire reading period. All in all, one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, but also one of the hardest in terms of teacher-student understanding.
This class was awesome this year because of the teaching staff. Jim Anderson's lab team is incredible. If there is ever a course that works with them, be sure to take it!
96 is a hard class that requires dedication, but if taught in the right way could be one of the best classes in your Harvard career. I thought that all of the time put in was worth it because we were able to go through the entire design process in a semester and have a working prototype that our team had fully designed.I enjoyed the experience but it is very dependent upon the teaching staff and the project that is being done.
Fantastic class in Professor Anderson's section. We went through the whole engineering process as a team and had great access to the instructors, who were so willing to answer any and all questions.
If you have the opportunity to work with the Anderson Research Group, take it! It will be a little more work than the other sections offered, but the rewards are much much greater.
Depending on the teaching staff and the particular topic you experience will vary. This year we got to work on Fukushima under the leadership of Woodward Yang and Fawwaz Habbal - both have done some amazing work in their past and it was a privilege and honor to learn from them. The class was basically consulting - you don't have to build anything but rather analyze the problem and propose a detailed solution - great if you like the thinking and analysis aspect of engineering but do not want to get your hands dirty with building a gadget. If you're SB you have to take it and if you're AB you should also go for it - it will be worth it in the end. Also, a clarification, Yang and Habbal will not terrorize you the way Kit Parker apparently did in previous years.
If you have the option to take ES96 with Profs Anderson and McKinney, DO IT. The entire teaching staff is incredibly kind and helpful. This class of ES96 became really close and worked really hard together; this was facilitated by the atmosphere created partly by the teaching staff. The task was hard and the expectations were high so we certainly struggled through a real world challenge like ES96 is meant to be. However, this iteration of ES96 was different from what I've heard of ES96 in the past. We designed and built something that will be implemented. We did a lot of work, but I can certainly say that I enjoyed ES96 and it was an incredible learning experience.
This class is much better than the other 96 section. You start the brainstorming, design, and initial construction of an atmospheric instrument that will actually be deployed and generate important data. You will be part of a team of about 20 junior engineers who make this happen over the course of the semester. This class is a LOT of work, but it is very rewarding, and you will emerge as a much better and well-informed engineer than before the course started.
I worked on the stratospheric instrument with the Anderson group. I think the instrument that we designed was awesome and required a lot of technical skills; however, we didn't finish as much as should have been possible as a lot of the meeting time was spent inefficiently. All of the teaching staff who contribute to this project are really nice and helpful. Assuming things are run more efficiently next year, I'd definitely recommend working on the new project for next year.
I really enjoyed working with Karena and Jim Anderson. They have been running ES96 sections for a while and they're really easy to learn from and get along with.
Aim for a section with a project that lends itself to a more physical solution.
The two ES96 for the Spring 2017 are very different. The Anderson section is more comparable to industry where you are presented with a thing to build and you have to determine how best to do it, whereas in the Habbal/Lombardo section you are given a broad problem and have to identify what part of it you actually want to tackle. I suggest you shop each section and talk to upperclassmen before deciding which is best for you.
This class is hard and very time-consuming, but it can be so rewarding as well. You really do get out of it what you put into it. I was in the McKinney/Anderson section, and while my understanding is that it was slightly more structured than the fall Mooney or spring Habbal/Lombardo sections, I felt like that structure allowed us to tackle and reach some satisfying end on a much more complex and technical problem.There's still plenty of room to explore and carve out pieces of the problem interesting to you and your engineering discipline, and the teaching staff in my experience are all great at guiding you and letting you try (and maybe fail) at things. I will add that the gender and group dynamics can be frustrating but that's not necessarily a fault of this class, just a general group project or engineering thing probably.
96 can be difficult at times but is ultimately a great experience. It's different than almost any other class you can take at Harvard. Jim and Karena were great to work with and I would recommend taking their section in the future if it's offered.
The Fawwaz and Chris section of the course really illustrates the human, open-ended side of engineering. It's a great experience for those who are interested in more than just the technical side of engineering.
i did not enjoy it at all
This class can be very frustrating. My section was very much student driven and it was on us to move the class forward. It felt like we were floundering for a lot of it. We spent so many classes just talking about what to do and not actually doing anything.
This is required for SB engineers but the section your in really matters. Try and take one that seems actually interesting.
if you want an easy section take it with fawaz and christhey waste your time but ironically talk about "engineer hours" as if it is valuablechris is pretty arrogant and talks in an annoying voice (but you can get over that)fawaz is very nice but also pretty spacey
This course gave me a picture of what it is like to work on a team of engineers on a multidisciplinary project. It introduced me to the field of atmospheric chemistry research, and instilled in me a passion to work to solve some important environmental challenges. Awesome course overall, with amazing course staff.
You are probably taking this course because it is an engineering SB track requirement. The section/project is everything for ES96. This was the worst course of my undergraduate career. However, it was because I disliked the leadership and topic of my section. Consequently, it is important that you are interested in the topic and feel confident that it will be led well. This course starts off very light but picks up rapidly at the end. Be aware of this towards the end of the semester when you have to budget for time you may not have had to dedicate in the first half of the semester.
This class is very different from the traditional course. Expect to dedicate a lot more time at the end of the semester and to work substantially in a collaborative manner. Make sure you put in the time at the beginning of the semester to narrow the problem scope and ideate a solution so you can work continuously throughout the semester rather than waiting until the end.
Moreso than engineering knowledge, you learn how to work in a team dynamic, how to coordinate between multiple groups with different responsibilities, and how to communicate and discuss ideas.Your experience in this class is highly dependent on the teaching staff and the client selected.
If you want a course that's more science intensive I would choose the other ES 96 section. As long as you attend lecture and the outside meetings for this class you should be able to do well in this course.
It's required for SB candidates.
Though this course may seem very daunting, it is an engineering requirement for S.B. students for a reason. This course actually gave me the confidence that I can be an engineer, a good engineer, capable of doing the tasks that engineers do. The work that is done in this class synthesizes the classroom knowledge gained in foundational engineering classes into marketable and functional engineering skills. This course also gives you the opportunity to work on engineering tasks outside of your specific concentration, which I found to be both challenging and exciting.
This class is time consuming and quite hard at times.  However it is very rewarding to be working on such an important project and to have a large impact on the direction that it takes.
This class takes a lot of time! You will need to vote for strong and amazing student and projects leader.
Best course at Harvard, hands down. Favorite course so far, and truly the most rewarding. It is a lot of hard work, but you will come out of this course as a mature engineer with the skills necessary to work on real-world problems and the ability to work on teams. You will spend insane amounts of time outside of class, but if you are a true engineer and problem-solver, you will not mind it at all. Professor Mooney and his teaching staff are nothing short of spectacular. Mooney's knowledge of engineering design is second to none, and his teaching staff really cares about your success in the course. This serves as a great career determinant as well; if you love this course, then engineering is right for you. To wrap up, best class at Harvard. Take it!!!
Just be careful not to have a difficult reading week in addition to this class.  This class will require at least 8 hours of work per day during reading week, and any other time-intensive project will not be feasible with this class.
Take if Mooney is teaching.
take this class!! you will learn how to identify a problem and create working solutions under time pressure. you'll learn how to present well and you'll become really good friends with your peers!
This was the most amazing class I have ever taken at Harvard. It was super super intense. It felt like taking two classes at once in terms of time commitment. I would absolutely recommend it but make sure you have the time to devote to it, its not fair to your classmates if you bail out on them all the time.
ES 96 was the highlight of my semester and I really enjoyed both the teamwork developed through the class as well as how concepts from many different classes come together. Do not underestimate how much work this class is and despite how much you pre-plan, your reading week / leading up to it will be crazy. Nonetheless, this class really ties together academic and social understanding and teaches you how to iteratively think of the real world and make an impact.
be prepared to have a ton of work and have no life outside of this class sometimes
It's a great experience. One of the best I've taken at Harvard. Become very close with classmates all working towards producing a great product.
This class is as difficult as you want it to be. Follow the suggestions of the teaching staff because it all pays off at the end of the course. Know your limits and try not to take on a project that you'll end up having to scale back dramatically at the end or not finish.
"This is the Harvard you see in all the brochures". This has been one of the best class experiences I've ever had at Harvard. You're given a client with a vague goal, and through narrowing down a specific problem statement and brainstorming solutions, you eventually come to the creation of a prototype (or three). This class gives engineers the opportunity to work cross-discipline on long-term design projects, which mimics real-world projects very well. You really get to know your classmates, and have the opportunity to explore a wide variety of engineering techniques hands-on. It can get time consuming towards reading period as the project due date approaches, but I'm incredibly glad I took it and the long nights were absolutely worth it.
If it's a concentration requirement for you, you just have the bite the bullet and get it over with.  If not, unless you're really interested in the engineering design process or that semester's client, I'd recommend spending your time on something else.  This class is very time consuming and often very frustrating.  You gain a lot of experience in following an idea all the way through to the prototyping and testing stages, but unless it's required, it's not really worth all the effort.
How good this class is will entirely depend on the project and professor. Although in any case you can expect to be given a lot of last minute assignments, presumably to try and simulate a real-world consulting experience.
Find out which problems are being tackled by the ES96 sections your junior year, and try to pick one you find interesting. The class is great if you are invested in the project.
It's a really enjoyable class if you put your time and effort into it. The project is different each semester and for different sections, but generally it's a cool experience because you get to work on a giant team with all of your classmates on an interesting project that really challenges you to think in different ways than you are used to. There are no formal instructions nor will the professor tell you how to solve problems. You will get the chance to work on a real-world problem the way that people do it in industry. I would recommend it even if you are not an engineering SB concentrator because it's challenging in a fun way and you really bond with your classmates.
Fun course but that will depend on topic (which changes each semester/section), prof, and group of students. All teamwork so having a good team makes or breaks the experience.
Your team for this class will pretty much determine your overall experience with the course -- you will spend a ton of time with them, which can be really fun to make new friends, but definitely requires a lot of teamwork and compromising for the final product to be a success
It is all about how your team works together so try to make it work well from the start
Be prepared to really engage with this course. You are bound to learn a lot of really essential skills about presenting and project management, but if you are excited about it you can also have a really positive experience getting to know your classmates.
The final few weeks are extremely(!) busy, but ultimately it was a great course and you'll learn a lot about yourself and how to work on a large, undefined project.
I assume that one's experience in this course depends wildly on the project and the professor.  Prof. Howe often sprung assignments on us (and lengthy or time-consuming ones at that), so I always had to have time set aside for ES 96 surprises.  His (stated) philosophy on the class was to dunk students into various activities, such as project planning or presenting, and then correct our mistakes after the fact, which I found more frustrating than productive, and wasted us a lot of time.  That being said, he clearly cares a lot about the class going well and tried to make himself available to students throughout the semester.
ES96 will by far be one of the best courses you take at Harvard. Consider taking this even if it's not required for you! You get to spend a semester taking ownership of a real-world project and creating something you are proud of. Some of the people you work with are also incredible, and may even become some of your best friends! It is a lot of work, so don't take the class lightly. However, it is some of the most enjoyable and satisfying work you will find yourself doing at Harvard.
I had an amazing experience in this class--the best group work experience I've ever had!
96 is a beast of a class, but if the topic is good, it can be very rewarding. Working on the SEAS move to Allston was particularly exciting for us to dive into. Be prepared to spend a tremendous amount of time particularly at the end during the presentation and report writing phase.
It's a lot of time and a lot of frustration as you seek to become an industry-standard expert in a field and put a product on the table in one semester.
This is an excellent class to learn to work in a big team. The whole teaching staff is great, and prof. Jim Anderson is one of the nicest professors I have met in Harvard. I certainly feel more confident in my teamwork and presenting abilities after this class.
Pick a project that you are passionate about and make sure to commit to being in good relationship with your group. You get what you put into the course.
This class is very open ended so it's crucial that you're interested in the kinds of project and time management problems that are associated with open ended projects. You learn a lot about how you function in groups and how to manage a project through this course.
The Anderson Group is conducting breaking research on the topic of climate science, and it is truly an honor to be able to work in their group. The teaching staff for the Anderson iteration of ES96 is extremely helpful, and you are bound to learn a lot from them in this class.
This class is what you make of it. It teaches you so much about the design process and gives you the opportunity to make something that really matters. I would recommend choosing a section with a bigger focus on research and ideation. Some sections may offer cool projects but restrict you in terms of this. ES96 has the opportunity to teach a lot in terms of creativity, which is invaluable for an engineer.
I took this with Howe. I get the course's philosophy and purpose, and it's a great philosophy and purpose. But in practice, it is very poorly executed. It is, at the end, an awful course, in which you will be forced to jump through hoop after hoop. You will be asked to do things for no reason but to do them--a weekly presentation that everyone BS-es, a lab notebook that everyone literally just completes the night before they are due to be checked, and everyone going through the motions of doing research. So many things are superfluous and don't contribute to anything but your meaningless workload. You will think you have agency over your project, but the instructors will actually have a particular way they want the project done and will "guide" you towards what they want--their manipulation in this sense was evident. We focused on a topic that was not of interest to anyone--neither the mechanical, electrical, or biomedical engineers were interested in the topic of climate change. It is not relevant to our fields at all. Also, I did not feel like we were useful at all--we were literally presenting limited, skewed, and sometimes blatantly inaccurate information to experts, and it was often embarrassing and pointless.
It teaches you team work
You will learn so much about the design process and real-life skills, but at times is frustrating and tedious to spend hours researching solutions to a problem that all of the professors and engineers already know a solution to.
T
ES 96 was a great class where we had the opportunity to work on an actual engineering design & build project. Our project was to build an instrument that could detect trace levels of HCl in the stratosphere. The best part of the class was doing the actual design and assembly of the parts we had designed. We worked in sub-teams, each of which focused on a different system of the instrument, which was fun and efficient. Start designing, CADding, and calculating early! That is the coolest part of the class and you learn a lot of engineering that way. The teaching staff was fantastic and extremely helpful and taught us a lot.
BEST CLASS AT HARVARD. You learn what it really means to work in a group, to be an engineer and to come up with real life solutions. Take it with Professor Anderson.
This was a good ES96 section and I feel like I really learned a lot about engineering and especially how to work in a large team. Especially at the start of the course, it can seem like the staff knows exactly how to build the instrument and is just leading you along - but that's really not true, try not to get discouraged and really try to learn the theory behind the instrument's operation.
Take a section with a project that interests you and people you want to work with.  You will get to know your team very well--which was be a good thing or a bad thing.  The open-ended nature of the course is really great and lets you define what you learn, and our final deliverable was very rewarding.
Choosing the right ES96 section makes a large amount of difference. I would choose one that has a tangible product at the end and is not completely a consulting task with a final report.
This class was great. I was in Jim Anderson and Karena Mckinney's section and they were amazing. They were always so helpful throughout the semester and the project we worked on was very interesting.
When choosing your section, take the section leaded into account just as much as the actual topic. Different professors teach very different versions of the class and it would be worth your time to talk to students who have already taken the course to find out more about each section leader.
I would definitely take this course again, given the right topic. It's a great chance to learn about the engineering process, to meet interesting people, and to potentially create something tangible and impactful.
This course was great! I learned so much and created something very impressive!
This course was a great experience in working in a large group to solve a substantial engineering and science problem. I learned a great deal about time management and organizing multiple groups to converge on a single project. It was a lot of fun to work with my peers in engineering as well as the incredible teaching staff of this class.
If you're an SB concentrator, you don't have a choice whether to take this. That being said, the Anderson Lab one is a fairly painless way to get it done. Their lab does fairly interesting work, and the teaching staff (engineers who work in the lab) are awesome.
This class is one of the best I've taken here. It feels just like a real world problem. The skills you get out of this class aren't technical, but they are some of the most valuable I've gained here at Harvard.
