Very good class. It is pretty difficult, but you learn a lot and get to do a lot of cool things.
I would say that the lab and project components of the course are very strong, but that the lecture component and teaching styles are sometimes hard to effectively apply to the circuit design.
An absolutely amazing class with the right teaching staff. Hands down one of my favorite courses here at Harvard. You not only learn an incredible amount of material, but ES 52 almost feels like a family by the end
Teaching staff and labs are the highlights of the course. I've never had a course where the lab was so integral and helpful to understanding class material. I've also never enjoyed lab this much, because this was the first course where I felt lab was truly relevant and interesting.
The lab portion of this class may take up a decent amount of time, but it's fun if you enjoy building and designing circuits.
This course will teach you a lot about practical electronics, the final project is an awesome opportunity to build something really amazing, and this class definitely gives you the tools to do so. The entire experience is great. And the current TF's are some of the best / most helpful people I have ever met at Harvard.
There's no better way to learn electronics at Harvard than in this class. It demands a good deal of time between 3 hours of class and 5-6 hours of lab per week, but the payoff is a really strong practical understanding of circuits and electronics from just a semester-long class. David and Avi are phenomenal teachers; they are unbelievably knowledgeable and very committed to students' learning and succeeding in ES52. And don't be intimidated by David: he's direct and at times quite blunt, but not mean in the slightest.
It takes some effort to get a hold of the initial concepts but if you work through the initial hurdles, you will be prepared for some really cool material.I took this over ES 50 and was pleased with the course.
A great course. Two labs a week take a significant amount of time but if you were to pick a Harvard course that takes you from knowing nothing into a decently competent thinker and engineer in a semester, this would be it.
This class is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. After this class, you will not believe how much you have learned and grown as a student. Remember to always go to TAs and professors for help.
This class deals at a lower level than ES50. You want to take it if you're going to be doing prototyping on breadboards at some point, and you want to understand a bit better about how circuits work. David is kinda mean, but so is life, so don't let it deter you.
This is a hands on class with a slightly significant work load. Take it if you're really interested in designing electronic circuits.
This was an amazing class!

It is a very large time commitment (8 hrs for lab/lecture plus time for readings and psets) but you get a lot out of it. As long as you put in a decent amount of effort and make sure you never fall behind by going to office hours and such you will learn so much! I was amazed by the projects everyone was able to create by the end especially considering that most of us had no prior circuit experience.

Avi and professor Abrams trade off teaching and are both really great lecturers. Also, both of them are always there for lab and have lots of office hours. During lab, Professor Abrams usually makes me feel like I am in massive amounts of trouble when I ask him questions so I'm a little afraid of him... But honestly he is very nice, just very blunt so try not to let it bother you. Avi is a lot kinder in how he approaches explanations and I always found it a lot easier to talk to him. Both of them are incredibly helpful, put a lot of work into the course and really want to see the students succeed.

My only warning would be cs. They say you don't need any coding background but you actually do. You will need to write some programs in arduino code which is basically C. I took CS50 concurrently and was fine.
be prepared to spend ten hours per week in this class between lecture and lab.  You will only be looking at about 3 hours outside of it, but then a ton of time on the final project.  Avi and David are amazing especially as the semester goes on, and you learn more material.
I loved ES 52! I had taken ES 50 already, which is a nice overview, but it didn't really give me a strong foundation. I came out of ES 52 with much more confidence in my circuit-designing skills. The labs and project all build on knowledge taught earlier in the course, which helped reinforce the learning.
I don't think I've ever learned so much practical information in a single course. I went in with the attitude that electronics are magic, and came out with the attitude that I can take on a wide array of design challenges. I feel like I could invent some really cool things if struck with the ideas. Professor Abrams and Avi are extremely helpful if you just take the time to approach them. You may struggle at first (I definitely did), but know that if you put in a bit of effort you can get a lot out of this course.
If you're a mechanical engineer student trying to fulfill your electronics requirement, I'd recommend this one over Physics 123. I mean this one is pretty time extensive, but the difficulty is pretty fair. Things do get a little hectic around final project time, but it's manageable. In your schedule, this should go down as one of your harder classes.
If you are interested in electrical engineering at all, take this course.
This class provides a great foundation for circuitry and electronics. It's very hands-on, and the labs, psets, and exams work well together to ensure that you learn the materials. Great course to take for any engineer.
Interesting course, but can be a big time commitment because of lab. Concepts can be difficult to grasp.
Perfect EE breadth course for MEs.
Really fun class, with a focus on the lab portion of the class. The staff really know their stuff, and are incredibly helpful with the labs, and especially the final project. I feel like I definitely learned a lot, but I might not have without already having taken ES50. I don't know how Physics 123 is, but for any EE's, it might be better to take that class instead, since it's supposed to cover more things in greater depth.
Take this class if you really want to learn electronics, you need to like the material to enjoy the class. If you want a flashy class thats a fun gened and will give you an easy time take es50. If you like electricity though this class is amazing and will challenge you alot but also expand your knowledge and interest.
This course has the potential to be really really great, so don't be disappointed by the q guide scores if they aren't great. This was the first semester the course was offered and they're planning on making a lot of changes for the better. That said, I still really enjoyed this course as it was. The labs are really cool- you build things like a heart monitor, digital dice, flashlight, audio amplifier and equalizer etc. The labs are fun and you have to apply a lot of the principles of analog and digital circuitry that you learn. The course is pretty low stress - the problem sets aren't difficult at all. Most of the work is spent in lab trying to finish the lab projects, sometimes you have to go in outside of class to finish them up. The exams are manageable but you need to make sure you understand the material. For the final project, don't set too high expectations for yourself. It's better to set moderate expectations and exceed them. Ask for help often in lab.
This class gave a solid introduction to digital and analog electronics. There was some new-course roughness at time, but overall a very useful course. Take the course if you want to develop the basic skillset necessary to approach more complicated electronics problems.
This is definitely a better alternative to Physics 123, but but it was still a lot of work, most of which was quite unstructured seeing how it was taught for the first time this semester.  It has a really sharp learning curve, but the material is enjoyable. The book was complicated, had mistakes and never made sense, and lectures were even more confusing than the book. Also, I wouldn't recommend taking this class without having taken ES50 or another intro circuits class. They say that you can take this class as your first EE class ever and that they'll teach you everything, but you'll struggle because some of these concepts need you to spend more than just 2-3 days on in order to fully grasp.
Be prepared to spend more time on the lab component of this course than the allotted hours of lab during regular class time. Also, do not think this is an easy introductory engineering course. It is certainly not as hard as ES 154 or Phys 123, but it is considerably more conceptually difficult than ES 1, ES 6, ES 51. That being said, if you want to get hand on experience with electronics and build a really cool project at the end of the course, take this class!
An essential course to gain experience with practical electronics.
Prior engineering background a must.
this is class is about picking up practical knowledge so don't just focus on finishing the labs. make sure you have an understanding of why things work. if you don't, you'll have a hard time on exams and the final project. also try to be creative with the final project and do research on the parts you plan to order to make sure they are compatible. don't be afraid of abrams. he's intimidating but he doesnt bite.
The class is new so naturally there's a lot of disorganization. The teaching staff, however, are trying really hard to reduce that. Both Avi and professor Abrams are very helpful and can sometimes sit down with you for hours to figure out why stuff is not working or to explain concepts you do not understand.The course is very fast paced though, so it is important to go over finished labs at home to make sure you understand everything before moving on to new topics.
The class was fairly unorganized because it was a new course, but it will get better. It's difficult to stay focused during the whole 3 hour period. Avi is definitely the saving grace of the course; he is always available and willing to help. Overall, not a bad way to fulfill the EE requirement for mechanical engineers.
You learn alot in the class, but there are still many kinks to be worked out since it is a new class.
This course is incredible. If you have no background whatsoever in electromagnetism it may be a bit more challenging, but for science people this is a really fun, interesting, easy course.
I really loved this class, and it will go down as one of my favorites I've taken at Harvard. As an electrical engineer I feel that it gave me the necessary tools to understand circuits and how they work, and think that this course will only continue to improve over time. The instructors are both great and willing to help you out and debug your circuits. Overall, a challenging course that was always interesting and fun as each class has a lab section in which you are designing and creating functional circuits.
This course is a real time-suck.  You will be spending a lot of time tinkering in the basement of Maxwell Dworkin.  I would make sure to buy the recommended book, as it is an excellent supplement to the material covered and will most likely prove helpful when studying for the midterms or when just trying to understand a concept that went over your head in lecture.  That being said, lectures weren't the most helpful in my opinion; they were usually too fast paced.
If you want to learn electronics in a practical way, take this course.  You end up being able to understand more circuits and increase your confidence in making new things.
This was a new course so there were organization issues but this class has a lot of potential to be really amazing. It is lab heavy so it is very hands on, which I loved. Avi is amazing and it is a shame to go without ever working with him. There is a final project in place of a final and doing the final project is incredibly fun and rewarding when you have a physical accomplishment of all your hard work. It was a pain when the prof kept assuming we knew certain things that many of the students didn't know, which made completing assignments annoying. But homework is graded on completion so that's a plus. Also the prof is fairly condescending so prepare.
This class was really interesting, fun, and applicable. The only problems I had with it were due to lack of organization, etc because it was the first offering of the class. These things are bound to improve for further semesters
Completion grading is great, the quizzes are very reasonable/fair and the staff is helpful and easygoing. In return, you'll need to be prepared to spend a lot of time in lab. You pay for the positives of this course with your time.
Be prepared to read the textbook, and spend time outside regular hours to really go through your labs and make sure that you are understanding what you are doing and not building for the sake of building, but designing for the sake of learning.
In terms of a hands-on design class, it was awesome and I had a good time. If you can wait, this course in two years when they've really got things figured out. I think the next time it will be offered it will probably be better - Avi and Professor Abrams are cool guys, but the organization was poor and the expectations for the course were confusing.
Good class, but more time consuming than expected. A lot of the labs too a long time.
Very fun class, learned a lot.  This is a good class to take before 154 and 156 if you are an electrical engineer because it introduces you to a lot of the material without the theoretical and mathematical rigor.
This is a great option for fulfilling your electronics requirement.  The labs are time intensive but the homeworks are pretty light and the theoretical component of the course is helpful but doesn't dive too deep.  The course definitely needs some polishing but I'd recommend it over what I've heard from P123.
For the non EE, this is the best way to fulfill the electronics criteria and give you enough useful breadth about the subject. For EE and people on the fence, this class fantastic introduction to the topic. Besides that, you learn an incredible amount of material that is actually useful, a rare quality at Harvard. This class also allow you to gain intuitive understanding of electronics and build circuits. Some pacing issues was apparent along, and there was confusing approaches to certain topics since it was the first time it's offered, but the teaching staff are adamant about improving the course over time.
This class is not as in depth as the one it is supposed to replace (PS 123 I think?) and won't teach you as much, but is fun, not the most difficult course on the planet, and still a good way to learn.
It's a great introductory course to electrical engineering.  You cover a large variety of topics and it is very hands on!
The only reason I am not giving a "recommend with enthusiasm" is because the course was very disorganized (first year problems...?). Also, this is not an intro course. You need at least ES50 or you will be strained by the pace. Avi is fantastic! Professor Abrams is also great once you figure out his teaching style.
This course is a great course. While it starts off with a pretty steep learning curve, the course gets very interesting and engaging once you get the hang of the materials.
Pretty well organized with lectures being quite applicable to the pests. Labs were good and helped reinforce and teach concepts from lecture. Overall a good class but takes a lot of time.
This is a great course! You learn a lot about circuits and by the end can design and build projects of substantial complexity. Building in lab takes time, but outside assignments are trivial. Start the final project early.
This is a pretty good course. I would certainly take this over Physics 123 or CS141 for Mech E's. The workload isn't too bad and you're constantly building cool circuits which is nice.
Great material, great labs, but be prepared to work. Electricity is a very confusing subject at times, and spending many hours on the labs and homework is necessary to succeed in this class.
This course is a lot of fun, definitely take it if you want to learn about electronics or you think you might major in EE. It's also very encouraged to know coding before taking it. The last 4 psets and quiz had programming in it.
You go from the basics to having the tools to build cool circuits and projects. They teach you all the foundations, all applications, and do not go much into the physics and smaller details behind the parts, which is perfect.
its hard but worth it!
This class is phenomenal, especially after taking ES50. All you really need to know to take this course is basic voltage and current knowledge, and after taking this course you will be so comfortable with higher level EE concepts. It is very cohesive, as lectures and labs and homework all complement one another, and is incredibly rewarding. You truly can start with almost no EE knowledge and finish up feeling empowered to tackle pretty significant EE projects.
It is a really fun class in terms of learning how the circuits work. You get to build really cool stuff in the labs, and building and designing the final project is a great experience as well. Don't let the professor pull you down. He is not actually a mean person, in fact I think he really wants us to do well and his advice is always of highest value. He is a great teacher. It's a great course.
This class feels like it's a lot of work--and it is--but everything is pretty manageable.  The p sets are never over your head, and labs are really well organized.  The final project was actually fun (for reference, it was the only fun final project I had at SEAS)
While the hands on component of this course is pretty time consuming, it really enhanced my learning experience. I genuinely enjoyed being in lab and working on the final project.
If you have a good lab partner and you know some basic circuits the labs should take less than the scheduled time. Lectures taught by Professor Abrams are much clearer than those taught by Avi. Avi, however, isn't condescending when you ask him questions in the lab.
This is an awesome introduction to circuits. There is a lot to learn and it will be very hands on but will be rewarding.
The class has a big reward for working hard. The final project is really a big payoff though it is a struggle.
Take this over ES50. You learn so much about how circuits work and good design practices, and the labs are super fun. It's a lot of lab time but totally worth it.
You will learn a lot, but be prepared for rough, often unkind, treatment from the teaching staff. They will (rudely, and painfully) get you to see things their way, which is useful on the one hand, but feels only debatably worth it at points.
This class is hard, and the instructor can be tough, but it is well worth it as you will come out of the class really understanding circuits and electronics. Great course.
KNOW HOW TO CODE. The final quiz had a huge coding section, which was ridiculous given that we only had one week to figure out Arduino (language similar to C).The material in the beginning is very easy (Ohm's Law, Kirchhoff's Laws) but later on it gets pretty hard and the course is very fast paced so beware. Also get ready to spend ~6 hours at the lab every week (exhausting but fun!). The teaching staff is very helpful so you will always be welcomed to ask a lot of questions.Also get ready to spend ~10 hours at the lab every day during reading period to finish your final project, which might be a bummer if you have finals early in the final period.
This course is difficult, and will require you to put in work in lab, but provides all of the resources you need to do well and learn a lot about circuits and electronics. Labs can be long, but are really where you learn a lot. As well they are very cool and interesting projects. The teaching staff is excellent.
This class really taught me a lot but it also has a lot of lab time, so you must have time to do the work.
This is a difficult course. However you learn a lot and it is extremely rewarding. The TF's were amazing and helped so much.
the labs can be time consuming. They usually take around 8 hours every week, but they are super fun
This is a good class. In terms of time commitment, it takes up some time, especially for the final project, but it doesn't take up an exorbitant amount of time. The work is fair, and the professors are pretty good. The labs are actually the most enjoyable part of the class.
Very useful class and learnt a lot but expect to put in most of your free time for this class as well as deal with certain members of the teaching staff being rude to you whenever you ask a question.
You'll learn a lot about circuits
This is a very fun course where you get to make a lot of cool circuits and understand the basics of how electronic components work. You learn a lot over the course of a semester, but be prepared to spend a good deal of time in lab.
This course is a decent intro to circuit design, and students can build some cool projects by the end of the semester, but this course demands a totally unreasonable amount of time from students. The course meets for 1.5hrs on Tuesdays and Thursdays immediately followed by a "1.5hr lab" - lab is more usually 2-4 hours (avg for my group was 2-2.5hrs. and I'm an EE concentrator) The psets, exams, and final project are all pretty fair in terms of difficulty and workload, but again, the most frustrating part about this class was definitely how much time we were expected to spend in lab each week and during reading period to do the final project.
I strongly recommend this to everybody who is ok with spending many hours in the lab (the time you have to put into this class outside lectures and labs is negligible though). This course was one of the things keeping me sane this semester. I enjoy creating something with my hands, so the lab was definitely the most enjoyable part of this course for me. The material is not very complicated, but after you go through the course you are able to do magic with circuits. This year the number of people taking it was not very large, so professors actually had enough time to talk to you and know who you are - speaking of which, Avi is simply amazing. As for professor Abrams, if you are prepared for him being a bit condescending and can deal with it, he is also excellent. It was the second time this course was offered, but there were almost no major logistical issues (maybe only that the parts for final projects did not seem to arrive and one of the tests started late), thumbs up. I am very glad I took this instead of ES50 (which is certainly also a good course, I just think this one was better for me). I also recommend that you do not procrastinate on your final project - the sooner you start, the more awesome thing you have time to build.
You're best off taking ES50 before you take this class. Not to say that you can't do it without a little background, but it makes things much easier. The class isn't easy but it is very rewarding.
This isn't going to be a breeze. You'll suffer but it'll be worth it.
Having taken ES50 already, this course was a whole new level. Compared to ES50, this course goes into a lot more depth and focuses more on the practical design aspect of circuits. You get a lot of hands-on experience working with different types of circuits and learn a lot about the types of things you need to think about when designing an electronic component. It's still a new class so there are still kinks that the teaching staff needs to iron out, but overall, it's a very interesting course. If you haven't taken ES50 though and haven't had exposure to circuits or electronic components before, this may be a bit tougher for you than for people who have taken ES50. CS50 experience is also helpful for when you work with microcontrollers. Overall, I would only recommend this class to people who have to take it (instead of Physics 123) or people who have had exposure to circuits and want a interesting hands-on learning experience with electronics.
It was a good class, but if you are looking for a challenge try taking Physics 123 or MIT's 6.002.
This is an awesome lab based approach to learning circuits. The material moves very quickly but you learn a lot and get to understand and then build lots of small electronic devices. The final project can be really cool if you are prepared to spend a lot of time on it.
If you actually want to learn about circuits, take Physics 123 which is a much better class that covers much more information that will be useful.
If you've ever wanted to work on interesting electronics projects this is the class for you.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE
Really fun class. Good focus on the labs where you learn a lot about design. Low pressure since psets and labs are graded on completion/effort. Avi knows so much and is amazingly patient and great at explaining things. You'll learn a lot and enjoy doing it.
Take notes on the assigned readings in the textbook--it's a great resource!
You will get very good at breadboarding....This class often lacks in teaching theoretical understanding of the material, and that is mostly because the homework assignments do not cover the material in as much depth you will use it in lab or in your final project. If you want to learn very basic analog and digital circuitry, I highly recommend this course. If you already have some background in the material, your time is better used taking something else.
The Joy of Electronics? How about the Torture/Struggle/Pain/Misery of Electronics?! Only take this class if you are fulfilling an electrical requirement and physics 123 doesn't fit in your schedule. The professor and TF spend half of their time arguing with each other, so don't expect them to pay any attention to you. And if you're in lab and have no clue what is going on, don't worry - everyone else has no idea either. Sadly, David Abrams has no intention of helping you, and he would rather insult all the failed attempts you have made on your circuit. And Avi will answer a simple question with a 30 minute lecture about every electrical engineering topic ever invented, and you will be more confused than before. Utilize the TAs. THEY ARE YOUR FRIENDS, and they feel your pain. They actually WANT you to succeed, unlike Avi and David. So please, think long and hard before submitting yourself to this torture.
This is a very hard class.  The material is challenging and expect to put in time to understand everything.  Try to take this class with easier classes so you can review the lectures and go to office hours for help!
Very rewarding, though time-consuming, class. Very well taught, labs are fun and interesting, but totals 8 hours of lecture and lab time every week. Would not recommend taking alongside another class with high time commitment.
ES52 is a challenging class. It's pretty fast-paced and covers a lot of material. It is incredibly satisfying though. You seriously realize how much you are able to do and how much you have learnt when you design and build your own circuit in the final project. Abrams is tough and intimidating at times but he is a great professor, knows the material incredibly well, and is easily accessible outside of class. I would prepare to spend a lot of time on the course.
You will learn a lot in the class but you should be willing to devote a significant amount of time, especially during the last few weeks when you work on the final project. Despite all the time it takes, this class is definitely worth it. At the start of the semester, I would not have expected to learn as much as I did through this class.The labs are fun. It feels great putting what you learn in the lectures into real life applications as you build a game and a heart beat sensor among others.
This class will teach you a huge amount, but it will also dominate your whole semester. If you have no background with electronics, chances are that it will hit your GPA as well. It's worth it to learn everything but be prepared for a very difficult class.
This class will take you much more time than you may anticipate. 5 hours of lab a week at least, if your slow that can be 7 hours on average. Also make sure your finals are not near the beginning of reading period because you won't have much time to study for them since the final project takes a lot of time, and the final report due during finals also takes a long time. If you can afford the time this class does teach you a lot about electrical engineering and how to build circuits.The professor can be "abrasive" but understand that he does want you to learn the material. If possible ask TF questions first to avoid feeling uncomfortable or stupid. I saw this as an opportunity learn how to deal with a harsh boss so it's not all that bad.
This is a great and fun course. It will require a significant amount of time because of the labs.
This course was very difficult, but very rewarding.  You truly feel like you learned a lot by the end of the semester.
ES52 teaches well the basics of circuit design. However, its focus on archaic techniques over modern techniques (breadboarding vs PCB design), and (tedious manual calculations vs circuit simulation) limits the effectiveness of lessons learned here in application to modern EE.
Really rewarding, you learn a lot. It will take up your reading period though so plan accordingly (don't take too many classes with finals in the first few days of finals period). Go to the TFs for help- they are great.
You learn a lot from this class. Problem sets aren't really too helpful, but labs are relatively fun and enlightening. As many other people will probably say, Prof. Abrams has an enormous ego, and he takes great pleasure in pointing out your errors. If you do something that is far from meeting his expectations, he might hurl some choice swear words at you. He's also somewhat biased towards female students (some of whom were the only ones who routinely addressed him directly by his first name). However, Prof. Abrams is really on top of his stuff. He responded to questions on Piazza very quickly (often within 15 minutes of posting), and he produced incredibly detailed and helpful lecture notes. The actual talking he did during lecture was often too fast paced and not always easy to follow along. If Prof. Abrams insists on keeping the same textbook next semester, note that buying the textbook will probably be a waste of your money, even though its relatively cheap. I managed to get by without using the textbook at all.In general, be aware that everything is graded harshly. Partial credit is scarce and hard to come by; if you mess something up, you will likely lose a lot of points. Also, Prof. Abrams will take points off for some of the most trivial reasons, sometimes just so that he can give you the grade he thinks you deserve. At the end though, there's a curve, and if you consistently do better than average, you should be fine in terms of grades.The TFs are mostly very knowledgeable, friendly, and eager to help you. One notable exception was Nick, who sometimes seemed deliberately unapproachable.
This is hard, especially if you just need it for Mechanical Engineering.
Professor Abrams is incredibly knowledgeable about his field, and he also maintains a well-organized course. He cares a lot about his students and is always keen on making sure that students understand course concepts. His marking may seem strict, but it's very fair. As well, the labs are really good at cementing concepts learned in lecture, and TF support gives the guidance needed to figure things out. Definitely one of the best-taught courses I've taken at Harvard.
Be prepared to learn a lot. But don't expect to have fun doing it.
You'll never learn as much in any other course as you will this one. Professor Abrams is an absolute gem (think grumpy grandpa from Up) who is personally invested in his students and wants to make sure everyone learns as much as they can. You'll spend hours upon hours working on the final project and question your choice to be an engineer when it's 3 in the morning and you're still debugging but it'll be worth it in the end when you can show off your project.
A very challenging and extremely rigorous course. Not for the faint of heart. If you are willing to stick it out and put in the time however, you will be rewarded with how much you will learn.
This class is a lot of fun! It's a pretty big time commitment (3 hours of lecture + 5 hours of lab + ~3 hours of homework per week), but you'll come out if it actually knowing how to design circuits that do interesting things. If you have any interest in electronics but are too scared to take physics 123 (like I was), then definitely take this course.
You will learn a lot in this class especially if you are looking into electrical engineering as a  career.
You have too, so get through it.
A lot of work. Between the problem sets and labs you'll see your spare time evaporate before your eyes
The labs are pretty fun and you get to build a lot of cool circuits, and the TFs are super helpful.
Expect to spend a large portion of your reading period in lab working on the final project. That being said, this course is very fulfilling and a great intro for anyone interested in EE. Professor Abrams genuinely cares about his students.
This class will teach you a lot of circuitry and give you skills in designing circuits. If you can understand the material just from the lecture, the work outside of class will be about 3 hours, but the material can be tricky.  It's nice to have 5 hours per week of lab because it's a break from lecture and section classes. The final project for this class is a lot of work. You will need to spend several hours in the lab for several days to complete it, but it is quite rewarding.
This class is the class you want to take if you are thinking about pursuing EE seriously or just want stronger foundational knowledge of the subject.
This is not the best course to take senior spring, but is not too bad. The problem sets are pretty doable at office hours. The pre-labs are rather difficult and hard to do perfectly on.
Yes take this class it's awesome! You learn a ton. Do beware of the time commitment!! It is truly a lot sometimes with 2 labs/week, 2 lectures/week, and extra lab on the weekends. Don't forget psets due every week, of course! ;) That being said I learned a ton about EE.
This course is difficult but is definitely doable by anyone if you put in the time with the material.  Abrams is strict, but it forces you to learn material fully and quickly.  I did not find Abrams very approachable, but the TFs in this class were great; use them whenever possible. I recommend starting the psets early so that way you can ask questions in TF office hours, which were very useful. The labs take a ton of time, about 6 hours a week, so be prepared for that.  For the final project, I was in the lab for an average of 10 hours a day for 5 days during reading week, so plan for that. I would recommend to anyone with an interest in electrical engineering; it is a great class - just know what your getting into.
This course is extremely demanding. Lots of lab hours and preparation for the labs.
This class definitely requires a huge amount of time, and I would recommend taking it with a slightly easier course load. Otherwise, this class is great, but a little fast-paced. Don't take the first quiz for granted! It only gets harder onwards. Professor Abrams is so helpful and knowledgeable; don't be afraid to approach him with questions!
Takes a lot of time, but an ultimately rewarding class. You'll start looking forward to spending time in the lab (as strange as that sounds).
Recommended, but know what you are getting into!
If you think you might want to concentrate in electrical engineering, definitely take this class. The lectures were fine, and the labs were extremely cool.It isn't a lot of work outside of class, but it is a ton of class time, so be prepared for that (3 hours of lecture per week, 5+ hours of lab per week).No matter what, this course will challenge you. If you've taken AP Physics C: Electricity and Magnetism, you might have a marginally easier time.
However, I would tell them to study beforehand
Excellent class. The materials and lectures and labs are super high quality. I feel like unlike a lot of classes the point is really that *everyone* should be getting 100% on everything, things you see in psets and labs were in lecture, things you see in quizzes were in psets and labs. And you learn a ton. I took it because I wanted to be able to do hobbyist electronics and I think it was awesome for that.
This is a hard course. However, I cannot recommend it more thoroughly if you are interested in electronics or want an overview of how the modern world works. Be prepared to spend hours in lab, office hours and section, but know that you will end it all with an appreciation for electronics, great new friends and a comprehensive understanding of what SEAS life is like...
Take ES50 and CS50 before taking this course. The lectures move extremely fast and there's very little time to address past misunderstandings because so much new information is constantly being thrown at you. The last lab requires a SIGNIFICANT amount of coding and the third quiz contains a decent amount of coding (must have a CS background). Definitely a fulfilling course but it's a sprint. Take advantage of office hours and start PSETs well in advance.
Difficult, but I learned a lot
This class teaches you a good amount about circuitry and gives you hard skills. It demands a high attention to detail and a large amount of time. There is a lot of support and Prof. Abrams is very knowledgeable. Although Professor can seem intimidating or rude, don't hesitate to ask him questions; he'll push you to think and do things correctly, and ultimately allow you to learn.
This is a very tough class, and it gets incredibly time-consuming towards the end of the semester. Professor Abrams initially seems very intimidating and unapproachable, but I later got somewhat used to his tough behavior as I realized that he is definitely the person to ask questions; he is incredibly intelligent and does an excellent job of explaining. The psets are pretty straightforward, exams are difficult, labs are challenging (but they seem SO easy after you finish...), and the final project consumed me during reading period. I struggled a lot, from the beginning to the end, but the final project was a fun (albeit restless) way to finish the class, and somehow made things worthwhile.
This class, while you learn a lot, is very demanding: It has 2 weekly labs that end up lasting 3 hours, pre-labs due before every lab, and a weekly problem set.  As for Abrams, he can be very helpful, but he is often impatient, and sometimes has trouble understanding why students are confused on certain topics--multiple times I have asked him questions, but he kept offering me an obvious solution that I was not asking for before I could even finish explaining myself, much less before he fully understood what I was asking.
This class is certainly a big time commitment, but you will learn a lot. Professor Abrams is a great professor, and while he can often be condescending and blunt while reviewing your circuit, he will sit with you and thoroughly explain what is going on until you completely understand it. Material-wise, this course is not overly challenging, but the sheer volume of assignments is what creates such a large commitment (pset, two 2.5-3hr labs, 2 prelabs every week). The final project is also a massive commitment - be prepared to spend essentially a week straight in lab. That being said, you will gain greater understanding of how circuits work, and how to design and create your own!
I really enjoyed taking this course. I came in with no idea how electronics work (why can't you just connect everything to an outlet?) andI've learned the most in this class in my time at Harvard. Compared to math or physics, I feel that this class is more relevant in that we can directly apply what we learned to create something. It's great for people who want and electronics background to work on their own projects outside of school (arduino). That being said: It's easy to fall behind and having no electronics background, I had to put in a lot of extra time in the beginning rewatching lectures and asking TFs questions. There's a pretty big learning curve in the first few weeks. The grading is harsh on the tests and labs, but the class is curved (I'm pretty sure). The final project and last quiz jump on you in the last few weeks and they're worth a crazy amount of the final grade (40%) and the final project may take up your life for the reading period and into finals, so plan accordingly. The TFs will be your lifesavers on the psets and final project. Love them (and bring them food)!
Pay very close attention and make sure you put the work in in the beginning. It will help you in the later parts of the class. It's a difficult course but youlearn a lot.
This is the most time-consuming, work-intensive class I have ever taken at Harvard and it took over my semester. That said, it was the most I've ever learned from a class and it is all practical real-world knowledge because you actually get to do everything that you learn in the lab. If you manage your time and get help early (the TFs in this class are absolute heroes), it is manageable. If you are an athlete, it would be wise to take this class in the off-season (if you have one) and to take lighter classes that semester since you won't have time to focus on any of your other classes. This class was very hard for me but I am very proud of what I got out of it.
It takes up a lot of time between labs, psets, and the final project, but you will come out of the class feeling like you have learned a ton.
This class is a lot of work, without a doubt.  You are in class nearly 10 hours each week, but it is a ton of fun compared to some of the other engineering/math/science courses that I have taken.  Tests and p-sets require time, but they are never unreasonable, both in length or difficulty.  Take this class if you are considering electrical engineering.
This class is a lot of work; however, very rewarding. Start the final project early. Go to TF and professor office hours.
If you are interested in learning about how electronics work around you, this is the course for you. But be warned, this class will be the hardest class of the semester, not necessarily of the difficulty level, but the amount of time that this class takes of your life. Besides 1.5 hour lectures twice a week, there are two 2.5-hour lab sections that follow the lecture (not immediately, but within either two hours or the next day). Do not put a class between lecture and lab; you need time to do the prelabs! But honestly, it has been one of my favorite classes so far at Harvard; the material learned is incredibly beneficial to any scientist, especially engineers. This class will challenge you to do your best, but it is completely worth it.
This is a very practical course and you learn a TON, but be ready to put in long hours, be frustrated by the diverse information thrown at you, and navigate through often unclear situations!
The material is cool once you understand it, but very tough to get an understanding of it for a while. Professor Abrams is quite condescending in his presentation and if you ask him questions about the material.
This class is an IMMENSE time commitment. Between twice weekly lab sections, psets and pre-labs you need to be prepared to spend a ton of time in class and office hours.
Go into it knowing it's going to be hard and it'll be less hard - have to embrace the challenge for this course.
This is probably my favorite class at Harvard so far. You learn a ton about circuits and by the end of the course you feel comfortable designing and building your own. The labs are really cool and you'll spend about 5-6 hours per week on them, but outside there isn't much work (about 2-3 hours for psets). Avi and David really care that you learn the material and put in a lot of effort for the class (they come to all the labs and have lots of chances  to review material). The teaching staff is awesome and really dedicated to the course. Sometimes the grading in this course can be pretty harsh (i.e. you are penalized heavily for small mistakes) and the expectations can be pretty high especially considering the material is new for most people. If you are a freshman considering this and ES50, I would highly recommend this over 50 if you have some background in electronics. ES50 provided some good background, but I didn't feel like I came out of it with any skills like I did with 52. ES50 if good preparation for this course but definitely not necessary.
This is class that I've learned the most from in my freshman year. However, it nearly killed me some weeks. Don't take another heavy workload class with it.
You will learn a lot in this class about electrical engineering but prepared to put in a lot of time for this class.
This class is a lot of work, and it will be a big time commitment. With that said if you have a particular interest in electronics and believe you can handle a high workload then this is a worthwhile class to take.
Hard. Very hard.
This course was great! I learned so much and created something very impressive!
This is a good class. It requires a lot of time and is very practical. It is a great engineering class because it teaches you some theory and a lot of practical knowledge about what components go together to accomplish some task. The instructors are fantastic and the teaching staff is very enthusiastic.
This class is cool but annoying. Take it only if you are very interested in electronics or need it for a requirement.
This is a difficult class, mainly because it involves a heavy time commitment to the course's many components (3 hours lecture/wk, 5 hours lab/wk, pre-labs, problem sets, final project), but I can honestly say this has been my most rewarding class at Harvard to date. I learned so much this semester, and that's having started with absolutely no prior electronics or circuit design experience. David and Avi understand the material deeply and really give you the tools you need to succeed. The TFs are also very helpful and passionate about the class and the topic. They helped make the class fun for everybody. I highly recommend this class for any engineer, but I would even recommend it for non-engineers as well, as it touches upon important skills for any student (documentation, understanding the big picture before diving into each subsystem specifically, ethics, etc.). Highly recommended, very well taught course!
This class will absolutely kick your butt, so I'd caution against taking too many other intense classes at the same time. That said, you'll live with a rigorous knowledge of designing analog and digital circuits. The TF's are wonderful, the lab sections are long (but you learn a lot), and the quizzes are fair. Just be wary of time management and scheduling.
You learn a ton but make sure to ask questions. This class is also a big time commitment because lectures, readings, psets and lab.
ES52 is one of the most rewarding classes you can take at Harvard. You learn so much information in a surprisingly short amount of time. The course is designed in such a way that if you dedicate yourself a lot during the structured course time you will do just fine overall. However, it is very easy to fall behind, by simply missing one lecture or not really understanding a problem set. Make sure you stay on top of your work, but even if you fall behind the teaching staff is great at making sure students are caught up in their understanding of the material.
Will open you up to a new world and will you will learn so much. Very rewarding and awesome
Very difficult, especially for an introductory engineering course. However, you will learn a lot, and feel very satisfied at the end.
You'll learn how to make cool stuff!
This class is one of the worst I've taken at Harvard. One of the professors is completely unapproachable, and it's not the one who is leaving this year. Lectures are not conducive to learning as the professors race through the material, and lab is just as equally confusing. The TF's are really the foundation of the class, as they are the ones who run office hours and who met with me on a regular basis on the weekends. This class really needs some work, because it is extremely difficult for students, especially who have minimal background in electrical engineering. This class is too time intensive as well, especially with five hours of lab a week. This class definitely needs some more work.
This class is amazing.  I learned so much about circuitry.  I started with no knowledge of electronics and by the end of the semester I was able to build a final project and troubleshoot on my own.
