This course is a great way to learn a practical skill in an analytical way.
GIS is very useful - it's a technical skill that more people should graduate with. Good class!
I'd definitely recommend this course to anyone interested in environmental science or the quantitative social sciences. You'll be amazed at the power of spatial analysis.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard. A real chance to learn a highly useful skill.
This is a great, and useful class. Sumeeta is helpful and very laid back. Highly recommend.
Its a lot of time commitment
A great class to take if you are interested at all in policy.  You definitely do not have to be an engineering student to take the class.  I thought the class was a lot of fun.
Great! You learn so much about ArcMAP and GIS and Sumeeta is amazing!!
Wonderful class! Sumeeta is a fantastic professor who cares about her students. You can redo labs until you do them properly, and can get points back for doing so. The final project at the end is a good chance to realize how much you really have learned. You learn to think of the world differently, in a much more spatial manner, and it's more important than you'd think.
Things are pretty interesting throughout the course, but got a lot more fun once work started on the final project.  Really put work into it, and get help from the teaching staff -- they are awesome.
A great class, well worth the work.
GIS is so important, and you learn a lot of cool things here!  Definitely interesting from a statistics point of view as well.Start the final project early!  Have an question in mind, and data accessible, and use the extra weeks to do the project leisurely and talk to Sumeeta to bounce around ideas.
GIS mapping software is really neat and learning about it and how to use it from Sumeeta is even better!
Sumeeta is an amazing professor! The skills you learn in this course are invaluable.
Dr. Srinivasan is such a chill yet awesome instructor. She is very helpful with lab assignments and takes the time to explain things clearly. Also, the methods learned in this class are so useful and applicable to many research areas. I would definitely recommend taking this course if you are at all interested in geography and spatial analysis of environmental or social problems.
Sumeeta is great. This course emphasizes learning, and it's clear that that's what Sumeeta cares most about. The labs take quite a bit of time and are very tedious, but the work pays off at the end of the semester when you get to take the tools you've learned and apply it to your own research question.
