Great lectures with reasonable assignments.  The final project is a great opportunity to really apply what you learn to research/areas of interest.
Great lectures. This course will provide a solid training in estimation and detection theory as well a lot of real life engineering applications
Great class with a great professor. Also, most people are not aware yet about the class, so it's relatively small. That's a great chance to get to know the professor well.
It is very useful to study the material with other students.  I feel I learned more of the class material by working out problems and examples with other students on a whiteboard or blackboard.
The textbook is so legendary that you can learn whatever you expect on estimation theory. The way of teaching was very straightforward and concise, easy to follow.
I would recommend this course simply because the material is very important, but I thought the professor made a difficult subject even more difficult.  I would be more likely to recommend this course if another professor were teaching it.
Our professor was definitely the key contributor to the success of the class.  He was able to teach us difficult and complex theory effectively.  The course material grounded the probability theory that was taught in another class while demonstrating it's application in real world problems.
Make sure you have previously taken a course devoted solely to probability in addition to a general statistics course.
Take this class if you are in any field related to Digital Communications or Signal Processing, it is more than necessary.
I recommend this course to any student who would like to learn a good set of tools for statistical estimation and analysis that is applicable to a broad set of important problems in STEMs research.
Can be very useful for better understanding the role of uncertainty in one's research. Lectures and homeworks are well worth the time.
This was the best engineering class I have ever taken (and I have taken a lot).  Here's why:First and foremost, the lecture presentation was very clear.  The professor made difficult concepts straightforward to understand.  He provided intuition behind all of the mathematics involved in detection and estimation.  Having that general, high-level context was really helpful in learning various approaches covered in the class, some of which were very involved mathematically and conceptually.  In addition to providing high-level context, the professor provided many concrete examples to demonstrate application of general theory to specific and important classes of problems. So the lectures struck a very good balance between breadth and depth of coverage.Secondly, the material coverage on the homework was very well-aligned with the lecture content so that the two reinforced each other well.Thirdly, the course covered just enough material to make us confident we could solve a wide variety of detection/estimation problems, without being overwhelming in scope.Finally, the exams were very fair and reflective for the most part of conceptual understanding as opposed to raw mathematical ability.In summary, both the design and execution of this course were nearly flawless from the perspective of student learning.
