Only take the course if the lectures are being delivered by a different instructor and the assignments are heavily revised
This course provides a fascinating and painless introduction to environmental engineering. The lecture component could be improved significantly, but the course is useful regardless.
I recommend this class to people with a high tolerance for boredom who want to walk away having completed a core (or CONCENTRATION requirement!!!) with no new knowledge.  Second thought, please don't take this class. However if you ever have the opportunity to be in a section with either Eric or Linda, you must take the class.  They are wonderful people and worked really hard to try to save the course.
good survey introduction to environmental science and related issues, but course administration is sometimes difficult to deal with
Focus on the calculation. Pay attention in section and make office hours. Do well on the homework, and you'll stay on top of this class. Lectures do not necessarily need to be attended.
It is a fun course that is very relevant in today's world. Good way to satisfy science core.
Professor Rogers might be a little boring, but the information is really interesting and worth it
I would tell them that they should come into the class with an open mind and they can enjoy Professor Rogers even with his boring lectures because he has a lot of experience and information. The TFs are great and really understanding of students.
I think there is going to be a different lecturer next year. If so, definitely take the class. It's very useful and a lot of fun.
This is a somewhat tedious introduction to environmental engineering, which shows more the approach and ideas behind the discipline rather than the rigorous and intense multivariate analysis.  Nevertheless, I found it very interesting and helpful in allowing me to see how much complexity scientists have been able to achieve in their models.
I think that the course material is important.
This class was extremely disorganized.  TF's often didn't know what was going on, multiple typos and mistakes in materials.  Parts of section handouts were often incomprehensible, and wasted enormous amounts of paper.
that's it great!
I loved this course.  It gave me a basic understanding of a lot of environmental issues, including energy sources, pollution control technology, and water treatment.  Don't let the fact that this is an engineering class scare you or keep you from taking it.  I learned so much in this class.
It's annoying.
Probably the best class I took at Harvard
It gives you everything you need to know about energy and the environment if you are interested in the public policy aspects.
This is a great class to take to fulfill Science B requirement.
It's too relevant for future policy and in the global commercial realm
ES 6 is a fairly easy course and presents a good opportunity to learn about important issues in a low-pressure environment. Problem sets and exams are straightforward, making the overall experience quite painless. Lectures are not always interesting and assignments can seem monotonous at times, but I would certainly recommend the class both for concentrators and as an elective.
be prepared to do a lot of math... HARD math.
It is a very solid class that teaches you useful things.
The middle unit of the course is boring, and the lectures tend to get more boring throughout the course
mind that there is a part about "model" that's kinda confusing, important but unexpectedly hard
It's absurdly easy but poorly taught. Your mileage may very.
drink three cups of coffee before going to lecture.
Extremely interesting course with cool topics and fun field trips.  USEFUL information for life
Professor Martin is awful.
Has many similarities initially to PS1.
This class is awesome.
Unless you're looking for a really easy boring class that you don't feel too bad about skipping or doing other work during, I don't recommend this class at all.
For science majors, this class is a pretty easy and straightforward overview of the science and policy behind issues of energy and the environment, from electricity production to pollution.  For non-science majors, this is a pretty straightforward core which gives you some knowledge that's really important to know in this era when energy and climate issues are front and center.Either way, this is good stuff to know and even though it gets a little bit boring in the middle, I do recommend this course for anyone interested in this material, which should be most people.  There's pretty much just one math problem that you learn (modeling pollution concentrations), and then you do it over and over again during the second half of the class.
Be prepared to teach yourself major concepts.  Work on problem sets in groups because they are 40% of your grade.
Easy introductory course to many of the concepts that are the underpinnings of our society--water treatement, electrical generation, etc.
I've always been taught to care about environmental issues without really knowing why.  This class teaches you why you should care and why environmental issues are so important.
Was expecting a fun class, but was disappointed. Material itself was all right and interesting at times, but I did not enjoy the structure of it.
This course provides a nice survey of energy and water issues. If you already have studied any energy issues before, do not take this class, as you will not learn anything new. However, if this is not your main area of study, you can learn a lot of the basics in a clear and helpful format. Field trips are a great part of this course to take advantage of.
really good introduction to the issues of the environment, and great efforts are made to keep things relevant and uptodate... however, it is designed as an introductory course, so many elements of the course aren't necessarily fully explored.
The class is straightforward and not too difficult, so it's a painless way to fulfill a requirement. The TFs and professor very much want to make this an accessible class for everyone.
Great way to learn about the engineering and science behind the key environmental issues arising in current public policy debates.
It was interesting material, but it could have been so much more interesting!
Way falsely branded...So not what I thought it was.
Will know more about the topic for sure. Acceptable workload.
It is a very interesting and relevant class that is a good way of fulfilling any requirements (whether core or concentration).
This class is pretty poorly taught and the concepts are not well integrated. A lot of useful material is covered, but it should be covered in greater depth, in a more coherent way, and with less of a focus on policy analysis.
This definitely isn't a cakewalk for Science B, but it isn't terribly difficult, either.  Considering the terrible alternative options for Science B, you're better off taking this course--which is interesting and generally well taught (at least in lecture)--and brushing up a bit on the math and chemistry you last saw in high school.
It's an interesting class, I would recommend taking it.
For an easy core, maybe, especially if you don't have knowledge of this stuff.  But the lectures are boring, but the material is important.
Take this class if you want an easy core.
This is a good course if you are really interested in the material.
If you are a humanities/literature person, do NOT take this class if you can't handle very math-y engineering science. It will confuse you and make you frustrated. The concepts are extremely fascinating and good to know; lectures are ok. Tests are difficult. Stay away unless you are good at math.
Interesting material.  some comcepts are tough to understand. good mix between conceptual material and mathematics/science.
Honestly, I was a bit disappointed by this class, and a few classmates I spoke with shared the sentiment. The material seemed interesting enough in theory, was lacking in the presentation. Not only were there no actual class readings (the only thing on the website was visual slides from the class), it was too much material stuffed into one semester and felt a bit disorganized. The technical part of the classes I liked, even though it sometimes got a bit boring because we rarely looked at the concepts through actual practical case studies (we did look at water and sewage treatment in Boston). Also, don't expect to get a global perspective in this class if you're an ESPP concentrator, or if you're looking to learn about environmental engineering in the world, or energy and water in the world. I, for instance, would have been more excited to learn about solar energy in Germany or hydroelectricity in the Nile than in simply looking within the United States. .Basically, a lot of interesting and useful concepts, depressing presentation.
This class is relatively easy and very interesting because it is very relevant to current issues in the news.  With different forms of energy you have nuclear which became a problem with the Japan earthquakes.  Many of the issues covered can be related to global warming.  Al the material was very relevant.
I really enjoyed this class!
This class is an excellent introduction to Engineering and to Environmental Science.  I strongly recommend for anybody marginally interested in either.
Shouldn't be an engineering sciences class
Field trips are fun, learning about constructing models is cool, lecture can be dry at times.
Energy is an unbelievably interesting and important topic, but parts of this course are still not very much fun.  You can definitely get an A, if you study hard.
The class is excellent for anyone interested in obtaining an introductory understanding of environmental issues (such as energy technology and water treatment) from an engineering standpoint. It also does not require too much work.
A great way to fulfill a general education requirement.
It is not a very demanding class, but I learned a lot of interesting concepts about energy, environmental modeling, and climate change.
The midterms were great and you don't need to memorise anything since you will have a small sheet that can contain information. Know how to do the math. You will develop the skills necessary for a career in modelling and environmental science. Also, Professor Martin knows a lot about almost everything, and he looks at the big picture which is very important. His lectures are engaging. Take this class!
This class is very dry, but you will actually learn a lot about alternative energy technologies. The problem sets and exams are not difficult at all.
The material of the course is really interesting but Professor Martin's lectures can be dull. The exams are fairly written and graded, and you get to use cheat sheets, so the exams are pretty easy.
Not a hard course, fun to learn engineering-related concepts, and can count on TFs' support whenever you are stuck.
If you are interested at all in environmental issues and technology, then this is a great low-risk class for you.
This is a great introductory class to environmental science. If you are interested in pursuing a concentration in ESPP, definitely take this.
Easy intro class, provides a qualitative understanding of many environmental engineering concepts but does not go into the more in-depth, difficult, quantitative equations behind everything.
This class has interesting material but I wouldn't take it if you want a more intellectually challenging/stimulating class. Problem sets and exams were really easy- we spent the entire first section going over unit conversions- but the concepts, like advantages/disadvantages of nuclear power/hydro/solar/etc. were good so I have mixed reservations for it.
This is the best course.  Professor Martin is fantastic.  He is so helpful and has a genuine passion for Environmental Engineering.  The sections are incredibly helpful and the tests are exactly like the psets, so there are no surprises.  This class is organized really well. Also if Professor Martin has a mathematica seminar again I highly recommend taking it.  It really helps prepare you for higher level math and engineering courses.  Overall, take this course!
I would take this class if you are looking for a fun and low stress ESPP class. The material learned covers topics that our generation will face and is information that we should all be aware of.
This course a good introduction to the field for aspiring environmental engineers or environmental policy students, or an interesting overview of the subject to anyone interested in acquiring basic literacy in energy and the environment
A very good SPU gen ed.  Professor Martin is very engaging and the entire staff works really hard to update the course yearly to address current topics.  The modeling unit is especially interesting and really shows you how to make assumptions to address real world problems.  Homeworks and exams are extremely reasonable.
I took this class to balance out my schedule that had more time-consuming classes. The class served its purpose in doing that. In terms of really learning stuff and having engaging material, most of the curriculum is common sense and general knowledge stuff that can be gained from reading the science section of the New York Times. But if you want an easy SPU, this is it.
great overview
If you can do math and basic physics, this course will be extremely easy.
Take it if you enjoy unit conversions.
Great survey course on many types of environmental engineering technologies
This class covers very practical topics and is actually very interesting, well taught, and useful for the future.  It covers topics that we all need to explore and consider.
Great supportive staff!
You get to use cheat sheets on all exams!!! The lectures are a little slow, but the material is extremely interesting and pertinent to environmental issues today.  The workload is very reasonable and not too challenging.  Field trips are a good way to see how the material is applied in real life.
A good course which talks about energy resources and development. It's interesting stuff. Not very hard either.
quite difficult
material is not hard to grasp especially if you have a background in math
If you are interested in a slightly quantitative introduction to energy and water, this is the course for you. I highly recommend it.
Be prepared to teach yourself some of the math material. Also, the office hours are very helpful so I would make time to go to them.
Excellent introduction to environmental engineering!
This is an excellent class in terms of teaching you how to model climate change and how alternative energy sources work. However, the material is not that easy and you could really struggle with it.
This class is practical, fun, and worthwhile taking.
It is difficult.
Incredible interesting. Slightly work-intensive but very worth it. The tests are a bit tough to prepare for and complete in the time allotted.
I enjoyed the course but I will say that I was expecting more out of it.
If you want to learn where your water and energy come from and how the infrastructure behind your day-to-day life works, this is a great class for you.
If you want a fairly painless introduction to the study of environmental engineering then this is a pretty good class.  Professor Martin is fairly engaging and the material is interesting.  However, despite the course name "Energy and Technology", this class was not on just renewable energy sources and green technology.  The class starts out like that, but if you look at the syllabus you will see that the class is split into thirds.  The first third deals with energy and power production, the second third deals with climate modeling and global warming, and the third deals with water (treatment, agriculture, issues facing the earth, etc.).  All of the material was pretty interesting, but don't assume that the whole class will be about green energy.  Problem sets were a little annoying, they weren't hard but were sometimes vague and unclear.  The two midterms were very reasonable.
If you are decent at math, this course is not very hard and won't have to spend that much time on it. The units on energy and climate change are very interesting. For a while you have do a lot of stuff on environmental modeling with pollution which gets pretty boring. There is no textbook, which lightens the workload, but also makes studying more difficult. The professor is pretty good, but the teaching fellows vary in ability.
interesting, learn a lot about current technologies
It was a great introductory course to environmental issues and Prof Martin is  a great lecturer.
ES6 has some good material and modeling is very useful for problem solving. However, class is poorly taught: professor is boring and drones forever, TFs don't really know what's going on, etc. This would be a pretty good lecture series or something, but it sucks when you are expected to master the material and take exams on it.
interesting material, lectures are a little boring and professor is not the most exciting, but its good for a science A or SPU class
interesting topic, boring class
Pay attention in section and go to office hours!
Take it if you want to learn more about the world around you. It's useful information for any major.
Teaches you a basic survey of really cool things you take for granted.  If you want to know how electricity reaches your home, the future of alternative energy, and where the water you drink comes from, you should take this class. The first third of the class is much better than the latter two thirds, but it's worth it.
If people are interested in getting an overview of environmental technologies, this does the job. However, I didn't find this class totally
If you are interested in engineering or the environment definitely worth considering.
ES6 is useful and practical. The knowledge that you learn is based in reality, and you don't feel like you're learning something that is so theoretical as to be inapplicable. Professor Martin is very knowledge--his lecture style is dry, but you realize that he really knows what he's doing. The homework and tests are very fair. A worthwhile class!
Try to pay attention in lecture and stay on top of the material. Don't just do the psets but be interested in the material. Really study the topics, everything is really cool and cutting edge and it is a very small class.
A really solid introductory course. Probably not as fun or easy as ES50, but you'll probably learn a lot more. I would recommend this class to anyone with a quantitative interest in environmental matters, since it scratches the surface quite well. Don't buy the textbook; it is almost completely useless.
Touches on a pretty broad range of topics, and has students work through problems of energy and resource use that feel very applicable to the real world - would definitely help an interested student decide what area of environmental sci/engineering/policy they would want to study more in-depth later.  Problems sets are mercifully not too long, but they can be challenging.  Labs are fun and applicable but not at all stressful!  Go to section if you have consistent problems with p-sets or more difficult material  throughout the course!  (the middle portion on modeling reactors/flows was challenging for a non-math/non-chem person like myself)
This class is great for anyone wanting a nice overview of alternative energies and the technologies behind the things we take for granted such as fresh drinking water.It also counts as an SPU gen ed so if you're looking for that I think it's great.A third of the class does involve some math, though, so if you're not comfortable with that thought then maybe not.
It starts out easy and fairly self-evident, although it becomes far different from the class it first appears. Pay attention in lecture, it will get more detailed/difficult.
This class is a great introduction to the world of environmental sciences.
It is a great class to get an overview of environmental engineering, with fascinating topics and real world perspective.
Its interesting, and because it changes so frequently its unlikely to be boring. Also very applicable to those pursuing environmental engineering.
You'll learn a lot about relevant issues in water and energy, but you won't always have fun doing it. It can be mechanical and can lack the ethical, political, and economic contexts that are really essential to understanding the environment. But even so, you'll leave with a much broader understanding of energy and water engineering. Which is pretty darn cool.
Labs left something to be desired.
You must enjoy the material and have a relatively flexible schedule to accommodate for field trips and labs
This course has awesome and applicable material, very reasonable workload, and you'll be glad you take it.
If you invest yourself into the material, class will be that much more engaging.
Be sure to have a solid math/quant background before taking this course. It's not designed to be a Gen Ed. Otherwise, good overview of energy technologies, and the challenges and limitations we face in the future.
It's a great class that provides a scientist's view on modern trends and practices in energy production and water treatment.
Martin is a boring lecturer who also seems to talk down to students. I was really relived when Vecitis took over at the end of the semester because I could not say awake during Martin's lectures. If they have Vecitis teach most of the class next year, you should take it. The information is extremely important for understanding our impact on the environment. Also, the Psets can sometimes have errors, which is annoying as well. The field trip requirement, while interesting, is a bummer when you have classes before and after the class time slots.
Not really fun at all.  Definitely don't take it if you don't need it as a concentration requirement.  I don't feel like I learned anything that interests me at all, and I'm an ESPP major.  It's not a bad class, but it's a lot of work for no reward.
A very interesting and provocative introductory class for environmental engineering topics. An excellent general overview of many alternative energy technologies and the realities faced by energy experts. Fairly math-heavy assignments.
The material was interesting, but I wouldn't take it unless you need to, or unless they change the course quite a bit.
The course material is interesting, and the teaching staff are nice. It is also not terribly difficult, even for those without strong science backgrounds. However, the course can feel disorganized at times, with regards to typos, assignments, section time changes, etc.
This course is a good introduction to environmental science, with a focus on the science and not the politics (which is a very good thing). The rigor is low and I wouldn't feel comfortable if our future environmental leaders learned their stuff from this course, but that's okay since the course is introductory.
This course deals VERY heavily with calculus and is terribly unorganized. The teaching staff is very amiable and attempts to be receptive, but there were typos in almost every document handed out in the course (e.g. lecture notes, section notes, problem sets, midterm review sheets, lab reports) which made it almost impossible to comprehend the material unless you are an engineering student that has a previous understanding of the material.
If you are interested in the environment at all, this class provides you with the technical understanding to contribute something that is actually meaningful.
It was a great class and really enjoyable. Pretty easy, especially for an engineering course.... but if you are at all interested in the subject or just want a great overview of the subject, take it! you really do learn a lot, even tho there is not that much work at all!
Don't buy the books (unless they end up changing the course book requirements). They weren't helpful at all.
Tougher than you think, but easy to succeed if you put in the time, and keep up with the work.  Section is huge.
A good introduction into the topics. Not too difficult, but be prepared for the exams to be hard, just to create curve/ have people fail. It's very important to go to section and office hours, since that is where most of the problem set/exam applicable material is covered.
This class is not really an engineering class, even though it is in the engineering department.  It is more of an overview of environmental issues and solutions and how we deal with the changing environment.  It is a good class for understanding these concepts but don't take it if you are looking for an engineering course, and likewise, don't be scared to take it because it is an engineering course.
The first part is great, but the course very suddenly changes into some heavier math and modeling equations, which can be quite boring and perplexing. It becomes the kind of class where you have to figure out what you are learning before you can learn it, and I often felt continuously one step behind.
Interesting topic, boring lectures and THE MOST UNORGANIZED class I've ever taken. Every handout, p-set, and review sheet had many typos. Even the final review sheet. That's unacceptable, especially when they would send the emails with the corrections a day before the midterms/final/pset due date.
Interesting material, but poorly organized.
This is a great class, but make sure you know how to problem solve quickly for exams.
This class is hard! Do not take it if you are looking for an easy gen-ed.   The problem sets take hours to complete and usually have some ridiculous way to be solved that would be impossible to figure out without going to office hours.  It is not a basic overview of environmental science by any means. It is very disjointed and random and I'm not sure if I learned anything valuable to actually take away from this course.   Unless you are an engineering major and this is your elective, don't take this!  As a humanities major this required more time and energy than any of my other classes this semester and turned me off from science for the foreseeable future.
Psets were extremely unnecessary and hard for no reason.  They were horribly unorganized and very poorly written.  I was disgusted at the format/grammar/word usage in the questions asked, utterly disgusted. The higher level math was not necessary/took away from learning the qualitative aspects of the course.This course was made hard, and many of the requirements seemed like busy-work to make the class harder, but were ridiculous in retrospect. Really made you put in more time than you should have- and it wasn't the kind of time that was productive/challenging.  Literally, random searches on Google or random lines in psets were required, pointless.
It was a really fun and easy course for an applied math concentrator. I feel like this is an important topic to learn about, and this course makes that fun and easy.
While interesting, this didn't feel like an engineering course.  It wasn't very challenging to people with a problem-solving background.  The field trips were valuable.  If you're a non-engineer, don't be scared of it.  If you're an non-environmental engineer looking for an easy eng credit, go for it.  If you're an environmental engineer, you have to take it, but don't expect it to be like ES50/51/53 (from what I've heard).  You'll learn some interesting things regardless.
This is a great course if you are interested in developing an understanding of the mechanics behind environmental science, especially water treatment. Though problems set can be challenging, attending the course is interesting and the field trips are great.
Great class to explore if you want to know whether you want to continue with Harvard's environmental engineering department. Somewhat disorganized, but a solid class to take.
This is a great introduction course to environmental engineering.
It's interesting and fun if you're interested in what it covers, but I wouldn't take it just for fun.
Great class to take for a gen ed! Totally manageable for non science people.
It was difficult but reasonable.  The professors and TFs were enthusiastic and helpful and the homework was manageable.  The lectures drag a bit since it is an hour and a half but overall this class provides a solid introduction to environmental engineering.
This course is fine if you're really REALLY interested in Environmental Engineering. I went into it thinking that I would concentrate in Environmental Engineering but this course changed my mind. The subject matter was dry, the professors were unenthused, and the psets were more monotonous than actually helpful. Overall this course could use a lot of work, and I would advise not taking it unless its a requirement.
Only take this course if you are actually interested in the environment and care to learn. This is not an easy gen-ed.
This course is a great introduction to Environmental Engineering. It introduces basic concepts and technology as a solid foundation for future Environmental Engineering courses. There is a fairly low time commitment, which is great for those who are still unsure about their concentrations and still want to explore. However, this class is not exclusively beneficial to engineers. I would recommend this course to individuals looking to meet a general education requirement with a class that is more math and technology based.
If you like learning about the energetic dynamics behind societal and environmental systems, this class is a good starting point. The work in this class is, however, extremely tedious and consisted mainly of unit conversions.
Lectures are slide based and a bit slow. If you are interested in energy and the environment and can get into the lectures take this class. If you aren't sure, you might get bored
It is great to understand how renewable energy works, and for that reason I would recommend that people learn about it.  If you can find this knowledge through other courses/avenues, I would recommend against taking the class.  Psets take a ridiculous amount of time to complete every other week, and lectures are pretty difficult to get through (a lot of information is thrown at students each week).
This course taught me a lot about energy and the effects on the environment. With all the talk about global warming and renewable energy, it is easy to get caught up in the propaganda. ES 6 really takes an unbiased approach and teaches you about the facts behind the whole debate.`
The amount of time needed for this class is higher than you expect-don't take it as an elective.
only take if necessary
The material taught in this course is, in my opinion, very valuable. Even though the lectures could be boring, I particularly enjoyed Professor Ulrich and his enthusiasm for the course. Overall, the workload is very manageable and the final project can be cool if you are excited about your topic. I would definitely recommend this course to anyone who wants to learn more about the environment and potential solutions to environmental issues.
Fantastic introduction to the technical side of energy and environmental analysis. A must take for students interested in energy
good class, worth the work
In its current structure, this course does not do a very good job of engaging students. The material is not all that hard but the work has a tendency to be rather tedious. This course has a lot of potential in its subject matter, but it just needs to be better organized to maximize all that can be learned about the subject.
This class is more math heavy than I originally thought it would be.  If your interested how much energy you can produce from a nuclear power plant or a solar farm, this is the class for you.  If your interested in design, I would recommend that you look elsewhere.
ES 6 is a really nice, rather easy but still rewarding introduction to environmental science. The material is interesting and very relevant!
Poorly organized. Material that is taught is very "skimming-the-surface." Only when Patrick Ulrich was teaching the class was it good. Chad is very dry and boring to listen to making it difficult to sit through 90 minutes of lecture.
A little too basic at times but rewarding if you just want a light class and some intro knowledge in environmental engineering; meet with the professors beforehand to discuss your specific interests and if they'll fit well with the course
If you're interested in obtaining a really practical level of understanding of the technology related to global energy and sanitation problems, this is a great course to take.
The subject matter is really interesting, but it's kind of lost in the presentation and execution of the course. The field trips are helpful and kind of cool.
Somewhat mundane subject matter taught in a confusing manner
It's a solid class for an overview on environmental engineering
This class certainly gives a good overview of what environmental engineering provides in the world.  There is a structure to the course that allows students to fully know what the expectations are and at the same time explore the field more in depth during lab hours.
If you are interested in environmental science, this course will be engaging and fun. If not, it has a deceptively significant amount of work that-- while not massively intellectually challenging-- will take a decent amount of time, especially in the later stages of the course when final projects begin.Also, this course does a pretty great job remaining apolitical, so that should not be a concern for anyone.
Wow, I LOVED this class!!!!! I'm a big fan of both Elsie and Patrick - they really care about their students and want them to understand the course material with minimal stress. Both are highly accessible outside of class, encourage everyone to come to office hours, and take students' feedback seriously. The course was relatively easy and straightforward, and confirmed my interest in Environmental Science & Engineering as a concentration. Even if you aren't a concentrator, the "engineering toolkit" unit at the beginning should be required knowledge for everyone, and the more science-y material as the semester progresses is valuable information for anybody who is interested in the environment. 10/10 would recommend this class!
This class is a great introduction to environmental science and engineering! It focuses on Earth systems, but does so with an engineering lens. Patrick and Elsie are wonderful lecturers and people - I highly recommend getting to know them personally. The q score may be lowered from past years where the structure of the class was questionable, but it's since been reorganized. The workload is manageable, and the professors and TFs are accessible for office hours if you need help. The final for this class is in the form of a group project, which gives you creativity and flexibility. Overall, a solid class that I'd encourage anyone interested in environmental science to take!
For those with a strong mathematical background, this class will not be too engaging. For those without such a background, the class might be difficult at times. Prof. Ulrich tends to favor quantitative reasoning questions in the problem sets and quizzes that he writes, and such questions can be challenging for those with less of a mathematical/quantitative background. Prof. Sunderland tends to favor qualitative questions with explanations, and sometimes these questions can be vague in what they are asking for/what they expect. Prof Ulrich consistently gave clear and enthusiastic lecturers, but he speeds through material at times. Some of Prof. Sunderland's earlier lectures were too vague and unstructured, but after receiving feedback, she greatly improved her lectures' quality and organization. Jack and Suzane were fantastic TFs who were always willing to help.
Knowing some chemistry first will be a big help.
The class is organized really well in that every week alternates one pset week, then lab then a quiz and that repeats for every unit. Patrick is a great lecturer and gives really helpful feedback on labs and the final project.
This course has the most amazing organization and the professors do everything in their power to make the course exciting and engaging to everyone in the class.
As a future environmental engineering concentrator, I had to take this class, but the teaching staff made it as good as an introductory class to engineering can probably be. If you're scared of math/science/data analysis, you might struggle a bit but I think it's a worthwhile challenge to learn how to think and problem solve like an engineer. There are plenty of office hours, the TFs were prompt in responding to emails, and in general I never felt like I was floundering in the class.
You basically have to take this if you are thinking about environmental science and engineering. I thought the class was taught well, although lectures do sometimes get a bit boring. Overall though, the professors are very responsive and willing to make the class what the students want it to be. There was minimal tedious work and only one assignment or quiz a week which was manageable.
chemistry background might help
Elsie and Patrick are amazing and they genuinely want their students to become interested in environmental engineering.  The course is improving every year and it was great this year.
Good start to ESE.
if you like environmental engineering, take it. if a senior, don't.
This class was going through a year of growth and change. But, even with the confusion that came with it, this class taught me a lot. I truly appreciate all the hard work that went into it.
I would recommend this course for anyone who doesn't know much about the field of environmental engineering and would like to know basic information, largely to see whether or not this is something he or she might like to study. I would not recommend this course for anyone who already feels comfortable with water and energy concepts, as I feel that I did not learn a whole lot of new information.
Its a good introductory course if you're into the environment. It's a very moderate course in difficulty: some weeks its super easy, some weeks its not. The topics are pretty interesting, but sometimes lecture can be slow.
I chose to take this course because I was genuinely interested in environmental issues and wanted to learn applicable skills to prepare for an engineering trajectory. Although the course did substantiate my interest in the environment by exposing me to a variety of environmental problems, the causes behind them, and the current solutions being applied, I do not think I gained many skills for future engineering courses. The course was a great qualitative introduction to environmental engineering but was not a great quantitative class. Some lectures were more quantitative, but I found them to be difficult and fast-paced and not integrated well with the overall flow of information. The resulting quantitative questions on psets or quizzes were therefore very difficult to approach and solve. While I am not completely satisfied with my experience in ES6, I do appreciate that the instructors seem very open to our opinions and to restructuring the class for future years.
Interesting class that covers many aspects of environmental science, but some work may seem tedious.
All over the place, seemed unstructured, hard to see connections.
It's a little rough around the edges after just being redesigned, but the material is great and the instructors are even better. They really care about the class and about fostering your understanding of the concepts they find so fascinating, which makes the 90-minute lecture period pass really quickly. It does feel a little lost/disjointed at times, but at the end of the semester I feel as though I've really gained a solid base for what environmental issues and solutions exist and have yet to be found. I have no doubt the course will be better by the time you read this and consider taking it, and it's totally accessible for both engineers and non-engineers.
This is one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard. The class is very well taught. Professor Ulrich and Professor Sunderland do a very good job of engaging students, answering questions, and covering the most important topics sufficiently. Assignments do a good job of enforcing the material and do a good job of preparing students for the quizzes. The design project in this class also offers students a great opportunity to do work in the lab and investigate an interesting topic of their choosing.
Interesting course, could have had more interesting way of teaching the material.
This class had the potential to be interesting but ended up being badly run, boring, and tedious. I wish I hadn't taken this class.
Since the course is so general, then you will definitely find some parts of it interesting, while you will then have to deal with the other parts of the course
This course is a great broad survey of environmental science topics and is really accessible. I really appreciate the speed and quality of information presented.
This class is relatively easy and interesting
Ehhhh
If this is for a gen ed, do not take this course. I strongly recommend only taking this course if you are interested in a studying something in the environmental area. Please, think long and hard before you take this course unless it is a concentration requirement.
Much of the class was very interesting material, and provides a look into a good range of environmental problems. Additionally, the assignments were both pretty easy but also interesting. However, I found it difficult to get really absorbed in this class and found some of the lectures pretty dull.
Very much recommended class for students with a strong interest in environmental/earth sciences
Be prepared to work a lot.
Unless this class gets remodeled again I would not recommend this class for students seeking the SPU Gen Ed
Patrick is a very good teacher and gives some very interesting lectures. Elsie is a good teacher also and tries to engage students as much as she can. The homework can be pretty tough if you don't know excel and quizzes were not too bad.
If you are not interested in the environment, I would not recommend taking this course.
This is a great class!! Professors are great and the material was interesting. They try to make the lectures engaging and interesting. It does have math problems though so for some people it is not an easy gen ed. However, it is not hard by any means because half of the class is qualitative stuff and the psets are quick and easy to do with occasional help from the TFs. Take this even if you aren't interested in environmental engineering, it is manageable and you get to go on fun field trips that are interesting.
Great class for anyone with an interest in environmental science. A lot of classes at Harvard will tell you all the problems; I found this class was unique in that it provided potential solutions, even though it was an intro-level course.
This class would be a great introduction but it may not enhance your enthusiasm if you're thinking about the field already, however it would certainly increase your exposure (maybe not much cutting edge material) and show you what an environmental engineering degree might be about.
