if you like the subject matter it's really fun
This is a great class that teaches you how to use powerful software (ABAQUS).  The homeworks can be more time consuming than you want them to be, but all in all they are good exercises.
It was difficult when I took it, but you learn skills that are really important in real-world engineering.
This is a pretty good class, and super useful for anyone who wants to practice engineering at any point in their career. Professor Bertoldi is unequivocally the best professor in SEAS. She is always super helpful and her lectures are crystal clear.The only significant problem with the course was the lack of accessible TFs. Because only professor bertoldi was available to answer homework questions, the course ended up being a bit harder and more time consuming than it should have been.
Great class!
It is definitely not as easy as past Q scores made it out to be. Expect a minimum of 9 hours for every pset.
Katia is the best professor I've ever had.  Learn Matlab and Mathematica before attempting the homework.  If you don't want to spend 10 hrs a week on the psets, a symbolic math package is essential.  Otherwise, get ready for the joy of finite elements.
lots of work, long homework, start it early, very fulfilling class though and very applicable to engineering field, you have to take this if you are going to grad school in engineering
This is an extremely useful class, especially for mechanical engineers. It teaches a really useful skill set which is widely appreciated in the engineering industry.
This course offers a great introduction to finite element analysis, with a balance between computer and paper-based assignments. Having some programming experience in Python or Matlab would be helpful, but is not necessary. The paper-based assignments can get a bit tedious, but it's important to do FEA by hand at least once so that you really understand it.
The class is awesome. You get real-life skills that will stay with you after you're done. Katia is hands down the best professor I have had at SEAS and will do her best to make your lives easy while you take the course. As long as you're somewhat comfortable with MATLAB, the problem sets won't take you too long to finish (~4-5hrs), but if you're not, you might end up spending an additional 5-6 hours.
It is a fantastic way to learn FEM. However, the class is more focused on theory than on using software like Abaqus, Ansis, etc.
Not rigorous mathematically, but useful for scientists and engineers. AM 205 ties in very well if you're interested in mathematical aspects of numerical method, such as convergence and whether problem is ill conditioned.
there were 3 parts to this class (but they may change.  Katia mentioned she may restructure it.  This iteration was nothing like the previous one and the next one may be different as well.)making your own finite element code in matlab, handwritten problems, and learning how to use Python to work in ABAQUS.  I learned a lot in this class.  It will certainly help my research later on down the road.
Everyone who wants to be a practicing engineer must take this course.  It is well taught and practical.
Katia is without a doubt the best professor in SEAS. She's an extremely clear lecturer and has been extremely helpful to to teaching the material without making it too overwhelming. Overall a very applicable and useful course for engineers and one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. Brush up on MATLAB, matrix math, and differential equations in preparation for this class.
This is probably the coolest, most applicable class I've ever taken. More SEAS classes should be like this. All engineers should take this before graduating!
Definitely take this class if you're interested in the materialit's absolutely worthwhile. If, on the other hand, you're not sure if you're interested, then I wouldn't take it: it'll be really difficult and time-consuming if you're not committed.
This has been my favorite class I have taken at Harvard. I recommend that every mechanical engineer at least shop this course because it is so applicable to real engineering work.
Great course! Need background in mechanics and matlab.
Since this course isn't taught every year, you should consider yourself extremely lucky if you are able to take it during your short time at Harvard. Easily a highlight of the ME concentration given how practical it's applications are.
This is easily the best class I've taken here at Harvard. The teaching staff is wonderful and the course material is so interesting and so useful. If you have the chance to take this class, it would be a huge mistake not to.
ES128 is an excellent course! You learn the basics of 2D finite element analysis for structural mechanics from 3 separate approaches: (1) the analytical theory/mathematical approximations used to build a finite element code, (2) how to build a 2D FE code yourself in Matlab, and (3) how to use Abaqus for 2D (and 3D) simulations. The lectures are excellent and very clear; the problem sets are challenging and take lots of time but relate heavily to the content covered in lecture, and the final project is lots of fun. High proficiency in Matlab is really beneficial since you write your own 2D FE code in Matlab in bits and pieces throughout the semester on problem sets.
