This class involves a lot of discussion in the first half, and lots of design/construction in the second half. We had a two-person class this year, which made the discussions sometimes more difficult than it might have been with a larger class. As in other engineering classes, be prepared to spend a lot of time at the end of the semester with your engineering project. Getting to interact with the 8th graders is great -- though be aware that you won't actually be teaching them!
ES 110 serves an important goal of connecting Harvard students to public science education, but it falls somewhat short. The discussion component of the course is less engaging than similar discussions in History of Science and philosophy courses; Professor Manoharan's expertise is more comfortably in physics and engineering design. The design project was enjoyable (albeit somewhat rushed), and the 8th grade students were a delight.
It's a great introduction into understanding about how people learn about science.  It's a wonderful opportunity to work with 8th graders and to test and apply what you learn in evaluating the 8th graders' understanding to your own experiences in the classroom.
Be very careful with the essay responses.
this is one of the few classes at Harvard where students can gain practical experience along with theory -- unlike labs in other science courses, we have a say in what we want to gain from our work outside of class.  this course also allows students to reflect on their own personal learning styles as undergraduates, while we learn how to coach younger scientists in their abilities.
This is a very engaging, interesting course that will help you re-think your approach to learning science and engineering!
Read and re-read the readings so the discussions can be really thought-provoking.
Overall good course.  The only thing I would tell my peers is not to take the syllibus at face value.  If the syllibus was more clear and in depth I would have fully recommended class, but because it was not, I found myself with several scheduling conflicts and unforseen time issues.
A unique experience, and overall a good one.  This is a course that differs from average Harvard courses in 1) making you think about your education, 2) giving you an opportunity to actually contribute to your community, and 3) giving you a chance to experience a legitimate design process.
It was a great class overall.
This course can be great if you approach it the right way.  You can get a lot out of the classroom visits and projects if you make time for them and are genuinely interested in them.
Here's the deal. This class looks great on paper, and it really, truly is fun to actively work with students every week. You'll learn about how to learn, how to teach, how to engage with kida, how to conduct interviews, and then a whole lot about the engineering design process. However, 1. There are really annoying (and pretty long!) essays to write every week and typically a lot of reading that you actually need to do in order to write these essays. 2. The essays are graded in such a strict way -- I actually found myself writing only what they wanted to hear and in a style that I found so, so boring and redundant but got me a good grade. 3. Expect that travel time will be 1 hour there and back combined to the public school. So it's 2.5 hour section, 1 hour transportation, 1.5 hours at the public school, let's say 1.5 hours of reading, and 5 hours of essay writing EVERY WEEK. During the engineering project, it's 8 hours at Pierce instead of 5 hours of writing. It's a time commitment. Look, in retrospect I'm happy I took the class mostly because it was so different from any other class and I love working with kids that it kept my life interesting. But there was a lot that annoyed me about the class, especially how I had to adhere to such a rigid format of writing.
This class is for students who want to have a component of community service in their classes (since you get to work with kids), but it's definitely not a class you should take if you want to learn about engineering. It would be great if there wasn't an essay component, but the assignments are graded very harshly (unnecessarily harshly), which just dampened the entire course. I wouldn't recommend it.
This class is worth taking if you are interested in science and education.  The assignments are not as easy as they seem at first, as they are really meant to be essays with a central argument and compelling evidence.
This has been one of the most enjoyable classes I've ever taken - and definitely the most fun. Topics discussed are interesting if you've any interest in science, engineering, and/or learning/teaching; classmates are awesome; and working with the eighth graders is really fun and informative in ways that doing typical coursework can't be. Getting out to the middle school does take some time, but it's not that much, and it's nice getting off campus a bit. Vinny's really nice, and is good at spurring you to think more about whatever you're doing. Only downsides were some logistical disorganization/go-with-the-flow when working with the middle school, and the sometimes mysterious rubric-style grading of essays. But overall, I looked forward to going to the middle school and Monday dinner discussions for this class. :)
Sounds like a fantastic idea for a class, but it was quite poorly organized, so most potential benefits were lost. Not very difficult, but frustrating. Interacting with the 8th graders was BY FAR the best part of the course and this happened VERY infrequently.
Working with the kids is great.  The design project is great.  The assignment for this class are poorly explained and awkwardly harshly graded.  This course could be great if it was redesigned to have more content and clearer assignments.  Really think about it before taking this class.
It was tough at times, but worth every minute in the end. The building and classroom time with the kids makes this class unique. However, the skills you gain this class are writing skills.
This class is graded much more harshly that it appears
You'll have a blast working with Mr. McDonald's kids. Also, the small class size really allows for some great discussions and group work. Design projects are pretty fun as well.
It is a very exciting class, very engaging with a lot to learn.
I am a social sciences concentrator and would have described myself as a person that hates math, physics, and engineering; however, this course was so great that I am considering looking into taking more engineering/design courses.  The project is super fun and interacting with the 8th graders was phenomenal.  This class requires very little work, but you get a lot from it.  Great even if you dislike engineering as I once did.
Don't take it thinking it'll be easy.
