it's not for students that want a casual course in fiber optics or other waveguides.
the material is interesting, but the class was just too unorganized and frustrating
A must-take for optics people.  Work load is light.
I strongly recommend this course for anyone who is working in the field. I would probably advise against it if you just want to take the course to learn a bit more. The class was great for everyone who was invested in the material (because it is related to their research, etc), but it might not work so well for you if you don't want to go deep into the subject... Also, the course starts off a bit disorganized/slow, but pretty soon the pace picks up and the topics become very interesting.
It's a little disorganized, so you'll have to do a lot of learning on your onw.
You get a lot out of the course for the time commitment required. Professor Loncar is very good at explaining things physically although he likes math so if you don't understand, ask for a physical description. He is very laid back which can come off as the class being disorganized, so be prepared for that. Overall, learned a lot from this course.
Prof. Loncar is great at teaching and you will have a solid basic understanding of optics and photonics for your research by the end of the course. There isn't much work required, but if you follow the lectures carefully and go through the lecture notes afterwards, there is a lot of be learned.
Great course, great instructor.  Must take if you plan on working in photonics.
You will enjoy it thoroughly. It isn't too hard, nor too easy. Presentation components are a lot of fun.
The course builds up a conceptual understanding of current research in photonics but not so rigorous to actually make you an expert in this field.
The Optics and Photonics course will cover pretty much everything there is in the field. That is good and not so good. Good because it gives you an overview of the basics and the state-of-the-art; but not so good because it is taught with so much detail and math that you will be quickly lost at the teaching pace. Marko Loncar is a cool professor, very down-to-earth and open to questions and discussions. Ideally, he will rename this course to "Optical Waveguides" and talks about this in the detail and depth he does now but much slower. Beware that the assignments are usually way too long but Marko and Ian (TF) are good resources when questions arise. But do factor in considerable time for the occasional problem sets (about every 2-3 weeks). The final presentation is a good opportunity to talk about your photonics research if you work in this field - you will receive productive feedback. Overall, I would recommend this course to anyone interested in the basics of optics and particularly in waveguiding and nanophotonics.
This course is pretty disorganized and the workload fluctuates significantly from week to week.  You will learn a lot from the student lectures that you prepare and from doing the final project, which are good experiences.  You will not learn much from the lectures, which often feel rushed and overly broad, without going very deep into specific topics.  The problem sets are often extremely time-consuming and riddled with typos, even though there aren't a lot of problem sets.  (You will only get a week to finish each one though.)  Don't take the course unless you make sure that the TF is someone who is organized and thoughtful enough to make sure that assignments are reasonable in length and that the problems make sense before he/she assigns them.  We were not afforded this luxury.
The topics are invaluable if you want to do research in anyway related to nano-optics.
Good survey course of engineering topics.  Unfortunately lots of engineering jargon and not so much emphasis on physics.
Gives a solid background for anyone interested in working with optics.
Well prepare for every class, like reading the textbook and related papers.
It's a challenging course, but worth it.
This course does a very good job of covering optics for those in the field and related fields. Atomic physics graduate students should definitely consider using this to satisfy the E&M requirement since it will likely be far more useful in research.
I think this is a good course to take if you already have a good understanding of E&M and some background in solids and optics. You will get a lot more insight into these topics.
Excellent course. Great material and insight. Wish I had more time to digest. It really should be split into two parts (year long)
Best course I ever took (and I have taken all 8 required in physics). The seminar style lecture is good for advanced graduate students looking to understand a wide range of concepts but not go into too much math. However, despite the range of topics covered, I was very happy with the depth of each topic. The concepts are pretty universal so I see this being a useful course for people in AMO and condensed matter, not just photonics.
This course is very similar to ES275, but with a little more rigor. (maybe this has changed)
The topics presented is very good and important. However, students have to pay much time outside on their own if they wish to learn the entire picture of the course.
The course covers a number of interesting topics, but it has some organizational issues.
Pick it
This class will establish a good base of physical intuition in the subject of optics. Optics is not my field and I had little prior knowledge but I feel like I gained a lot of useful knowledge from this course.
The content is interesting, but the delivery of the course is very frustrating and makes it much more difficult than it needs to be.
Topics are extremely interesting. To get the most out of it, be sure to dedicate a good amount of time outside of class going over the material and reading the provided papers. I would definitely recommend going to class.
It's a great class. Prof. Capasso helps develop a lot of intuition for the physics involved in optics and photonics, which is great because you develop intuition in lecture, while learn all the mathematical and simulation tools while doing assignments. Also, I took this class as an undergraduate, and found it quite manageable. Probably because I had a solid foundation (Phy 15b,c, Phy 143a,b, and Phy 195- solid state physics), and also because I already knew how to use Lumerical FDTD for simulations because of my research experiences. Note, that the courses I listed are not pre-reqs per say. I'd say you will be fine if you have  a solid foundation in electrodynamics.
Be ready to go to the front of the classroom. It's scary, but it keeps you on you paying attention, and he will help guide you to the answer.
