This class is very difficult, but you will learn a lot, especially how physics and mathematics are intertwined. Teaching staff is very helpful, and problem sets are best done together in a group, but review the material by yourself.
The material is interesting and a great complement to other engineering courses.  Physics-heavy, of course.
TAKE this class if Donhee is teaching it. He is amazing at explaining E&M! I learned a lot. I had done Phy 15b and 15c prior to this class, which really helped.
Only take this class if you have to. It was terribly taught this year. Professor Donhee used to have only psets, but this year he left the same psets (which are really hard and require a lot of time and effort), and added a midterm and a final exam. The material is quite difficult and you get no guidance. The TF offers no help and does not hold section or problem-solving sessions. The material is so boring, outdated and complex, and we spent the entire semester deriving formulas as opposed to applying them, so the class should be named "theoretical physics" and not "applied electromagnetism" because we did zero applications. I really did not enjoy this class.
If you're really interested in understanding & working through the physics of some applications, then this is the course for you.  However, if you are trying to get a general overview of the different overall applications of E&M, I would suggest another section.
This course seems to change significantly depending on the professor who is teaching it. Having taken this with Prof. Ham, the material was very theoretical most of the time and didn't have much focus on applications. The first half of the course was mostly a comprehensive review of classic E&M and the latter half dealt a lot with EM waves which was super interesting. For those who really like physics and math, this is a good course to take; but, if you're more of a hands-on learner who enjoys applications and designing circuits, this is probably not for you. But again, this class is different depending on the professor who is teaching it.
You have to be interested in E&M and have had some background in it. Be prepared to do a lot of math and largely forget the big picture for psets. You'll remember the big picture once you stop doing the questions and get time to read everything.
It is a very hard course and it may not be useful to you in the future.
If you absolutely have to take this class, brace yourself for an agonizing semester! Make sure you do problem sets with others, otherwise, YOU WILL NOT SURVIVE!
Revise your vector calculus and electromagnetism before starting the class.
Really interesting subject matter. For EE students, this is not as hard as 154 and is much better than 156 with Prof Tarokh. I wouldn't necessarily take it if not required, but its definitely not as bad as it could be
The material covered is really interesting and necessary for all electrical engineers. That being said, it is a difficult course and the problem sets take a long time. Professor Ham is also a great lecturer and person, so he makes it worth it.
Very cool material.
Donhee's the man. This course is going to be hard no matter what, but the professor makes a big difference. I would take any class with Donhee, no matter how difficult.
It is the best class I have taken here!
This is a fantastic course because a) it's taught by Donhee, who is the best professor out there, and b) the material is fairly straightforward and very interesting.  You get to learn about how all of the technology surrounding you works and you get to be in one of Donhee's classes at the same time.
Only take this if you love EM and you are an Electrical Engineer
Donhee Ham is a fantastic professor and this course is one of the more interesting in the electrical engineering department.  You do need a strong physics background, but the TF is very helpful with handling students' questions.  Also, Professor Ham is very accessible outside of class.  He is determined to help students understand the concepts in the course and he always cares more about the big picture rather than getting caught up in the small details, which is refreshing.
The course has great potential and in the next few years i expect it to be incredible. You will learn a lot about E&M and the subject matter is really cool once you get through the basics.
Marko is an awesome professor that really knows his stuff. He offers a little more flexibility than most and can offer you a lot of information! Brought a lot of ideas together for an EE concentrator.
This class is great if you really liked physics 15b/general e&m. Don't expect to learn how everyday devices actually work.
ES151 was great with Marko-- he's a really effective lecturer and a nice guy overall. That being said, be prepared to put in some time and effort to understand E&M! I certainly felt like I had to work a lot to understand the course material (which is by itself really interesting and useful).
