There is a lot of work. Every week several papers and responses that you have to do and they add up, especially if you take the 230 version and have TIB lectures to analyze. Furthermore the group projects either the lab or proposal are a huge time commitment, so be prepared.
This course has a fairly sizable workload but not unmanageable, and is definitely a useful course for anyone doing/considering Tissue Engineering research. Exams require you to think but not memorize (open note), which is great.
professors and tfs are very uninvolved with the course. very hard to get time with professors out of class. they are not very nice. sometimes they don't know or teach material well, and then test you on it anyways, eg the math equations we never learned but were worth 1/3 of the midterm. they are very strict. all of the different assignments required are ridiculous and too much, too confusing, and useless. really a whole hassle of a class that really made my spring annoying.
The subject matter covered in the class is very interesting, and Prof. Mooney's lectures are excellent.  The course will teach you valuable skill for scientific research, including how to critically analyze papers and propose a research project of your own design.
Potential students should know that they will be required to do a number of readings and corresponding write-ups (multiple per week) and that you must have an interest in tissue engineering to keep up and do well.
do not take this class with many other classes
It is a great introduction to the field of tissue engineering.
Although very experienced graduate students will find the lecture material a bit broad and remedial, the opportunity to discuss the current challenges in tissue engineering with Professor Mooney makes the course very worth while.
The class is very helpful for someone interested in tissue engineering but exams and the proposal are a lot of work and somewhat difficult
Be prepared to write and work. There are many assignments for this class, and they do not help facilitate a greater understanding for the course material. Prof. Mooney's lectures are very interesting. But, if you have a list of the course readings (which are mostly just review papers and journal articles) and don't mind missing Prof. Mooney's lectures, you could just read the papers instead of taking the course.
Good amount of work and nice survey of the field.
Professor Mooney is awesome!
This is a fantastic class that is taught quite well from a professor who is the top in his field. Definitely take it if you have any interest in tissue engineering!
There's a lot of busywork.I learned about tissue engineering and what's new, but a lot of the course tested how I could hunker down and get things done quickly. Mooney is great at giving good feedback though, and he cares a lot about every student.
Great class, very engaging, definitely learn a lot about tissue engineering; the only downside is the workload and number of assignments/exams.
Very interesting class. Lots of work involved but worth it.
This class has a very high workload, and generally feels more like an undergrad course. I would not recommend this for grad students. The course is quite broad, surveying general concepts in tissue engineering and subsequently providing examples for a few different tissues and organs. Although Prof. Mooney is a good lecturer and encourages discussion, the level and format of the class is more appropriate for undergrads than for graduate students.
Excellent introduction to tissue engineering. Prof. Mooney cares a lot and puts a ton into the class; very well-organized, balanced course. Weekly paper reviews means there's a decent, but not at all unmanageable reading/work-load. Midterms are rather different from the assignments though, so you need to study for them independently. Some math (mostly diffusion) which is really glossed over in lecture, but is tested on the midterm. Anyone who's taken fluids (ES 123) will have no trouble, but it's the one part that's tested but not well-covered.
