Unlike any other course I have taken at Harvard, this course gives you the o pportunity to test out what you learn, and put it in practice in the real world. For interested students, there are opportunities to continue the work over the summer and beyond, which is amazing!
I learned so much about working in a team with all different kinds of people. It was so exciting to bring together such an eclectic group of students all of whom were incredibly passionate about their ideas.
Don't worry if your project is crazy or you don't have any good ideas.  Focus on building great relationships with your team members and everything will work out in the end.
This class is a great class.  Our group worked together really well, and we had a wonderful semester.  However, since you will be spending a lot of time with your group outside of class, you should only take the class if you get along with the people you are working with and really love your idea.
I'd definitely recommend this course if you're looking for something untraditional, if you're the kind of person that takes a lot of initiatives and is passionate about ideas. This course will allow you the freedom to explore issues you care about and actually plan to do something abou them. If you need structure, however, this perhaps isn't the course for you.
This class is really cool in theory, but a lot of things could be executed better. The professors seem less engaged with the class than I was hoping, and you can get pretty conflicting feedback. But it's definitely cool and a unique type of class, and if you work with good people, it's way better!
They don't need to go in with an idea already, but they should be prepared for the class and their new idea to consume them.
I enjoyed this class because of the freedom and opportunities it gave students to develop their own ideas. I thought the organization was very poor; all of the work ended up being in the last 3 weeks, which was extremely stressful. The course did give me confidence in my ideas and the chance to follow them, which I found very valuable.
This class is very worth taking if you are willing to be patient, self-motivated, and to persevere. Working without significant direction is a necessity, but the rewards are huge.
Make sure to be a good team- it makes or breaks the course.
You get thrown into a group that's hopefully awesome and are expected to be productive the whole semester. It's a great class that would seem to be little work but if you enjoy it you will end up putting in a lot of time. If you're fine with a class that doesn't ask much from you until the end of the semester, take it.
Great class: gives you a ton of responsibility and flexibility and you learn so much! Get ready to work with a team!
try it!
Excellent class. Especially recommend if you are a soon to be graduating senior.
Wonderful experience - be prepared to devote a lot of time to the course.
This course is back loaded, and is actually a lot more work than you would expect. If possible take the course pass/fail so that you can focus on developing a good idea and not just stressing out about the grade. Also, the fellowship component is a great opportunity and so take the class if you know you'll be free over the summer to travel.
ES20 is an amazing experience on all fronts, from the non-traditional learning environment to supportive course staff. I would recommend it to any students interested in entrepreneurship and product design.
David Edwards really gained my trust over the course of the semester and I grew to appreciate his constructive feedback. Christian was also excellent and supportive. You'll get the chance to work with a diverse group of students and come up with a product idea, *AND* get funded to go abroad over the summer and prototype it!!! This is a REAL Harvard experience. That said many of the lectures were totally useless, especially those earlier on in the course before we were using the time to develop our ideas. Also this is definitely a "you get from it what you put into it" kind of course so keep that in mind. Putting together quality powerpoints and papers as a group is VERY time consuming.
This class does a fantastic job teaching you how to think creatively and present complex ideas clearly and effectively.
think carefully if you want to take this class. It sounds really cool but at the end of the day may be overly ambitious. Your experience will be good as the time and effort you put in to the class, your teammates, and the actual idea you are working on. Most people will not go on to start a company or even really believe their idea can take off.
Imagine if you had the chance to spend the entire semester developing an idea that could change the world? ES20's sole goal is just that.
Great opportunity to work on something you've been thinking about for a while, but the class is very demanding.  Take it P/F if you're a senior, otherwise you spend hours trying to fix details arguing with your group.  Your group can also make or break your experience in the class.  Also expect to be frustrated since the class doesn't provide much guidance towards actually realizing your idea. It's more a thinking class than actualization.  You're told to dream big, but then not how to actually achieve those dreams on any realistic level. So it's extremely frustrating in that sense and seems very hand-wavy.
Take this course if you are interested in innovation and pursuing your idea through a fully-funded summer fellowship and possibly beyond. However, be prepared to take a lot of initiative and work on your own a lot without a lot of direction.
Take this course if you want to learn about start ups. I anticipate that the summer extension of this course will be more valuable than the course itself and is justification for taking the course which requires a lot of work time during the semester.
This class is interesting and very different from most courses at Harvard. However, your experience is completely dependent on what group you end up in. Also, there is a lot of work at the end that can hit you really really hard. Also, if you're not going on the summer fellowship, you will feel left out at the end of the course.
This course can be really wonderful if you're enthusiastic about your idea and you'rein a group that is equally excited and responsive to each person's individual strengths and ideas. Otherwise, it can be a bit of a drag.
While the course is interesting and allows students to practice working in groups and developing new ideas, it is also incredibly frustrating and unless you are one of the "chosen few" by Prof. Edwards, prepare for a huge waste of time.
Great opportunity to explore your own interests and ideas
If you do not do well in an unorganized setting, this class might not be for you.
This course is unorganized and does not actually facilitate effective and efficient innovation
DO IT! It will CHANGE YOUR LIFE!
This class is really amazing and has opportunities. Prepare to be screwed over by the grading policies at the end--nobody knows what they really grade you on
This course is a lot of fun and is taught by an amazing staff of teachers and TFs. However, make sure you select good teammates at the start of this course because your group will determine much of the success and enjoyment you have in this course.
Highly unorganized
Great class in concept but a few things about execution make it not so great.  They keep telling you to dream big - don't dream too big, because you're later expected to explain how you're going to execute your idea and if you've made it unrealistic, you're screwed.  Your team is incredibly important: do your best to develop a good relationship with them because they will entirely determine the experience you have in this class.  It's also very disorganized but don't freak out when there are a bunch of deadlines you didn't know about; the staff is generous if they don't make deadlines super clear (such as with reminder emails).
This is an amazing class. You definitely need to be self motivated but if you put in a lot of work the teaching staff can provide you with some amazing opportunities! I loved going to class everyday!
Not much work until the end and then they bombard you.
Make sure you have great teammates.
Best class you will ever take. Greatest and most rewarding experience.
This is an incredible course. Professor Edwards and Joelle are both extremely helpful and insightful. They really help you with the thought process involved in creating something from an idea. The seed ideas were flexible but also gave enough direction to make it engaging and we never felt like the tasks were beyond our abilities.
Professor Edwards is extremely interesting and has a wealth of experience in taking fascinating concept ideas to reality.  He brings in great guest speakers that in some cases might expose you to a new field or industry worth exploring post-graduation. That being said, the course was disorganized and assignments and due dates were frequently unclear.  This was infuriating because you'd ask for advice on how to complete an assignment, get a vague or equivocating answer, then receive negative feedback when your graded work inevitably didn't live up to the teaching staff's mysterious expectations.  More than once, the teaching staff would ask for unexpected additional requirements to an assignment shortly before the due date, which was infuriating because in most cases we'd already completed the assignment and couldn't meet again as a group before the deadlinemost notably, fewer than 48 hours before the final report was due, we received an email indicating it should be 40 PAGES LONG, despite the previously stated expectation that the report would be an aggregate of several short pieces we'd written over the course of the semester that didn't total more than 8 pages.  Overall, the concept for the course is excellent but the execution didn't live up to my expectationswhile I liked several of the guest lectures and loved speaking with David about our idea, the aforementioned issues with assignments and feedback severely limited my ability to enjoy the course.
Great class if you enjoy working in teams on a project all semester. It can seem a bit disorganized at times, but it is fun and low workload
Don't take this class if you're expecting to learn an innovation process that will be applicable in other contexts.
Poorly organized.
Don't miss this experience; you will graduate without having learned something amazing that Harvard offers.
This is a cool concept for a class that was ultimately poorly executed and resulted in an unfortunately frustrating experience for me and my group, despite us getting along quite well. The workload is quite light throughout the semester and often feels like busy work, but the last few weeks of the semester are hugely laden with work. It seems like communication among the teaching staff needed improvement, as our feedback was often very scattered and surface-level. There is no inter-group collaboration or even conversation, so you really only get to know the people in your group throughout the entire class. The summer internship is an exciting perk, but the preparation and communication leading up to it has (again) been disorganized and frustrating. Overall, I'd unfortunately not recommend taking this unless the teaching staff re-evaluates the course's work and communication elements.
The course is a very unique opportunity to work besides enthusiastic do-ere at Harvard!
Don't take this course unless you are incredibly passionate about the seed ideas (or you just happen to really want a semi-free trip to South Africa).
be careful!. What seems like a place to develop your ideas turns out to be much more a place for meeting a thousand assignment requirements and gaining points in various extensive 432 point rubrics
The premise is very compelling, the actually course is a lot of busy work.
I thought I would learn valuable information and technical skills about product and business development, but this was not the case. We often wasted a lot of time since the class lasted 3-4 hours every week, and our many guest speakers usually had pretty irrelevant experience (or at least their presentations didn't contribute anything to my learning of how to create things that matter). I thought it was unnecessary to have class in Kendall Square, as well, since we could have easily used the resources in Pierce Hall. While it was a laid-back course and the weekend trip to Maine was a lot of fun to prepare for our group project presentations, I often regretted enrolling in the course given its disorganization and huge time/resources commitment.
This was the best class I have taken at Harvard. It focuses on creativity and collaboration unlike any other class I've taken. While the lectures are also very interesting and include guest lectures from prominent people in the arts and sciences, the class is not really about the curriculum but about collaborating and building relationships with the people around you and learning to think creatively.
This class is great for idea generators and dreamers.  Ultimately, a lot of the class is brainstorming- but don't underestimate the usefulness of this skill alone.  A lot of fun, and the end of semester trip is a blast.
If you need to round out a difficult schedule or are in your senior spring, take this class. It is very low stress/work-load and is all around pretty chill.  However, if you like structure and organization, you will absolutely hate this class because there is little of both of those things.
10/10 would recommend. It is both a fun and inspirational class which are hard to come by.
An unstructured way to work more on your existing idea. Unlikely to be an enjoyable experience if you don't already have a passionate project. There is no curriculum, and week to week expectations are at the whim of the professor - course direction is fairly random. You meet cool people - the network for the class is filled by interesting friends of Professor Edwards. There is a collaborative creation process at the end of the class that is hectic and fun, but loosely planned and may disrupt your schedule - we were in Maine for the entire Yardfest weekend. Next year could be completely different!
This course changes every year, so it is difficult to talk about what this class might be like for you. However, I will say that if you are comfortable with uncomfortable situations such as not knowing how a course might develop, this course might be right for you. Interesting speakers, and the class gets to know eachother by the end of the semester, so that is nice. Get to know your peers, David and Gen!
If you need are interested in design and interacting with leaders in that field, then this class is great. If it isn't changed significantly be prepared for a roller coaster of excitement, confusion, disbelief, surprise, and uncertainty.
This is a good class if you are interested in ideating through open and challenging problems.
Take it! Really good as a senior spring class, interesting / cool / learned a lot of things that you usually don't learn in school (i.e. patent law, entrepreneurship, technology and design, teamwork).
I was really excited to take this course because I felt like it had a lot of potential. However, be forewarned that the course is composed entirely of ideation/brainstorming - not actual experimentation with your idea (that is supposed to be done over the summer, should you choose to do the summer idea translation fellowship). The course can be really disorganized at times, and the feedback you receive can often be confusing or in contrast to what you were advised to do (based on previous conversations with course instructors). In addition, because the work is done entirely in teams, if your team does not pull weight equally, it can be super frustrating when reports/presentations are due. Prof. Edwards is definitely a really accomplished and interesting person, but I think the course needs to be better organized and there needs to be a clear timeline from brainstorming to some sort of prototype or distilled idea, or the semester really just drags on and the course goal of developing a world-changing idea does not come to fruition.
Quite unstructured - so make sure you have a good team to work with. Changed the way I think about innovation and innovating. Great course to take senior spring, as this can lead to a funded summer opportunity to continue the work as a start up
The course is an ideation and brainstorming class alone, if that. Do not expect a maker's course or a hands-on design process.
The concept for this class is very interesting. However, the topic we were assigned went a bit over our heads and for a while, my group switched projects every week or so. If you have a great idea, the class shouldn't be too difficult, but there's the potential for you to wander aimlessly for awhile. Other than that, the class is very different from other classes I've taken at Harvard, and the major assignments are a final presentation at the end of the semester, and a final group paper. I think if you want to try a class that is very different, like to work in groups, or want to work on your presentation skills, this class could be particularly interesting for you.
Sometimes it's nice to dream about the future and the worlds of possibility; this course is a neat way to do exactly that. Just make sure your heart is in it before you sign up.
Great senior spring class, creative, interesting, inspiring
If you are motivated by the topic this is a great course!
