Really interesting content, taught well and in an organized way. I learned a lot from this class (perhaps the most from any of my engineering classes) and really enjoyed it. The problem sets and quizzes were fair and while I wished the final project had a bit more guidelines, I learned a lot from that as well.
If you want to start building a skill set to use in the work force (in environmental engineering of course) this is the ESE class you want to take.
Patrick is a great professor, and his class is very well-structured. No complaints here. Advice: start the psets (particular pset 3 and onward) early, and have a study group. Also, if the class has in-class exams (ICEs) over midterms, be aware that you will run out of time.
This course was well organized and I learned a lot.
Maybe the best class I've taken here. It's an interesting topic, Patrick is a great/enthusiastic instructor, and the class gave me a lot of appreciation for how pollution control is done in the real world, which is a really important area of work. Pset unit conversions get annoying; workload is manageable (esp with the new quizzes format) and if you don't get something, Patrick's really helpful.
This class was very challenging, but awesome. Patrick is an amazing instructor. His lecturing is very clear and he's very good at answering questions. Also, he will keep trying to explain things until you understand them.
This class was one of my favorite classes that i have taken at Harvard. the material is extremely real-world applicable, and taught at a good pace to cover a lot of material while still ensuring good comprehension with the quiz schedule. The final project was also really fun to do. If you are interested in water conservation and/or restoration, this would be a great class for you.
Great class, Patrick is a great professor and lectures really effectively. Cover a lot of material and tests and psets can be hard and long. Overall if you like natural water systems and keeping them clean I would 100% recommend this class
If Hannah is TFing again, be sure to be on-point with everything in your pset.
Patrick is fantastic. The course is very straightforward, but interesting and fun. It made me want to be an ecological engineer! If you are at all interested in environmental engineering, take the course!
Take only if you're interested in water management
If you're interested in what pollutants we're worried about, how they move in rivers and lakes, and how to treat them with large systems, this is a good course. However, due to the empirical nature of many of these topics, you'll feel like equations are being thrown left and right at you, especially once you're past the advection-diffusion material. This leads to some frustration with the work (i.e. worrying about small things like units, and plugging and chugging). The ends might justify the means if you enjoy designing (but not building) a more realistic treatment system. Patrick is also wonderful to work with and is very helpful at office hours.
It's a pretty tough course, Patrick basically copies the textbook to the board and you have to write frantically to keep up, but I learned a lot and I came in not really caring about water pollution but by the time we did the final project I was pretty into it. Psets were really hard, I pretty much did an all nighter every week and still did really poorly on them, but when I realized that a) A lot of the problems are almost identical to example problems in the book and b) other kids did poorly on the psets, it felt a lot better. Overall good class, if you are choosing between this or Atmospheric or Soil Chem, I think this is your best bet.
It's a fair amount of work and a complex subject. Some of the lectures are dull, but if you pay attention, you will learn a lot, and the course material becomes fascinating that way.
If you're an environmental engineering concentrator interested in environmental processes and remediation, you should definitely take this course. It filled a big gap in the curriculum, and the course should only improve in its subsequent offerings. Patrick is cool.
I recommend this for anyone interested in water, pollution, or environmental engineering in general. The material is fascinating and moves quickly. It's a mixture of qualitative information, but with some mathematical advection-diffusion-etc. modelling that I think surprised some people with its level of difficulty. It isn't the hardest engineering class but you do have to put in work and study for the midterms. The final project is applied and interesting.
This class made me so much more knowledgeable about water engineering and considerations with regard to both fluids and the environment. The information is hard but super practical, and Patrick balances the rigorousness of the material with a relaxed and understanding classroom atmosphere. The weekly homeworks are difficult but not too time consuming, and not having an additional section is a nice bonus.
good course because of material well organized lots of help
This class is really organized and Patrick is really friendly and teaches clearly. There is a final project in place of a final, which is interesting. Unless you are interested in learning about how pollutants move through different aquatic systems (not removing them), this material might be boring. The psets are doable and the midterms are graded fairly.
This class is interesting for its own sake, but you'll also learn a lot about models of advection, diffusion, and dispersion that have applications beyond water engineering. That alone makes the course worthwhile for an environmental engineer.
This class is a QUANTITATIVE approach to the material. It is still a phenomenal class, but it is not a qualitative course, as the title might imply! :)
Buy the textbook immediately
This is a great class to be introduced to a lot of things water-related.  I'm more interested in the topic now than I was in the beginning of the semester, so I would say that's a success.  The final partnered project was a huge time commitment for a short period of time, but I think that's because we wanted to keep working on it because the topic was so interesting.
This class was good and covers an interesting topic.  The class should get better as it advances and grows from its first time being offered.
ES163 is a great class to take alongside either ES165 or ES164. It covers topics in both classes and provides numerous ecological applications for those topics.
Great class that teaches you useful and interesting material that isn't boring.
