This is the easiest engineering class you can find, but be prepared to learn nothing and deal with a lack or organization and class leadership.
Take this class.
This class focuses more on manufacturing methods than actual devices or applications
Course load is very manageable and the information learned is interesting and useful. Would be best taken with the intentions of working on a MEMs project outside of class.
This class is a pretty low workload and everything is done in groups which makes it much more enjoyable. Lectures can sometimes be a little disorganized, but overall the course provides a good understanding of MEMS and Microfluidic fabrication techniques.
You get out what you put in - there is not a lot of mandatory work so it's a good course to balance your schedule. At the same time, this makes it more likely that you won't get as much out of the course as your busy schedule will probably keep you from putting in as much time as you would like. Lectures have too much material in them to absorb in a single two hour lecture. With that said, Habbal and Stark are experts and can answer just about any question you ask them.
Great, chill class for undergrads. More like a seminar, highly recommend to EE's to balance a heavy schedule.
Interesting. Good alternative to googling all the information yourself, since not much original content was presented.
gives a good introduction to the field of MEMS but not a class that will provide thorough knowledge. professors are great though and very open to discussions in and out of class.
This course provides a great overview of MEMS technology and its applications. The coursework is pretty straightforward, and this is a relaxed class overall.
A great introduction to MEMS. Be sure to be on top of your assignments because the class is somewhat unstructured.
The workload is very manageable but you should only take it if you are interested in the subject.  Even though the new lab component of the course helped me learn the material, the teaching staff took a while to figure out the lab schedule and they were not run very efficiently.  I expect things to go a lot smoother in future years.
Take the course if you would like an introduction to MEMS (obviously). To make it interesting, engage in the lectures, read the slides beforehand (to avoid getting confused as Dr. Habbal goes through them extremely fast), and spend a good deal of time on making an interesting final project.
it's really a great class - it's not super intense and the lectures/homeworks are pretty good and make you think.  it's a nice class to take if you have a heavy courseload but still want a good intro to MEMs and fabrication in general.
