This class addresses the current climate crisis from a strong chemistry/physics perspective unlike other courses that tend only to focus on the environmental consequences without the analytical rigor. Fantastic course, highly recommend. Jim is a brilliant and caring professor who is always willing to chat.
This class is the obvious follow-up to PS11 if you are interested in matters involving energy and climate. Jim is a great guy and an enjoyable lecturer. Sometimes problem sets could be a tad hard, but overall the class wasn't hugely demanding. It was pretty fun to do the case studies as opposed to a final.
This class is great!! I would be a little wary of taking it if you don't have a strong chem/physics background because it does get a bit involved when you're applying those intro concepts to real-world problems. You learn a lot and Professor Anderson is amazing!
Jim is great, but his lectures are long and the material is often quite boring, so be ready to be unsure why you are learning something or what it relates to. Jim is more than happy to answer and questions and help out though
The upside of this class is learning from Jim Anderson. He has so much experience and knowledge that if you pay attention you will pick up quite a lot. The class work and materials are not the strongest however.
Jim is amazing and really wants to get to know his students. He even lets everyone drive his electric car, even saying it should be a requirement for graduation. He is so passionate about the topic and all he wants to do is help students learn more about it and become better prepared for careers that will save the world. The case study method is an excellent component because you get to write and learn about course-relevant topics that are most interesting to you.
Professor Anderson is seriously the cutest. He is so enthusiastic about teaching and is really nice. The TFs are amazing and really helpful. This semester they drastically increased the difficulty of the psets so it wasn't as low of a workload as previous years. You have to go to office hours / section in order to do well on the psets. However there is a written case study in place of a final, which I enjoyed more because you can write on any topic you find interesting and there are no strict guidelines on what you can write about or how to write it. The grading is fairly lax. I took PS 1 but the course wasn't that easy so beware of previous year's evaluations.
I have nothing but positive things to say about this class. The section leaders are probably one of the best I've had in my four years here, and are both super kind. Anderson is amazing, and I recommend that all Harvard chemistry, engineering or physics concentrators take a class with him before graduating. In terms of course difficulty, you will probably struggle a little if you don't have a good chemistry or physics background, but I wouldn't worry because you get a ton of help if you ask for it. Overall, this class is a rare gem, and i recommend you take it. Oh, and start case studies early...they're not as easy as you'd think!
This class has a mix of backgrounds so it really depends what you are looking for --those who took PS1 or PS10/11 felt that this class was easy because most of the material was repeated.  I had only an AP chem background so it was a challenge for me.  Regardless, I thought this was a great course and Prof Anderson's enthusiasm makes all of the struggle seem worth it!
This class is perfect for putting the microscopic lessons in physics and chemistry in the macroscopic context of nations and the world.
Prof. Anderson is incredibly knowledgeable about the topics involving energy and climate, and this class does a great job of laying the groundwork for future exploration of these topics. The weekly p-sets are usually fair and manageable but occasionally they were quite long and annoying. Other than that there is a midterm (start early on memorizing all of the numbers he says are important in lecture) which was very fair, and 2 case studies (basically a paper that explores cool topic of your choosing), where one of the case studies is in place of a final. Anderson has a VAST knowledge of these topics so the best parts of lecture were when people asked questions and when we tied what we learning into current events in the news. This is a pretty non-stressful and fun class to dive into these topics. Some of the review of topics from chemistry and physics could be dull at times, but it was important because people come into the class with different backgrounds.
JIM ANDERSON IS THE MAN and he is so understanding and wonderful. He is so passionate about his students and his research and would love to talk to you one-on-one in a casual scenario if you want! The case studies are the best part of the class--it really made me feel like I accomplished something and had an effect on the scientific community.
The Case Studies and News of the Week is really what makes this class. The problem sets are annoying - sometimes super easy or sometimes they have ridiculous expectations. But Anderson's such an interesting guy to learn from. Take his opinions with a grain of salt though - some of the things he said didn't really sit right with me.
It is an interesting class but I didn't learn as much as I would have liked to.
If you are interested in linking climate, energy, and the micro concepts to the macro world --this is the class for you. Professor Anderson is such a nice, approachable guy, and a very effective lecturer. Some of the psets can be long, but you can always get help. Also, you have the opportunity to write a case study instead of a final, which is really nice!
if you know a lot of science, you'll be very frustrated by this course. the engagement with science is perfunctorary (though well intentioned) and the problem sets reward office hour attendance, rather than thinking and understanding the concepts.  professor anderson is, though, extremely knowledgable, kind, patient and enthusiastic about the subject matter.
You learn a bit about everything that has to do with physics and chemistry. The midterm is very doable and the problem sets are not bad at all. Patrick and Peter were the best TFs. They are very responsive and would spend hours to explain to you anything you are struggling with.
This class is fantastic if you are interested in energy.  Anderson is the man and perhaps the nicest person at Harvard, and really wants everyone to learn and have fun above all.  Case Studies are a great way to engage the material, and Professor Anderson always makes a concerted effort to connect the subject matter to real-world, practical issues.  problem sets and exams are very fair, and its overall a great way to understand the scope and interconnections of various energy systems around the world.  Watch out for peter as a TF though; he's very nice but utterly worthless.  Patrick rocks.
In the course, you have the opportunity to write two "case studies", which are cool because they allow you to explore an area of energy or climate change of interest to you. The course overall, however, is poorly structured. Prof. Anderson is a very smart and seems to care about the course, but he tries to cover a lot of material and ends up jumping around a lot. I stopped going to section because I wasn't getting anything out of it.
Although lecture can get pretty dry, this course will give you a lot of breadth when it comes to energy and the environment. It was a bit similar to ES6, but the case studies made it unique and allowed for more depth in a topic of your interest. Take the class if you're interested in energy and the environment and haven't yet taken a course on it. Make sure you're ready to work with chem/physics concepts and crunch numbers!
This is a good class and doesn't require too much work.  Prof. Anderson is amazing and extremely enthusiastic about the material, and very accessible.  The psets do require a bit of work, but if you get into a group it is very manageable and you will learn a lot of valuable information that is relative to the changing world today!
excellent course for students with interest in world energy issues!!!
The course is rather simplistic and easy. It is not an engineering course; it is a gen chem course.
the problem sets are annoying but taking the class is worth it. prof. anderson cares so much about the subject matter that it inspire you too.
You will cover a lot of material in this course, so it helps to have at least some background in E&M, physical sciences, and some thermo. The more you know going in, the more you will get out of the course, because its strength is not so much in teaching the basic concepts as it is in reviewing those concepts briefly, then making sure you see how they all connect together in the context of energy/climate. If you care at all about having a informed, quantitative perspective on today's global energy and climate situation, you should take this course.
Professor Anderson is an excellent professor and person, but this class can be a pretty painful way to learn about energy and climate.
Easy. Interesting. Low stress. Changes your persepctive. Problem sets are kind of tedious but not difficult. Case studies can actually be really interesting if you pick a cool topic and do a good job researching it.
