The class is hard, but Maha is a genius. This class will give you some physical insight into fluids, but more importantly, a glimpse into how a true master thinks about his craft.
I highly recommend this to anyone potentially interested in fluid mechanics. The course is very engaging and Maha is so supportive of questions that it feels more like a cross between a lecture and a reading course. This is my favorite course so far.
While this class was somewhat difficult, it provided a great introduction to fluids, both from a conceptual and formal perspective, and learning from Maha was well worth the time spent on the course.
A great course if you're interested in starting from the fundamentals and building up to some important fluid mechanics concepts.
A lot of work, but an opportunity to learn a lot of fluids and physics from a briliant teacher who has taught at a lot of highly recognized universities.
If you come from a traditional (i.e. non-Harvard) mechanical engineering background, this class might catch you completely off-guard. You probably want to brush up on your differential equations skills if it's been a while since you took diff. eq.
This course is helpful for building physical intuition about fluid dynamics.
work hard to learn hard
A good course that will provide a good background for understanding the behavior of fluids.
Prof stone's notes and lectures illuminate the topics so brilliantly that they can seem deceptively straightforward. Be prepared to work hard if you want to develop physical intuition for flow that will not fade once the course is over.
Be prepared to spend many hours
Be prepared to work hard, but it is entirely worth it
It's a lot of work, but you will learn a lot about fluid dynamics. Also, Maha is an inspirational person and definitely someone to learn from.
This class is very good and very conceptual. If you plan on taking this class make sure you have some available time to further read the material. The corse provides you with the basic information, and it is up to you to further investigate the subject. It is a difficult course and requires a large time commitment if you are serious about learning the material.
Good if you can/enjoy thinking like an applied mathematicain.
Excellent course, lots of work.
It was a lot of work, but worth it if you want to learn fluid dynamics.
Usefull for everyday's life, interesting and funny, take it !
This is one of those subjects which can be taught incredibly poorly, or incredibly well. If Maha teaches this one, take it. Otherwise, who knows.
I really learned a lot, not only in the field of fluid mechanics.
The course gives a very strong foundational treatment of fluid mechanics. The course environment is also very relaxed and therefore conducive to learning.
Be prepared to learn a lot!
If it's a topic that's applicable to your research, or that you find really interesting, take it.  Otherwise, don't.
This class with this professor really requires excellent advanced calculus. It is very mathematical and theoretical. I think it is more suited for Physics/Applied physics and Math/Applied Math major rather than engineering science or environmental engineering students.
It is a challenging course for those with no previous fluid dynamics experience, but it is worth it to take the time to go through a thorough introduction to a huge class of problems that are often important in lab.
I found this course to be very challenging, but I learned a lot over the course of the semester. I would recommend this class, but also caution those without a theoretical physics background on how difficult the course can be.
I would highly recommend this class to anyone willing to "learn" and challenge oneself.
It probably won't be taught by Maha next year, but if you get a chance to take it with him, do it! Jim Rice, who teaches the course other years, is also great--he focuses more on mathematical details in lectures, sometimes to the detriment of physical understanding, but he's also more systematic and organized about the material.
Really interesting material. Unfortunately only about half of the advanced topics written in the course description were actually covered in this edition of the course. Beware of the large time commitment involved.
You will learn a lot, but you will work incredibly hard. Mahadevan moves very fast with a lot of math, so it may be difficult to keep up!
It is well taught but be prepared for it to take a lot of your time.
Be prepared to work hard!
Maha is a wonderfully friendly professor, but you've got to remember to raise your hand and ask him questions to slow him down in class!
Fluid dynamics is an important subject for a reason and valuable to learn, but if taking it with Professor Mahadevan be prepared for good but somewhat disorganized lectures and an extremely heavy workload.
So this course does provide a good intro to fluid mechanics. However, Mahadevan is hard to follow and really seems to have trouble teaching students how to rigorously solve problems (he seems to do a lot of things by feel, which is useful but something that takes years to learn). He just seems a little disorganized. I recommend this course if you need to learn fluid mechanics, but it is wicked hard and isn't always relevant (too much math).
Very interesting and well designed course. Not too challenging, and good for physics as well as engineering students.
It's tough material, but it's well taught.
This course is worth taking and is taught by a very celebrated Professor; however, be prepared! The mathematics and mechanics knowledge needed for this course is pretty heavy.
Good course but make sure you have a buddy with whom you can discuss your ideas and solutions with.
This course requires a strong math background. The course material and textbooks cover a lot and one needs to do regular reading to be in sync with what is being taught in class. Homework problem solving sessions help a lot in improving your understanding of concepts.
The deriving ability is stongly required.
I would highly recommend the course, but only if a student has sufficient time to devote to reviewing readings, problems, etc.
Finish homework on time! Don't fall behind!
Prof. Stone is the biggest reason for my recommendation. He is incredibly organized, and clearly has a passion both for the material and for teaching it.
By far one of the best physics courses Harvard has to offer.
It is a shame Prof. Stone is leaving Harvard. You're missing one of the best courses you could have ever taken.
Professor Stone is enthusiastic about the course materials, and improved both and math and physical intuition.
Very well taught, but a lot of work.  You learn a lot, but also have to put up with a lot of tedious algebra, some of which is worthwhile and some of which isn't.
The lectures are excellent and the topic is quite interesting.  The class is a lot of work.
Professor Stone has assembled a mass of instructive and illuminating problems and notes for fluid mechanics. Students in this course will obtain a great physical understanding of the most important concepts in fluid mechanics.
It's a good, logical class. Everything makes sense. The notes are great. Howard is a good lecturer. Topics can be boring at times.
A great way to learn about higher level fluids with interesting examples but is very challenging.
The only reservations would be to make sure you have time to dedicate to the class and are willing to take on the challenge.
I would enthusiastically recommend it only to others with a strong interest in fluid dynamics or similar research.  I would also recommend taking the course only with Prof. Stone.
This is a very hard and challenging course, but Fluid Mechanics enthusiasts will love the course material. You will come away from the course with a very thorough understanding of the Fluid dynamical world.
I would recommend this course as a `glue' to bind together the bits and pieces of fluid dynamics you may have picked up in other courses.
Fluid dynamics is an important branch of mechanics. This class can give you a general understanding of fluid mechanics. I think this course requires your good foundation of math.
To succeed in this class you must be very self-motivated. Review your mathematics courses before taking this class.
Great selection of topics, imho. Prof Rice has a wonderful personality, which makes the course casual and enjoyable.
It is applicable to other areas of physics, but hard to find another class like this where it is all in one place.
Important to be self-disciplined because no graded psets! Good to find a study group or partner to go over pset answers. Topics sometimes seem scattered and it takes awhile for it to come together. The exams tend to be a fair bit more straightforward
You get as much out of the class as you put in. If you don't do the readings or the homework you are likely to walk away without much understanding, but if you put in the time you can learn a lot.
Need to put a lot of time reading book and solving problems for each week's problem discussion.
This is a good introduction to many concepts in fluid dynamics, but I honestly don't think it will end up helping much with my future endeavors. I would only recommend it if you have a very strong math background and strong interest in the topics.
