The work must be done fast and to a very exact set of specifications (and lot of work to boot).  Get through it, don't take anything personally, and there's quite a bit of insight to be had from the course.  Due to teaching style, I can't say it's the course for everyone though.
You will be intimidated, you will be yelled at, and you will be scared. However, ultimately you will produce higher quality work than you thought yourself capable of, and you will learn more about the subject and field than most other people actually in the field. Parker may seem like a scary guy, but his class is trial by fire - if you don't drop out of the class, and work your ass off, he will respect and reward you heavily.
This is an unusual course, but a great opportunity for the right person. Assignments consist primarily of biweekly half-hour presentations to the rest of the class on some aspect of modeling brain disease in vitro, based on your own search of the literature. Most students are grad students in Prof. Parker's lab, but undergrads can join too. The final project is a collaboratively-written review paper on the state of the field and future directions, which may be published if it comes out well.Prof. Parker expects a lot of work from you, and is not (very) shy about telling you if he thinks you've come up short. You'll have to do a lot of hard reading, harder if you're not familiar with the field (Intermediate cellular biology is enough if you're willing to do a *lot* of work to catch yourself up as you go; familiarity with in vitro systems, biomaterials science, and principles of bioengineering would all be helpful). What you'll get out of it: "grown-up" experience reading hard literature and summarizing it for your scientific colleagues (in and out of the class), practice and feedback on presentation technique and critical group discussion, and experience with the difficult but professionally essential work of collaborating with many co-authors on a piece of argumentative writing.
