A pretty unique class, you get to work on a project (or two) throughout the semester, and you learn a lot about human-centered-design through actual experience.
This is an amazing course and a great opportunity to work like an entrepreneur.  We made significant progress on our project, everyone developed as a team member, and we were proud of our work at semester's end.  However, there are issues with the course in terms of organization, transparency, and assignments/grading.  The staff is receptive to changes in this, and hopefully will begin to work some of these problems out.
Great class for anyone who wants to learn about design thinking from the best and do that by creating a product prototype that matters within an interdisciplinary team. Be prepared to get what you put in.
This class is an absolutely awesome experience that you are not going to find in any other classroom at Harvard. If you put a lot into getting to know your team, you will leave the semester with an exciting project and a few new friends.
Very great class for someone who wants to explore something that is applicable to the real world. It will probably be one of the most memorable classes you take at Harvard because of its unique structure.
This class is truly what you make of it. As with any class that features group work, the experience depends quite heavily on the dynamics within your group. Furthermore, if you have an idea that you are passionate about / a group that you enjoy working with, this chance is an amazing opportunity to pursue a non-academic venture with support from teaching staff.If you fall behind on fieldwork / development, the end of the year can be very stressful as you scramble to complete all the deliverables required at the end.
The saddest thing is that the concept behind this course is brilliant. There is so much potential to add a lot of value to the Harvard experience through design thinking. At the same time, this course is so disorganized and littered with pointless assignments that it felt like more of a chore than a class. Assignments were oftentimes sent out a week (or worse a day) in advance, making planning ahead difficult. Even worse, rather than helping to teach us the material, assignments generally involved highly detailed feedback to the teaching staff and to our groups.One lapse in judgment by the course staff that stuck out to me as especially egregious involved one such feedback survey. We were informed that our responses would be aggregated and sent to the others in our group. Despite telling us this, the staff instead copied our feedback about our group and sent it to them WORD FOR WORD. Many of us had included things in our feedback that were clearly identifiable. This breach of anonymity was beyond unprofessional.
The course is awesome if you are a really independent worker and self motivated. You need a awesome team! But then it is so so rewarding and interesting. I loved the course. So cool as it left so much room for ideas and development - professional and personal. I felt the course was really about personal development a lot! Treated you like an adult. Sometimes the open structure was hard to deal with, not because of the structure itself but because the staff sometimes did not communicate clearly and early. I think they are working on that though. In the end we had a great public presentation in the iLab. Prof Altringer always provides very good insights, sometimes her feedback is a little superficial though. Overall awesome course though. Really different and fun experience.
Prof. Altringer is fascinating, and the course creates a great opportunity to learn about the concept of innovation as a methodology rather than as an instance of good fortune.
The class is constantly evolving in terms of exact structure, but it's a wonderful class where you will get valuable hands-on experience with the human-centered design process, fieldwork, prototyping, etc. Beth is not only approachable and helpful as a professor, but also just an awesome person to get to know. She's done some very cool research and brings in exciting guests she's met throughout her career to class to offer feedback and advice on projects.
Not all students like the class's lack of structure
Amazingly instructed by Beth, a class which teaches you small-team innovation methods
Depending on your group, you might get pretty far along on a compnay/venture. However, if you do not click with your group, there is a lot to be learned from working and creating a synergetic team environment with many odds agains you.
This course is one of the kind. It's a really unique opportunity and I would really recommend taking it. You get to work on an interesting project with people from different schools and learn a ton about working with other people. I wish Harvard had more opportunities to get immersed into a team project like that. The professor is a great resource and the material she's teaching is very relevant.
waste of my elective and time. startup class takes ridiculous amounts of time. you do not get to choose your team.
This is a great class that I think everyone should take if only to learn the human centered design process. The class is quite unstructured and so you'll need to be motivated as a team in order to produce excellent outputs. A lot of this experience will depend on the team cause you will spend all of your time with them. You can't choose a team, but know that you're grouped based on interest so take the survey seriously. Other than that, put in the time and effort, and you'll end up with something you can take to the iLab!
Take this course if you want general exposure and a manageable workload class.
The course itself was a great opportunity to learn through experience the different practices and processes associated with innovation and the development of an original product. It's framed very well, in a way that introduces students to some of the psychology, sociology, and business principles connected to team work and innovation while they themselves conduct research, solve problems, and develop solutions in teams.
If you're interested in entrepreneurship/intrapreneurship this course is for you. Rather than just learn about what it is it challenges you to tackle an existent problem and work through solving it from field-work to prototyping. You may very likely begin a startup out of this course as many of my peers plan on doing. I enjoyed this course very much and it seemed like all of my peers did too.
Take it if you are good at designing or want to learn how to work with teams. If you hate grop projects don't take it
Exciting and different class that challenges you in other ways than most other classes at university.
If you are at all interested in design, entrepreneurship, or innovation: take this class! This is definitely the type of class that you get out what you put in. You are constantly expected to be making progress and moving forward, which may be overwhelming if you are not passionate about teamwork and design. Be prepared to work in teams, and your team can make or break your experience in the class. Fantastic opportunities are available beyond the classroom, and you learn many valuable design skills.
The project work in this class is great: this is the best group project I have ever worked on, and the final result of the course is fantastic. I truly feel I learned a lot about the process of human centered design and feel more ready to work as an entrepreneur. That said, this course will require A LOT of time, and there are far too many assignments that feel like busy work, and are poorly designed so that they take much more time and energy than they are worth. All things considered, I recommend taking this class if you're prepared to spend at least 10 hours a week on the class.
This course is great if you have prior strength in design, business, startups, and/or computer science. Do not expect to walk in without one or more of these strengths. Additionally, definitely make sure to engage your team early on--there were team dynamics problems across the course.I think many of the students have deeply mixed feelings about the course--I heard a lot of complaints from my peers about the disorganization of the class, the odd demands of the teaching staff, and interpersonal dynamics. However, many were also deeply motivated by their projects, thoroughly enjoyed the workshops, and felt like they produced something meaningful.
a very cool class! as long as you get a good group and you really love the idea you are working on, you can produce something that you are really proud of. it's a good experience of a start-up and thinking creatively about problems, and also going into fieldwork and gaining real-world insight.
If you take this class, prepare for a very unstructured environment that mimics the real start-up world. Your experience will be entirely dependent on the team dynamic, so you can encounter some serious challenges if there are interpersonal issues. It's also easy to end up doing a lot of the work (for example, presentations need to be made by someone with design experience, and there may only be one such person in your group).That being said, you can learn a lot about whether you'd like to go into the start-up space moving forward, and a lot about yourself and how to successfully navigate team dynamics. This class is an amazing opportunity to think creatively and innovatively, and to develop ideas on an accelerated timeline. Just be sure that you have enough emotional and mental energy to commit to it.
This class is absolutely amazing and a MUST for anyone looking to join or start a new company.
This class is great if you are truly truly interested in a start up. If not, due to the amount of time involved in the project work, it might not be time well spent if it is irrelevant to your concentration.
This class takes up a lot of time, and really depends on what group you are in. The teaching staff does a good job of matching you up with teams, and you are able to voice concerns; however, it really comes down to your idea and what you can make of your idea and your team. If you like a class that is really structured and organized, this class is not for you. You receive a lot of emails about what you need to do, but it is never really clear what they expect of you.
Very creative class and very worth taking! The idea generation process however lacks a lot of structure and students should be prepared for discomfort.
Class could be better organized. The online "Hub" space was confusing, poorly designed. Difficult to learn what the assignments were each week. Perhaps let people choose their project by subject matter that is more specific than what was offered at the beginning of the semester so that people can get right to it.
I would tell them to take this class if they enjoy working in teams and like project-based classes. People need to know that the point of this class is to create something, not to simply learn from a professor. In fact, they need to be comfortable with lack of formal learning and accept that the premise of this class is self learning and exploration
Just know that this class has really nothing to do with engineering. We didn't use any math or science all semester. (For me that was unexpected)
That the access to professionals and exposure you can get to the field can be extremely valuable, but you have to seize on the opportunities yourself.
This class is about inventing things, learning how to work with people, and thinking creatively with an open mind.
Very rewarding, but significant work load
If you really think you have the personality and desire to go into the innovation scene, this course could be great for you. I think the class can be very hit-or-miss however. If you have have a project and a team you like, it could be one of the most fun classes you've ever taken. If you don't like your project or group, it can be stressful and difficult to stay motivated. A word of warning, this class takes way more time than you expect- it's really fun work but you'll be amazed at how long it takes.
This course is an interesting new experiment, but it could be improved a lot in terms of organization and structure. Don't expect something that mainly focuses on tech - some groups work on more "community-service"-oriented design (like doing innovative things to improve conditions in a developing country). Most of the semester is spent developing your idea rather than actually bringing it to life. You don't really get to pick your teams.
The course is fun, but there is too much work. If you are going to have a busy semester, consider taking the course Pass/Fail.
It's not very structured, but it makes up for it in resources and advising available to everyone. Be prepared to work very closely with your group for the whole semester, so only join a group you can work well with. This class can be amazing if your group picks a project that you like.
This class was by far one of the worst classes I've taken at Harvard.  It lacked direction and coherence.  In fact, I didn't really feel like the course head/TFs knew how to run a course like this...bottom line don't take this course unless you want to be extremely miserable, confused, frustrated and lost for an entire semester.  I will be so surprised if SEAS actually even CONSIDERS running this course in the future.
Don't take it.
I would recommend with reservations simply because this class is for people with very specific goals and aspirations. Not everyone would enjoy this class. While it is useful and teaches some practical principles of the design process, because of the loose way it's structured, it is not good for people who prefer classes with a very apparent and visible way of evaluating student progress.
I think the class will be better in future years, but if you're looking for an easy A this is not necessarily the class.  Awesome concept for a class...hopefully the execution improves in future years.
A fun and fulfilling way to explore a different side of Harvard and yourself.
if you're interested in innovation and design and you want to create something that makes an impact in the world, this is a class for you
This class is awesome! Very fun and relatively low workload. Get to meet interesting people and make great connections. All work is done through group collaboration.
This is not an engineering course. If you are looking for a course to teach you how to carry out an idea from start to finish, how to implement your idea, how to make it the best it can be, and the technical aspects of innovation, this is NOT the course for you. This course focuses solely on the process of coming up with ideas (which is very important), but doesn't look much further than that.If you do take this course, you will be confronted with the reality of working in a team, a team you don't get to choose, for an entire semester. I found this experience to be very challenging (there are actually not that many times in your academic career when you have to work in a team for such an extended period of time), but also one that I grew from a lot.Finally I learned that we are very much in the middle of a "start-up bubble" and that anything can sound good depending on how you dress it up. In general, the ideas that came out of the class were pretty poor, but with a few snappy videos and nice outfits, we were treated as if we were the greatest mind of out generation.Therefore, I would say that I learned a lot from this class about working with teams, about working in a team that didn't exactly "click" from the first day (which I found to be extremely rewarding), the new culture of "innovation," and the design process; but I have many reservations recommending this course to anyone.
