Great introduction to engineering and very engaging
It would be a good introduction if you are interested in bioengineering or electrical engineering, but it is not really an introduction to engineering sciences in general because those are the only two areas you learn about.
If you're looking for an intro to engineering course then this class is a great way to get practical, hands-on experience without sorting through unnecessary introductory material. As a non-engineering senior that has little intention of following through with the concentration, I found the first half (bioengineering) to be filled with an unnecessary amount of propaganda / promotion for the Engineering Concetration, aimed at the freshmen in the course (granted, almost all the students were freshmen considering engineering). The professors were incredibly knowledgeable, helpful, and really know how to conduct an intro course that can stand alone, though, and I think this course is a great experience for any student, regardless of year or concentration.
Do not put off the final project. It will haunt you if you do.
If you are uncertain what field of Engineering you want to pursue, this class will not tell you. If you have any predilection towards Bioengineering, this course may disappoint you. Take actual courses in the fields like ES50.
Take this if you are really curious about electrical or bioengineering....
This class is very disorganized and the professors expect you to have a lot more background knowledge than they lead on at the beginning of the year. Lectures for this class are boring and the labs are very time consuming but are occasionally interesting.
This class is awesome! Todd Zickler and Eduardo Silva are wonderful teachers, and they actually care about the class and try to help you improve.
The point of this course is just to expose you to two different types of engineering.  I would not recommend you take this course if you are already sure you want to concentrate in engineering, or know what engineering entails.  Otherwise, the course is a great introduction to engineering.
It is a good class for making connections with important people in the engineering department, and it was very helpful in deciding to pursue engineering.
If you're interested in engineering but don't know which one, this class is a good course to take! While at times I felt that it would have been more beneficial if I had taken a class that was solely electrical, solely mechanical, or solely biomedical, the class does introduce you to all of these engineering categories. If you're interested in just seeing what the're all about, this class definitely helps!.
I learned a ton about engineering. I haven't gotten my grade back yet--If I get a good grade, then I would definitely recommend the class, as it is a rare and treasured opportunity to meet and develop tight relationships in essentially a 9:4 student:teacher ratio. If I get a bad grade, then I would have to say that I was disappointed in how much time and effort seemed to go to waste struggling to teach myself the material. I took this course even though it had bad Q scores, and initially hated it. But now, as the class is over, I can fondly look back and see what tight friendships and relationships with brilliant and sweet professors I have developed, and I really think it might have all been worth it. If you're shopping the class and they seem to have a nice syllabus and clear learning goals, take it. But if not, be wary--you're sure to be frustrated.
I certainly think that if you are interested in pursuing a career in engineering, take this course. However, be aware that the electrical engineering part of the course is a bit more engaging. The biggest advantage of this course is that it does not require a substantially important knowledge of maths.
The staff is great. The structure of the class is frustrating at times since it is an intro course yet we are trying to get a sense of what engineering is like. Therefore, in the EE section we are often not prepared with enough information to tackle the assignments and it can leave one feeling frustrated and helpless.
For students curious about engineering and who don't have much or no background in it, ES 1 is an ideal course. Both professors for my class, Todd Zickler and Sujata Bhatia, are great and very accomplished in their fields. Students will probably get somewhat overwhelmed with the electrical engineering portion of the class; it is interesting to learn but it takes a lot of effort to understand and comprehend so be prepared to do a lot of teamwork and work with others! However, the biomedical engineering portion of the class is very, very interesting and not too much work. ES 1 introduces the field of engineering well and was my favorite class so far at Harvard.
You are not sure about engineering, need an intellectually stimulating elective, want to be taught by great professors and amazing TFs? This is the class for you!
It's good for helping you decide whether or not you want to be an engineer
ES1 is great if you don't know if you want to major in engineering, or if you want a doable GE fulfillment. It won't be completely easy, but it could have been a lot more challenging (like ES50).
Although introductory, it requires more time and effort than I expected and instead of exposure to the subject, the course also expects you to understand in depth some very complicated material.
taking this course was the worst decision of my life. i wanted a course that would expose me to the general aspects of the different fields of engineering, so this course seemed perfect. however, the electrical portion held students without an extensive background to impossible standards. also,  the teaching for this portion was the absolute worst that i have ever experienced in my lifetime. the teacher literally talked with his back facing us for the majority of the course, and if someone asked him a question about a subject that he was talking about, he would just reread what was already in front of us on the slide.
Take this class if you are considering studying engineer but are still unsure and you want to know what it's like before you begin fulfilling the concentration requirements.
If you are thinking about going into engineering as a concentration and not sure which subfield you want to go into or never tried it before, definitely take this course. Great overview of the different types with some interesting application. Expect to spend substantial time in the lab. Professors are great, just make sure you go to electrical engineering office hours.
it is hard to pay full attention in class especially since the professors reads straight from the lecture slides. the most interesting parts of class are the case studies and guest speakers, which i learned alot from
It's a good class but be prepared to teach yourself most of the material
