This class is a trendy class for the entrepreneurs, networkers, and iLab types. The challenges are interesting at times, but extremely vague. Though, it is an interesting exercise to create a prototype each week and not get married to an idea too early or without the kinks all worked out. You will get really good practical skills as well like photoshop, indesign, powerpoint. You will never be afraid to speak in public again or have issue working in a group.
This class is great if you don't mind last minute changes and a bit of an unstructured paradigm. You learn many different things, but I wish we could have spent more time developing skills as opposed to moving on from one challenge to the next every single week.
I recommend if you are comfortable with an experimental format. Rather than contributing to research, you become research (in certain ways).
The course teaches many concrete skills for the process of designing a product to marketing it, but because of the short time frame, it's generally difficult to produce works that can be shown in a portfolio. Still a valuable experience though.
This was the worst class I have taken so far at Harvard. It was as if they were trying to be like cool parents but failed miserably. While packaged prettily, there really isn't much to learn from the course. The "products" that win are essentially things that just look pretty but aren't applicable in the real world at all.
This course was very disorganized. It was interesting, challenging, and stimulating at points, but also frustrating and difficult/time consuming. Weekly challenges were fun and helped you grow, but with little time and mixed backgrounds, it was difficult to succeed/feel confident on minimal instructions. This course will probably be better in the future, but there was a lot of moving around, times and dates of assignments shifted, new assignments, etc. that made it complicated and hard to prepare for.
Don't take this class. It's remarkably non cognitive. If you want to spend two hours a week watching the mostly dumb ideas of your fellow students in a class where there is no feedback or criticism, sign up. Just know that the class is basically a competition for the prettiest power point.
Great way to learn about your own design perspective and find out what kind of people you work well with on challenging problems.
Hopefully in future iterations of the course some of the kinks will be ironed out. My main complaint with this course was the feedback--there was very little feedback on our projects, and when we did get feedback, it wasn't very constructive and more a summary of what we had done instead of a critique of our work. The teaching staff were very helpful with good feedback while our assignments were in progress however.
If you are looking forward to doing the projects on your own, take it.  If you're looking to really learn something not from your own work, don't.
Great for building your portfolio.  Fun, but requires a bit of scheduling flexibility because it's all partner work (and your person changes every week).  Learned a lot indirectly through the assignments about how to generate ideas, work in teams, evaluate, do competitive analyses, get feedback, appeal to the masses, etc.
As long as you have an open mind, this class can give you fantastic skills in any area. It's unlike any other class I've ever taken: instead of reading something every week, you get to create something that actually has the potential to turn into a business. This class is great for networking with people you would otherwise never meet, and it's also a great public speaking workshop.
A really great class if you put the time in / don't expect to know what you'll be doing in advance.
This is a great class that pushes you to learn more about subjects that you would never learn about. It is helpful to know photoshop and/or illustrators before you take this class. There are a lot of design school students that are very good with it in the class, so it is almost assumed that you know how to use it as well.
This course is fast-paced, with a new design challenge every one to two weeks. From designing new iPhone apps to 3D printing pens to creating "something iconic," there is an opportunity to explore a wide range of design possibilities. You will be paired with a new partner every week, challenged to work with different people and develop new skill sets. Because it covers a broad variety of challenges, this course can seem surface-level at times, without an opportunity to delve thoroughly into one idea. It's far more learning by doing than pedagogical, which not everyone loves, so really know what you're getting into. Don't take it just because it's fun or easy. Take it if you really want a chance to develop your design portfolio, for which there are few opportunities at Harvard.
This is the most fun you will have in school. It is a fast paced sometimes grueling course - but you build a tremendous portfolio.
you learn to think in a new way. Very helpful!
I you're at all interested in becoming a product manager or designer, take this course!
It is unlike any other class you will take at harvard and is 100% worth it.  I did cool things every week, learned a ton of new skills and was always engaged by this class.
I really enjoyed taking this class, I thought it was fun, and learned a decent amount.  Each week is a new challenge, working with a new partner so you get exposure to many fields of design in addition to working with someone who has potentially a completely different background than you.
If you give each challenge the amount of time it deserves, you will leave this class with at least 5 or 6 new skills in design that you didn't have before, and it's awesome that these skills will be at your disposal for the rest of your life
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard, honestly. Beth is so knowledgable about all things design, marketing, and branding and really gives students the opportunity to make this course their own. There are weekly or biweekly challenges that push you to create and innovate, and while students are given some parameters, you are largely allowed to take a challenge in whichever direction makes sense to you. This class helped me build skills in Illustrator and Photoshop, and I learned basic skills in Solidworks. Overall, excellent course for all those interested in entrepreneurship, design, marketing, branding, or innovation in any way!
be prepared to be challenged and put a lot of time into this class. But it's also super fun and interesting and engaging. The most rewarding class I have taken in college. I feel like I really got something out of this and learned skills
This class is fun and pushes you out of your comfort zone. If you are interested in making a design portfolio, you'll have the opportunity for a lot of cool projects through this course. If you take it, don't think about grades at all, and just focus on producing work (whether it's a poster, a video, an article of clothing, a song, etc.) that you're proud of. Take this class if you like group work and you're able to structure your own time well. The class is sometimes disorganized (in terms of communication, deadlines, expectations) but it's also extremely chill, which comes from its open-endedness. I found it to be a really fun elective even though I don't anticipate working in design in the future. It's also a very cool way to learn from your peers and meet people with interesting start-up ideas.
This course is one of a kind. You won't find anything else like that at Harvard. If you're interested in getting some exposure to design thinking and creative processes, take this class. Professor Altringer is fantastic.
Will change the way you look at the things around you.
This class sounded like a great class initially, but it increasingly became worse and worse.  There was little to no transparency regarding the class schedule, upcoming assignments, or status in the course.  Additionally, despite this being a course in the college, the class consisted mainly of GSD and other graduate students and the class catered to these students more so than the college students.  The class did not provide adequate tutorials, in fact I showed up to a photoshop "tutorial" at 10am on a Saturday and the TF was NOT prepared, once we found the room he asked us "so what do you not know?"  This was a waste of everyone's time.  The class format needs to be seriously rethought and ultimately reworked  Also keep in mind the GSD students are taking this course pass/fail and you will find that many do not put forth a fair effort since their success in this course has little consequences and matters very little in the scope of their coursework.
This class enabled me to feel confident in taking on new challenges. I learned how to use solidworks as well as photoshop and illustrator. Though this class may not have as much feedback as one would like, the weekly challenges and presentations helped me compare my work to others.
fantastic class
This is a great course to get you to think outside of the box and realize that design is something anyone can do if they try it. The organization of it is pretty bad, but the grading is low-stress so you don't really need to worry about it. Often you will wish you had more feedback, but if you give it your best shot you can learn a lot along the way anyway.
This course was a good alternative to problem set courses. Each week is a different group project. I expected to learn about different design skills or software, but i was surprised when this was not the case. we spent the majority of the time learning about design psychology and strategy. The teaching staff was great though, and I get the sense that the grading is generous. I would recommend it if you want an easier alternative, but I was disappointed that my design skills were not drastically improved through the course.
Definitely take this class! It's such a breath of fresh air when compared to other Harvard classes. The emphasis is not on constantly having to compete and produce pointless things - in ES22, it's all about learning, trying, working with your peers, and picking up lots of new skills. I loved this class. Definitely one of a kind at Harvard.
This course is sometimes fun, but could be made better by a smaller class size and prompts chosen with student interests in mind. Everyone was let in and while the diversity of design backgrounds was potentially positive, the class as a whole was not pushed. Many seemed to slack off and I personally felt like I would have tried harder if the bar was set higher.
This course covers an excellent range of skills and concepts, things that anyone would benefit thinking about for a semester. Stay away, however, if the staff isn't planning on downsizing the course as you likely won't receive as much attention as you could to really grow in the course if the class size is too big.
Great class-take it if you have time to invest and are truly interested in design. Likely the only course of  its type that Harvard offers (which is a separate, shameful problem Harvard needs to address). You get what you put in, but you will have to put in a lot anyway.
This course is one of the most unique courses at Harvard. It covers a huge range of topics within design and lets you work with a different partner for every unit. I definitely recommend this course to anyone interested in design, arts, architecture, engineering or any other related field. The workload is not difficult at all, the grading is very flexible, and the teaching staff will support you with class material as well as any personal projects/plans you may have.
Design classes at Harvard are pretty shabby. Mostly, it's probably because to do good design, and end up with a stellar finished project, it's really time consuming. Definitely doable in the real world, but if you're juggling 3 other classes and 3+ activities then design is also something you can "fake" and just mail it in, and most students will end up doing this out of necessity. So, if you want really good design experience, my first recommendation is to not take this class, and find a way to work for a design firm for a summer in a field that interests you. That said, if you're still interested, know you can either make this an easier and get not much out of it, or you can pour time into it, maybe get a little more out of it, but not be rewarded proportionately to your time and effort in either learning or grade/recognition. The class moves quickly from challenge to challenge, the learning is pretty much all self directed, projects aren't carried forward, and it'd be hard for me to look back on the class and point to more than 10 specific things I'll do more now as a designer that I learned in the class. You will definitely learn something, but maybe not a whole classes' worth of material.
This course will help you think about design in new ways!
This course is great. As someone who studies social sciences and has never taken an engineering class, I really enjoyed the hands-on learning aspects of it. I feel like I learned a lot about graphic design and designing for user experience.
This course is a great introduction to user-design thinking, and a great portfolio builder.
If you like problem solving and working with few boundaries, take this class. It's a great change of pace from a normal class. It requires a few hours of work every week, but nothing too crazy, and the expectation is definitely not to have perfect projects every week. If you prefer learning in a structured environment where you know what's expected of you, this might not be the class you're looking for.
If you want to do a random project every week then this course is for you. There isn't much instruction on how to design for desirability really.
This course is phenomenal if you want to learn some concrete design skills. I walked in afraid that I would not be able to produce much work, but was pleasantly surprised at the amount I learned. This should be viewed as a primer into design and building desirable products. If you want to work in tech, regardless of whether your interest is business or engineering focused, then you definitely should learn some of the basic skills that this course equips you with.
I feel that Q Guide evaluations for this semester's reiteration of the course will be a lot lower, but I'd like to provide a disclaimer that this was just a rough semester for the teaching staffBeth et al. wanted to give everybody interested in the course an opportunity to take it, so they pushed to create a second section and then had to scramble to figure out a way to teach effectively for 60+ students. There is a part of me that wonders if it would have been better if the staff just cut some students, but what happened happened. Regardless, I do feel that the class has potential to get better organized after having this semester as a place to experiment with a larger class size. The teaching staff are incredibly devoted to every studentI honestly felt for a long time that nobody really knew who I was, but at the end of the semester, I got such personalized and careful feedback for everything that I was really blown away.  And Beth really does try to do something interesting with this class. It's definitely a hands-on course, but if you're the type to learn by problem solving and tackling bizarre but intriguing challenges, then this is the course for you!
The organization of the course was extremely poor. For a design class it is ridiculous how many issues we had with the way the course was organized. The class has no canvas page or real website with assignments, just an enormous excel spreadsheet that is extremely cluttered and confusing. I do wish that we had more conceptual lessons, i.e. lectures about design from Beth, readings about design, etc.
this class has the potential to be awesome but in its current stage it is not worth taking.
ES 22 is by far one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  Beth is an amazing teacher that has a very insightful take on developing products.  You will produce A LOT of work in this course and the quality of your output gets much better over the semester.  If you are looking for a very very different type of class, one that lets you make stuff and explore very obscure but exciting options, take this class.  It is useful for everyone and teaches you design thinking in a very non-formulaic approach.  Some weeks are more work than others, but overall a completely doable class.
This class is fun and creative - but be prepared for very open ended assignment and little structure. You learn how to use some of the tools in the Active Learning Labs, but you have to seek out the opportunities to really learn these skills well.
Have fun
If you're looking to build up a design portfolio  this course is incredibly useful!
This class leaves you wondering what your grade will be at the course's end. The projects are somewhat vague, but your output will leave you feeling accomplished at each task stage. The partner projects force you to compromise on opinions, and sometimes leave you with the heavy end of the workload, rushing late at night to finish.
Kind of a boring class that gets old after a while. It's not that fun to constantly be designing apps, which is what you do for almost every single design challenge.
This is a one-of-a-kind class that allows students to create and innovate real products with their own ideas. My favorite part about the course was interacting with professionals in the music field and meeting the founder of OneWheel. Beth is also an amazing person that everyone should get to know
TAKE IT. You get the opportunity to do hands on projects that you couldn't in any other class, you'll spend a lotta time on projects but only because you want to, and Beth is actually the coolest person you'll ever meet
Amazing hands-on experience with design, from conception and thinking to planning and building products and deliverables. Immensely rewarding, but beware that you must be willing to put in a lot of work to get something out of this class. Definitely shop it to make sure it's what you want before diving in.PS Beth & TFs are awesome! Beth is super interesting and has a lot of contacts in different industries and pulls them in for skype sessions and conversations. She also has so much knowledge and expertise about design and it's truly wonderful to learn from her. Overall I am able to see the world in a different light through the lens of design which is hard to explain unless you've already practiced it.
Really a unique class among Harvard courses. Although primarily older students are enrolled in the class its a great course to take for freshman or sophomores unsure if they are interest in design or engineering.
You learn lots of practical skills, and it's a light course while also being very fun and engaging. It will offset pset courses very nicely!
really great way to think about products and design in our lives and how products improve our lives
If you enjoy partner work, project based classes and being creative then this is 100 percent the class for you.  This class is one of a kind and is so much fun.  If you enjoy making things, this class just doesn't feel like work--it is honestly just a good time had by all.
A fun way to learn several basic product design skills.
