This class is a sheer delight, particularly for those who possess an existing interest in the figure of the vampire in literature and media studies. Professor Suetterlin brings a passion and enthusiasm for her research topic to our weekly discussions, and it is difficult to depart from the seminar without feeling an increased appreciation for the lore and ideology that has defined the place of the vampire in the human imagination throughout the ages.
This is a really interesting class that shows you how to think critically and make connections beyond the class and readings. Everything is fair game to talk about and Professor Suetterlin is amazing at engaging students and always very respectful of everyone's ideas.
This class is a diamond in the rough. Although this class may or may not fulfill any requirements, it is especially important to take a class where you can broaden your perspectives so that you do not remain limited to your concentration. This class will expose you to multiple different topics, from psychology (trauma and melancholy) to religion (Christianity) all by connecting it to biopower and vampire aesthetics. The professor's enthusiasm creates a great space for in-depth conversation about the great vampire classics (Dracula, Carmilla, The Flowers of Evil).
This course was very enjoyable. Most students taking it were very interested in the topics, so the discussion was quite good. The readings are engaging and manageable and addressed several important theorists - particularly Michel Foucault (whose theory of biopolitics and biopower are a main theme for this course), Freud, and Jacques Derrida. The highlight of the course for me was attending the Vampire Vibes conference - some of the students presented their term paper research alongside professors, and the whole day was very enjoyable. Professor Stterlin is an excellent teacher - she's very friendly, accessible outside of class, and usually facilitates discussions well. A couple of weeks we had so much to talk about that we had to skip over a reading, but that wasn't too much of a problem. My research for my term paper was fun - as with the readings and the course in general, I was able to combine fiction and themes I was already interested in with theories introduced in this course.
Unbelievably incredible course. Truly amazing. Such fun discussion and content. Really great mix of social theory and literature- and excellent discussion of why the former is important and how it is manifested in the latter. Great use of different materials (ex. visiting Houghton Library, the Harvard Art Museums, watching movies and TV shows, reading novels, poems and social theory). Cannot recommend this strongly enough!
