You have one chance to take this course. If you're even mildly interested in Nietzsche, you should take this course because nothing will prepare you better; it's easy to misunderstand Nietzsche or not understand him at all and this course will challenge you to do so.
This class requires a lot of reading that can be difficult at times, but the effort spent will be worth the reward of engaging with these ideas. Even now I don't feel that I'll fully appreciate a lot of Nietzsche until I read it again in ten years or something.
If you have any interest in social theory, take this course. Overall this is the best course I've taken at Harvard and the best taught course. I was able to read the bulk of Nietzsche's works, get a comprehensive understanding of how he evolved as a thinker, and grow in my analytic skills without being bogged down by busy work. Every student seemed deeply engaged with the works and seemed willing to learn and not just for the sake of the grade. It was wonderful to see how as a class we grew and became more critical readers and thinkers.
I found the course's expectations regarding readings a bit unrealistic, specially given that your grade is determined by a presentation you do on one text, a final essay you do on a couple others (of your choice) and a midterm exam where you can also choose which texts you reference. So don't feel too overwhelmed, you'll get the most out of Nietzsche if you read him slowly and carefully but you won't be able to do that every week!
I took this class my freshman fall, and while I do not regret taking it, I did feel a bit out of my league. It would be helpful to have some sort of background in philosophy. It is certainly manageable to not (as I did), but there will be times when you don't know what is going on. Overall a good course that helps you learn/think in different ways.
Be ready for large amount of reading materials. However, it won't be wrong to say that reading Nietzsche is always enjoyable and intellectually nourishing. Prof. Burgard and Ben Sudarsky are the great instructors who create enthusiasm for learning more about Nietzsche's philosophy.
The course is a great survey of Nietzsche's works; you will dive deeper into his philosophy than that one reading of Genealogy of Morals you skimmed in a gen-ed. The seminar discussion focuses heavily on the literary and aesthetic qualities of the text, which can be occasionally frustrating if you want a more systematic presentation of Nietzsche's key philosophical ideas. Still, the course is great and Professor Burgard is an exciting professor.
Take this course if you get the chance. I couldn't envision a better way to delve into one of modernity's greatest thinkers. The ability to read all of Nietzsche's major works is, I believe, the only way to do justice to this incredibly complex and misunderstood philosopher. Burgard is fantastic.
If you want Nietzsche, this is the only course that does anything close to justice to him, not at least because you read his whole texts. Burgard tends to insist on his deconstructionist Nietzsche, so seek outside the class if you want other interpretations of Nietzsche, since he seems to avail himself of a plurality of readings, and insisting on a single one is probably a mistake.
Your education would not be complete sans some engagement with Nietzsche. His way of thinking is both extremely influential and highly original--and this class, with its text-and-a-lot-of-it focus, is the perfect way to work with Nietzsche's thought.
Prof. Burgard is simply a genius, but he actually engages with your comments and treats you as an intellectual equal, which is refreshing and makes for an incredibly rewarding experience. Reading Nietzsche for a whole semester is not exactly easy, but he is such a good writer, and at times so funny, that you will surely enjoy the readings if you approach them with patience.
The class is excellent; there are no other courses like it.  If you are interested in Nietzsche, you should take it.
I loved this course, and I can honestly say it was the most thought provoking course I took while at Harvard. Nietzsche and Burgard together inspired me to think very differently about the world and my own place within it.
Very good class.
Instead for being reading Nietzsche alone (him sermonizing with epithet and spit as you sit dumb unable to process it all), it is very useful to read him among friends so that Nietzsche is not quite so imposing - discovering that your ignorance is shared among other smart people will make you happy.
Great class!
Are you strong enough?
Don't fall behind in the reading.
You get a chance to read some incredible books under the guidance of a terrific scholar and teacher.
I would strongly urge anyone to take advantage of the opportunity to study one of the most important authors of our time in such a comprehensive way. Professor Burgard is excellent.
Beware, analytic philosophers, but rejoice, those of the continent. Burgard is shameless in his advocacy for Nietzsche's textual flourishes and games, sometimes a bit too shameless, mind you. Sometimes, you may even feel yourself aching for "ideas" and "concepts" to latch onto. But isn't that precisely the point? This class is like no other: Burgard is a professor to be experienced, no matter what his detractors say. He rambles and gets lost in particulars, but just like Nietzsche, his rambling easily trumps the "main points" of anyone else. You will consider this an especially fantastic class if you like to hear words like "system theory" and "negatively performative text" thrown about with abandon, along with continual metacritical musings on the process of lecturing. Plus, and this is a big plus, you'll come out of it having read the majority of Nietzsche's writings, even if you fall a bit behind or skip over a few (which is, let's admit, inevitable). He's perhaps the most important thinker ever, and he's often the most fun reading you'll ever have on syllabus. So take it: it'll make you far more likely to get in a fistfight with someone who sings the body analytic.
A great introduction to Nietzsche's thought and an entirely new way of analyzing texts.  The reading list is comprehensive and demanding.  The assignments are meaningful and fair, and the staff are engaged and helpful.  I was almost never bored in class, which is rarely true in a two-hour seminar.  A great class where you get to think about all of the deep questions you were hoping for from your liberal arts education (how to live your life, what is truth, what is language, etc.).
A necessary approach to a widely misunderstood thinker and foundational for anyone interested in postmodern philosophy.  The class moves through nearly the entire corpus of Nietzsche, which is the only way it can be done.  Burgard is dynamic, engaging, and erudite in his analyses of Nietzsche.  A well-structured class that moves quickly, necessarily so, but never forfeits its rigor and attention in approaching Nietzsche's multifarious writing style.
The specificity of this course makes it a very unique experience. Nowhere else would I have had the opportunity to read and discuss the entire Nietzsche corpus chronologically. This was a fantastic experience. Professor Burgard is a great lecturer as well.
Though Nietzsche himself and class presentations are at times a quagmire of apparent meaninglessness, the pearls one is able to scoop up in the process do make it worthwhile.
