This is a fascinating class, however be ready to put in quite a bit of work. The literature was often written in an older form of German that could be difficult to unravel. It can also be difficult to understand the overall time-line as the course is taught in three sections that each cover the entire 19th century. Make sure to make connections between the sections of the course.
So much fun, Ian is a great professor! All of the texts are very interesting and you have plenty of time to get through them. It doesn't matter what level of German you speak...course is awesome!
bad discussions. bad assignments.
We ate cake in class, watched movie clips, listened to music, and went to the cafe.
Go to office hours!
Herr Wilczek is a great teacher.  The readings are very engaging and fun.  Discussions in section are interesting.
The better you are at German, the easier the class will be, but no matter what your level, Professor Wilczek seems very willing to help you along and to help you try to participate and understand the texts.
It's a really fundamental period in literature, and I feel like I understand the modern world better now.
If your German is good, then this class is fantastic.  Otherwise you might drown in the readings and in the discussions in class.
It's an interesting, well-run course, but only take it if you're willing and able to read lots of Romantic German literature.
This class is wonderful for those who enjoy small seminars, but those who enjoy the anonymity of lecture classes should not take this class.
If you want to get your feet wet in the field of German literature, by all means take this course.
The materials read in this class are excellent. Your ability to analyze literature in a foreign language will improve significantly. Prof. Wilczek is very supportive and runs a great class.
it would of course be contingent in their interest and preparation in german
This course will immensely improve your German speaking and writing skills, and it will also introduce you to a number of genuinely interesting texts along with insightful interpretations. With the substantial page counts (about 60-80 pages to be read for every Monday) and the weekly response papers, this class takes a significant time commitment and can prove to be pretty difficult, but I would recommend it to anyone wanting to further their German skills because it rewards diligence. Also, as much as the 8-10 page paper in German may look extremely intimidating at the beginning of the semester, by the end it is a difficult but completely manageable assignment because of the regular practice one receives throughout the semester through the weekly response papers.
As long as students are interested in reading German literature in its original language, they should love the course.
I loved this class! Herr Herold is a fantastic professor committed to making the class accessible to people of varying backgrounds in German and enthusiasm for literature, and his interpretations of the readings are always enlightening and multi-leveled. One warning: the workload is entirely a function of how strong your German is. I decided to take the class after just two intensive courses in German and found myself spending probably about 10 hours a week on it (and sometimes significantly more) to do the work properly. That said, putting that much time into it improved my reading and writing greatly, and it meant getting to read and discuss some great German texts instead of more endless grammar exercises. Strongly recommended if you have the background and the time.
This may be the best class at Harvard, at least as long as Dr. Herold teaches it.
This course is a good introduction to literature, and can still be enjoyed by those of you who aren't very interested in German literature. It is not too heavy and doesn't require a huge amount of effort, however if you are willing to put in just a little extra, class will become so much more enjoyable.
Great overview of a varied and interesting period of German literature.
