The best literature seminar I have experienced, and quite possibly the best class I have taken at Harvard. The discussions are productive and effectively mediated, the lectures provide an invaluable introduction to twentieth-century literary and critical theory, and the texts are consistently interesting and frequently extraordinary. Prof. Simons has an unparalleled theoretical knowledge base and he is not afraid to use it: each class unites theory and text in a way that every literature seminar only wished it could emulate. If you have a second-year proficiency in German and have the slightest interest in German/world literature, literary theory, the twentieth century, or insanity, please take this course. You'll speak, read, and write better in German as result, and you'll never read in quite the same way.
Herr Simons is a great instructor -- very encouraging.  The readings are a little long towards the end of the course.  This class is definitely accessible for a student coming out of a grammar course.
Brilliant, brilliant course. Just make sure your German's good enough, lest you not have the courage to join in analytical conversations.
Excellent literature is covered, with a helpful guide.
Professor Simons is very likable, and a talented seminar-leader.
my all-time favorite course at Harvard!  Oliver Simons is wonderful!
Oliver is a great professor who is very knowledgeable and open to discussion and input. The class is small and the atmosphere is intimate and encouraging.
Good feedback on written German; good option if you like 20th century literature.
This is an excellent class!  The texts are all incredible, and Professor Simons does a fantastic job leading discussions.  I feel like I came out of the class with a solid familiarity with the important keystone texts of the 19th/20th century, and my German (whether speaking, reading, or writing skills) improved a lot!
Solid background in written and spoken German. If you do not feel comfortable discussing literary phenomena in German, then you will be forced to sit back and listen to the more linguistically gifted students contribute their share while your apt (yet English) ripostes die on your lips.
German 72 is the perfect complement to German 71, continuing a survey of German literature into the modern period.  The texts grab your attention and class sessions keep the conversation going.
Professor Bowles is a wonderful teacher and seminar leader, and the readings are fantastic. Take this course if you want to be taught to love literature, and read some truly fantastic pieces of writing!
Take it! the subjects discussed are fascinating, and Danny is an amazing and entertaining lecturer
People of all backgrounds in regards to competency with German take this course. If you've taken the regular sequence of German at Harvard, you will find this course doable, yet extremely challenging. There is a massive difference between the average 60-level course and 72. It takes weeks to catch up, though by the end you realize what challenges you have overcome. An excellent survey with (mostly) interesting literature, overall enjoyable. Perhaps the ''funner'' choice in comparison with the topic of 71.
Die deutsche Literatur hat mir immer sehr gut gefallen. Nach diesem Kurs kann ich aber sagen, dass ich ein besseres Bild davon bekommen habe. Dieser Kurs hat mir sehr viel Spass bereitet. Einzigartig und empfehlenswert.
This is a great class if you are interested in German literature from the 20th century. Professor Wilczek is fun and engaging, and the discussions are always exciting. Make sure you know German well enough before enrolling.
the readings get very very difficult! stay on top of them.
The readings in this class are very dense and difficult and Prof Ryan wasn't the greatest at clarifying them. However, it is possible to get a very good grade in the class without actually doing most of the readings, but you get very little out of the class that way. Do it right or don't do it.
If you like literature, you'll like this course. It explores a lot of interesting texts and there's always more to discuss.
Who wants to improve their German and be familiar with the great deal of 20th-century German literature, should not miss this course.
Wonderful class. Prof. Wilczek led really interesting discussions, with a lot of freedom in terms of what we (the three of us in the class this semester) wanted to talk about or found interesting. The six (or actually five, in the end) response papers required some effort, but were never tedious or overly unpleasant. The final paper (in English, or a shorter one in German if you prefer) was very open-ended, which I loved, especially since the course gives you so much material to write about.
One of the best classes I've had at Harvard. Professor Wilczek will challenge both your analytical and language skills while always making sure the classroom environment is friendly, relaxed and supportive. A great opportunity to improve German reading, speaking and writing abilities while reading great literature.
