Hey, if you need to learn to read German, then this course does the job.
You won't walk away being fluent in German, certainly not in speech and not really in reading, either. The course aims to give you the tool set you'll need to work your way through German texts on your own. It doesn't make any promises that you'll be able to do this speedily or without the crutch of a dictionary. That said, I feel confident I can tackle pertinent German texts for my own research now.
This is the class to take if you need to learn to read German and do it quickly.  The class is very effective at getting you to do this.  But there isn't really any other reason to take it.  So I would absolutely recommend it, but only someone with specific needs.
The course is useful if you plan to supplement what you learn in class with your own independent vocabulary study. Since the course is not well-integrated with other German language courses--there are no other translation courses available after this one--do not plan on taking it if you plan to learn German primarily through coursework.
This is a great course to learn translating German into English.  Take it if you're interested in reading things in the original that are in German or in translating texts that have not yet been translated into English.  You will not learn any speaking.
This class is true to its purpose: translation, knowledge of grammar, and general understanding of German. This will not help you very much with sentence construction or discourse, but it provides a great base for knowledge of the class.
Teaches you to practice a useful skill in a short time-- delivers as advertised!
While I found this course was time-consuming at times, it was enjoyable throughout. I would definitely recommend this course to any graduate student interested in learning some German (mainly reading academic prose) without the time commitment of a full-blown language course. Danny is an excellent professor.
Do the homework and know that it's okay to be uncomfortable with German.
Stay current with the homework!!!!    Make sure you have some elementary German prior to taking the course.
It's how you learn to read German, though given how little German I actually learned I might recommend the Four Skills course instead.
Taking this class will definitely prepare you to take your department's German language exam or in any case to read German prose pretty well with the help of a dictionary.
the prof is very capable of addressing the concerns of students of unequal experience with language learning
I took this class pass/fail, so it was less stressful than most. It's not the easiest, because German isn't easy. But it is straightforward and wonderfully devoid of unneccesary assignments--you just practice translation, a lot.
Familiarizing oneself with all of German grammar over the course of one semester is no easy task, so this course can be quite difficult.  However, Dr. Bowles makes the process as
Instructor treated his students (appropriately) like adults, was open to questions, etc.  Textbook was clear, and somehow it was possible to make it through the entire thing in one semester.
Excellent instructor makes the course both enjoyable and effective in providing a reading knowledge of German
It's a great introduction to learning to read German.  You will be amazed at how much you learn in how little time.
Excellent preparation for departmental language exams.
The course structure is extremely effective in preparing oneself for translation. Professor Lutcavage keeps the material relevant and interesting. Even though it is a fast-paced and often difficult course, it was made manageable.
Does what it says on the tin.
That the class is ideal for the purposes it has set. Having taken the course,though, I am sceptic when it comes to whether it would be more preferable to have taken a course which would included also listening and pronunciation exercises. While I feel I have gained a lot, I feel that there are vital aspects of the language that are being left out. Of course, that is definitely not the professor's responsibility, since the class's goals are clearly defined.
The class give you a fundamental grounding in German grammar. You will be able to read most things using a dictionary by the end of the course. The speed of your translating is very much tied in to how developed you vocabulary building is, something which is not a primary focus of the course.
You will learn all of the grammar you need, but if you don't study vocabulary diligently alongside the grammar, you won't be able to read a lick of German on your own.
Perfectly good at at what it does.
I would tell them that, if they are looking to take a German language exam and want to learn to read quickly, this is the course for them.  If they want to learn to speak German, then not at all.
This course is rigorous, especially at the beginning, for anyone who has not previously studied German - but it's certainly manageable and is a relatively light work load by the end.
Great course, but if you expect to learn how to read difficult German in a semester, be prepared to put in a lot of work.  Very rewarding and well-organized course.
The course gives you the tools to teach yourself to read academic German.  I would recommend the class only for those preparing for a translation exam, for which the class will prepare you extremely well.
The grammar and sentence structures which make up the last ten chapters of the book represent some of the more difficult sentences that I encountered in my department's exams.  In this regard, the course was definitely vital in helping me reach the level in which I could correctly translate this material.
Great way to learn to translate German, difficult but possible to take the class with no background in the language.
Effective class for fulfilling departmental language requirements. Not ideal for comprehensive language learning as emphasis us solely on translation and reading comprehension.
It's amazing how much you learn in one semester. With help from Google Translate, I can read Der Spiegel. I can listen to Bach and get it. Highly recommended.
Very practical and effective.
If at all possible, take this course with Prof. Lutcavage, who will make the afternoon sessions of German grammar and translation pass by quickly. I had previously signed up for this course when it was taught by a graduate student and had a very different experience (dropping the course after a few weeks).
Make flashcards!  And have fun!  German is a pretty great language - especially for cool nerds!
This course accomplishes about all that can be accomplished in a semester-length unit, which is to provide the grammar necessary to read academic prose. This does not equal actually being able to read German, however. That skill would take longer to develop, but in order to start it's necessary to know the grammar.
