If you're just looking for a manageable upper-level German course, this course is for you.  But if you're looking to really improve your German, and not just get in some practice here and there, you may want to look elsewhere.
German 66 provides an entertaining and engaging window into modern Germany, with great discussion sections.
Herr Lutcavage is incredible! The class is well-paced, the setting relaxing, and you learn a lot without having to tear your hair out in frustration every day. TAKE THE CLASS.
A relatively easy but very interesting class that will help you learn about German politics and culture as well as improve your speaking.
Herr Lutcavage made the class a lot of fun and was laid back, which made the class enjoyable.  I enjoyed improving my language skills and learning a very different set of vocabulary in a class beyond the typical grammar and literature courses.  It was a very different type of German course than I've taken before, which was a great experience for me.
Fantastic course that I would encourage anyone with an interest in Germany or the EU to take.
I would very highly recommend this course. The course gives a wonderful overview of how the German government and the European Union work.  Most of the structures are so complicated, I doubt I could have sifted through them on my own to have such a good understanding. Dr. Lutcavage is always extremely helpful and it is a pleasure to learn from him.
You will learn a lot about Germany and Europe from a professor passionate about these topics.
Even though the workload is relatively manageable, you surprisingly learn and improve A LOT. It's also a great opportunity to learn about relevant current issues in German politics, culture as well as Germany's relationship with the EU.
Take if you're looking for an easy way to keep your German skills fresh. Also, very informative about basic German and EU political structures.
This course is relatively painless, and pretty fun. If you're interested in learning more about German politics/culture/everyday info. then you should enjoy it. The assignments are reasonable, and as long as your classmates are at a similar skill level the discussions will be fun and interesting. Very open-ended, the professor allows for a lot of range in discussions.
I would recommend this class more strongly than any other I've taken at Harvard.
The class is pretty easy, a low time commitment, and really helps to improve your German. If you haven't spoken German in awhile (like me), you might struggle in the first few weeks. But don't give up! You're not expected to have perfect grammar to get a good grade, and it will become easier to understand everyone as you get back into the language.
Lutcavage is the best.  Interesting material and learn about Germany and politics
Great class, great class atmosphere and interesting material.
Professor Lutcavage is one of my favorite professors at Harvard.
It's a wonderful class, the professor is great and the subject matter is very engaging. The assignments are not that difficult. Take the class.
This class is very interesting and the work is not very difficult, so if you do take it you should do the readings and really try to engage in class or else you will just glide through and not learn anything.
Again, it's actually useful and will improve your reading ability. Take it.
The course is one of the better language courses I have taken at the university and I found it very effective for helping with speaking, writing, reading and listening goals in German. I can only recommend Professor Lutcavage.
difficult but relevant readings, great class discussion
Great way to improve your German.
Don't be shy and speak up! Dr. Lutcavage is extremely helpful and appreciates it more when you talk and make mistakes than when you just sit quietly.
This is an easy, interesting mid-level German course, but don't expect an easy A. The grading criteria are much more rigid than the material itself.
This is a great German class because it improves speaking and writing skills while also keeping you up-to-date on German and European political events.
lots of fun, very interesting, great professor!
You have to make a real effort to participate or it can be difficult to feel involved and learn as much.
This course improves students' German as well as their understanding of the  German government, the EU, and how the two interact
Laid-back and fun, but you end up learning a lot.
This is a good class and the workload is very manageable.  The tests are fair, and you will learn a fair amount about recent German history and the EU.
If you like German, and want to know more about its role in Europe, take the course.
Herr Lutcavage is one of the best professors I have ever had at Harvard. He is able to correct students in a way that doesn't discourage speaking, which I think can be challenging for language instructors in general. The discussions in his class were lighthearted and instructive, and I feel as if my speaking ability has improved tremendously.
This course goes far beyond German instruction and gives you the topical background with which to converse with actual Germans about their country, their economy, government, and the EU.
This is a really cool class, emphasizing reading and practicing speaking German over drilling grammar. It also makes you write short papers (1 page) weekly, which is a great way to get comfortable with the grammar and finding new vocab to use. Presentation lets you talk about anything of particular interest to you, as long as it is relevant to modern German and/or European history.
Prof. Lutcavage is an amazing professor.  I found the material very interesting, with writings, readings, and videos always pertinent to what we were learning.  Putting all grammar concepts into writing pieces and learning vocabulary really improved my knowledge of German language.  The class time itself was time spent improving my speech, which I felt improved vastly.
