not easy but interesting!
Prof. Lutcavage is very pleasant and very competent.  The course is not very demanding, and will probably not make a huge impact on improving your German proficiency, but it will greatly improve your ability to understand German texts related to various aspects of business.
It's interesting and your understanding of Germany will certainly improve. Knowledge of the economy is really not necessary in joining this class
Make sure you are prepared for the high level
This is one of the best German classes you will take at Harvard.  I have waited for 4 years to fit it into my schedule.  Take it!
Take it, but be prepared to study vocab
Even if you don't initially have an interest in Wirtschaft, do take the course if you have an interest in improving your German, because you will improve your skills immensely in this well-structured and engaging course.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard, and definitely the best I've taken within the German department. Herr Lutcavage cultivates a classroom atmosphere that is extremely conducive to practicing speaking, even among the shyest members of the class.
Fun and interesting. For those who want to do more German, but not the 61 and 62 courses. Small course, with a lot of discussion. Consistent work makes it hard to fall behind. Lots of room for personalization of projects. Background and preparation levels vary a lot, which may impact how you experience the class
Lutcavage is a pretty cool guy and class is interesting and fun, but he grades tests pretty hard, weighting small things like improper adjective conjugation equally with the proper definition of the word/concept in question.  Makes it tough to get above a 90 on a given test, but he's a cool guy
Herr Lutcavage is incredible, really nice, very patient, definitely one of the best teachers I've had at Harvard. Make use of every opportunity to converse with him. The class's subject doesn't interest me that much, being a humanities major, but I appreciate the opportunity to speak and practice German. You don't have to know Ec to excel in this class!
ausgezeichnet
Only take if you actually care about business--otherwise learning about German trade is going to be like pulling teeth. If you are just coming out of Ca/Cb, with only two years of preparation, this class is not the right choice. There was no real grammar review, and most of the other students had far more preparation. It doesn't seem like the German department has any real viable option for third year students who are not inclined to take a 9 a.m. intensive grammar class. This is an option, but not a real one...
Only take it if you are interested in business and economics topics.
Lutcavage is an excellent teacher. Make the most of the opportunities he gives to write throughout the semester, because the feedback is very specific and often stylistic.
This is a very relaxed class in the German department that I think everyone who is interested in learning more about Germany should take. This class is great in helping you write a CV in German and practice how to write job applications in German. It also gives you a great insight into German economy and how it works.
Great way to continue German without having to deal with literary analysis.
Charles Lutcavage is extremely laid-back and patient.
This is a really awesome class; very relaxed but you will learn a lot.
Class was very enjoyable. I always looked forward to coming. Good opportunity to practice German, pick up some business vocabulary, and get some background about German business culture.
This class is really great. Professor Lutcavage is very organized and friendly, and generates a lot of enthusiasm for German economics.
NA
I would recommend this if you are interested in Germany and want to know more about it.
You have to speak up in class, or you will get nothing out of the course.
Excellent, sometimes tough to fit in with others of different proficiencies
You learn a lot of business German vocabulary while working on grammatical skills and focusing on contemporary issues in business and around the world
The professor creates a great atmosphere and the material is not hard.
If you speak up in class and keep up with assignments, your German will improve considerably. This is a great class!
This is an extremely effective course in German.  Not only will it equip you to speak very knowledgeably about Business German (for example if you have interviews with German companies), but you will also truly enjoy the process and see a big improvement your language ability.  You will also meet some great people and have a great learning experience.  The professor brings great enthusiasm to the course, and is always available outside of class.
I failed to see the point of this class. Other than learning some vocabulary, I hardly learned anything else
