I found the class difficult to follow, especially the population genetics section, only those with a strong background in math were able to keep up and I learned little on the biological aspect of this section. The journal club material is interesting but not always thoroughly analyzed, and sometimes the articles were posted late or even the day of the discussion. We had a few assignments but did not receive any feedback on them. However, the guest lectures and cancer and epigenetics sections were interesting. The professor is enthusiastic but somewhat disorganized and unclear.
I feel like all of the components for a good class were there, but something happened to make it fall apart. This makes it even more frustrating than if the course was just bad.
- course is very disorganized
- material is not particularly interesting and also rather unrigorously taught
- don't expect your psets to be graded
- lectures are often uninspiring
If you are interested in learning population genetics, there must be a better class elsewhere.  The selected scientific publications read in this class, however, were excellent.
This class is a waste of time that our program requires us to take. Maybe with a better professor something valuable would be learned.
The course material for this course is interesting, but there are a lot of factors that make this course a very inhospitable way of learning it. Lectures were very scattered, disorganized, and difficult to follow; no lecture notes are made available online; assignment due dates remain mysterious and unannounced until very shortly before their due date; assignments as announced at the beginning of the semester are not necessarily the assignments you'll complete (we were told that we'd have 3 problem sets but only had 2); the schedule for journal clubs changes frequently; assignments that are required (specifically, providing responses to journal articles before class via an online google doc) are not made available until mere hours before the due date; and, finally, we never got a single grade back for the entire course. A few of these logistical difficulties would have been tolerable, since the course material is so interesting, but after a while it just got so annoying that I started to regret taking the course. Take this if you're interested in the material and can tolerate this level of disorganization in a course; if you can, it's probably worth it.
It's an interesting class with good material. Hopefully it will be better organized in the future.
Enjoy the topics and pursue something interesting to you for the final project.
Leonid is great, and this is a great survey of genomics. However, you do need to put in some work to get up to speed on the material and let things sink in- there isn't a ton of evaluation, so it's up to you to make sure you understand what's going on.
This is a really great class on genomics, starting from a very good treatment of population genetics to then cover various current research topics including protein folding, cancer genomics, and epigenetic. Professor Mirny gives very clear lectures on each topic and is always welcoming discussion and ready to answer questions. I definitely learned a lot from this course.
This is a great course where you will learn a lot in many different fields.  You will gain an excellent historical perspective as well as learn about leading edge developments.  The course can be a lot of work at times though.
Overview of diverse areas in quantitative genomics, population biology, etc. Give a useful knowledge that can be applied elsewhere
Some classes are more organized than this one. However, it's light on stress and grades because Dr. Mirny is a friendly and bright guy.
Know how to program in R.
Every day in this class is interesting and Leonid focuses on gaining intuitive understanding of the material. Very helpful if your research is in the area of quantitative biology.
It's a good overview of many topics within genomics, but talk with the instructors to make sure it matches your own interests.
This class is a survey course of a variety of topics. It opens with an introduction to population genetics and ends with modern (as in the past few weeks/months) advances in genomics. Professor Mirny is an excellent lecturer, but the course could be a bit fragmented at times.
IT MEETS AT MIT! THE COURSE CATALOG DOES NOT TELL YOU THIS!Otherwise I liked it; the professors had a very relaxed, informal attitude and let the students dictate the pace of the course.
It was difficult and at times very unclear.  However the class overall was interesting and very good at exposing you to the techniques used in genomics research.
