A great class, but a lot of work
you must be willing to read a lot and to think independently.
It's an excellent way to become fluent in the language of genomics and understand current research in the subject.
Great class for exposure to the -mics.
This course is amazing, as well as a lot of work.  The class is structured around a group discussion of three papers, per class.  This means that you are exposed to a ton of material, all of which is very timely or fundamentally important to the field.  It also means you will be reading at least six papers a week, but probably more since you often need to read the reviews that go along with that week's topic.  You not only read the material, but get to discuss it with people from a variety of background and perspectives.  This proved to be the best part of the course as you get to see how other very smart people are thinking about the current issues in genetics/genomics/-omics in general.  Also, the professors offer their own opinions on the material, including the strengths and weaknesses of the analysis, experimentation and presentation of the results.  All of this will prove quite valuable for anyone interested in a career in -omics research.  This is truly the best course I have taken, ever.
This course provides a broad foundation of the 'omics literature. The papers are excellent, and it develops the particular critical thinking skills that are necessary for working in an 'omics-related field.
you will get so sick of reading papers in this class that you will never want to read another paper outside of your field again.
Many topics are mentioned, but you will learn more from reading than from the very brief discussions. Set aside more than 12 hours each week to read and take notes.
This is an excellent paper-reading seminar class that will expose you to lots of different fields that end with "omics" ... genomics, RNAomics, proteomics, phenomics, .... If you're looking for a programming bioinformatics class, this is not it - but it's a very instructive class that will teach you to present papers, read lots of papers, and write an original proposal. The professors come from three very different backgrounds: TF binding motifs, computational work, and proteomics, so there's a lot to learn from them.
This is a great course to really read the literature in the field of "big data biology". I think the people taking the course matter a lot for the dynamics of the course, but if the group feels right, this class is a must.
Very good overview of the genomics field and great discussions.
The professors are amazing and the material is very worthwhile -- it's important, cutting-edge biology research. With the exception of a small number of short lectures, the course consists of discussions of current research papers. The focus is usually somewhat more on the biology than the algorithms, which are often ad hoc. Again, the professors were amazing, and I learned a lot from my classmates. The main room for improvement is probably in the paper presentations: while I think it's useful to learn how to present papers, I would have liked for there to be more opportunity to hear the professors' thoughts on a topic or a particular paper.
This is a good class if you want to read the papers in the syllabus.
I was very excited about this class after BBS230, but it was a bit disappointing-- lower quality papers, and much less time to discuss per paper. Nonetheless, there were interesting discussions, the professors are excellent, and it is well worth taking.
It's a lot of work, but generally worth it. Reading the papers is key to getting anything out of each class.
Take this class if you have research experience in biology or biostatistics and want to learn more about what is out there, or if you are in a quantitative field and want to apply your skills to biology. A great and painless introduction.
Foundations in wide-range of genomic, bioinformatic, and integrative technology.  Exciting next-generation, state-of-the-art emphasis.  Extremely valuable and supportive faculty-supplemented technical discussions.
This class seems like a lot of work - reading 6+ papers per week -  but was rewarding and really improved my ability to read papers.  It's also a great opportunity to interact with an awesome group of professors who are invested in the material and the class.
Prepare to read many articles spanning the "omics".
I would definitely recommend this course if you enjoy reading quantitative papers and want to learn more about research in the field of computational biology.
This is a great literature survey course that brings you up to date on a variety of current methods and research frontiers. Though, take this course only if you're really willing to put in at least 3 hours before every class to really read the papers and be able to discuss. Without that, its hard to benefit from the course.
First, as usual you get out what you put in, and second, be sure you are the target audience for this course! The general idea of a western blot can be grasped quickly, but it is almost impossible to pick up the variety of mathematical techniques relevant to the course on the fly.
The reading list is incredibly useful - when else in your life will you have someone select the 100 most important papers in a given field and tell you to read them?
I recommend this class if you simply want a very general overview of different fields. The workload is high for a paper reading based course and you must read 6-7 papers a week. Because of this, discussion of the papers is very general and not in depth. BIG students are quite knowledgeable and taking the course with them was useful. For the amount of time put into the class I don't think what you get out of it is worth it, especially if you already know which field you would like to work in.
This class covers many cutting edge topics with professors who are extremely qualified and sharp. However unless you are a BIG grad student, it's not a great way to learn about functional genomics. The class is more of a continuation of their discussions from previous classes and it's tough to come in without having taken whatever previous classes they referred to for much of the semester. The class is completely paper based as well so there will be no background on topics covered in class other than reading the papers.
take BBS 230 first. You need to know how to read papers in great depth and quickly in order to keep up in this class.
It is not a very demanding class, and it facilitates exposure to some important papers, but the format is not necessarily conducive to learning if you don't already have some background in functional genomics.
Its useful and necessary but a time sink.
- You read a _lot_ of substantial papers (9-10 papers per week, each generally on par with a full-length Research Article in Cell/Nature/Science or an equivalent thereof). Thus, the workload is substantial, but highly rewarding for individuals interested broadly in genomics or genomic technologies and their applications- The instructors are all excellent- The discussion-based format of the course is fun and is a good way to interact with other grad students
