Know the necessary basics like the back of your hand before taking the course.
Course is somewhat disorganized and lacks real focus.
Biophys 242 varies dramatically from year to year. Biophys 242 is a great chance to see other Biophysics students and to learn from them and from the professors. Biophys 242 has the capacity to be an awesome course, but it needs good leadership and clear ownership from the teachers, which of course changes from year to year.
Too easy. Need more depth...
Despite being listed as a biophysics course, the course is really geared towards students with a more pure biology mindset, and does not really focus on the quantitative modeling and engineering aspects that would be my main interest in the subject.  Given that, though, the subject matter is very interesting and largely well-taught.
This is not a 'biophysics' course but rather a molecular biology course.
This was an interesting class, with impressive speakers. The reading load is heavy, but the papers are generally well-chosen.
This is a good course to take if you want a broad overview of the field of synthetic biology.
It's a good, low-key way to expose yourself to a wide variety of interesting research. It's a good way to find out what you're interested in.
If you have a good molecular bio background and want to learn about a smattering of stuff take it.
really cool if it is understood, i think.  i enjoyed it a lot and i didn't understand quite a bit of the biological subtleties.
Not too much working load, but only a course trying to expose EM concepts/applications to students, not a core EM course.
The course was poorly run and not instructive.  If you are interested in EM, you are best off simply working in an EM lab.
If you really want to learn electron microscopy, read a book.  If you just want a general overview this class is OK.
It's a nice survey of electron microscopy and crystallography techniques.
If you're interested in the topic, this is a great way to get a qualitative overview without needing to put in too much time. David Bell alone is worth the price of admission.
This class was a great introduction to DNA and protein engineering and nanotechnology.
If you are interested in synthetic biology, this course will give you a good overview of the state of the field, although it won't truly teach you how to do things yourself.
This was a good seminar class, especially if you are interested in DNA origami or other aspects of synthetic biology. It will be offered next year in the Systems Biology department.
This is great if you're interested in a broad exposure to current topics in neuroscience.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard, I have absolutely nothing negative to say.
Very low-stress, fun, and instructive course. Recommend if the subject matter is of interest to you!
The guest lecturers are phenomenal.
Steve does a fair job of explaining the theoretical framework behind various techniques. However, it can be quite hard to follow without already knowing quite a bit of optics.
Learning structural biology and its related methods with Steve was great fun. His knowledge of the material and willingness to share his opinions made class enjoyable and refreshing!
Only take it as an elective if you're very interested in the topic that year.
If you just want to listen to interesting speakers on biophysics (and specifically neuroscience this year) and get course credit, this is the class for you.
The lecturers were diverse and quite interesting! The course itself is quite relaxed with no assignments--all you have to do is attend. Believe it or not, I wouldn't have minded a few assignments, so that we got feedback and practice on skills we learned.
In its current form this class is a useless attend-and-get-an-A style class. Bird courses are nice in theory, but don't waste your hard-earned tuition on this. If you want a neuroscience seminar series, look for one by a different department or drop into one of the series at HMS.
Papers and lectures were interesting.
Relaxed and interesting!
