If you take this class before going to Egypt (or anywhere in the Arab-speaking world), your experience there will be much, much better!
It will greatly improve your speaking ability. It is good to have spent time in an Arabic-speaking country before. The class, especially the professors and other students, can often be a lot of fun, as are many of the assignments. The work can definitely be challenging. Colloquial is much more fun than Modern Standard.
An enjoyable, low-stress introduction to Egyptian dialect.
The course is really interesting, and Nevenka is amazing. I really liked learning Egyptian dialect.
I highly recommend this class as a fun and engaging way to learn Egyptian Arabic.
This was my first Arabic class that was just pure fun.  Nevenka makes the two-hour classes fly by, engaging us in conversation and skits, watching videos and talking about them, and doing some grammar as well.  The workload isn't as bad as other Arabic classes (no written assignments every day) but you still will need to put in 2-3 hours per class meeting, twice a week.  Nevenka is amazing - I don't ever want to take another Arabic class with anyone else again.  Seriously.  One caveat: if you are the kind of person who can't stand not knowing how you're doing in a class, we don't get that much graded feedback, so be wary.
The class improved my speaking ability and my knowledge of the Egyptian-Arabic dialect.
This is course is so much fun and a great way to interact with popular culture. I think you can get a tremendous amount out of this course, although it takes more internal motivation than your average language class.
Nevenka is an absolutely phenomenal educator. The experience and recommendation is contingent on her being the professor in two years.
As always, Nevenka provides a fun learning environment that encourages students to speak even if they make mistakes.An interest in Egyptian media is helpful.  Listening to Egyptian movies with English subtitles may help those not previously exposed to the dialect that are considering the course.  But overall no preparation is necessary, just understand that the course is conducted entirely in Egyptian Arabic.
Nevenka is just the best professor. She is so warm and patient and easy to approach. Knows her stuff in and out.
If you hate taking Arabic courses at Harvard and are ready to give up, take this course and you'll feel better.
Ustada Navenka is an absolute star and you could not hope for a better teacher to introduce you to masri language and culture. The course is generally very chill when it comes to assessments and ustada Navenka's feedback is plentiful and very helpful. The first week or so may be a slightly disorienting because the masri dialect can seem a little daunting to an ear trained to understand fussha, but you'll be chattering away like an Egyptian very soon. Do not be discouraged if you have trouble with the initial transition away from MSA - just enjoy the quirks of the dialect and the phenomenal humor of ustad navenka.
I would enthusiastically recommend this course with Professor Nevenka. You are going to learn TONS of Arabic and about Egypt/the Middle East. Professor Nevenka has a phenomenal pedagogical approach; you are going to use a textbook, materials prepared by Professor Nevenka, and real-life materials such as videos, audios, etc. It's a great combination to have solid backgrounds in Egyptian Arabic!
Ustedha Nevenka: that should be enough to convince you to take this class! Aside from the fact that Nevenka is the best Arabic professor around (seriously--she knows her pedagogy, and she's one of the nicest and most supportive people you'll ever meet), this is a great way to learn the form of Arabic you'll actually be speaking when you visit the Middle East. You'll get a great foundation in Egyptian with a great teacher!!
This class is great. Take it! Nevenka is the best,
This course can really only just touch on the basics of Egyptian language.
Prof. Sullivan is a great professor with 20+ years of living in the Middle East and her Egyptian Arabic is impeccable. Since dialect is not written, this course really focuses on speaking and listening. I've studied and lived throughout the Middle East, including Egypt, and her philosophy on teaching dialect could not be more on point. Students that crave the fixed rules of MSA and the drills of a professor (like prof. Hisham) will need to approach this class differently. So much of communication is feeling your way around and paying attention to the detail.
Take this course first and foremost because Nevenka teaches it and she is incredible! Your speaking and comprehension in colloquial Arabic will improve a great deal!
This is a must-take class for anyone learning Arabic who wants to improve their conversational skills and learn a very useful dialect.
