I'm sure it will get better. I would wait for it to be more developed before taking the class.
This is the kind of class where you want a strict kick your butt kind of teacher, otherwise you won't learn much .
The class was mostly a repetition of the homework from the book or a total side-venture.  I would probably recommend just buying the book instead.
Provides a reasonable introduction to Levantine Colloquial. By the end, after having done all the work, etc., I felt solidly elementary - like I had a thorough grasp of the grammatical framework, and what I was primarily lacking was a gazillion vocabulary words, but that's the type of thing you can accumulate on your own if you're dedicated enough.
This is a great class that shows you the fun of learning and using dialect
Great for if it is your first course ever in colloquial, but not difficult enough if you have already had experience in colloquial.
What a great, fun class! This course is really enjoyable and also covers a lot of very useful material.
It's fun, and the more time you have to put into it, the more fun it will be.
Don't take this class, unless you already happen to know colloquial Levantine Arabic.
Learn the words and expressions when they're taught.  There's a LOT at the end.
I would definitely recommend that this not be the only Arabic class that somebody takes in a semester. I think that it is an excellent supplementary course for other Arabic classes (literature, fuSha, etc.).
This is a great introduction to colloquial Levantine Arabic! This is the type of class where you can absorb as much or as little as you like, depending on how much you put in. Put the time! Nour is also so sweet, wonderful, hilarious and caring and she makes the class so wonderful!
This is a great way to learn the dialect. Nour is a great teacher and the class is very interactive too.
Take this class. You will learn so much about contemporary culture in the Levant and Nour is an incredible teacher.
This is a really fun class, and Nour is Amazing! Make sure to have a good grasp on modern standard arabic and an interest in the region.
Nour is so much fun, and this course is a great intro to Levantine Arabic. I don't know how useful it would be to those who have already had some exposure, but regardless it is a fun, interesting course and I learned a lot of the basics I need to communicate effectively in the Levant.
This was a great introduction to Shami. I feel like I can now speak Arabic without sounding Shakespearean, and my speaking ability in general improved drastically. With Ustaaza Nour, you will participate, you will speak, and you will get better.
It helps build your confidence in speaking Arabic and it was nice to learn some conversational vocabulary in Arabic to supplement my MSA. It required relatively little work and was an enjoyable class to be in.
While this class isn't a substitute for living in a Levantine country, it is good preparation for MSA students who are planning to visit the Levant.
The class was really fun! After 3 years of taking MSA, I finally felt like I was learning a language that I could use to communicate with everyday people. We watched movies and had in class discussions about them. Our assignments were mainly in presentation format. Overall I definitely think that I can speak better now.
Take this if you want a fun language class that really immerses you in the language.
