I would advise against taking this class unless the student is already at a very high level in Modern Standard Arabic, is seriously committed to maintaining his/her literacy in Modern Standard Arabic, and knows that he/she will be studying Arabic at a high level the following year. While reading and conversational skills improve slightly with this class, grammatical skills tend to atrophy without undertaking unassigned supplemental work outside class.
I realize Prof. al-M will not be teaching here in the future so overall I feel this question is not applicable.  As for lessons for the future for the Arabic department, see my lengthy response on the next page.
If this class does not meet until the fifth day of the semester, and thus the day before study cards are due, you should be taking at least four other classes up to that point so that you will have a backup in case the teacher suddenly turns out to be someone you do not expect.  The NELC department lied to its students.  It was clear in November that the teacher of Arabic 241a would not teach the second semester; he was still denying that that decision had been made as of the morning of the first class and his name was still listed on the website and the courses of instruction.
the idea of a modern arabic lit course is great, but there must be better teaching and choice of texts.
This is a very demanding literature and culture course, and it requires a lot of independent effort to develop your language skills. If conversation does not build up, which happens with many readings outside of students' scope of interest and experience, then class is not productive. And with very long readings, it is easy to want to skim the reading for a short paper topic and make sure you write a 1-page response, but not come away with new vocab or a good impression of writing style, etc. There is a lot to be gained, but it's very challenging.
Don't worry: it will be a different teacher in future!
The level of Arabic in the selected texts this semester was far too advanced for Arabic students of our level, and the texts themselves were far too lengthy.  Because of that, nobody could ever finish the reading assignments or even read them in a meaningful way.  To read them meaningfully and to fully benefit from reading would have required literally hours with the Arabic-English dictionary.  Not only did we not have the time to sit for hours with a dictionary, but doing so would not have been a good way to gain an ACTIVE knowledge of a language, which I assume is the goal of any language class at Harvard.  Language acquisition needs repetition and absorption, for which the constant looking up of literally hundreds of new words each week does not allow.  Neither did the professor attempt to simplify our task to make our reading more useful and beneficial.  She failed to uphold her promise to accompany each weeks reading with a list of vocabulary words that she could reasonably have expected to be new or difficult.  Similarly, she rarely went over new vocabulary in class even though it was clear we all would have benefited from it.  As for the readings themselves, it would have been nice if there were some unifying thread between them.  On the first week we read a series of short fictional stories about womens issues, and the following week we read a dense and dry rendition of the stipulations of the Camp David Accords and Jimmy Carters presidency!  We also read stuff on a host of other unrelated issues, which shows that the professor did not put any real thought or effort into the texts she assigned.  One gets the feeling she would just grab whatever article or book was lying on her desk five minutes before class and decide she would assign it a feeling that is probably accurate considering that she rarely had copies of the text to distribute in class!  She would give the assigned reading to a student to scan and send out to the rest of us.  For all but two of us, this class was useless.  In my case, my Arabic skills actually atrophied because it was virtually impossible for me to participate meaningfully in classa class which only meets two hours a week.  I rarely understood what I read because the texts were usually too difficult and too long, so I, like most of the other students, only spoke up once or twice each class, in contrast to the one student whose level of Arabic was so advanced that this student dominated class discussion.In light of the unreasonably difficult texts that were selected, one would require almost complete fluency to understand them.  Arabic 1, 2 and 3 at Harvard DO NOT prepare you for this course, which is Arabic 4.  They either need to bring the level of this course down a bit so students can take something from it, or create another class in between Arabic 3 and 4. This course was unnecessarily difficult. But I only spent on average 3-6 hours a week because I was completely frustrated and discouraged.  The only other option would have been to spend at the very least twenty-five hours a week on this course, which is just unreasonable and impossible considering the other courses that we take.  I realized I would not gain anything from this class so I only put in what I needed to be able to write a response paper.
The readings are really interesting, and your reading, writing, and listening skills will improve a lot!  Be prepared to work hard, though.  But all in all, Khaled does a great job leading discussion and generating enthusiasm.  It's a fantastic course.
If you're serious about learning Arabic, take this course; though, it will make you realize just how much more work truly is necessary before one can even begin to say he/she has somewhat mastered the language.
You can get more language practice reading the front page of an Arabic newspaper every morning.  This course is a waste of your time.
If you want to develop Arabic reading and writing skills while being exposed to some truly wonderful and often under-appreciated literature, you will love this course.
Its the only course available to students who want to continue with modern arabic. Take it - but organize the class early and get a strong message across to the the prof that he needs to organize the readings and distribution of materials from the get go.
This is the best class taught in Harvard's Arabic department.  You will learn a lot about Arabic culture and literature (not just language), and you will improve your writing and speaking.
Be ready to read, but the reading for this spring semester was much more manageable than the fall semester's reading load; the writing load was more manageable as well
Professor Alkyam is a very enthusiastic teacher.  He was already great when I look first-year Arabic, but last semester was, I think, difficult to him for many reasons.  First, he had to teach three classes, while finishing a dissertation.  Second, it was his first semester at Harvard.  He also didn't have too much experience in teaching.  But now he adjusted to this new environment really fast.  He was teaching two classes this semester, so he could truly devote his energy to his students.  The second semester Arabic was a huge improvement.  Our workload was challenging but also very reasonable.  You should definitely take classes with him.  He's trying his best to provide the best classroom experience, and it shows.
A course like this really depends on who is teaching it and how well the course is organized - next year will be really different, based on the professor, but give it a shot if you need to really get a hold on MSA.
Interesting class that engulfs many literary arabic works and the issues they provide such as women's rights, Palestine/Israel conflict and so on.
This class is extremely challenging but you will learn a lot. Most importantly you will not only improve your Arabic but also learn valuable academic content from the readings encountered in class.
Sami is a wonderful person and a great teacher. I have rarely -- if ever-- had an instructor who led such great discussions with seeming ease. This class exposes you to a wide range of materials in Arabic from literature to political-science texts, from current events to more historically-focused pieces. If you are at all doubting if you want to take this class, please give it a shot. This class was one of my all-time favorites and if you want to improve your Arabic, this is the place to be.
This is the prefect course to improve your reading, writing and speaking skills.
Take this class! Sami is great and your Arabic will improve tremendously. The readings are interesting and the assignments are useful and manageable but also help you learn. You will not regret taking this class!
Sami is a great Arabic teacher who brings the Arabic language to life and engages everyone in the classroom, regardless of ability.
This is a fun class that does require work. As long as you are disciplined about devoting the requisite amount of time to the readings, you will get a lot out of it and see improvement. Sami is a fantastic teacher.
This class was a great continuation of the previous semester. We saw a range of texts, from poetry to short articles and from dense theory to fiction. Learned a lot about close readings and improved my writing quite a bit.
The class itself deals with a range of interesting topics, and Sami is a great professor who is always available for students if they need it.
- LOTS of hard work but worth it to see how far you've come.- prepare for continuous work throughout the semester
This class will develop your reading and writing, but you will need to work on vocabulary on your own.
if you don't do the readings you won't have fun
Ustath Sami is great.
