you need to be prepared to be challenged, and after a while it's not a fun sort of challenge it gets seriously hard
The Arabic courses before this become increasingly difficult, but are still very good courses. This one is not. The workload is unrealistically high, such that students either devote all their time to it, or are forced to triage the readings, doing some while simply skipping others. The readings, while better than al-Kitaab, aren't great. It's generally just a lot of strident men (zero women on this syllabus) asserting opinions that are abstract and pretentious and unhelpful. But it's clear Sami likes them, and that you are supposed to as well in order to do well in discussions and response papers. The classroom environment is not one of a language class, in that you don't really feel comfortable asking to go through the text to better understand it, and are instead expected to have synthetic idea-based discussions on it. While Tarek is a great TF, it didn't help that we couldn't use section to work on the texts, because section was used to watch and discuss videos that were never discussed in class. Many students initially felt like it was their fault they were getting very little out of this class, before they realized it was just badly taught.
Not very rigorous in terms of real grammar and language learning - just a lot of readings to assimilate on one's own, and alot of written assignments with some feedback but not much instruction as to how to improve. But interesting class discussions and one learns alot about the region. Sami is fun and knows how to make the class speak.
If you want to continue with Arabic at Harvard, this course is unfortunately the only option.  Grin and bear it.
Sami is a teacher who likes to talk and share his own opinions. In essence, the class is conducted in a format of 'what else?' questions being asked generally about material that is beyond the scope of most of the students. As such, it is less a class of teaching, and more a meeting of people discussing ideas that they probably aren't equipped to discuss in a context where it doesn't make sense to do so.
The course does little to improve Arabic, and the readings do not relate to most student interests.
This is a great way to become acquainted with important issues in Arabic literature, and to begin to appreciate it as an artistic form divorced from politics or history. It's a challenging but comprehensive course with a great range of material.
it requires a lot of work, but will greatly improve the student's understanding of the Arabic language, modern Arabic literature and Arabic culture in general.
This course should only be taken by people so intensely devoted to the Arabic language that they're blind to the amount of time they invest in their Arabic homework. Taking this course is like being married to Arabic for an entire semester; it took over my life. Not even my thesis took as much time as this class!
This is a great class if you're willing to work hard and take a LOT of time on it. Otherwise, you will be overwhelmed. Also, I think it probably has a lot to do with the professor. Our professor/TF were great but I can't speak for other years. I've heard complaints about other professors who taught the course in past years...
For those who have a sufficient background in modern standard Arabic and are prepared for a large amount of work, I'd say the course is a great way to expand vocabulary and deepen one's experience with the Arabic language. Discussing complex literary concepts in class and writing a substantial research paper are signs that Arabic has become a very important part of the student's life, and someone who is unsure about their commitment to studying Arabic should probably not take the course. In addition, it should be emphasized that this is a literature course and not a language course, so review of grammar and vocabulary is almost entirely the student's responsibility.
I would tell students to take this class only if they are interested in taking a graduate seminar on Arabic literature, have a background in literary theory, and what to learn how to speak about literary theory and philosophy in Arabic.  For students who are still building literary vocabulary, trying to understand the structures and styles of Arabic literary texts and build up reading strategies and reading speed for longer texts (i.e. longer than newspaper articles), this class was extremely overwhelming and somewhat counterproductive.
Be ready to do a good amount of reading, but this class is really fun and incredibly beneficial. It's a jump but a worthwhile one.
Challenging, but worth it
A good class but quite a bit if work - only take it if you're serious about Arabic. Dr. Sami is always helpful and a fantastic instructor.
This class is MUCH harder than Arabic 131: be prepared to spend a lot of time reading a lot of dense Arabic text. Also, take a look at the syllabus carefully before deciding to take the class -- if the topics for the readings don't interest you, then the class won't interest you. I found this class both difficult and stressful, as someone who had not studied Arabic outside of Harvard and whose goals with the language are literary studies rather than political science - which isn't to say you can't do it, just, think carefully about what your goals are in learning Arabic and whether they'd be best served by this class. That said, you WILL improve your proficiency rapidly, especially in reading!
This course involves a lot of reading, and it takes some time if you do not have a level of high proficiency yet (or even if you do). Class is usually fun, but also faced paced and challenging. In order to keep up with the workload and the difficulty you have to put in good effort, definitely not an easy class. Everyone should also be aware that the combination of graduate students, heritage speakers and advanced undergraduates can be very intimidating and is not necessarily approached well.
Sami is such a great teacher! He really cares about his students and is happy to help them in any way possible. Be prepared to work hard, but it's definitely worth it. You'll soon feel extremely comfortable reading long-form pieces in Arabic and discussing them intelligently.
Great class and wonderful teacher.  Class isn't easy, and requires quite a bit of reading.  But Sami is great, and willing to work with students outside of class.  Definitely take the course.
If you are serious about continuing your Arabic education, this is the class for you.
You absolutely must take this class if you are learning Harvard, especially if Ustath Sami is teaching it. It was without a doubt the single best Arabic class in the Arabic track, and the year you really feel like you finally know Arabic. The gap between third and fourth year is kind of big (but not really, like the final assignment is the same), but I really think my Arabic learning here would have been incomplete without this class. Even though I was done my language requirements before this class, I'm really really happy I decided to take this class.
A huge step up in workload from third year Arabic, but ultimately rewarding. I feel as though I can read texts twice as fast. But true to its name, it's supposed to be a "bridge" between a language instruction class and a Middle Eastern history/politics/culture/literature class that happens to be in Arabic. As such, you'll be responsible for retaining vocab and figuring out grammar unless you go out of your way to ask during class.
Many of the course readings covered stereotypical topics that were not novel or necessarily engaging. The class is primarily beneficial in terms of writing, but really lacks in helping students in other essential areas of language acquisition: reading comprehension, grammatical/idiomatic knowledge, and spoken Arabic.
The readings are long, but they teach you real information about how debates are currently framed in the Arab World, so two birds get killed with one stone (work on Arabic language skills and learn content)
The course requires more time than previous levels of Arabic but, with due effort, will certainly improve reading comprehension and writing skills.
Professor Sami is so dedicated to his work.  He will give assignments back promptly, and leave nothing transparent in his evaluation of student work.  You'll study a lot, but I think it's worth it, as you'll become more comfortable with Arabic texts that deal with deep intellectual issues.  It's also great that he has a wide range of interests, and will share them with his students.  The students get exposure to most pressing intellectual debates in the Arab world and academia.
This class will require you to do tons of work. Be prepared to spend 10+ hours on the readings and a couple of extra hours on writing. It will not help you develop your Arabic in terms of speaking. Yes, you will be able to learn some fancy vocabulary which is never used in speaking or even modern writing. You may enjoy this class if you want to focus on Arab theory and philosophy. I feel discouraged from Arabic after having taken this class.
not the most appropriate course if primary motivation for learning Arabic is to be able to use it in business/work settings
You will learn a lot of vocabulary and will improve reading and writing skills greatly, but it will not be a great course if you aim to improve your speaking skills above all.
This course is really fun and really instrumental in terms of continuing to acquire Arabic - Khaled is great and really invested in helping you personally if you go see him in office hours; Nimr was a wonderful TF, especially given that this was his first year.  The workload is pretty high, but all of it is relevant and helpful in improving language skills, so it's definitely worth the investment of time!
A great course with a great teacher. But don't expect to speak to much or to spend any time at all on grammar.
if you want to call yourself an expert on the arab world, you better be able to read, comprehend, and discuss these kinds of arabic texts.
It is well-intended but poorly designed.  In addition to problems inherent with catering to both continuing Arabic students and native speakers (who may enjoy speaking in Arabic but rarely prepare for speaking presentations, etc), the class devolves into monotonous, individual presentations during which the professor rarely interrupts with corrections and native speakers role their eyes.On the whole I felt like my Arabic got worse rather than better during class, and I'm certainly more reticent to speak in Arabic now than when I started the class.
Be prepared to commit a lot of time to the course (if you're a senior, I'd think twice before taking it and writing a thesis).  The selections we read are really fantastic and representative of the formative works of 20th century Arab political, social and cultural thought.
I would definitely recommend this class to any non-native speaker. And I would recommend being in professor elmasry's class to anyone... but this class, I think, is too easy for a native speaker.
Despite the drastic difference in level between native speakers and students of Arabic as a second language, Dr. Al-Masri does a fantastic job of immersing the class in the language and culture, and offering a reasonable level of challenge to each student.
It is an extremely challenging and engaging course where you will learn lots of fascinating content and not just language.
This course is a clear step up from 3rd year Arabic at Harvard.  Initially it is quite challenging, working with longer essays on a regular basis, but over time students build reading skills.  The texts are still difficult, but students make significant headway through the semester towards being able to sit down and read them fluently.
This is not a language course.  If you want to work on your Arabic, choose another course or another venue.  That is, unless you want to waste your time talking about subjects of little or no interest.
It will improve your reading, writing, and speaking skills greatly. Although challenging, the fascinating themese you will explore in class allow you to indulge your humanistic side (I'm at MIT), while maintaining a required language component. The best of both worlds, if you ask me.
If you are serious about studying Arabic and have an interest in the literatures and intellectual life of the Arab World, this is a great class for you.
This is the perfect class to take if you are someone who is very enthusiastic about improving your Arabic to an advanced level. The readings are difficult and you may find yourself not understanding a majority of the words you are reading BUT the process of looking up these words, and re -reading the article will definitely help improve your Arabic vocabulary. This is not a course to take if you do not think you can engage in discussion. Because a large part of your grade is based on attendance and discussion, it would only benefit if you complete the assigned readings and answer the questions in preparation for discussion.
The course is your best bet for doing advanced work with Modern Standard Arabic.  Howeve,r since its the only options at the 4th year level, students enrolled in the course will have widely diverging reasons for being there, as well as very differeny language levels.
This class is great.  If you are at an advanced level in Arabic and are interested in doing the readings and willing to work hard, you should definitely take it.  If Arabic is just an elective and you don't want to put much time or energy in, though, I wouldn't recommend it.
To really get something out of this course you have to be ready to dedicate as much time as you must have in first year Arabic if you did well.
This course requires a great deal of time and effort but is extremely rewarding. Highly recommended to those interested in the serious study of Arabic literature.
I would warn them not to take it unless they were very confident of their Arabic reading skills, and able to devote upwards of ten hours a week to preparation.
if you are a native speaker of arabic, interested in literature, then go for it. if you are struggling with your arabic and are considering dropping it, this course is going to frustrate you enough that you will likely stop trying
I would recommend this class to my peers because I would highly discourage them from discontinuing study of formal Arabic after the third Al-Kitaab book, which would leave them at a wholly inadequate level in the language.  However, I'd warn them that they were jumping straight into a seminar-style course with no further glossing, grammar instruction, etc. and that they could have serious difficulties with it.
For many students, this course is a significant increase in workload.  After a month or so, however, the students in the class as a whole adapted.  Some of the readings are quite challenging (and not just from a linguistic sense), but at the end of the semester one should be able to pick up just about any research paper in Arabic and understand the main ideas at the minimum.
Excellent and enthusiastic professor, with a unique range and quality of readings.
This is your only option for a 4th-year class of MSA. If you're not already fluent or if you didn't grow up in the Middle East (as some "students" in the class did), then it will be rough, especially at the beginning. Each class you'll have about 10 pages of reading in Arabic, and you won't be able to understand most of it. You'll have to make a blog post on it at least 24 hours before class.... every class. It's a lot. And honestly, I'm not sure I improved much this semester, but at least I didn't get worse.
This is a great class. Definitely take it if you are interested in continuing with Arabic. There are a lot of really good political and cultural  arguments and authors discussed, but be aware that there is not nearly as much language instruction as in previous years (basically none) and there is very little literature in the syllabus currently.
