This course is a unique chance to learn some of the ins and outs of the Arabic rational sciences from one of the leading scholars in the field in a comfortable classroom setting.
Be open to reading texts outside of your central interests, because it is never a bad thing to broaden your horizons. Your efforts will be rewarded twofold.
That the course requires excellent Arabic, but not necessarily previous knowledge of this kind of texts. I would tell them that I feel my ability to read classical Arabic texts improved tremendously in this class, so patience and careful reading pays off. Moreover, Professor El-Rouayheb is very kind and the class is always an enjoyable experience one looks forward to each week.
This course helps a lot with advancing and becoming familiar with some valuable Arabic, and a lot was gained in knowledge of the rational sciences which will significantly facilitate one's access to the sources. The references and resources that Professor El-Rouayheb introduced to us alone were extremely valuable.
A challenging but worthwhile introduction to the Medieval Islamic intellectual tradition.
It is a rigorous course but it will give you a good grasp of the challenges of reading and understanding logic
The course material is very interesting for anyone studying Islamic philosophy or looking to understand the medieval Islamic world and impact of the greek philosophical tradition. If you are on the fence about your qualification for this course, definitely reach out to the professor. Professor El-Rouayheb is very welcoming and encouraging. He also explains the concepts really well in the classroom.
Professor Rouayheb's teaching style and persona is great - if you're looking for a rapid paced class however, and interested in covering a breadth of materials rather than focus on a chosen few, you might not enjoy the course.
Make sure you give yourself a good amount of time to do the readings and take notes on all the technical terms and grammar. Keep a dictionary of the technical terms so you're prepared for the final and midterm.
This is fun if you like logic and philosophy.
