Nevenka is an incredible teacher and because the TFs love teaching higher level Arabic, they were also great resources.
Arabic is like a relationship - it requires work and it can often be incredibly frustrating but it is incredibly rewarding and fosters a space for true personal growth.
very time consuming and demanding but really worth it.
This is a fantastic class, which, while it requires commitment, represents a great progression form the grammatical focus of the early years of Arabic. You really start grappling with real-world texts. Also, the teaching is excellent.
Exceptional Arabic class.  Nevenka is amazing and I have nothing but positive feedback.
If you seriously want to learn Arabic, take this course. It's conducted in Arabic, Nevenka's a wonderful teacher, and you will learn a lot. But it's a lot of work.
So long as you want to spend a lot of time doing Arabic and studying grammar, the course is excellent.
Really difficult, but definitely improves your writing and reading abilities a lot.
Lots of work but an excellent class. Nevenka is the best Arabic teacher I've ever had - very understanding and accessible.
You get out of this class what you put into it. Nobody is looking over your shoulder in this class so you will only learn from these assignments if you take the time to do them right.
it takes a lot of work and consistency, one really needs to be motivated
Must be willing to work hard
Arabic at Harvard really lacks the "language immersion part" or the speaking and listening part and focuses on solid grammar and text reading.  It's a typical Harvard Arabic course.
Particularly undergraduates, who are taking this course as elective credit, be aware that most of the class is graduate students from CMES who have a lot more time/interest/dedication to arabic! Also, be prepared to dedicate tons of time and many sleepless nights to the assignments.
i'd say that this course is good and that elsisi is good.  i'd say that there is a lot of homework and some of the homework is "busy work" that doesn't push our thinking very far.
see above. a willingness to suffer shame, failure, and sleepless nights
If you are at the point in your Arabic career where you can take this course, DEFINITELY TAKE IT!!! You should have ZERO DOUBT about taking it. Even if you think you can't afford another semester to "waste" on a language and language homework, do Arabic for one more semester and take this class!! Ustaaza Nevenka is the AHSAN, and she's so clear about explaining stuff both in Arabic and also in a way that you'll be able to understand. It's so empowering. Not to mention that you'll actual be listening and reading news clips & articles that ACTUAL Arabs watch / read, and then you'll contribute in a Harvard-academic environment about the articles, which is SO NON-TRIVIAL!!!!TAKE IT, TAKE IT, TAKE IT!!!!
It is very difficult, but Nevenka is extremely encouraging and you will learn a lot.
Nevenka is a phenomenally committed, fair, and energetic teacher. If she continues to teach the course, take it. Be wary of how much vocabulary will be needed. Also, the infrequency of graded assignments can make learning explicit concepts a little more difficult.
Your conversation skills will improve immensely. I think conversation in MSA is discouraged, because it seems anachronistic in the face of so many distinct and often mutually unintelligible spoken dialects. But this course has taught me that MSA can be an important conversational bridge, and that it really does have use.
Nevenka is unbelievably great. Take her course, learn good Arabic, learn many interesting things about Arabs; she will challenge your opinions and teach you how to actually speak Arabic.
I'm a firm proponent of selecting classes based on the instructor. Nevenka (and Tarek) are well worth taking this course alone, despite its difficulty.
Challenging class, but your speaking and reading/writing proficiency will improve considerably. Please do not be concerned about speaking up in class! Don't be afraid to make a fool of yourself; get out there and speak, and you'll improve by the day.
If you want to learn Arabic, this is the class to take!
If you've been frustrated by the never-ending grammar of Arabic 1 and 2 and feel like you'll never really know the language, the rate at which almost everyone seems to improve in Arabic 3 - in speaking, listening, writing, and reading - should really cheer you up.
Nevenka is a wonderful teacher. She integrates topics and grammar very very well and is a very engaging professor.
This is a GREAT class, but requires a lot of workyou will get a lot of improvement out of it if you put in the necessary time.
If you are reading this, you are probably already taking Arabic or are considering doing so. CONTINUE BY TAKING THIS CLASS!!!! Nevenka is just marvelous. She is incredibly clever, and does a wonderful job integrating vocab and grammar into class discussions so that we learn them naturally! We have debates in class that are super-fun, and learn useful vocab that is relevant to the world today. We don't ever have busy-work; everything contributes to your learning.
This is an awesome class and Ustaaza Nevenka is the absolute sweetest! She makes the class so fun and tricks you into learning more than you ever bargained for!
This is an excellent course for taking the next step with your Arabic.  Unlike fourth year Arabic, which is primarily focused upon reading lengthy texts, this course focuses less on reading lengthy discourse papers, but introduces a broad range of topics in less depth.  The best aspect of this course is that it can accommodate students of multiple levels; the lower-end students who are trying to get a basic sense of the 4-major skills, but also allows more advanced students to reinforce and learn more sophisticated grammar than is taught in the first two years.  A great course!
If you made it through Arabic Bb, take Arabic 131a.  This class focuses less on writing and more on being comfortable speaking and listening.  It's enjoyable.
Nevenka is an incredible teacher, you will learn so much!
Nevenka is an awesome professor. If you've made it this far with your study of Arabic, then you'll have a great time in her class. Understanding and knowledgeable, Nevenka does a great job facilitating discussions during class. The assignments are also very reasonable, unlike in Aa and Ba, so don't expect to spend too much time working outside of class. Highly recommend!
It's a great third year class that helps improve speaking and writing abilities and helps solidify the grammar you have already learned as well as adding a few more points.
I found this class to be a lot less stressful than previous Arabic classes. Maybe it's because I had just come back from a summer abroad in the Middle East, but the class is taught in a manner that is not overwhelming. Professor does a great job of incorporating new vocabulary words--especially the more important ones--in each chapter during each class, so you end up learning the words without sitting down for hours and memorizing them. The classes are completely in Arabic and there are a lot more in class listening exercises as well so I feel like my listening skills improved a lot more than previous years. The professor is an absolute sweetheart and VERY encouraging.
Nevenka is an excellent Arabic teacher. Taking a class with her is definitely worth it. The only thing to look out for is if the department lets a class be as big as it was this semester. Language classes should not be that big.
This class was fantastic. The professor finds a way to incorporate texts and clips from actual Arab publications, but does not make you feel discouraged if you don't understand the material immediately. This was definitely the best Arabic class that I have taken at Harvard.
Really, really fun class, and very interesting!
This is a nice change from the first two years, a little less work (only 4 days a week!!!!!) and Ustaaza Nevenka is fantastic and engaging!
Professor Nevenka is the best Arabic professor I have ever had. She is professional and yet very aware of her students and their individual needs. One semester of Arabic with her will improve your language skills and confidence tenfold.
Nevenka is probably the best professor I've ever had. She makes all her own materials, expertly manages class time, creates personal relationships with her students, and ensures that everyone's comfortable, while still challenging you all the time to improve your language skills. A truly amazing class and I'm looking forward to next semester.
If this is your third year of Arabic at Harvard, you already know that the language is hard and the class is hard. Third year is no exception. At this level, you finally get to discuss real, complicated issues in class, rather than mundane things - which can frustrating because your language is limited, but is also really cool and makes class SO much more interesting. Ustaaza Nevenka is by far the best Arabic professor I've had at Harvard and if she's teaching the class, then DEFINITELY take it. Also, your comprehension skills will improve tremendously after a semester of feeling slightly at sea in all the Arabic that's suddenly thrown at you (eg, videos of real people on Youtube, rather than the textbook's melodramatic lessons).
This class is much different than year 2 Arabic (in a good way). It is not about doing monotonous grammar drills every night. It is more work on your own initiative, which is really nice. Also, while we use Al-Kitaab 3, it is not the focus of the class, so the old, out of date texts are not the focus of the class like year 2. Instead, we deal with current issues, read real news, and listen to real clips. It is excellent for taking your Arabic to the next level (meaning applicable in the real world).
Good language class.  We watched very specific videos and talked about pretty heavy topics, so I felt like we got this strange, pessimistic, orientalist idea of the ME.
Knowing your vocabulary words and being willing to work on listening continuously is helpful. The regular writing assignments are meant to keep your Arabic sharp, so do them and pay attention to the feedback! Same goes for the presentations.
study hard, speak up in class, FOCUS ON VOCABULARY
Nevenka is a great teacher! She has a lot of personality and it was fun to be in her class.
This is a great course for building confidence speaking on complex topics, for gaining fluency in the use of media and indeed most MSA texts, and is especially good for those interested in working in policy or social sciences. There is some attention to the arts and humanities and religion, but not half as much as level 2. Nevenka is an amazing instructor - she brings a lot of humor and warmth to tackling this tough material.
This is the Arabic class you have been dreaming of. Do the work, read the articles, speak up in class, and you will reap the benefits of the semester. This is the best class I have taken in the department so far. I feel like all that studying has finally paid off!
It is a great class to apply the Arabic skills you learned in first and second year and improve grammar and writing skills. After just a few weeks you will also deepen your knowledge of culture, politics and religion in the Arab world.
Do take this course, your formal Arabic will improve a lot! But be prepared to spend a lot of time writing and watching/listening to clips, often at least a couple of hours at home every day. It's especially important to try and speak in class and participate in the conversations, because that is a major component of the course. The vocabulary acquisition and grammar reinforcement are major benefits from this class!
One of the best instructors I have ever had.
Nevenka is the most brilliant, personable, engaging, organized and hard-working Arabic instructor ever, and I've learned Arabic in various different institutions, including Middlebury.  In her class, I did not even have to try too hard to memorize the vocabulary; her exercises helped me to assimilate all the difficult words and grammatical concepts with ease.
If you take this class, you need to be willing to spend 1-2 hours a day on it to get the full benefits. But it's been the best Arabic class I've taken, probably because of Nevenka
It's a good way to push forward with your arabic.
Nevenka is by far the nicest instructor I've had at Harvard. Her teaching style is helpful too. A student would do well to write down the many new vocab / expressions she mentions in class each day to maximize vocab acquisition, which is crucial.
Nevenka is a great professor, and makes class fun. We get to interact with all sorts of media from the Arab world, including TV shows, news, stories, and more.
this course is amazing, my arabic improved greatly. though its difficult and it requires a lot of work, it was worth all of it.
Expect a considerable amount of work, but it is worth it if you actually want to improve Arabic.
The professor is amazing--always willing to help and very encouraging. The topics covered throughout the course are very practical.
Be prepared to work, but it is very practical and useful.
Excellenct way to begin to explore authentic arabic materials.
You get out of it what you put in.
This is a fantastic course but also very challenging.  I wouldn't recommend it unless I felt the person was ready.  So long as I felt they were ready, I'd say this course is the best Arabic course I've ever taken.
Great course; allows you to work on all of your skills.  Testing situations aren't very rigorous or stressful.
Tough, but doable. Be prepared to work hard, but if you've made it this far there's no reason not to continue.
Take it! If you're interested in continuing with Arabic and are deciding between this or Arabic 133 (Upper-Level Spoken Modern Standard Arabic), because they both seem to follow from Arabic B, I would suggest this class! It's nice to continue following al-kitaab. Also, I took this class after Arabic A and a year's worth of Arabic this past summer, and I was fine! Very doable, though there will be some students who seem to have taken more than just two years of Arabic.
difficult, but absolutely worth the time
The Best Arabic Professor I have ever had.
Nevenka is actually glorious - my favorite fusHa teacher I've had by far, and I've liked most of them a lot. She makes every day in class interesting and engaging. There is a lot of work - expect a solid 2 hours a day, including each day of the weekend, if you want to do the assignments thoroughly - but if you put in the requisite work and even just through all of the class interaction, your comfort with speaking and understanding MSA will take a huge step forward. Definitely worth it if you're considering third-year Arabic.
Arabic is a hard language, but Nevenka's class is by far the best taught and most fun Arabic class I've taken at Harvard.
Nevenka is AMAZING.  You will never be bored in class with her, because we do such a variety of different things, and you learn so much.  I've taken four different languages at Harvard, and Nevenka is by far the best language instructor I've had in any of them.  Even though Arabic is hard for me and I came into the class not having taken Bb last spring, Nevenka really made me look forward to class every day.  If you're looking for a third-year class, definitely, definitely, definitely take this!
While the teacher is great, there is a lot of work in this class, and the workload is consistently high!
This really pushes you to a new level of Arabic - it's quite a fulfilling experience
I would recommend with enthusiasm primarily because of the instructor (Korica) - language classes such as these depend wholly on the strengths of the teacher and she is outstanding.
The teaching is the best you will find in the course of your Arabic studies.
Nevenka is sublime.
This class is hard but you will do well if you are consistent and especially if you study the material apart from just doing your homework assignments.
Take third year Arabic with Nevenka! The quality of third year really depends on the teacher since the course is mainly meant to solidify reading/listening skills you've already learned in the first two years. Nevenka is wonderful.
This course is genuinely amazing, but very challenging.
Absolutely incredible and the best way to improve your Arabic after second year. Nevenka is AMAZING!
Professor Korica is the best Arabic professor I have ever had, and I have studied Arabic at other schools and in other countries. She organizes the course very well and brings in real-life materials that complement the Al-Kitaab vocabulary. She also introduces new vocabulary that students see repeated throughout the semester. Professor Korica is also very responsive to students' needs and questions and is extraordinarily accessible (holding office hours at least 2 days a week and on appointment). If you can take a class with Professor Korica and are prepared for a heavy work load but lots of support, I highly recommend her course.
Like most other language classes, this class demands a fair amount from you, but you can see a large direct return from the work if you do it. I felt that the people in the class came from many backgrounds in terms of Arabic instruction, but Nevenka did a great job of getting everyone onto the same page. It was a good, but tough, class.
This class was fairly useful for maintaining proficiency in Arabic.
if you want to work hard and learn alot, take this course
Good practice writing but you will have to augment it with a tutoring session or out of class eetings with fellow students to go over assigments if you want to get anything out of it.
Make sure that you have the time to devote to nightly assignments
Not worth the work you put into it.  Hard to tell if any improvement has been made.  A stressful experience with little payoff.
A very good course to develop advanced reading and writing skills.  There is too much homework, but the teacher does a good job of encouraging perfection from his students.
At the beginning of the semester, the professor tries to intimidate the students, giving a lot of homework and putting students on the spot in class, etc. However, if you can make it past these first couple of weeks, the workload declines, the professor is more flexible, and the class takes on a more light and even playful atmosphere.
You would probably learn more by spending the 4 hours of class-time teaching yourself Arabic.
Take this class if you are interested in learning Arabic. Clearly you would not just take this class as an elective because it requires some previous knowledge of the language
It's not quite as hard as second year, but expectations regarding comprehension of passages is definitely a bit higher. I'd say that at this point the best way to really gain fluency is to go abroad...
This course lacks an organized syllabus.
This class continues developing language skills into the advanced level, moving more and more away from the textbook and into practical/eloquent usage.
As far as learning Modern Standard goes, this is the best course available. However, it doesn't teach you an Arabic that you can speak to people with, and it doesn't teach you an Arabic with which you can read ancient texts. The usefulness of Modern Standard itself is somewhat questionable
It's demanding, but worth it.  You just get kind of used to the homework, and I just feel like there was less work this year than there had been in the past.
Difficult but worth the work
Take this class if you are interested primarily in talking and discussing in Arabic, do not take it if you are more interested in grammar or vocabulary
Consider what you want past second year arabic.  If you want to discuss/read about current events or learn media terms, take spoken instead.
If you are serious about learning Arabic, this course is must -  and it is enjoyable, too!
This course is much more interesting than Arabic B. The course materials are interesting, relevant, and not from the 1980s (unlike Al Kitaab). Ustaadha Navenka is a great teacher, with a wide knowledge not just of the language, but also about all the topics that came up in our class discussions. She has a great ability to precisely define words, and knows when a translation isn't quite perfect.
Push yourself and really make the effort to be in Nevenka's class.
I think it's a good course to take if you want to learn more vocabulary that you might see in news articles or that might pertain to world affairs. However, there is a good amount of work one has to put in outside of class.
Take it, it's great.
Nevenca is probably one of my favorite professors I have had at Harvard. Not only is she super engaging, but also she cares about everyone one of her students, and is very conscious about when they are feeling overwhelmed. The class if fully in arabic, which scared me at first, but helped me advance even further in my studies of arabic. If you are considering dropping Arabic after Arabic Bb, at least give this class a shot in the first semester, you won't regret it! One Caveat: lots of work, be prepared for that.
that even though taking Arabic at Harvard is daunting, getting to the third year is worth it
The class is really interesting and you get to form your own opinions about lots of controversial modern issues. Nevenka is SO kind and supportive. However, if you are taking this as your 5th semester of Arabic and have never studied abroad or gone to Arabic language camp you WILL be below average. Many graduate students take this class who speak Arabic proficiently.
If you want to learn Arabic, take this course.  Ustaaza Nevenka is fabulous, she generates true enthusiasm for the subject matter, she is excellent at explaining difficult grammar concepts, and she is very easy-going and willing to help if there is a problem.
Take third year Arabic with Nevenka!
This class really felt like the point where things started to "pay off" after investing as much in Arabic as I (and presumably you) had two years in. Lots of interesting and very manageable readings, meaningful discussions, and a real sense that we were actively using the language. Nevenka is a phenomenal professor who explains things clearly and carefully and is also one of the nicest people I have ever met. Great, great course--you should be excited to take it after Arabic A and B.
It's hard work, but it's very worth it:  Dr. Nevenka will make your Arabic immeasurably better.
Ustaza Nevenka is probably one of the best teachers I've had at Harvard. She genuinely cares about all her students, and even if you're not the most confident in your Arabic ability, she always there to support and encourage you. Although there's a good amount of work every day, it's pretty manageable and even enjoyable a lot of the time. If you're on the fence about taking this class, I would definitely recommend going for it!
OMG THIS CLASS IS THE BEST. ITS EMPHASIS ON CURRENT EVENTS IS A REFRESHING CHANGE FROM ARABIC B AND MAKES YOUR ARABIC FUNCTIONAL FOR DAY-TO-DAY USE. PLUS IF YOU GRADUATE FROM HARVARD ARABIC WITHOUT MEETING NAVENKA YOU ARE DOING YOURSELF A DISSERVICE. SHE IS THE LIFE OF THE COURSE AND HER METICULOUSLY PLANNED COURSE IS SUCH A PLEASURE.
This class will make you feel so good about how much you've learned already. It is super helpful at improving your ability to actually use the language rather than drilling certain grammar concepts. And the enthusiasm of the teaching staff is contagious. Class is FUN.
Definitely take this class!!!! It's amazing. Nevenka is the best Arabic teacher you'll ever have. The class focuses on current events and controversial issues. It teaches you how to have meaningful conversations on complex issues. Grammar and vocab are woven into class. I also learned more about the Middle East and current issues than I did in my class on the Middle East.
This Arabic is a breath of FRESH AIR coming from second-year Arabic. There's no constant inculcation of grammar concepts and nitpicking on every case ending as was in Arabic 2. Instead, you come to class and have discussions all the time. Your speaking will improve tremendously if you make any effort and tests are much easier than last year. They are focused more on incorporating vocabulary rather than grammar rules.
Nevenka is amazing and very helpful, regardless of your level of fluency.
