If you plan on working with manuscripts the you must take a course that trains you in it. This course is excellently paced and very interesting.
Significant reading knowledge of Arabic would be of extreme help if not absolutely necessary.
Excellent introduction to Logic in the pre-modern Islamic world and to Logic in general, with bearings on metaphysics, epistemology, kalam and usul al-fiqh. Here you'll get a good foundation of how to read logical texts and follow the discipline's development, with no need of prior philosophical background. Professor El-Rouayheb does something that you rarely find in upper-level graduate courses: he teaches!
The topic of jadal is very helpful in understanding other works which are not jadal works. Here the student can get the tools to deal with those texts.Professor al-Rouayheb is one of the rare ones: aside from being a scholar he actually knows how to TEACH. Sensitive to students.
I would encourage students to take this course and tell them some of the information that relevant to our knowledge in classical dialectical theory. first, concerning the transmission of dialectical theory to arabic nomenclatures. second, a variety of dialectical theory in various islamic disciplines.
Just make sure you are really interested in Arabic philosophy, theology, jurisprudence, or any of the Arabic intellectual sciences which involve disputation
Have a background in philosophy or willingness to put in extra hours catching up on conversations and controversies in the field
There should be more classes at Harvard like this one, especially in the NELC department. Highly recommended!
The material in this class is not easy, but one will learn a lot in the class. This is both because of the focus on primary material in Arabic, and because of Professor El-Rouayheb's excellent teaching. It definitely helps to know Arabic as much as possible in order to decipher some of the difficulties in the class, but it can also be quite useful and beneficial to meet in groups to go over the texts outside of class after working on it oneself.
Equal parts important for those that are interested in the topic (i.e. wahdat al-wujud) and those interested in improving their reading comprehension of dense classical texts.
This class will push you beyond your limits, linguistically, historically, and philosophically. I do believe, however, that unless this course is instructed by Prof. El'Rouayheb himself, I would not be able to assure one of the quality. Prof. El-Rouayheb is very qualified and therefore makes the course comprehensible, digestible, and fun.
