The class is much less grammar focused than many other arabic classes at harvard which is a relief in many ways but if you are looking to improve your ability to read literature or higher level texts I thought the focus was not quite right.
if you want to learn arabic, this will definitely help. not for the faint of heart or those attached to rigorous structure.
Be prepared to work!
The course is a great course.  It is exciting after spending semesters immersed in al-Kitaab to study actual texts and escape a little bit from the tedium of drills.  However, Prof. Elsisi is one of the worst Arabic teachers that I have ever had.   He uses English in class, is not motivated and wastes time.
You must be willing to work very hard to succeed in this course
Be prepared to commit more time to this class than any other.
It's difficult, and you learn standard arabic, not spoken, but you get a lot better at Arabic. Also, you get out what you put in.
This course will develop your reading and writing skills but probably not your speaking and listening skills.
You don't have much of a choice if you are taking Arabic here at a certain level but to take this course. I would recommend that future students don't get bogged down in the al-Kitab nusus but instead try to enjoy the other readings as much as possible.
It is a lot of work, but very rewarding to attain a higher level of language comprehension and usage.
Third year Arabic is not something to be undertaken lightly.  It will consume your life and letting it do so does not guarantee that you will do well.  It is the most difficult class I have taken at Harvard.
It's 3rd year Arabic, so if you're serious about Arabic you need to take it, but I wasn't impressed or inspired
Take this class if Nevenka is teaching it. She is the kindest, smartest, most eloquent and caring professor I've encountered taking Arabic courses both inside and outside of Harvard. This course will especially help solidify your speaking and listening skills if you feel you've missed out on that while focusing on grammar/writing in the first two years of Al-Kitaab.
This is definitely a good Arabic course, and the teacher has a great approach to teaching: the class is much more about improving that about trying to evaluate your performance and assigning a grade to it.  So it's not terribly high stress, and you learn a lot.
This class substantially improved my speaking and writing skills in Arabic.
It's a lot of homework, but Nevenka is an incredible teacher!
Take it!  The teacher is wonderful, as is the material.  Hands down, my favorite class this semester.
This was one of my best language classes ever at Harvard and is so much fun!
Try to participate even if intimidating.
If you love Arabic, this class is so much fun. Nevenka is an AMAZING teacher. But be willing to set aside a chunk of time (maybe an hour) every day to consistently do the work or memorize words if you finished the homework. It will help a lot.
Prof. Korica is fantastic. She cares a lot about her students and works very hard to make their experience the best and most instructive possible. She takes personal interest in her students' health and wellness and follows their academic development closely, as well as being a great in-class teacher and a very fun person to learn with!
Take every Arabic course with Prof. Nevenka you can.  She loves teaching, she loves Arabic, and she learned it rather than growing up with it, so she will anticipate your difficulties and provide material or advice to get you moving.  Truly exceptional instructor.
Nevenka is an amazing teacher! She is kind and great at evaluating students' starting points and helping them to improve their individual skill level.  She generates a lot of enthusiasm for the subject matter and adds cultural context to language acquisition, which is sometimes absent from other Arabic courses.
Absolutely take this class, completely worth it. Nevenka is that best teacher ever you should do it just for the pleasure of getting to know her. Keep doing Arabic!!
Arabic 131b is a great way to continue to develop both your reading and speaking skills in Modern Standard Arabic.
Take it, but not if it is taught by the same professor.
It's a lot of work, but by the end, you really start to notice improvement in your work, especially reading and writing.
Taking this course is necessary for an Arabic citation.
Wait until Sayyed is not teaching the course
This class focuses on the nuances of MSA and helps one develop the skills necessary to write and speak it eloquently.
Take this course if you need to improve your speaking and writing.
Doesn't introduce you to an interesting cross section of Arabic materials. The skills developed are mostly passive, in particular, the large class size inhibits individual improvement.
Nevenka is a great teacher!
This course is very similar in structure to 131a, which almost all of the students have taken. Like that class, you do need to put in work learning the vocabulary and doing the assignments but the professor is very understanding if you need to miss a few assignments due to other obligations. Enjoyed this class thoroughly.
Nevenka is the best professor in the department. You will be lucky to be in her class! Savor it.
Much like the first semester of third-year MSA, unsurprisingly. Ustaaza Nevenka is still equally phenomenal. The homework feels moderately more manageable than previous semesters, I think, because the busy work has tapered off by this point in language study.
This is the best Arabic class a third year Arabic student can take!
Professor Nevenka is the only reason you need to take this course. She is amazing, understanding, and an all around great teacher. Taking this class was a great way to round out my citation in Arabic. The class also has significantly less work than first and second year, so you won't be spending all of your time listening and reading from al-Kitaab.
Nevenka is so enthusiastic and helpful and the lack of English in the classroom really makes you speak in Arabic.
This class is pretty fun, chill, and doesn't require too much, however don't take it if you want to be seriously challenged and forced to study hard. It is easy to coast by.
Great change of pace and subject after two years of intensive al-kitaab. Ustazza Nevenka is fantastic and makes learning every day a pleasure, wonderful!
Be diligent about using words and treating learning as cumulative; it will pay off in enriching your vocabulary and expression in Arabic.
The 3rd year is for those who are serious about Arabic. The time commitment is significant in order to improve, but it is worth it for those who need Arabic for their research in their field.
Nevenka is great. Like with any class, put in the time studying/with homework to get anything out of the class. You can get a lot out of it, but you have to push yourself.
Extraordinary course. Ustaaza Nevenka is an amazing teacher who makes all her own materials. A wonderful combination of a fair, engaged, prepared teacher with a difficult, but rewarding course.
This class is different from previous years in that it detracts from the Al-Kitaab series and focuses on clips from actual Arab tv shows and teaches you better listening and comprehension. Because Arabic is such a lifelong endeavor, you should take this class if you are really serious about maintaining your language abilities. Otherwise, it'd be more useful to spend some time in the Middle East, because no matter how much effort you put into this class, spending only 4 hours a week in class isn't going to improve your abilities much. However, Nevenka is a wonderful teacher and makes the class enjoyable. The class is worth it just to learn from her.
If you're an upper intermediate MSA student, you must take this course. It is in incredibly taught, and I feel so much more comfortable speaking Arabic now than I did one year ago. BIG thumbs up!
Nevenka is fantastic!  She's one of my favorite professors I've had, with a knack for understanding exactly where you're having trouble and for getting you to think hard and do work almost without realizing it.  Sections with Soha are less smooth; she doesn't always get what you're asking and occasionally gets excited by some point and talks over you, but she's nice enough.
It's a great continuation of the Arabic program at Harvard.  My impression is that the fourth year is more focused on literature and more esoteric vocabulary, so I would definitely recommend this course, which focuses on current events, listening, and interaction.
Very fun, very helpful, but a lot of work.
The professor is, in my opinion, the best in her field.
Nevenka is great and you will learn about much more interesting things than before in Arabic! However, there is less emphasis on acquiring vocabulary and grammar in class, so you will have to be prepared to do it on your own.
Take it! There is a fair amount of work, but it is not the text-translations or other dull exercises. It's all very useful and the class is a terrific environment and tons of fun.
this class (as taught by this instructor in particular) is amazing.
Best Arabic language course I've ever taken, and I've studied Arabic at another prestigious language program
Nevenka is a great professor, who helps you learn and makes class entertaining.
Third year Arabic is a big step up from second year.  As a student, you are responsible for expressing your at a much higher level and using much more advanced vocabulary, expressions, and sentence structure.  However, the materials used in third year Arabic are much more realistic to the ones you will actually encounter in real life, so the step up is a necessary one.
Nevenka is an Arabic goddess. If you have any interest in continuing Arabic, take it! Most of class is spent discussing various issues in Arabic, and you'll learn more about the Arab world in addition to the language.
If you are willing to put in the work and have interest, it will be worth your time.
If you want to improve your Arabic, this is the class to do so!
Nevenka is an amazing teacher and probably the most patient, helpful instructor you will have here at Harvard. Your Arabic language abilities will grow enormously throughout the semester even if the class seems impossibly difficult in the first week or two. You will be amazed at how much you learn!
    !  ,   !
Because of the kind of students who take this course, the discussion is often one-sided.
difficult class, but professor Sullivan will help you as much as needed
One of the best professors I have ever had the pleasure of studying with.
The best advanced Arabic class I have taken, n = 5.
Ustaaza Nevenka is probably one of the best instructors you'll have at Harvard. She genuinely cares about each and every one of her students, understands that everyone has times when they're overloaded with work, and generates a lot of enthusiasm about the topics we cover in the course. This is a course where you get more out of it the more time and effort you put in, but you'll likely end up putting in that extra effort simply because the class material is so interesting. Also, Tarek is an extremely knowledgeable and helpful TF, not to mention he has a great sense of humor, so you'll be very fortunate if he's still around next year!
Nevenka is phenomenal. She truly cares about getting you to understand and enjoy the material. You finally depart from al-Kitaab in third year and start to read and make use of a lot of materials from other sources. This class is really your reward for sticking it out through A and B.
Be prepared - this course is hard. That being said, it was really well-taught and definitely worth it. I put in a fraction of the work I should have, and definitely felt like I fell behind, but despite that I still enjoyed it. I can only imagine how much more I would've gotten out of it if I had put in more time.
it may seem like arabic is really difficult but ustaatha nevenka and tareq make arabic not only very relatable and fun to learn but you will also have many aha moments because of them i highly highly recommend this class
This is the Arabic class that I've taken so far! Ustadha Nevenka and Ustadh Tarek are fantastic!!
Nevenka is an incredible instructor.  No matter what level of Arabic you at, you will make improvements in your speaking and writing.
It's a lot of work but a super rewarding class. Definitely worth taking.
Nevenka is the best teacher! She's so incredibly welcoming and creates a very positive environment for students. The assignments are very current and relevant. There's a big focus on debates and seeing many sides of issues. You learn grammar and vocab while discussing controversial issues in the Middle East, which makes it so interesting and enjoyable to learn.
Ustadha Nevenka and Tarek are the best Arabic instructors I have ever had. This course was the highlight of my semester.
This is a fantastic Arabic-learning language experience. The professor is wonderful, and your Arabic will improve tremendously.
This is a fabulous course for improving one's Arabic.  The content is extremely useful and practical.  Nevenka is very flexible, but do put in the time and effort, as that really determines how much you will gain from this semester.The end of the semester sneaks up on you, which includes turning in two 1,000 word essays, so staying on top of that will make the end of the semester much more manageable.
This class is a great way to continue improving your Arabic skills. It's not too much work, but it does an excellent job of balancing real-world reading, listening, and speaking with grammar and the finer aspects of the language.
Nevenka is an incredible teacher!
nevenka is an awesome instructor and the class has way less focus on al-kitaab than previous years so it is much more enjoyable
The more you put into this class, the more you get out. Nevenka is a phenomenal teacher and is very understanding of student's busy lives. Some students invest more or less as a consequence, but I can tell that those who enjoy it most put a lot into it.
Chances are you've already taken 131a, so you know that Nevenka is one of the sweetest, most encouraging and supportive professor you'll ever encounter. You'll continue to develop your grammatical toolkit and to expand your vocab, but not quite at the same rate as the previous semester.
This is an amazing class. The homework load is very reasonable and very worthwhile, and Nevenka is so talented at teaching! You will leave this class with a much higher level of Arabic. Take it!
The professor's enthusiasm is contagious.
It's hard but Nevenka is incredible.
Nevenka is AMAZING. She is so encouraging, it really helps keep going when the language is really pushing back. The class does a good job of equalizing all skill levels.
Nevenka is a great teacher who really cares about your learning, and the subject matter is interesting because it is about current events. In terms of your learning/difficulty, this class is basically what you make of it. If you enjoyed the first semester of this course you'll enjoy the second.
TAKE THIS CLASS if you are studying Arabic! Nevenka is caring, warm, witty and extremely effective teacher. One of the best teachers in my time at Harvard, and absolutely the best language teacher. The class is quite fun, you will learn A LOT about Arab culture, and you will really really strengthen your Arabic, especially in reading, listening and speaking. Seek out Nevenka's office hours - for help on a grammar concept or to practice conservation, but also just to be in her presence and be inspired by how amazing she is! Also, force yourself to speak in class. It can be scary but it is definitely worth it, and it's the only way you'll get more comfortable! All in all, this class will make you fall deeper in love with Arabic - take it!
Amazing class. Loved going to it every day. Some advice: get to know Quizlet to learn vocab. It's a huge help.
Nevenka is one of the best Arabic preceptors at Harvard: she's engaging, lively, an amazing teacher and very thoughtful of students. Overall, excellent course!
This is a great course. You learn about many current events and issues in the Middle East and strengthen your language skills and vocabulary because the class is taught in Arabic entirely.
This was one of the most enjoyable Arabic courses I've ever taken - Nevenka is amazing! I wish I could study Arabic with her forever.
This is the best Arabic course I have ever taken
The teacher is incredible. My Arabic improved so much through this course, and I also had fun. I would highly recommend.
This class is the best Arabic class I have taken here. Nevenka is so amazing and she really cares about everyone learning the material and following along, which is really important and it helps nurture a safe and friendly environment that facilitates engaging and productive discussions.
Nevenka is a great teacher and you will enjoy this class for the discussions and interesting topics. Class was never boring and I feel like I built my vocabulary and writing abilities.
It was one of the best language classes I have ever been in and one of the few language classes I have found to be very enjoyable. Nevenka is an amazing instructor and really knows what pedagogical methods work best for language acquisition.
Nevenka is probably the best Arabic instructor you will ever have.
This course boosted my confidence in both my written and spoken Arabic skills.
This was a nice continuation of last semester's Arabic 131a, although 131a is a stronger course.
If you're up for the challenge, taking this class with Nevenka was one of the best decisions of my college career.
It's a good language class with a relatively low-pressure environment, which makes it less stressful to practice with the language.
This is a fantastic continuation of Arabic; quite a bit more fun than Arabic B, and you get quite a bit better at reading.
