This class is rewarding, but intensely difficult.
This class is a lot of work but is very rewarding. Hisham as an instructor is demanding but in a very constructive way. Be prepared to want to pull your hair out and then being really satisfied with the knowledge that you learn at the end of it. Also the review sessions with Lispeth, as always, are really useful and worth going to.
Arabic B is a major commitment, but a worthwhile one. I am committed to pursuing a citation in Arabic, and it's in large part to aspects of this course (especially reading and writing) that I feel prepared to continue with the language. Both Hisham and Lispeth are excellent and very intelligent teachers. They are experts in the language, not only at level of knowing what things mean, but also understanding (and explaining) etymology an theory, and placing things in context. That said, there are a lot of things I would improve. There is no Arabic speaking or comprehension in the classroom, at least in Hisham's class. This is hugely detrimental to students who want to use Arabic in the field. The vocabulary in al-Kitaab is similarly impractical, as is the general structure of the book. As it's an intermediate level course, the amount of work and difficulty is expected to be substantial, but it often felt like the 15+ hours a week I would spend outside class were still not enough.
This class will help your grammar and reading skills improve quite a bit, and is a good step if you are hoping to continue with Arabic. It still requires a lot of time for homework and studying on your own, but if you took Arabic A you already know that. Focus on the reading passages when you study for tests.
This class is a lot of work, but you'll soar ahead in your grammatical understanding of Arabic. There are a lot of very beautiful things that you learn about the language in this class. DEFINITELY take it with Hisham. The other instructions are great but there is no one with his knowledge and appreciation of the grammar of the language. It does take a LOT of time. Don't be afraid to stop doing your homework and leave it in complete it if takes too long one night. Try to stay on top of that and don't fall behind. It's impossible to catch up.
Definitely recommend. This class is more difficult than Arabic A but you learn so much from it that I really recommend it if you did decent / didn't struggle too much in Arabic A. It's a lot more grammar heavy but you come out really strong afterwards. If you're thinking about taking this instead of Arabic A (presumably because you have some prior experience) make sure you have a pretty solid base of MSA vocabulary and already know the basic verb conjugations / basic case ending rules. If you don't know what case endings are, you should take Arabic A instead or prepare to devote a TON of hours catching up at first.
As much as I love the language, the Arabic second year course disappointed me. I hoped to be able to improve my fluency, and understand more clearly when others speak. However the negligible importance placed on speaking and listening comprehension skills, made the language a set of formulas and conjugation charts for me. I want to be more exposed to the culture and better associate myself with Arabic speakers.However my vocabulary improved drastically and my reading and writing skills improved.
You will learn a lot, but the second year, in my experience, is MUCH harder than the first year. Know that it's mostly reading and writing focused so if your goal is learning to speak better you might be better off without it. If you're taking Arabic because you plan on doing research about the Middle East or you want a citation, then this class if perfect. But if it's a more casual interest in the language and the region then I think you'd be better off without the second year. That said the course itself is pretty good. You have to be willing to put a lot of time in, and the work is constant but the payoff is worth it.
This class is a lot of work, but you come out knowing a lot about the language as a whole. I feel I have a good mastery of a lot of the details that make the language difficult, like case endings and morphology and reading.
Love Arabic, but only take it if you really want to learn the language. It's too much work if you are not really interested.
Arabic B is challenging, but learning Arabic is a valuable skill... I wish more people knew the language, but you should be aware of the challenge that learning it poses.
Take this class!! Extremely well taught, super fast paced, you will come out more proficient in Arabic than you can imagine.  Super rewarding.  If you have an interest in understanding Classical Arabic texts, take Hisham no doubt, he is a scholar of that area and he will share gems of knowledge about Quranic/Classical Arabic that you may not get elsewhere.
Difficult but enriching
If you are serious about learning Arabic, take this class. If not, don't bother as it requires your full heart to be in it. While the focus is heavily on grammar, Nour does a good job in making sure you speak Arabic everyday in class
Arabic B is a class that teaches you a lot of grammar in a very short amount of time. It doesn't try to build your speaking ability, let alone your ability to write stories. You have to know that going in, and you won't be disappointed.
The course was focused almost exclusively on written Arabic, with a huge emphasis on case endings and verb morphology. Definitely my understanding of the structure of the language increased greatly. The class was instructed very much in English and Arabic was not spoken much at all during class which I found strange. The structure of the course was sometimes somewhat confusing (no syllabus). Overall though it will definitely expand your Arabic abilities.
This class builds upon on the previous year but is much more difficult, now the focus is on reading and vocal and grammar and its no joke. It is a good class and the professor is fantastic but it is definitely rougher.
The course is difficult and sometimes a huge grind to turn in the homework assignments every day. The regularity of quizzes and tests can also be a bit much. However, the course is very rewarding and you learn a lot.
The more you put in to learning Arabic the more you will get out of the language.
Make sure to do the homework every day! Not only will it boost your grade but it'll make the learning process much easier.
There is a lot of grammar involved and not a lot of speaking but that makes sense since MSA isn't spoken as commonly as the dialects. It's a difficult class but the professors are great!
This class was disorganized and I didn't feel supported by the TF even if she was available for office hours. The instruction did not often make sense. I was often very confused when a rule was introduced and seldom mentioned again. While I think my knowledge of grammar is stronger now, I don't think my ability to speak in Arabic improved, and I have heard that in the Middle East these grammar rules are not even used by locals.
The class is great, but there is a lot of busy work that doesn't really help you understand the material, and just takes up time. I also think that the professors are great, but your experience can definitely become unpleasant if you do not like your TF.
It's difficult, but a lot better than Arabic A, as now you feel like you have a grasp on the language. Take advantage of office hours; the teaching staff really want to see you succeed and they'll personally coach you on everything if you need it.
This class is very difficult. Not for the faint of heart.
Ustadh Mahmoud's section is difficult, but his teaching style is engaging, fun, memorable, and he teaches us things we might not have seen otherwise, and tries to stay ahead of the curriculum so that we're seeing things for the second/third time by the time it comes around in Al Kitaab.
This class is a great class to learn Arabic grammar and having Hisham is great because he cares so much about the language and teaches with such enthusiasm! I initially took Arabic to satisfy my language requirement but because of Hisham I have decided to pursue the language even more! Just be sure you are putting in the time that you need to make sure you have a good grasp of all of the grammar and vocab.
it's hard
To be successful in this course, you need to commit to learning the vocabulary at the beginning of each unit
Be prepared to go a lot of grammar, but Hisham is an excellent teacher, Greg is an excellent TF, and the material is stuff you should know. If you want to continue with Arabic, this is the way to do it and its not so bad.
Take it if you are committed to Arabic
It requires a lot of outside practice to learn all the vocabulary and texts.
Embrace the pain.
If you're learning Arabic, you obviously have to take it. The course does its job, but it's difficult and time-consuming.
You really need to be committed to Arabic and to expanding your vocab. Arabic B is often the most tedious class in the Arabic series, but it is also one of the most important since it teaches you the parts of the Arabic sentence.
If you want to continue studying Arabic at Harvard, this is obviously the class to take. It's well-paced though the tests are significantly more difficult than Arabic A. Nour clearly cares about her students and wants them to do well.
Arabic is incredibly hard. It requires a lot and is incredibly frustrating but it is the most rewarding class I have taken at Harvard (despite not doing very well). Even though it is an elective and I'm taking it as a 5th class, it was worth it.
An excellent course that solidifies the core grammatical concepts from Arabic A, while introducing you to more sophisticated constructions and vocabulary. Less intensive than first-year Arabic in my opinion, but that generally gives you enough time to digest the language.
This class is a good stepping stone for continuing Arabic improvement. A bit too grammar heavy for my taste. Tests were very difficult. I would like to see more focus on speaking and comprehension ability, but overall I feel that my Arabic improved quite a bit throughout the class. Also, a very fun class environment.
I do not think that this course was administered as well as it could have been.  Unlike in last year's Arabic A course, the course website for Arabic Ba was basically unused.  So while all classes took common exams, I learned from talking to friends in other classes that my class did not emphasize or sometimes even teach the same materials as did other classes.  This is not to say that what I did was unproductive or not educational, but I was somewhat frustrated by the lack of clarity and transparency about the expectations for the course, which appeared to vary from class to class.  If the course does not start using its website or devise some other way to distribute common course materials and information about exams and assignments, I would recommend shopping the different classes of Arabic Ba to see how/if they vary, because while this course is necessary for anyone who wants to continue Arabic studies, it seemed like the classes for Arabic Ba and the experiences of students in them varied significantly this year.As an added note, I felt like the common exams we took were often not effective assessments of our knowledge in the course.  They were very closely based on short Arabic texts we read in Al Kitaab 2, so much so that much of each exam was translating sections or sentences of the text pretty much verbatim from Arabic to English or English to Arabic.  So a lot of succeeding on the exams just involved memorizing phrases from the text, especially since many of the phrases in the texts we were supposed to translate contained vocabulary that was only found in the text and not included in our vocabulary lists.
You should take this course with the understanding that it is a necessary evil.  If you loved beginning Arabic and cannot see yourself not continuing your Arabic study, you will obviously take this course and get a lot out of it, but be aware that the course leaves a lot to be desired in terms of organization, feedback, and speaking practice.  Your understanding of the language will solidify - don't be worried about forgetting things because you go over grammar to the point of redundancy.
This course is definitely worthwhile if you have the time to spend on it and are willing to put in the effort. Arabic is a wonderful language and a pleasure to learn, but can turn quickly from a pleasure to a drag if you fall behind or are too busy to give it the attention it needs.
The environment of daily small classes really helps in giving a very solid understanding of the material.
This is a great class. It's hard of course, and if you've taken/studied/learned any Arabic before you know why. (If you haven't, obviously don't take this class.) But I will say that it deepened my understanding of the language tremendously, especially in the discussions of roots and forms. A lot of focus on the chapter text, which I think is nice: it lets you deepen your understanding of grammar and vocabulary in a case-study sort of way. The class definitely requires a lot of time, but I think it's been worth it so far.
It's rewarding, but difficult (which I enjoy).
Arabic is so well taught at Harvard! The department is very strong! It is very time-consuming with homework 3-4 hours a day, but it is a very rewarding experience.
Nour and Greg are both great teachers, and you do learn quite a lot from them. Like with Arabic A, the worst part of the course is the course material. I sometimes felt like a lot of what I was learning through some of the homework exercises and through reading the texts in al-Kitaab wasn't really useful or relevant, so the hardest part of the class for me was trying to stay motivated despite that.
A great experience and a wonderful language, but be prepared to make it your number one priority.
Only take it if you are willing to commit a large part of your time towards it
Only take Arabic if you're serious about learning Arabic. It's really not a class to be taken lightly but it is a beautiful language.
If you are going to take Arabic, you need to know exactly why you are taking Arabic.  This is a difficult course, but if you're passionate about the language, it is completely worth the time.  The course is well taught, and your improvement is discernible.
teacher and ta are great. moves slowly, but the repetition is helpful
Class time is mostly spent reading Arabic texts out loud. You'll learn a lot of grammar but your speaking won't improve much.
Be prepared to not speak a lot of Arabic and to do a lot of grammar.
Hisham + Youseff are a great team and I probably couldn't handle this class without them! If you have the chance to take this class with them, do it! They are both hilarious and entertaining, and supportive :)
Arabic is a difficult language but it is so intricately constructed and clever that it makes for a really fun and rewarding experience.
Ustaadha Nour truly knows how to reinforce vocabulary and grammar concepts in class such that you're learning Arabic without consciously putting in a lot of effort! Greg is also incredibly dedicated and accessible. The class is wonderful. I highly recommend going back over the main texts of each chapter of Al-Kitaab and making sure you understand how to vowel the text and the meanings of all new vocabulary words and constructions.
If you're willing to put in the time, arabic is a great language to learn and this is a great class.
If you value your time, please don't take this class.
This class is challenging, but your reading skills will improve.
This class will improve your language skills immensely. It might not seem like it as you go, but eventually putting in the work on the difficult grammatical concepts (i.e. forms, case endings) and demanding class schedule (5 days a week) will help you to internalize the language to the level that you need to if you are seeking to become fluent. This class is also a ton of fun, as you get to know your classmates and teaching staff well and develop good relationships with them.
this class is wonderful if you take it with feryal and dzavid. the workload is quite heavy but having a professor and a tf who really care about you and your progress inspires you to get your work done, and in the end you will learn a LOT. my arabic has grown by leaps and bounds since the beginning of the semester. that being said, be careful when deciding to take this class: it's not for the faint of heart and you should only subject yourself to the workload if you are really invested in learning the language.
This class requires more time than Arabic A, but it's not really more difficult. Make sure to stay on top of vocabulary and understand all the grammar.
It's a really great class. The workload is not bad at all- it's very doable. You will really improve your Arabic, especially your understanding of Arabic grammar which dramatically improves your speaking.
Great class if you want to continue learning Arabic! Focuses much more on grammar, writing, and reading skills than first year classes. Put the time in if you actually want to learn the language and try to speak on your own because speaking is not stressed in class, and because of this, my speaking skills declined this year.
Every instructor of Arabic is well-liked, and language learning is a great and fun experience with classmates. Arabic is also a rich language that, when learned, opens doors to understanding several worlds of ideas and cultures very relevant today and to understanding world history.
Arabic is a hard language but it's a really fun class and you learn lots of language and culture?
Study in groups. Get all the info from all the classes, because it's not exactly possible to be prepared with just one instructor if the tests are planned the way that they are.
I can't speak for the other TFs, but Nour is an outstanding teacher. She's extremely knowledgeable and a ton of fun, and she does a fantastic job making the class be really enjoyable while teaching you a hell of a lot. Really an outstanding year 2 Arabic class.
I was a lovely course. I learned a ton of grammar. I love Arabic that much more now and I will continue all three years. It was definitely much more difficult in content than Arabic A but if you love the language then it does not matter. I was a good course. However, you do less speaking and oral exercises than you did in Arabic A.
Although participating in a summer immersion program is not necessary to prepare for this class, some review over the summer is certainly helpful.
It is very challenging, but this year I feel like I got much more proficient at Arabic and learned a lot of the grammar and practiced my reading skills.  It is very difficult and requires a lot of work outside of class, but it is worth if you want to learn the language.
Professor Granara is the best. But this is also a really challenging course that takes a lot of time and effort in often just memorizing vocab, but you do learn a lot. I enjoyed classes with Professor Granara and Avigail and they were both very accessible outside of class and very helpful.
The assignments keep you honest and you need to work diligently, but the workload is not overwhelming. It actually moves slower in respect to grammar compared to Arabic A, but faster in respect to vocab.
I truly think that the instructor you have determines your experience. Professor Granara's teaching style, in all honesty, frightened at times at 10am in the morning, but it made sure that I was prepared for class far more often than not. I knew that his class would be the most rigorous, which is why I wanted to remain in the class though it was over the usual capacity.
Take it with Granara/Noy. They are both AWESOME. This class made my semester. Take it for the people and for what is taught. You won't regret it.
Less organized than Arabic A, but I'd encourage to take if you want to keep up and work on your arabic
Be prepared for a challenge.
This class will require a LOT more time out of you than Arabic B. Get comfortable with the ten forms of the Arabic verb fast, because otherwise it will not just hurt you but also other people as you have to keep on slowing down to review it. Also get comfortable with the vocab fast for each unit. Expect the first homework assignment of each unit to be much more work, as well as assignments given over the readings, such as the main text for each lesson.
Arabic is a difficult language and year two is no exception. Be willing to spend a significant amount of time on the language both in homework and office hours.
Get into a section with few students.  The smaller the class the more you will learn.
Learn as you go.  Attend office hours. Get to know your instructors.
You WILL learn Arabic if you take this class and put in the effort.
Be prepared to put in a lot of hard work if you are coming from Arabic A. I think we are the first year in which there is a switch in textbook from Ahlan wa salan to al-kitaab. Because of the switch, I have many agonizing moments just trying to figure out the background vocabulary. Arabic took up almost 2-3 hours per day and even so, I am still struggling with speaking and writing.
Be aware this class takes up a LOT of time and focuses a lot more on grammar than Arabic A. (While you learn lots of vocabulary, the course is not as "fun" and a lot more academic.)
This course is necessary for students who want to obtain an Arabic citation or secondary.  That being said -- the course appears both unorganized and busywork centered.  Students at various levels of learning were put into a large class, and progress was poorly distributed.  I personally felt that the class was a waste of my time here at Harvard, and would urge students to strongly consider other options before taking this course.  I will not take Arabic again next semester for fear of having to take another class like this.
This course is unorganized and makes for a horrible learning experience. The professors and TFs don't have any objectives for each day, the homework is unbelievably long and difficult, and you don't get many opportunities to practice using the language. Study abroad, go live in the Middle East, take Arabic at a different universitydo anything to avoid this course.
At times it felt that we were doing a lot of review, or covering new concepts slower than was necessary, so I didn't expect that my own language ability would advance much over the semester. However, I was pleasantly surprised with how much better my Arabic got, in speaking, reading and writing. Before, my Arabic conversations were halting and poor in vocabulary--now, I can speak with much more confidence on a relevant set of topics. What a terrific class.
You will learn a lot in this course, but you have to really want to improve, and be willing to put in long hours.
Here, you begin to understand the philosophy and structure of Standard Arabic. When you start reading real, page-long texts in Arabic and understanding them, the satisfaction is priceless.
Arabic is fun!
Arabic is an amazing language, and if you have the time and have the skills, taking Arabic Ba will definitely enrich your semester. It is definitely a manageable workload, and lots of fun, with amazing professors and teaching fellows.
This is a natural continuation of Arabic A and is very comparable to the same in terms of quality.
This is a great class, and you learn a lot of vocabulary and grammar. The readings have actual substance, and are not simply stories, which makes them interesting, and the vocab used in them applicable to outside the class. This was my favorite class of the semester!
really memorize your in-class assignments for the tests
If you didn't study abroad over the summer, or aren't coming from al-Kitaab, prepare to be at a serious disadvantage in the class. Don't fall behind, drill early and often, GO TO OFFICE HOURS, and be your own advocate (ask for EC, ask for help). Arabic Ba is more disorganized and frustrating and difficult, but only because the students around you are probably much, much better than you at it. Also, Dalia and Tarek are the most amazing instructors and literally made the difference for me.
This class is a daily grind. If you're the kind of person who can deal with repetitive nightly homework, go for it! You'll learn something, though you don't progress in speaking Arabic as quickly as you do in Arabic A. (Writing is emphasized.) It's not very difficult to get a B or even B+ in but it is difficult to get a straight A. If you care about your GPA only take it if you have at least an hour and a half nightly to do the homework and study, and don't mind daily class.
Be ready for lots of daily work.
The workload is significant, but you will learn a good amount of standard Arabic.
Though I've never taken the first-year Arabic course at Harvard, this second-year course is a comprehensive, structured follow-up to an introductory year of Arabic, with much greater emphasis on grammar and vocabulary building.
try to take it with granara if possible. feryal isn't bad but she has some kind of hearing/english problem where she doesn't get what we ask her and gives us weird answers to questions we didn't ask or say we pronounced something wrong or said something we didn't during presentations. she's also a bit defeating, pointing out faults more than successes, and also in a public manner too (like telling you you're wrong in a semi-insulting way--though i don't think she meant to be insulting; maybe it's a cultural diff thing) or that your writing sucks infront of class so you're afraid to answer her questions in class because you feel like she'll just embarrass you. The class itself isn't hard though, but her exams are super long so be ready to work fast.
Make sure to review course materials from Arabic A before taking Arabic Ba because it continues right where Arabic A left off.
I would recommend anyone who's considering skipping year 2 to take it--there is a lot of grammar review and other components that will be glossed over if you go straight to year 3 from year 1 or even time spent abroad.
It is a lot of work, but you really learn a lot of grammar and speak, and since it is everyday, you really get a lot of practice.
This class is effective in learning, however, it is draining at times because of the constant homework and assignments.
More difficult than Arabic Aa, but you don't learn that much new grammar. It mostly reinforces grammar learned in Aa. If you have a good TF you should be fine though.
study hard
My goodness... Arabic B is difficult, but worth the struggle! Hang in there, do all the work, speak up in class, and you will notice your language skills improving dramatically.
Arabic is a great language to learn, but you do have to put the effort in. If you really want it, then it's worth it. Professor Granara is also a really awesome professor and a great person to know in the NELC department/field.
It takes very little time a day, but you will finally realize that you can actually speak and understand Arabic.
I would definitely reccomend this course, but it does require a lot more effort than first year Arabic did. I would reccomend you start learning the vocab and reviewing the grammar early. Plus, there's a lot more emphasis on learning various texts, especially on exams.
This class is not as well taught as Arabic A, but is a necessary step to move up in studying Arabic. You can do well in it without learning enough: you get as much as you put in.
Arabic B is like Arabic A, but harder. If you've taken a year, though, it's probably worth it to push through and keep studying, because the language is GORGEOUS and magnificent. But you already know that.
this course and arabic in general is very challenging and should only be taken if you are committed to putting in the necessary effort both in and out of class
You better be absolutely sure you want to learn Arabic.
If you love Arabic, continue!
The course itself is rigorous and helpful in deepening understanding of the language, but the instruction under the current preceptor does not live up to the aim of the courses.
Take the class with Granara; he's a fantastic professor and you'll get a really solid understanding of the language without being completely overwhelmed by the work. It's a great continuation of Arabic A.
As with all language classes, your experience here is very dependent on your section leader. Ben, Granara, and Paul are great--avoid Feryal, because even though she's incredibly sweet, she can't teach for beans. Otherwise, do *not* let yourself get behind on the homework. Don't. Just don't. It sucks, there is a ton, we all know, but your performance on the test is really determined by one thing only: (a) how well you memorize the weekly text and (b) how often you do your homework.
It's great. A perfect transition from Arabic A. Don't take if you only wanted to get your requirements out of the way, because it's a lot harder and more grammar focused, but do take it if you want to continue on with Arabic. I felt so much more confident with my skills after this semester.
It's a great class, but be prepared to put the time in to memorize vocabulary, grammatical forms, etc. just like any other language class.
A great class, with great instructors. If you apply yourself you can get a lot out of this course.
Take it. A fun class, but a lot of work.
Arabic is fantastic! This course is totally manageable, though you get through the material very quickly.  Feryal is a wonderful section leader and Granara is awesome - his sarcasm and generally jovial attitude make class so enjoyable, though occasionally stressful.  The class is a pretty easy way to learn an amazing language :)
If it has been a while since you last spoke/learned Arabic, you should really review the firs al-Kitaab before beginning this course. At times it was difficult to follow, but it really depends on your professor. Mostafa was, as always, amazing. This semester the class focused way too much on memorizing the texts in al-Kitaab (the tests basically consisted of regurgitating passages about Ramadan and the Arab press), but the vocabulary we learned was very useful.
This course is very challenging. If you take it, be prepared to spend many hours on homework and in office hours. That said, it has great payoff. I feel like I am really learning the intricacies of an amazing language that can be applied in a wide variety of disciplines, and later to employment.
Great way to learn Arabic
This class is awesome. Arabic rocks.
I feel like 2nd year Arabic is basically a repeat of the grammar learned in 1st year but more in depth.  My reading and writing skills improved, but overall I hope for more progress.
Make sure you're in a small class.Understand that the tests aren't a reflection either of what you ought to have learned or of what you are taught.
Rewarding but very difficult for those without time for a work-intensive elective.
be prepared to work hard but also to come to really appreciate the language.
It is certainly a difficult course, but one in which you will gain a tremendous amount of knowledge of the Arabic language.
It's a lot of work.  Be prepared to spend 1-2 hours on Arabic every night.  The material is sometimes frustrating - why on earth am I learning about Ibn Battuta's medieval travels when I still don't know how to buy train tickets or ask for directions?  That said, Mostafa is AMAZING, and you will learn more useful grammatical structures and your reading skills will improve massively.  You'll also become very knowledgeable about totally random things like the history of the Arabic press or Mustafa Amin's opinion on modern universities.
Don't ever ever ever take if you are a native/heritage speaker.
Be prepared to study consistently and challenge yourself. Professor Granara can sometimes come off as overly demanding, but he really cares about the well-being of his students and wants to see you succeed (even if that means kicking you in the butt once in a while to get you there).
If you put in the work outside of the classroom, then you will get more out of the class than if you rely solely on class time.
Mostafa is wonderful and I recommend him as a teacher. Take this course if you want to progress in Arabic, but there is daily homework, and a quiz and an essay for each unit (5-6 each).
The language is great and section is the best part. It's a jump from first year Arabic but doable.
You will get out of this class as much as you put into it.
Very well-taught
This course is challenging and may seem impossible at first, but once you get the hang of it, you'll likely consider it one of the best classes you've taken here. Professor Granara and Suheil are really great teachers!
This is your opportunity to continue taking Arabic. The class is enjoyable and you will learn more of the language (especially grammar), reading and writing, and culture, but do not expect to reach a real level of proficiency in Arabic language after this level.
This class does not focus on practical Arabic. It is about grammatical concepts for the literature or linguistics wonk.
its harder than first year, you really have to be committed
The class is tough and the teacher is thorough, but you come out learning a lot more than what is just in the book.
Take this course if you are serious about Arabic. It is not an easy course. But it is extremely rewarding if you come in expecting to get an extensive and intensive course in Arabic language and grammar.
Emphasis is on grammar above all else but you will learn a lot.
I intended on continuing with Arabic until my citation and beyond but, after such a disappointing learning experience in this class, I feel that spending so much time on Arabic is not worth it anymore. I would only recommend this course to someone as a way of getting to the next level - I would tell them it is not enjoyable.
You have to be willing to work very hard, daily.
This class is obscenely difficult and takes up an incredibly large amount of time. If you were wavering at all during freshmen year Arabic, and think you may not have the commitment necessary to dedicate all your free time to mastering Arabic, bear in mind, this class demands an incredible amount of work that will not be reflected in your grade.
The covers the grammar basics that you will need to build a strong Arabic fluency, but the professor is not as entertaining/good as others in the department.
You have to be kind of masochistic to take Arabic because it's often a ton of work with few resultsawesome anyway though :)
I'd tell them to take intermediate Arabic with Prof. Sharif!
If Arabic is not a requirement of your degree, I would take this class elsewhere or take an intensive summer course.  I don't think the Harvard program is a good program, and if you don't have to take the class here, I wouldn't.
It's a ton of work, but you learn a lot.  Chances are someone thinking about taking this class would know what it takes.  It is a lot more difficult than first year Arabic, however.
Intermediate Arabic gives you the last chance at Harvard to get all your grammar compeltely laid down before venturing into the more colloquial, dynamic and/or literary realm of the language. If you want your preparation to be long-lasting and unshakable, this course is a must.
Don't plan on doing much else during the semester, but get ready to learn a lot of Arabic
This is a terrific class if you are willing to do the work.
This will be one of the hardest courses you will take if Arabic is not a language you are familiar with.
Beware of full vowelling.
Taking Arabic Ba is a challenging but very rewarding experience.
If you are serious about continuing to learn Arabic, Arabic B is definitely a good course to take.  However, the course work is more difficult than in Arabic A, so you should be prepared to devote more time to learning Arabic than was required of you in Arabic A.
You must be really serious about learning Arabic.  It is challenging, and time consuming.  Be sure you want to know the language.
