Great class!
I took this class thinking we'd be reading high level classical Arabic texts, translating them for homework and then discussing the grammatical difficulties, the stylistic intricacies and the theological ramifications of the texts in class. Instead, we just went through the entire Arabic and translated it in class, making preparation only minimally necessary, or, alternatively, making attending class only marginally useful for advancing one's proficiency in Arabic. At this point, you probably think I'm the token snob/jerk/"section kid", but hear me out. The point of a translation class is not doing the same work twice; it's doing the work and then having a constructive and pointed discussion about it, which leads to further understanding and retention. Section dealt with morphological and grammatical topics that were, for the most part, way too basic for the purported course level, especially considering the (rather difficult) texts we were reading. Aside from the format, Ustadha Dalia is a total sweetheart, but isn't good about answering grammar questions; she also favors extremely literal translations of the Arabic that hug the original language's structure and don't make much sense in English. On the other hand, Lydia G. is a fantastic TF, sharp, witty and on point about any grammatical issue, but she doesn't run class, only section. She also favors more literalism than I think is healthy in a translation. In short, I wouldn't recommend this class for someone with a good background in Arabic and/or translation who is looking for a real challenge - but if you don't have as much experience, you may find it helpful.
Its a great course for those who need to learn to translate classical arabic; however there is not a focus on speaking at all and less of a focus on grammar, so if students need help in these aspects of arabic, they should supplement this class with something else.
The content studied is excellent, especially for anyone looking to study the seerah, literature, the Qur'an, or Hadith literature in more depth later, this is a decent introduction from an academic perspective.
If you want to learn more about the Quran and hadith, this is a great course.
Overall, it was a very effective and efficient learning process.
Yes. I think this class is crucial for those who want to work on anything classical Arabic-related. Even if it is not sira/tafsir-related, I think this gives a good head start in working with and handling classical Arabic material in the future.
This is not an easy course and it requires a lot of time to prepare for each class session so make room in your schedule to be able to devote the time needed for the course.
Good for reading and grammar, a translation to some extent.
Professor Granara is a good teacher, the class will be fun with him.
Intensive course -- an excellent first step in making an Arabist out of you
This is a great class but you should have a serious interest in learning grammar and be willing to spend many hours pouring over the dictionary when translating the texts.
It's better for Islamic studies than most Islamic studies courses.
That they should improve their modern Arabic skills before they take this course.
The professor is a wonderful instructor, very encouraging and patient. It is extremely worthwhile.
Anyone with an interest in reading classical Arabic texts should take this course.
