If you didn't like Arabic 130a, do NOT be discouraged from taking this class! The reading for Arabic 130b is less dense, more interesting and fun overall.
If you are interested in classical Arabic, I highly recommend this course.  Professor El-Rouayheb is highly knowledgeable about Arabic language, literature, history, and culture, selects a very interesting and diverse set of readings, and provides excellent information about the works we study, their authors, contexts, and scholarly approaches to their study.  The class environment is very positive and engaging.  The professor patiently addresses the questions and needs of students of varying levels of background knowledge in Arabic, Islamic studies, and Arabic literature, so if you have taken second-year Arabic, do not hesitate to take this course.  But be careful, as it will likely stimulate your interest in further study...
In depth study of fundamental texts of Islamic tradition. Prof. Abo-Haggar is excellent.
The readings were specifically geared to religious material, but assuming that the student is interested in that rather than more general Arabic readings, I would recommend this class.
Carl Sharif turns all of his students - no matter what their previous amounts of knowledge may be - into scholars, and he gives his students the tools to do their own research and to think creatively about the subject matter.
It's a great class - the instructor is very committed and knowledgeable about this material. Because of the nature of the course, everyone in it is likely to be very committed, as well, and there are some very interesting people in it. The course is difficult, but worth it, provided you have interest and motivation. It will take time, and you should probably have more than a passing interest and basic knowledge of Islam.
This is an amazing class! I have studied Arabic on three continents and I have never had it this good.
This class is rigorous and difficult but incredibly rewarding. If you are serious about Arabic you can not afford to miss it!
I would be sure that they could devote the needed time to the course, because it is very demanding but is even more rewarding provided you give it the time it requires
If you want to put your first two years of Arabic to use, this is where you do it.
Enjoy! You will certainly learn a lot about Arabic literature and culture.
This was an amazing course that I think anyone with a genuine interest in Arabic language, or Islam and Islamic sciences would benefit from. The readings will make you truly appreciate the Quran, Quranic exegesis, and Arabic poetry. The class won't give you a better grasp on speaking Arabic, but your knowledge of classical grammar and your comfort with reading and translating will increase, as well as your judgment of the beauty of the language. However, the class' greatest strength was definitely the instructor, and though the material will still remain interesting without him, the course experience won't be the same without the knowledge and enthusiasm he brings to teaching it!
This is a challenging but immensely worthwhile course.
This course taught me an immense amount over a short period of time--but it will require a full commitment and a lot of time outside of class in preparation.
