Amazing course if you're comfortable with Arabic. Definitely take it, especially if Sami is teaching it again.
The novels you read in this course are eye-openers not only to countries of Iraq, Sudan, and Kuwait, but back to yourself, your body, your life, and your own death.
This class is not simply a language class, and even if you are a native speaker, you are expected to have a deep understanding of the themes that characterize the Arabic novels. Even if you are not a non-native speaker, you will do fine and benefit a lot from this matchless immersion experience as long as you strive to think deeply about the sections that you understood from the novel.
You will learn so much in this class. Be ready to spend a lot of time on readings.
Take this course if you love Arabic literature and want an opportunity to analyze Arabic novels and short stories in more depth. The professor is great, the readings interesting, and the discussions stimulating. You will be surprised at your level of Arabic proficiency by the end.
That their Arabic is likely to improve if they are at the right level, and that they would meet with new and interesting authors and texts that they did not know before.
Excellent, demanding class directed towards students who wish to increase their academic writing skills in Arabic.
It will likely improve your Arabic skills through the sheer amount of reading and writing you're doing each week. However, at least in this first iteration of the course, I didn't feel like I learned a lot about the Arabic short story on a big-picture level. We read a lot of stories, but it was hard to tell how they all fit together.
I would highly recommend this class if you know arabic really well (reading and writing).
I very much recommend this course, though it is important for students to know that the workload is very heavy. Prof Alkyam can address a student's level at the beginning of classes. I strongly recommend meeting with him in person.This course looks at a series of well-known short stories in Arabic, arranged by theme. The class is very much student-led, with Professor Alkyam providing excellent feedback on students' weekly papers as well as mid-term and final papers. Each student must present on a handful of stories throughout the semester, as well as participate in class discussion. Students can expect to finish the class with a good overview of the discussions in Arabic literature, the major figures and their stories, prominent themes, as well as a very much strengthened Arabic vocabulary.The course is absolutely worth taking, but the student must be prepared for the workload.
A chance to read many good short stories.
Professor Alkyam is an excellent instructor but be prepared to be very challenged in this course
Sami is incredibly passionate about Arabic literature, and it shows. The short stories he chose were enjoyable, and class discussions were always engaging and thought-provoking. The course load is heavy, with 20-40 pages of reading and two (later reduced to one) papers due per week, so be ready to put in at least 10-15 hours a week (depending on your proficiency in Arabic). But by the end of the class there is noticeable improvement in both your writing and speaking skills, and you will have no difficulty writing a research paper in Arabic, so the effort you put in is definitely worth it.
Take any course that Sami teaches -- you will learn a lot, and though the course will be challenging, he will always be there to help you with the material.
This was by far the best class I ever took at Harvard. If you can read, write, and speak Arabic, you should definitely take it. The stories are incredibly emotional and powerful.
