This course is only appropriate to patient students who enjoy difficult philosophical concepts.
Some training in philosophy would be ideal. You shouldn't be thinking about learning Arabic through the course. Conventions of language will generally be backgrounded, and the deeper content of the readings will be foregrounded.
If the student were interested in philosophy or classical thought, I would recommend it highly!
If you are interested in really understanding and, pursuing in the original language, the types of arguments that drove Islamic theology on their own terms, then you could not find a better class.
This class was challenging but very rewarding, and is invaluable in gaining exposure to primary materials in the subject of Islamic intellectual history. Make sure that you know Arabic pretty well or are willing to put in the effort to spend time in organizing specified theological/philosophical Arabic terms. One of the best aspects of the class is Professor El-Rouayheb's disposition and the way he conducts the class. You can express your own views of the readings and are treated with respect. If the professor disagrees, he does not shut you down even though he is brilliant and commands a thorough mastery of the material and subject. He humbly offers his own perspective and gives solid reasons for his position. Professor El-Rouayheb has organized office hours and makes an effort to see you by appointment if the times listed on the Google Doc are inconvenient. He often offers very useful suggestions, is flexible regarding your research paper, and can be very encouraging. He even went over and beyond his duty by making extra time for us, when some asked midway into the semester, to go over some of the more difficult terms in the text. In sum, Professor El-Rouayheb is one of the best assets Harvard has, particularly in its Near East Languages and Civilizations Department, and you will not be disappointed in taking his classes.
be prepared to think; this course is intellectually engaging, even intense at times, but in a nice sense.
If some one is interested in the latest development of Sunni theology, this is it.
Great course if you want to get exposed to the theological tradition of Islam and work on your understanding and parsing of arguments in classical Arabic 'classics'.
