It's not really a "bridge" course ... it's more like you have to be on the "my Arabic reading skills are already excellent" side of the bridge.
Though the class is demanding, the professor is remarkable and you will learn a lot.
An excellent introduction to several subjects important to have a grasp of some of the discussions in Islamic religious sciences.
This class, especially the professor, were awesome. We thoroughly went through each text and learned plenty about the classical Islamic sciences.
Prof. El-Rouayheb is one of the best resources for Islamic intellectual history, and he does a great job of training you for higher level Islamic Studies academic work.
Rouayheb is great and I would always take a class with him if I had the chance. However, these are my thoughts on background/what's needed to take this course:you need to make time for this course--it should be maybe the second or third biggest commitment of time in your schedule--not the easier language class. It takes a lot of time if you're coming out of third year Arabic here (at Harvard at least), and additionally, some knowledge of islamic religious texts and stories is very useful for this class--if you don't know them, you'll be told in class, but you may have spent too much time already trying to figure out a translation that is just some abbreviated reference to a well-known story in the Islamic tradition. If you want to take the course and have little of this background, get a partner to work with you who does have this background, or perhaps ask the Professor to point out main things you may not recognize before you get working on the translations.
Suheil Laher is an extremely knowledgeable scholar of the Islamic sciences and a greater Arabic teacher. He breaks down the material quite well and makes sure you leave with a precise understanding of the classical texts that are assigned.
This course was the best I have taken as a graduate student at Harvard. It is rare to find an engaged, invested, accessible professor who is also an encyclopedic source of knowledge on Islam, theology, Islamic law, etc. A stellar course that no student of Islam should miss.
It is an excellent class, you will learn a lot, possibly more than any other class at Harvard as far as Arabic goes, but be prepared to work very hard, don't expect a breezy, easy A type class. The Professor will call your bluff if you haven't prepared.
