Great course if you are interested in learning Arabic and doing the substantial amount of work
Professor Granara is a wonderful teacher. His enthusiasm for the Arabic language is contagious and inspiring. Despite the rigor of the course load, I greatly enjoyed Arabic Bb and eagerly anticipated his class each day.
Don't do it unless you are quite certain you are committed to it--the workload in this class is unlike any other at Harvard.
Take Granara's Arabic class.. The man is a living legend
Be ready to work extremely hard.
It is highly recommended.
It's extremely intense.
It's a great class but a very difficult language.
Take it with Carl
With second year Arabic you are usually caught up in a dilemma. Carl Sherif is a great instructor but assigns far too much work. Granara is a decent instructor and gives little feedback. Granara's class certainly does not match Sherif or Taroob's classes.
If you are serious about learning Arabic, Arabic Bb is a great course to take.  The coursework can get difficult at times, but if you are motivated to put in the time necessary to do well, the results will be very rewarding.
Only take this if you love language/arabic.
If you're going to study Arabic, definitely take it with Professor Sharif.
Arabic is a beautiful and fascinating language, and Arabic instruction at Harvard is excellent.
students should be serious about learning arabic--significant amount of work assigned and more difficult than other sections, but best teacher if serious
A lot of work and dedication, but Professor Granara is one of the best instructors out there.
Be prepared for al ot of hard work. However Carl is leaving so it probably won't be as intense next year.
It's a great class! Your arabic will improve in leaps and bounds if you put in the necessary work!
Only take and advance in arabic if you really love it.  The amount of work and dedication it takes is not for the weak-willed.
be ready to work, and to give up time.
Prepare for a heavy workload.
this is a difficult course, and it can be frustrating to learn arabic at times when the text doesn't seem accessible, but the teachers care.
A pretty good class!
Take advantage of the office hours, the teaching staff is great and very eager to help!
If you love Arabic, you will really enjoy this class! It's absolutely wonderful - Granara and Ben are the best!
Take it with Professor Granara or don't take it at all.
The course is amazing, but dependent largely on the professor you get and the amount of work you're willing to invest. Prof. Granara and Avigail are incredible instructors that knew when to challenge me (and call me out for not putting full effort into my work) and when to support and encourage my learning.
You'll learn a lot, but you'll work your ass off every single night.
If you are interested in learning Arabic for whatever reason and have the proper background I have absolutely no hesitations about recommending this class.  I will say your experience will depend on your preceptor.  Paul is an excellent teacher, his classes are interesting and you will learn a lot. The one potential negative to the class is that there is a lot of homework that is due daily.  At the beginning of the semester, we received 2-3 hours of homework a day.  After feedback from the students, the workload was reduced to 1-2 hours a day.  There are ways to take short cuts and finish homework more quickly when necessary.  As long as you keep up with the work, doing well is not an issue.  Assessments are pretty straight forward.
There is a ton of work.
That it requires lots of work and is tough.
Professor Wulfsberg requires a lot of work on daily assignments- if you're willing to put in the time you will benefit.
It's very difficult, and there's a lot of work, but it's a great class and very satisfying.
Do it if you really want to learn Arabic right now.
This class is not the only way to learn arabic, but it's a great way to learn.
Grammar-intensive.  Very interesting.
Granara is terrific - jolly and caustic. Class is never dull, and you will be either too afraid or too curious what Granara will say next to zone out. He's also very good at using the vocabulary that we know while lecturing on some topic, and motivates you very effectively. You will probably learn develop more in reading and writing than in speaking or listening comprehension, but that in itself is an accomplishment.
If you're willing to work hard your Arabic will improve.
Look to enroll in Prof. Granara's section.
Its very time consuming but the more effort you put in, the more you will get out of it.  The only negative is that the course is taught completely in English and you'll spend a lot of time translating things from Arabic into English--wish I think hurts you and prevents you from learning how to think in Arabic.
It is a fair bit of work but it will markedly improve your Arabic skills.
It is a lot of work, but it pays off. Your Arabic will improve a ton.
This is a difficult but beautiful language. It is difficult to learn but well worth the effort!
a gorgeous language with obvious relevance to many fields today.  Also, the professors in this dept are all very committed and effective.
Arabic B is fabulous if you take it with Prof. Atamnia. Don't expect it to deviate much from the book, though.
Give Arabic the time and effort it deserves and you're guaranteed to get really good at it with the guidance of our staff!
This year of Arabic could be fun and stimulating, but it was generally disorganized. It was very frustrating when the tools to learn the language seemed to be very close, but the teaching didn't allow for the tools to be used adequately.
Mostafa is amazing!  Honestly, take the class just for him.
Feryal is such an adorable, awesome lady.  She's really great.  The course is definitely difficult to follow though in terms of what material will be on the test, etc.
Your experience in this class is heavily contingent on what professor you receive.
Expect to practice grammar extensively outside of class, often it takes longer than the class period to understand.
Pretty easy A if you show motivation and effort, and fun anguage!
Buy book 1 of al kitab if you have never had it. Teach yourselves new vocab words as there is a major lack in teaching that in the course.
This class has a lot of potential to be useful, but doesn't live up to it.
Take this class! The Mostafa and Ben are the best people ever! It's not as much work as people say it is and you learn a lot.
It is challenging but very fulfilling
Really helps with reading/writing
Be extremely self-aware in taking this class. If you're not learning the things you want, be proactive and up-front with your TF about it. Get extra assignments. If you're expecting to be challenged, you  may be disappointed.
memorize the vocabulary in advance
If you want to learn Arabic, you pretty much have to take this class. Take it with Ustaz Mostafa, if at all possible. Best Arabic teacher I've had in my life (out of six!)
Very well-taught course.
Take it if you're really passionate about taking Arabic. It might not make you love the language so you need that love beforehand.
Arabic is a big time drain and quite difficult, but a unique skill
Be ready to put in the work for this class. Homework every night can be a drain, and you should be committed to learning the extensive vocab as soon as you begin the unit.
Professor Granara clearly knows his Arabic, and if you take Arabic Ba/Bb with him you will definitely improve significantly.  With that said, I was not a complete fan of his teaching style.  If you do not know something in class, or you get it wrong, he will call you out.  Personally, I found it unnecessary; there is a way to be tough and demanding without making students feel discouraged.All in all, with Granara you will learn a ton, but it is important to consider if his teaching style works well with you.
If possible, take Nour's section. She's a brilliant language teacher.
Be sure to balance your daily assignments with long-term study and review.
Arabic B is a great class; when taken with Arabic A it provides a solid foundation in the Arabic language and should enable you to read journalistic MSA, at least (with a dictionary!) It is a lot of busy work however, and it can be very difficult to stay on top of vocabulary if you don't make the effort to do so.
This class was AWESOME, but was a LOT of work. Basically, you keep learning new grammar & vocab at about the same rate as in Arabic Ba, but you'll be applying that to a lot more readings. a lot a lot. because the readings get longer, and you'll also have to do more enrichment readings and some videos too. but still if you wanna get really great at Arabic, definitely take this!!!
Take Arabic B for whatever crazy reason you took Arabic A. But it is hard. Granara is actually really awesome -- I know he has a bad rep but he's hilarious and really cares. Avigail is awesome, too.
Solid intermediate Arabic course. Relied heavily on Al-Kitaab. Not a lot of speaking practice.
Be prepared for extensive focus on grammar, but know that the level of conversational fluency achieved in this course is invaluable.
Be prepared for a challenging semester. Review first semester arabic b materials over the winter break.
This is a natural continuation of Ba, and is comparable in terms of speed and intensity. If you've liked previous courses with the Arabic department as I have, you are likely to enjoy this one too. There's a good emphasis on speaking, which is welcome. Exam grading becomes more strict in this course, but is still fair.
-The work can pile-up: you need to be diligent about doing it everyday-Use the DVDs provided-it is a very underused resource-The instructors all of them are amazing and that should not stop you from taking the course
This class was consistently the highlight of my day. The articles you read and vocab you will use are much more sophisticated than in Arabic A. It is such a satisfying feeling to be able to converse beyond ordering food and talking about family. Enjoy it!!
The Arabic department knows how to do its job very well. They teach Standard almost perfectly. The course is intensive and heavy on the vocabulary side. Good way to really work on your knowledge of structure and syntax. Nour is great, and knows how to do things. Greg is very passionate, and very helpful.
Arabic is a beautiful language, and I think it would be a shame to not continue in your Arabic studies at Harvard if you have already started learning this language. If you can, take the class with different professors to have different perspectives. However, if you have to choose one, Professor Granara, despite whatever you may think at first, is an amazing professor.
Granara is a great teacher, tough but fair and very helpful.
Arabic is very different from Germanic or Romance languages, and this makes it fascinating and rewarding to study. It will challenge you and open your mind to entirely new ways of thinking. Go for it!
If you take it with Paul Wulfsberg be prepared for SO much work than any of the other professors. It's ridiculously much more difficult. He doesn't review the grammar nor the text in class and his exams are very hard as well. I feel like I learned much more with Ben Smith last semester because this class was way over my head. Literally all I did this semester was Arabic homework...
Getting a good grounding in grammar will help a lot, as much of the classwork focuses on syntax and morphology. The TF's are fantastic, so be sure to hit up office hours with any questions especially with the harder texts.
Keep taking Arabic! Second year is great, especially with Granara--he's a fantastic professor who makes class fun and interesting. Get Avigail as your TF if you can as well.
Arabic depends entirely on the teacher, as you probably know by now. Paul Wulfsberg is a great teacher (although he does assign a lot of hw!) and you WILL learn a lot of Arabic! My best class of the semester; the one where I felt most consistently engaged.
It's not that hard if you do all the work and attend all the classes.
This course, just like all Arabic Ba and first year Arabic, is taught very well and you feel as though you are learning quite a lot, both about how to speak the language, and about the culture and the history. I think Khalid (Wulfsberg) is a really great professor, and I was very happy to be in his class. If you're looking at second year Arabic I'm going to assume you've taken at least one semester here at Harvard, so you should have an idea of what kind of professor you like. Definitely shop around a bit during reading period to make sure you have a good fit, because that really makes a difference. Also a lot of people complain about second year being every day and then look for another language to take. I would advise against this-- Arabic is extremely rewarding and totally doable.
It is a very challenging class and is not particularly rewarding because the amount of work it requires just to keep up with course material does not necessarily align with your overall success in the class
It is a lot of work, but it is worth it. You really do learn so much in just one year, and Arabic is taught really well. If you don't like class on Fridays, this is not your class.
The course teaches you a huge amount, but you need to be prepared to put in a huge amount of work as well.
Get Granara, be prepared for the deluge, but most of all try to enjoy it. The class is very good.
This is a good class, a proper continuation of the Arabic course.
This class does require a lot of outside preparation in order to do well, but I'm guessing that if you're taking it, you are probably invested enough in the language that you're willing to do so. Definitely learn the vocabulary when it's assigned, or as early as possible, and start reviewing the texts early (very important for the exams). I enjoyed this class and ended up learning a lot over the course of the semester.
If you've made it this far in learning Arabic, it isn't going to be that bad. It's pretty much an exact continuation of Ba, with the same amount of work that you've gotten used to in the earlier classes. Expect to put in a lot of hours doing homework.
This class entails a lot of work if you want to get a good grade, and a sound grammar knowledge is expected.
Take it with Granara. It makes ALL the difference. And go to office hours. This is easily one of the most enjoyable classes I've taken. Yes, you have to work, but get over it.
Excellent continuation to the Arabic program. If you're shopping teachers, Wulfsberg is demanding, but truly incredible.
take with granara, not feryal. having had feryal first term and granara second term, granara definitely is so much clearer about grammar and his class exercises actually help you build your grammar, speaking and writing abilities. I felt like i wasted the first semester with feryal because she's just not very good at explaining grammar. She's a really nice person though! The writing exercises for granara are also fun and helpful. Though he's tougher grader, I definitely learned more with him. With feryal, it's easy to put in minimal effort and get an A but with granara you have to work for your A and you learn so much more! weigh these things and decide which method you prefer.
Professor Granara's section is definitely easier to follow than other preceptors. He takes the time to really help us understand fundamentally important things that are not always included within the text book. He understands how to teach non-native speakers and that makes a world of difference.
Be willing to make mistakes. In this class you will be frustrated, at times, with complicated grammar and long vocabulary lists. Stick with it. Learning even a little bit of the Arabic language (through hard work, and lots of it) has been one of the most rewarding experiences of my undergraduate career thus far.
The workload, especially with certain professors, is heavy.
Arabic is hard, but if you're reading this you're at the point where you know this and are pretty well committed to studying it as it is, so by all means continue! Doesn't let up, but it's worthwhile.
I would tell to pick an instructor according to the workload they want to do.
Don't fall into the trap of Arabic Bb being separate from Ba and stop the B series early! Take Bb and take it with Hisham! You will develop such a deep love for and appreciation of the language and its grammar and want to continue learning as much as possible from Hisham and Greg! Hisham is such a great professor and is really the one you need for Bb. I wish he taught upper level classical courses!
Arabic B is much like Arabic A in that the focus in on reading and writing. You will be pushed to read more difficult texts and understand more complex grammar topics. The texts are actually real Arabic, and focused on cultural/historical issues. I enjoyed this class more than Arabic A and found my skills really improving.
This course is an extension of Arabic Ba, with a 3-week cycle of vocab, assignments, reading, grammar, assignments, and quiz. You'll come out with a much stronger vocabulary and control of grammar in writing, but listening comprehension/speaking is still something lacking (possibly depending on TF). It's a lot less interactive than Arabic A, but that's to be expected of a text-based class. Nour is super supportive and helpful, go to office hours to practice speaking!
incredibly difficult
Take the section with Nour and with Fatima if possible. They're great. Arabic B is not very difficult as long as you do the work each day and speak up in class if you have questions.
You learn a lot, sometimes even more than you can digest, so be sure to pay attention, go to every class, and do as much of the homework as you can.
A lot harder than Arabic Ba. Might be the shift from Nour to Feryal, but it was not as fun or useful an experience. I really don't feel like I learned anything, though that is probably due to a shift in my commitment to the material. It was all consuming and the exams were unforgiving. I don't feel like the course really helps you learn Arabic for all the work it requires.
If you want to learn Arabic, this is the way to do it.
Professor Mahmoud is perhaps the best professor I've had in my time at Harvard, and I go out of my way to be in his section. He's clear, he doesn't "teach to the test," has a CLEAR passion for the language, and constantly engages his students and maintains their interest and work ethic. DEFINITELY recommend the course, and specifically his section.
hard and takes a lot of work, but pays off. Nour is the best!
The instructors are tops!
If you're looking for a fun language class that is light, do not choose Arabic B. Choose Arabic B if you're serious about mastery of the language, particularly in grammar and the written language
Teaching team is invested in student learning and very responsive to study needs and circumstances
Arabic is a difficult language, but very rewarding. Plus people are always impressed when they see you reading and writing Arabic, so thats cool
Arabic is a difficult language, as everyone considering this class is surely aware. That being said, this is a good course to get better. I've definitely improved in grammar, writing, and speaking. Be prepared for a lot of homework and a lot of frustrating nights, but if you're really interested in the language, it's worth it.
Ustadh Hisham is wonderful, brilliant, and funny--Arabic was great because of what he brought to the classroom. Always ask for help and go over your mistakes on tests and things.
It's not Arabic A. It's tougher, there's a lot more to learn in the same amount of time. The tests are hard and the grading can be rough, but you improve your language skills a lot if you put in the time and effort.
you should really assess your passion for Arabic before taking this class.
It's definitely worth taking, because Arabic is a beautiful language and very useful.
I would probably urge him/her to look for opportunities to extend instruction with Nour outside of the classroom.
This is an excellent class, and Nour is definitely one of the best language preceptors I've had. I've probably learned more Arabic in this class than in the past two years combined, but that said, be prepared to spend a significant amount of time doing homework and preparing for tests. It usually takes me an hour, at the least, each night, but it's very rewarding in the end.
if your goal is to learn arabic, this course will further you towards that goal. however, be warned that in the process you will be driven to insanity by the workload, and if the final is anything like the one my year, it will be one of the most horrifying experiences of your life.
I would tell students interested in this class to know what they're getting into. That doesn't necessarily mean to not take the course (there are many great reasons for taking it), but to know the reality of learning Modern Standard Arabic before enrolling. This is a very difficult language (at least in terms of speaking) that demands a lot to do well. Also, unlike many other languages, there is less emphasis on conversation, since MSA is not usually spoken in Arab countries. This is definitely something to keep in mind, especially if your motivation behind taking a language is to travel and converse with other people.
Take this class obviously if you'd like to continue taking such a beautiful language. Your reading and writing skills will dramatically improve, but speaking is something that is not emphasized as much as it was in Arabic A. Get Hisham and Youssef if at all possible.
Sometimes I wonder why I started taking Arabic and then I remember that I love the language in an almost irrational way - how it sounds, how it looks. After I graduate, I want to live in the Middle East and teach/volunteer and that motivates me to continue in this language. But, if you are just trying to fulfill a language requirement, spare yourself and take a less time-consuming language.
Arabic Bb is surprisingly hard relative to Ba. Nour would often give massive homework assignments for Mondays and Tuesdays. Al-Kitaab still feels as boring and disconnected from things anyone cares about as ever, except you now have to spend more time with it. I hope they use more of the al-Jazeera stuff next year. Nour and Sarah were both fantastic though, and were always encouraging and willing to explain stuff in detail. Grammar and vocabulary are taught really well in the class, though there is perhaps less emphasis on speaking than I would have liked.
Arabic is an awesome language, but not an easy one. It can be a ton of fun if you approach it with a relaxed attitude, though, and the most important factor in being able to do that is your instructor. Nour was phenomenal, always engaged and enthusiastic and (being the course head), what we did in section always lined up nicely with what was on assessments. However, my classmates in Hichem's section often said that they felt that they never worked on the same things that appeared on the tests, and often dealt extensively with grammatical concepts that were not very useful in learning second year MSA.
Be ready to spend a lot of time dissecting texts and very little time speaking or listening. That being said, this was a great class, and Nour and David were funny, helpful, and understanding of the time limitations that students face.
You might feel lost during the course, since Al-Kitaab has its own way to teach (I think it is not so productive anyway). If teaching is not supported by handouts, exercises etc, it might be time-consuming.
Arabic B felt much easier to me than Arabic A; so you are actually rewarded for the hard work of first year Arabic. Do expect to memorise a ton of vocab though.
If you want to learn about Arabic, take this class. If you want to score well on tests, take the class from Nour.
Take this class with Nevenka if at all possible! While other Arabic teachers focus more on the intricacies of grammar, Nevenka actually helps you learn how to speak the language. This was the first semester I felt Arabic really click for me.
It honestly depends on who your preceptor is. Nevenka is more personable, while Nour is straightforward.
Arabic BB with Nevanka was great -- I felt like my ease with the language increased dramatically. Reading skills improved as did speaking since there is a much greater emphasis on speaking in her class.
For students of Arabic, Arabic BB is an exciting course because it seems our class experienced a great advance in proficiency. Coursework requires a lot of time, as there is class and homework every day, and assignments may take a couple hours each day.
Nour is a great teacher, and good at explaining complex grammar rules clearly and making sure we understood the assigned texts. I feel like my reading comprehension and writing improved dramatically this year, although I wish we had done more conversation exercises. Probably my favorite part of this class, though, were the impromptu moments when Nour would tell us about Syria or Tunisia, or connect what we were learning to her own experience living in Arab societies. The firsthand cultural knowledge she brought to the class both made it interesting and helped our understanding of the language.
This class definitely takes a lot of time. You also come out of it knowing more MSA, especially in reading/writing, but your speaking probably will still not be what you would like (even in MSA).
It's hard. Be prepared for a lot of work, but Noor makes sure she cares about her students.
Good class, your Arabic will improve significantly.
This is a great class with Nevenka. She completely revived my interest in learning Arabic. Would definitely recommend with her!
Arabic BB is when things start to get fun! I finally feel that the countless hours I've invested into the language are paying off. It's no less difficult than Arabic BA, but there is a sense in which things start to fall into place.
This was an amazing class and is so much better than Arabic A. If you finished the first year and at least semi-enjoyed it, I highly recommend this class. It is here where you really learn to appreciate the language and all of its nuances. You learn a ton and so many gaps from the first year get filled in. Chapters have a lot more vocab now, and the grammar breadth gives you enough tools to parse all sorts of texts. I am now more than able to pick up a newspaper or simple book and read with comprehension.
This course is definitely much more intense with regards to Arabic A in terms of vocabulary and grammar knowledge. I definitely think I've improved my writing skills substantially, but we didn't pay attention to speaking skills as much as I wanted to.
Take it with Ustadh Hisham!! He will make you love the course and the language. And though his class sometimes learns more than other sections, he is very open to conversations about workload.
Good class, teachers are great, you'll learn a lot
Be prepared to work very hard
I loved this course. I learned a lot and was actively engaged throughout the semester
The Arabic classes at Harvard in general are really great.
This class is challenging, but rewarding. You will gain the basic skills necessary to decipher texts in Arabic. This is not a class where you learn how to speak.
This course is difficult but if you've been taking Arabic you are used to that already. It will help your grammar and reading. Hisham is a great teacher, and definitely go to any and all review sessions that the TF's offer!
N/A
Only take this class if you are very serious about Arabic. It will take up all your time. That being said, it is very necessary for further language acquisition
