Solid class, overall. Each one of the Arabic preceptors teach differently so I would recommend shopping the different sections to see which teacher you like the best. Each Arabic section has its ups and downs but overall all of them are solid.
This class is very difficult. You should be prepared to study and memorize for the weekly quizzes/tests.
If you're thinking of taking this just to satisfy the language requirement and you've never taken Arabic before: don't. Turn around, take Spanish, and don't look back.
It is a great intro to Arabic
Professor Dalia is very sweet and kind. Class can feel a bit repetitious at times, but stay on top of your homework and read the grammar sections in the textbook and you should be fine.
Very good teaching of the Arabic language. Works through al-kitab. Assignments are daily and vary in length of time required to complete, but all very relevant to in class content. Highly recommend this class for learning Arabic.
Depending on who is teaching, the class feels disorganized. The teachers don't always understand your questions. But, overall, it is a fairly manageable class. If you want to take it for fun, don't. I hated this class. Only take it if you really want to learn Arabic as it is a year long class. The most difficult thing is keeping up with the vocabulary. The grammatical concepts can be confusing, but don't wait until the last minute to understand them. Go to office hours, and it'll be fine.
It takes a lot of time. Completing the homework and studying for the tests are not the only necessary components for doing well. Make sure to go to office hours.
This class is very interesting, but also a lot of work. It's good t
Be ready to do a ton of homework.
This stuff is hardcore but not as hard as ppl make it sound
From my experience in first-year Arabic, Harvard Arabic classes are excellently taught. The course is well-rounded, interactive, and staffed with dedicated professors and TFs.
This class will expose you to a wide range of vocabulary while always introducing new grammatical concepts. Do the work, go to class, and find someone to practice talking to. Don't be scared to participate in class; it's tough for everyone. ALSO MAKE FLASHCARDS FOR EVERY WORD
Arabic is challenging, but worth the effort! It has been fascinating to learn an entirely new alphabet and grammatical system, and I have learned a great deal. Be prepared to dedicate some time to this course. Dalia is fantastic - highly recommend her section!
Arabic is a really wonderful, rich, rewarding language. The class can be frustrating
As I mentioned above, Dalia is an incredible professor and you would be fortunate to have her!
Be ready to leave room for out of class, self-taught, time because the in-class time will not come close to preparing you for language comprehension.
Keep up with the homework, show up to class every day, and you get easy points. Study for the quizzes and tests because the grammar gets much harder second semester. Make sure you ask explicitly what's going to be tested because they'll tell you but you don't want to be surprised. Don't get behind or save for cramming, try and learn the vocabulary throughout.
Take this course if you're looking to start learning Arabic in a rigorous fashion, and make progress quickly. Keeping up with the fast pacing of the class is hard work, but the quality of the teaching is generally excellent.
hard, but rewarding. you have to like it
Fun, fun, fun!
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE UNLESS YOU ARE TAKING 3 CLASSES AND REALLY WANT TO LEARN ARABIC. I really appreciate Arabic, but a) this class is really hard and b) this class is boring as hell. No matter how interested in the language you are, the sections can be extremely dry. Most people already know Arabic and they do well. If you want to take this class, give yourself the appropriate time. Don't overload on other classes or it will be a pain and you won't get as much out of it.
As a cross-reg student, would warn peers of time commitment and effort requiredAlso make sure to do well in the prior semester and actually be interested in the language
Considering this is a class that meets daily, you should be prepared for a lot of work. When I say homework every night, I mean homework EVERY NIGHT. Even over the weekend, the amount of work you get is a double the amount you usually get during the week. Granted your level of Arabic will undoubtedly improve throughout the year, but definitely be prepared to put in the time necessary to do well in this class.
This class is fine for people with no prior exposure to Arabic, though dedication to memorizing the vocabulary and random rules of the language are necessary. Most of my study time was devoted to memorization and listening to audio recordings for homework assignments rather than actually writing out homework assignments. Expect a fast-paced course with quizzes/exams every week.
Overall very fair class and manageable workload, but quickly can spiral and become very difficult to catch up if you start missing classes or neglecting daily assignments. Vocab and assignments add up quickly, so if you stop keeping up you'll get left behind quickly.
Arabic first year is a very difficult and intense class. I have gone from not being able to even read the language to being able to speak, read and write to a low but very impressive level for it being only after a year.
Don't take the class lightly but it's well taught
This course requires a lot of independent learning.
This year-long course will not be easy. You will spend a lot of nights pouring over your Arabic homework and Al Kitaab, occasionally wondering why you did this to yourself. But I can also tell you that this has been the most rewarding class I've taken. Dalia is the most amazing professor I've ever had at Harvard--she is unfailingly encouraging, humorous, compassionate, and makes learning a language as difficult as Arabic something you look forward to every day. The TFs, Lidia and Lispeth, are also some of the most dedicated and on-top-of-it TFs you'll encounter. Dalia and the TFs hold weekly OHs, review sessions before the weekly quizzes, and are always, always ready to help you with anything. By the end, you'll be able to carry a conversation in a language that seemed so intimidating in the beginning. It'll be hard, yes, but it'll be worth it!
Arabic is very well taught at Harvard, and you will learn a lot!
It is a ton of work, but if you do the work you will learn a lot.
It is challenging but if you put in the hours it's worth it.
This is an amazing language course. If you are simply looking to breeze through your language requirement, definitely do not take this course. It is difficult, especially at the beginning. However, if you want to learn Arabic, from the beautiful script to the spoken language, take this course. The professors and teaching fellows were great, and they were very understanding of differing levels of competency. They pushed us to get better, and I learned so much this year.
Only take this class if you are passionate about learning the language. It is demanding and takes a lot of time/energy/desire to be successful.
Dalia is the best Arabic professor!
It is a very demanding course but at the end you will see the results.
This is not an easy class, and not an easy elective for those seeking to do it for fun. I did learn a lot, and the teachers are very nice people, but take this class at your own risk. The class meets daily, there is homework daily, and there are tests/quizzes weekly. For those that have no experience speaking foreign languages, it will be difficult for you to pronounce all of the letters. Also understand that this course MUST be taken a full year; dropping out after one semester cancels your credit for the first semester. That means if you want to drop after one semester, you'll be forced to lose the first semester's credit. I recommend taking this class if you seriously plan on continuing to learn Arabic and studying abroad. You cannot learn to speak this language unless you spend time abroad. That being said, I didn't find it difficult to keep my grade up. If you have fun learning new languages, and you don't mind one year of Arabic, you will probably get an A.
Make sure you're prepared to do a lot of work to learn the language. Very very worth it though
It is time consuming, but definitely worth it.
Arabic is difficult but extremely rewarding. The language is a lot of fun and everyone in the class is so driven (all self-selected to take Arabic instead of an easier language). Try your hardest to get Lispeth as your TF. She is an excellent TF and you will appreciate her so much when it comes to hard grammar concepts. The level of care she has is unparalleled. If you take this class, and you should, make sure you arrange 1 on 1 office hour meetings with Dalia to practice your speaking, as her class is usually very large because she is so popular and it's hard to speak in a large class.
Take ARABIC! I'm convinced it's a great language for people who like math because it's so methodical. The teaching staff is excellent and always available to students.
Arabic is not an easy language for English speakers, but it's beautiful, satisfying, intricate, and fun. Workload about 1-2.5 hours per night: just stay on top of it. Write down questions and bring them in to class; when you get the answer, practice it (make a few sentences using that skill) to make sure you have it.Strong recommendation for Prof. Feryal: a great teacher who really wants to help you succeed.
Take advantage of office hours
Be prepared to work.
Don't take Arabic to fulfill your language requirement. Take it because you genuinely want to learn it. It's a beautiful, complicated, awesome language but it requires a lot of time and work to get through it. Expect and 1-2 hours of homework most nights. If you put in the effort, go to office hours, and do extra exercises and practice, you will learn so much in this class in one year.
Read
Learning a language like Arabic is a lot of work, but is worth the effort. The class is taught really well taught by professors that truly care about their students and offer a lot of help. If you want to learn a language I would really recommend Arabic.
You should only take this class if you are interested in continuing with Arabic at Harvard. Do not Arabic simply to fill a language requirement - there are easier languages to fill the requirement with. Be aware that the class only apportions credit if students take it for an entire year. The number of class hours means the course is extremely time intensive. There is also daily homework, so be aware of the total time commitment that this class requires. That being said, if you want to learn Arabic and have no background, this class is a fantastic primer. You will be proud of the amount of Arabic you will have learnt after eight months.
It's a great introductory Arabic course, but very challenging. Arabic is a complex language, and does not come naturally to English speakers (it requires learning a new alphabet and sounds and grammatical structures that do not exist in the English language). Because of it's complexity, as well as the many dialects that exist in Arabic-speaking countries, it is not really possible to become proficient enough to get by in an Arab country after taking just one year of Arabic. Given that reality, as well as the time-intensive and rigorous nature of this course, it is not worth taking if you don't plan to pursue Arabic in the future (so this is probably not the best choice of language to get out of the language requirement). As someone who does want to pursue Arabic, this was an excellent way to start down that path, and the instructors are really dedicated to helping students succeed.
Amazing class
Arabic definitely takes some time, especially if you don't have a strong language skillset or a semitic language background. That being said, the teachers are wonderful and really there to help you learn, so it's definitely doable, you just have to want to do it!
You have the potential to get a lot out of this course if you put the work in. It requires being pretty self-motivated.
