There is a diversity of proficiency in the class but it will be taught to the most fluent students. If you are less experienced with Arabic it can be intimidating and frustrating.
A good course to keep up spoken fus-ha, however, be ready to focus almost entirely on media Arabic.
a lot of work, intense, rewarding, improves your "real world" arabic (media) a lot!
It has the potential to be a great course but the professor seemed very unorganized and there was alot of busy work assigned
This course is a great deep dive into improving Arabic speaking skills.
This course is EXCELLENT if you have been learning Arabic for a while but haven't really developed verbal fluency yet. Ustad Granara is AMAZING, and any opportunity to take a class with him should not be missed. He does expect his students to speak with an impressive degree of accuracy, which really forces everyone to rise to the challenge. Overall, you won't learn as much new vocabulary or grammar as you might in a more writing-based course, but you'll come out of the class actually speaking spontaneously, and for me that's far more valuable. If your schedule allows it, this class is really a "don't miss it!".
If you want to practice Arabic with a great professor of Arabic literature in a small-group setting, this is your chance.
it's better if you've studied abroad (in the MENA region) before taking this course
This is a really relaxing way to work on your Arabic--you're not overwhelmed by work, but you really develop your speaking abilities. Nour is a great professor; she creates a comfortable class environment and makes speaking seem un-scary. Definitely recommend.
If you want to improve your ability to speak Arabic, this is the way to go.
(If the course hasn't changed since last year) It's very much based on written presentations, which you will present (one 10 minute presentation a week). You will get minimal to no feedback telling you whether you have been doing a good enough job on these presentations or not. But it is helpful for keeping your Arabic alive while not pouring effort into it and reading 30 pages of Arabic a week, as you might if you take one of the more intensive Arabic classes.
This class is disorganized and made unnecessarily difficult. You will not receive any feedback until the very end with your final grade. However, you will not know what your grade is based on, because of lack of requirements/expectations put upfront.
This class was not too difficult and was quite fun. However if you're looking to really improve your Arabic, I would recommend looking elsewhere.
This class is about speaking, so be ready to speak! Be confident in your ability because you can only get better if you practice.
You get out of this course what you put into it. It's basically all oral grading so there's very little at-home work. I feel like my writing/reading skills have definitely deteriorated but then again I speak more fluently
This is a fun, informal class that is really helpful to those who sincerely want to learn and use Arabic!
A very opportunity to rapidly improve your comprehension and oral skills. I highly recommend this course that allowed me to really change category in my Arabic skills.
Can be very difficult depending on your level of Arabic.
An extremely interesting course. Contains a little outside work and a lot of in class discussion and presentation.
Professor Granara is one of the most helpful and skilled teachers at teaching Arabic to non-native and native speakers so it would benefit to take a course such as this one during your study of Arabic. Major reservations are that this course was not as organized or structured as it could be, it sometimes dragged on because presentations were long and not interactive, and the second professor can have a rather disrespectful attitude.
It is a very unstructured class, and so you will get out what you put in. If you really want to improve speaking, great - but if you slack off, it will be a waste. Only take it if you are motivated.
Definitely review your vocab.
A good course to improve spoken Arabic skills, but a little bit unstructured.
If you want a class to practice your speaking and listening go for it, but don't expect the rigorous drilling, learning, or feedback that characterizes other Arabic classes.
you will gain from this course in proportion to what you put in.  there is very little structure and the best students will be self-motivators.
The course is good for developing speaking skills but not so useful for developing listening skills.
excellent class provided you put in the time to take as much out of it as you can
Don't take this class unless Sayed is not teaching it or unless he improves his pedagogy.
This courses is very political. Discussions and homework are based almost entirely on the news. If you don't like reading and discussing the political news don't take this class.
While the course was not as rigorous or as structured as I anticipated, a student can still gain a lot from the course. Sayed is very accessible and easy to talk to, and students who commit time outside of class to listening to Arabic news and preparing their presentations will improve their Arabic accordingly.
This class is extremely useful to anyone who wants to keep their Fusha skills in good working order.
Great way to learn Arabic.  Lots of attention given to each student.
If your main goal is to work on your Arabic speaking skills, then I highly recommend this class!  Professor Elsisi is really focused on having the students improve, and overall the class if pretty laid-back but still requires hard work on your presentation... which results in a lot of improvement in the end.
Very useful if one wants to learn modern standard Arabic and to understand the news etc.
