Take this course or any course with Professor Tamari, you will enjoy the corse and learn a lot.
You should be prepared to read at least 40 pages a week in texts that may be difficult. It is not a language course. You will submit a seminar-style paper at the end of the term without the instructor having seen any of your writing during the term.
This really was the most important course I have taken in my time studying Arabic at Harvard. I took this course after three years of MSA and went into it expecting it to be very challenging, which it definitely was, but it was also extremely useful in terms of language acquisition. You will be required to write a response paper in high-register academic Arabic each fortnight, and you will be shocked by the improvement you see in each paper. Professor al-Ghadeer's comments on the papers were invariably incisive and extremely useful. The language component aside, what really makes this course is the content. You will read an awesome selection of modern novels and view them through the lens of important philosophical and psychoanalytical writings including those of Kant, Lacan, Freud and Derrida. As you will learn to appreciate, the current moment in the Arabic literary movement, as observed through the 21st century novel, is one facet of a much larger intellectual discourse which you will read about in the philosophical/psychonanalytical texts in the course. Overall, I recommend the course most enthusiastically, it really is a gem of the department and Prof. al-Ghadeer is a formidable mentor that all students should take advantage of.
This class is amazing.
That the readings are worthy and relevant but that the management of the class is unpredictable.
This class is definitely a good way to practice your Arabic reading and writing, but be prepared for the workload.
That their Arabic is likely to improve if they are at the right level, and that they would meet with new and interesting authors and texts that they did not know before.
This class is not simply a language class, and even if you are a native speaker, you are expected to have a deep understanding of the themes that characterize the Arabic novels. Even if you are not a non-native speaker, you will do fine and benefit a lot from this matchless immersion experience as long as you strive to think deeply about the sections that you understood from the novel.
You will learn so much in this class. Be ready to spend a lot of time on readings.
Take this course if you love Arabic literature and want an opportunity to analyze Arabic novels and short stories in more depth. The professor is great, the readings interesting, and the discussions stimulating. You will be surprised at your level of Arabic proficiency by the end.
This was, by far, the most challenging and most rewarding Arabic course I have taken at Harvard. The class discussions were extremely challenging, but there wasn't much homework besides reading the poems. If you want to know how Arabs poetically express their experiences and think of themselves as Arabs, no one does it better than Darwish.
IF you have always meant to read Arabic novels and poetry, but never had the time to do so, this is the class for you!!
Great chance to learn about Arabic literature in a small sitting.
