I implore you to take this. A great class. By far one of my favorites thus far. Professor Carpenter is so eloquent and engaging when he speaks. Rarely was I bored. He also took the time to get to know every student's name and gave feedback on our papers. This is a rarity I feel.
Keep up with the readings.
A great course with a great professor.  I recommend it wholeheartedly.
You should be prepared to do extensive reading. If the material doesn't excite you, you will not be able to fully enjoy the course.
Although there is a lot of work to do, Professor Carpenter is well worth taking the class.  He is very knowledgeable, and he assigns very interesting readings.
Be ready to stay on top of the readings and don't take with another reading class if possible.
Great intellectual history of the ideas behind America. Took it as a senior spring elective, and absolutely loved it. The teaching staff are keen for you to learn and want to help you.
The material is fantastic - the readings are almost all genuinely worth contemplating. The teaching staff are generally accessible and interested in supporting students. The emphasis on papers in the class is useful - I found the paper topics confusing, but the process of struggling with them forced me to think more deeply about many of the philosophical questions raised in the class, which I appreciated. If you are interested in philosophy but prefer writing normal analytical papers (textual analysis) over the sorts of argumentative papers you might be required to write in a typical philosophy class, this class is perfect for you.
Prof. Carpenter is a great professor and does what he can to make the material relatable to the modern era. That said, there are too many readings expected per lecture that are not touched upon at times.
This course is a lot of reading and writing, but it definitely gives you a solid background in republican government and its history. Professor Carpenter is very proactive about helping students outside of class if more support is needed.
This is an interesting course and isn't too time consuming.
The course is very demanding in both reading and writing expectations, but I felt that I learned a great deal. The idea of a republic is a very complicated idea that still has a great deal of impact on today's political discussions. Taking this course will give a much better idea of why the government of the United States was set up as it is, and from there it is much easier to understand the fundamental questions behind today's political issues.
Prof. Carpenter is super chill, not a hard class that is quite interesting, etc. Just make sure to get a good TF!
A good Ethical Reasoning course to take if you're more interested in politics and history than in philosophy.
Take it but be familiar with gov theory style essays
A way to fulfill USW that also may teach you some things you didn't know!
Take this class if intellectual history interests you. This class absolutely helps students understands what it means to be a citizen of a republic, and the responsibilities that go along with that role. However the reading is extensive, so be prepared for that.
Loved this class!  The professor and TFs are fantastic, and you learn a lot about republican political theory (which is actually really interesting).  In terms of workload, it's not too demanding at all--we only had 4 short essays for the entire course.  Good amount of reading, though.  Although you'll probably be able to get by with not doing all of the reading because the lecture and the section are so good, I'd recommend doing the reading if you're going to take the course.  The readings are really good (and a lot of them aren't encountered in classes like Gov 10 or Social Studies 10), and you will get infinitely more out of the class if you really engage with the concepts.
This class is one of my favorites taken at Harvard. It combined my interests in political theory and history and presented the great material in a compelling way. Professor Carpenter is an excellent lecturer who clearly draws together the important elements of the material. He is extremely accessible outside of class as well. He amazingly makes a point to know every student's name in the large lecture course. Paper topics sparked deep reflection on the readings. I could not recommend this class highly enough to those students interested in government and political thought.
This is generally a good course, though it must be made clear that the essays are not traditional essays, but are papers in which your own voice must feature prominently while I appreciate such emphasis on original thought, expectations were not always clear and grading was harsh.
Amazing course!  The material is incredibly interesting and the course is extremely well organized
Professor Carpenter is incredibly chill and a great guy, and most of the course material is thought-provoking and enjoyable. Sometimes we felt a bit rushed though, and some of the secondary sources we read were a bit weighty and hard to get through, especially with no midterm or final to motivate us.
If you are at all interested in political theory or the American government, this is the course for you. Excellent way to fulfill USW, and do not be dissuaded by the volume of readings. Papers can be written from very limited sections of the texts.
This is a really good and painless Gen Ed. I'm not at all a government or history person and was really dreading my USW requirement, but this class was interesting and painless. There are no exams and only 4 fairly short essays. The class isn't about memorizing dates or really learning the nitty-gritty details of history; more of an emphasis is placed on rigorous argumentative thinking, which made writing essays interesting and even fun. Dr. Carpenter is a fantastic lecturer, and even though I expected to have 0 interest in the course material, I regularly found myself really enjoying lectures. I'd recommend this highly if you're reading your USW requirement! It'll make it painless.
The papers can be difficult but the professor is awesome and for a USWorld requirement it's very interesting!
Dan Carpenter's dry, witty lecture style is great, and he is very accessible outside of class. However, he isn't enough to carry the course. While individual themes were interesting, the materials never really coalesced into a compelling class. The essay prompts were real brain twisters; you really have to breakdown the question to create a solid thesis. However, with 3 5-6 page essay and one 3-4 page final, this class is pretty light workload wise. If you're looking for an easy US in the World class to hang out in for a semester, this is it, but don't expect your life to be changed by it.
The readings, although there are a lot, were really interesting to get into, while also not being necessary when going to lecture, as Prof. Carpenter incorporates the readings into lectures well.
I put my USW gen ed requirement off until senior spring. This class was a painless, interesting way to fulfill the requirement.
This is a terrific course for anyone hoping to develop a stronger understanding of American political theory and its origins. You earn the opportunity to read some really crucial political texts, and the course offers multiple chances to engage in thoughtful discussion.
Really interesting--republican government is something you want to come away from college knowing about, and Professor Carpenter is one of the most unique, personable professors you will meet at Harvard.
It gave me a new, informed way to think about government and the history of republics. I'm a chemistry concentrator, and found this course very approachable and engaging.
Professor Carpenter is a wonderful lecturer - even if you are not particularly interested in the topic, his lectures are worthwhile and you do learn a lot from them. However, do not take this class unless you are genuinely interested in political theory because the readings are very philosophical and the papers are as well.
Most of our grades come from the 4 papers, which sounds nice, but this class is not easy. Material is plentiful and dense, and essays are difficult. That being said, many of the assigned readings are essentials--authors and texts that are important for people interested in political philosophy, government, and history. This class pushes you to contemplate what a republic is and what it should be (which is a much bigger and more interesting question than you originally realize). But be aware that essays are hard (sometimes painful)and are graded strictly.
Excellent class!! Professor Carpenter is so great! Loved his lecture style. If you like colonial American history like I do, then you'll love it! Professor Carpenter is very available outside of class. 4 papers 4-6 pages are not bad and it is nice not being overly stressed during finals period because the first 3 papers came early on. Keep up with the readings (not undoable but still a substantial amount), but luckily they were all very interesting! (and that's coming from a science concentrator who is not used to doing readings). Alex R. was a great TF!
Take this class and you will be a better human.
This class will change and inspire your views on government, it will probably make you a more virtuous and well-informed citizen. The readings are all essential parts of western heritage, and the essays and section discussions will push you to rethink your conceptions of government. Lecture can be really haphazard though, and it's sometimes hard to figure out what the important ideas and solid definitions are in the class. Section is great, and it's not too much work.
For an applied ethical reasoning class, I think this is a great option. There are larger ethical concerns discussed, but mostly they're contextualized within how and why government should be structured the way it is, particularly in the US. Prof Carpenter is very enthusiastic and clearly interested in his students' understanding and engagement with the material. The assignments are pretty straightforward and not too strenuous, as are the readings.
This course was frustrating in many ways. Readings, lectures, and sections seemed somewhat tenuously related. Many of the readings were never mentioned. The readings were also extremely long, often boring, and numerous. Getting solid feedback on drafts was a struggle. The paper prompts often posed multiple questions that were difficult to relate.
If you are at all interested in how the practice of republican government has developed over history, this course provides a great and very interesting overview from the Roman Republic to the American Republic. The course is entirely paper based, which is certainly something to keep in mind, and there is a considerable amount of reading, but everything is well-explained in lecture and further discussed in section. Professor Carpenter is a good lecturer and definitely cares about his students, and he is always willing to meet outside of class to discuss class material. The TF's are also great and very approachable and helpful with writing the assigned papers. If you are interested in learning more about the intersection of history and American government, this class is a great place to start!
There's a lot of reading and the grading is heavily skewed toward participation so only take this if you're likely to participate in section/ know a lot about the material already.
This was not my favorite topic to be learning about and I usually find the material somewhat dry.  However, Professor Carpenter made it so interesting and engaging.  It was absolutely the best way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement
A great class to better understand republicanism in America and how it came to be the way it is today.  The course asks you to read works that are essential to republican thought and political theory, e.g. Locke, Montesquieu, Jefferson, and gives background knowledge for why these thinkers wrote the way they did.  There are four short papers, no finals, and all can be done well by using lecture notes.  Easy and interesting way to fulfill the ER requirement.
You can learn a ton about republicanism in this class. Truly fascinating. I would absolutely take this class.
Carpenter is a good lecturer, but you may find it a little excessive to spend a whole semester studying republicanism.
I would tell future students this is a great introductory government class if they want a more theory-based approach. You definitely get to read a lot of very important republican writers and get to think and write about a lot of topics crucial to republican government.
This is an amazing class. Professor Carpenter is clearly passionate about both the subject and his students, and for a lecture class (albeit a small one), he was great about getting to know us all. I learned so much, both about specific events and political theories, but also about broad ideas of freedom, government, and representation. The paper topics were always very interesting, which made writing them much better, and they also really reinforced what you'd learned in class. I really loved this class, and would 100% recommend it to any student. It's a great balance of history and government.
This is a good course with a fair amount of writing in which you closely analyze one text rather than accumulate outside sources.
This course was fantastic! Prof. Carpenter truly plans out every lecture in great detail and is a very engaging lecturer. He ensures that none of the course time is wasted, and it all enhances students' knowledge of republican government (and the world at large!). I very much enjoyed this course and would recommend it to all students (whether or not you are concentrating in government!).
This course was the best into American political theory course you could ask for. I have already been able to see how the material applies to my life as a citizen and to my interpretations of contemporary political issues. The reading was reasonable, the lectures well-prepared, and the sections animated. I recommend this course to anyone needing to fill the US in the World requirement and to those who have space for an elective!
This course deals with a fascinating subject, but its expectations can be a little unclear, so definitely make sure you are interested in the subject and that you enjoy political philosophy before diving in. You will have interesting discussions and deal with interesting issues, but you should make sure this type of thinking interests you first.
This class does not have many assignments, but it does have a lot of reading that you must do in order to appreciate it.
The material is thought-provoking, and it is presented within the structure of a great professor, teaching staff, texts and assignments.
Very interesting course; realized how little I knew about republicanism.  Course format is excellent; the papers are not cumbersome.  Only warning is for people who aren't good at attending lectures / who don't like waking up in the morning; this course has pop quizzes, and I missed each one.
The class is an intimate introduction into political theory, with an interesting connection to modern day politics. Both section and lecture are worth your while, so you'd definitely want to dedicate the time to actually attending both. The class will truly change the way you think about our current system and how it is both the same as and different from the original republican ideals.
This course is well-taught by a good lecturer (the no laptops/ipads/phones rule seems brutal but it honestly forces you to actually listen). The requirements aren't too bad, only four 5 page papers! No midterm/final! You don't really have to do much reading, if you listen in lecture you can participate in section pretty easily.
This course is a must take to fulfill USW or ER! It has only 4-6 page essays as assignments besides reading, and the final paper is just another 4 page essay! Although you will need to spend a lot of time thinking about political theory in order to write these papers, at the end of the day, it is a blessing during reading period when it has the lightest workload of all your other classes!
Painless Gen Ed, really great way to satisfy U.S in the World. Carpenter is fun and engaging, and makes the assignments interesting but manageable. Great class!
Carpenter has great respect for the intellectual heritage of America and Western civilization. He welcomes debates between opposing views but subjects them to the blade of logical scrutiny. The readings are not excessive and are well discussed in class.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard thus far. While there are a lot of courses out there on political theory and American history, this one is great because it gives you the most thorough understanding of a republic and how America fits into that form of government. The first half of the course covered Ancient Rome through the English republic, and in the second half we talked about the early colonies and the United States. Professor Carpenter is a great lecturer, and section did a great job of supplementing and digesting what were some complex readings. Your writing will without a doubt improve during this course, particularly in making philosophical/theoretical arguments.
The course is fairly straightforward, and most importantly it lives up to what it's supposed to do, which is introduce you to republican philosophy. I really did come away with a changed sense of how government comes together and works.
This class allowed me to fulfill a GenEd while feeling like I was authentically known by my professor. Prof. Carpenter cares a lot about his students, is a very effective lecturer and generates enthusiasm for subject matter that some may consider dry. You will at the very most, develop a love for Republican governmental theory, but at the very least experience a GenEd that is very doable and also informative.
An engaging class and a nice way to fulfill U.S. in the World, but it can be hard to keep up with the readings.
