This class is great.  Although it is very lit based, so if you are looking for a strong history course on the Civil War you might be disappointed.  Overall it is very interesting and the professors are very engaging.
This was my favorite class at Harvard. The readings are manageable and well-picked. The lectures are fast-paced and interesting. Completely changed my perspective on American history. Emphasizes the importance of both history and literature to our national mindset.
one of my favorite classes i've taken at harvard. great lecture, really interesting material, very engaging, not too challenging but not a joke, either. a great balance and learned a lot!
It's a very good course, for a Gen Ed.  Interesting readings and lectures, not too much work.
This class was fantastic - I was made to rethink my basic understanding of the Civil War and became aware for the first time of how salient its legacy is today. I loved the readings and both of the lecturers. Section was helpful and interesting.
This class does a great job of giving a broad history of the Civil War. You will have the opportunity to read texts and primary sources that you will not read in other classes and by the end of the course you will feel like you have an understanding of the war from a variety of perspectives. If you have no previous knowledge of the history of the Civil War, you may need to do some extra work to educate yourself throughout the course.
This was a really great class. Both Amanda and John are amazing lectures and I often found myself thinking that the chance to take a class like this is part of the reason I came to Harvard. Kaye is an excellent section leader, although I'm sure the other tfs are good too. There were a lot of readings, but I found that they were worth reading because they were interesting but often I couldn't keep up and it wasn't a big deal as far as staying on track with the course. I really like the hist and lit spin on teh civil war and the more thematic and long term understanding of historical events.
TAKE THIS CLASS.  This was probably the best class I have taken so far at Harvard.  I have spent a lot of time studying the Civil War, but I still felt like I came to class everyday and learned something totally new.  I loved all of the lectures and the reading assignments were great and not too heavy.  If you are at all interested in American history take this class.
It's a fairly comprehensive look at America and race circa 1830-1910
A really fun, relatively lightweight gened in which you will nevertheless learn a *lot*.  If you hate the idea of premed/prelaw-focused geneds, and if you hate the idea of taking a gened *just* to earn the credit, check this outthe perspectives the professors offer on the Civil War + Reconstruction are unique, lively, and interesting enough to be really worth it.
Take this class because it is a terrific US in the World and because it will change how you view US history, and especially Southern history. Both Professor Claybaugh and Professor Stauffer are fantastic, and they have a deep enthusiasm for the material.
Absolutely one of the best courses I've taken here. A near-perfect integration of history and literature.
Both Professors are great lecturers. The topic is fascinating and the primary texts we get to read are as well
Lectures are exciting, TFs are really cool and the workload isn't bad at all.
Fantastic class! The professors are amazing!!
This class is a great opportunity to experience two fantastic professors and explore a topic often covered in a different way.
This class is INCREDIBLE. I loved it so much, and I feel I learned about some of the most important cultural experiences in America. This class is easy and absolutely worth taking.
Read everything!  There are a lot of materials, but it is all so fascinating and it is worth it to be able to actively participate in the section discussions.
This is need to know information!! Helps you more fully understand the current state of america. just take it.
This class was one of the best I've taken at Harvard. I didn't even think I was interested in US history, let alone the Civil War. This course has made me completely reconsider the way that the Civil War progressed, and changed (and was changed by!!!) society at the time. I never thought about war as experienced by American civilians, or the importance of art and literature to a war experienced by real people in real time. Amanda Claybaugh and John Stauffer are brilliant. They love this stuff, and make the students care about it too. They are also just so incredibly interesting. Just- wow. The creative project component was a blast, and actually really meaningful because I got to choose a medium of expression that was important to me, while deepening my understanding of the subject matter. I couldn't have imagined a better class with which to fullfil my US-World gen ed, and would never have expected a US history gen ed to be one of my favorite classes in my time at Harvard. Take this class. Oh, and invite Amanda Claybaugh to dinner.
The lecturers are awesome, and the coursework is very doable!
The reading is a lot to do in your spare time, and may be easier for someone concentrating in the humanities. However, try not to skip out on too much and take notes on themes as they will come in handy for the midterm and final exams. Otherwise, this is a solid way to knock out a USW req.
It is a great class, that helps you understand the past, but more importantly how that past is still effecting our present and will effect our future.
This course presents a compelling narrative of one of the most important time periods for American history and the American character. You will read primary texts written some incredibly influential people and you will think critically about the ideas that those texts present.
great class
One of my favorite classes at Harvard. Truly brilliant
In the land of the blind the one eyed man is king. USW is a category with very sparse and mostly horrific offerings. This course is decent.
This is a great class. The lectures are engaging, the reading is interesting, and the subject matter is applied to current events. Know, though, that this class sometimes resembles more of a Hist and LIt course. I would really recommend it if you're looking to fill USW or just for an interesting class.
Claybaugh is an amazing lecturer and a totally brilliant human being. Stauffer shouts a lot but is not as good of a teacher. Still, it's a great class and really important to one's understanding of American history.
Great course as a US&W. Not too much reading, and the tests are very straightforward. The material is very interesting, but be prepared to take a LOT of notes.
This course will offer to you a history of the Civil War with a narrative and a structure that is probably more interesting than any one you've had before. This is the course to take to fulfill USW, especially if American History is your thing.
I would retake this class in an instant! The professors are extremely passionate about the subject materials; their lectures excellent and captivating (this is coming from a non-humanities person who tends to fall asleep in every lecture...yet I did not sleep during a single lecture for this class!). The readings are amazing! Don't be put back by the 100+ pages of readings per week. They are very insightful, primary texts that reveal individual's perspective of the war. The assignments are excellent too! Take it TAKE IT TAKE IT!!!
Professor Claybaugh and Professor Stauffer are extremely knowledgeable and engaging, and the readings are all interesting.  You will certainly gain a new perspective on the Civil War and how people at the time viewed it.
The enthusiasm of Professors Claybaugh and Stauffer is obviously during lectures.  You will actually get goosebumps during lecture. Its not just the history of the Civil War that you learned in high school.  The course looks into the implication of the Civil War and Reconstruction after their end all the way into today.  There is a considerable amount of reading, but the vast majority of the readings are worth the time.
This is a very different type of Civil War course - one that is interdisciplinary (English and History). It's interesting but probably not a course I'd go to if I was looking for a solid historical understanding of the Civil War. There are major themes that the course touches on but you don't have the typical date or battle memorization. Also, there is a much bigger focus on antebellum and Reconstruction periods than the war itself. Expect to do quite a bit of reading for this class!
The class is very interesting. Lectures teach you a lot about history and how to read.
This is one of the best general education classes offered at Harvard. Well, outside your own concentration. Passionately taught and intelligently organized.
This class seems interesting, and everything except the final paper (which is long and-I found-very difficult to write) is pretty easy. However, it's hard to muster much enthusiasm for it: it's a pretty typical gen ed class in that way. Still, the US and the World gen eds are generally terrible, so this is definitely a better option than a lot of them.
Wonderful lecturers.
This class fundamentally changed the way I think about the United States and its regionality and history, which I think is a huge accomplishment for a college class and a gen ed class in particular.  The professors were diligent and intentional about not only illuminating issues of the civil war, but also in connecting them to current situations and events thematically throughout the course.  The readings are smart and well-chosen, and the assignments in the class are open-ended, fruitful, and fairly graded.  A must-take if you want to take a USW requirement that will actually push you to think critically about the US.
Professor Stauffer will make you enthusiastic about the lasting connections between history and the current state of society. Professor Claybaugh will make you enthusiastic about literary analysis. The more specific sessions of this class - eg Claybaugh's look at Benito Cereno - rocked, whereas the more general historic survey lectures were less memorable though I guess essential. Also, be forewarned: midterm is easy, final is hard. Who does that??
Take this course! If you have a developed background in American history and literature and have already studied the Civil War, this will doubtless shed light on a fascinating period in new and interesting ways. If you have little background in the Civil War or on 19th-century United States, take this course! You will learn about the Civil War in ways in which you would not have imagined from your high school American history textbook. This course might be a little difficult as an international student with no background in American history-- it takes certain elements of constitutional history and significant legal battles for granted. But I would really strongly recommend this course, if not only for the opportunity to learn with Prof. Claybaugh and Prof. Stauffer (two bosses in the English department), and to read classics that everyone wants to have read.
I found this class really interesting and I would definitely recommend it if you're interested in the Civil War or American history, because there aren't too many other civil war classes offered.  There's more reading than a lot of gen eds but don't let that keep you from taking the class.  Also the option to do a creative project at the end instead of a paper is really nice.
I learned so much in this class, while simultaneously not feeling pressured or stressed by the work load.
Take this class! It will show you so many new aspects of the civil war. But don't forget a grain of salt.
This class is fantastic. Stauffer and Claybaugh are incredible lecturers and will teach you SO much about the Civil War. There's a fair amount of reading but it's doable and they highlight what's  important in lecture. TAKE THIS especially if you're in the America field of Hist and Lit.
This is a challenging class (hard midterm/final), but discussions are intriguing and really ask you to invest yourself in the course.
This is an excellent course.
Professors Stauffer and Claybaugh are both incredible - their insights into the Civil War, Reconstruction and their surrounding literature are one of the main reasons to take this class. I've heard there isn't as much reading as there used to be in years past, but there's still 120 pages a week and it's hit or miss (some of the readings are great, some are boring), so you could find an easier way to fulfill this requirement. Watch out for the papers - the first one is graded very harshly, and the second one is pretty long for a Gen Ed (15 pages).
This is a great course. You learn a great deal, read some great texts, and have stimulating assignments and discussions. One of the best American history courses Harvard has to offer.
This is most likely the most comprehensive course on the Civil War, but it isn't actually particularly comprehensive.  This course strives to make its argument about black unfreedom, and, while it does so well, it fails in giving a comprehensive understanding of the war.  Ultimately, it sacrifices some standard but necessary history in favor of vague overarching concepts.  And I'm someone who loves broad historical arguments.
It is a great class, and since it is one of the few offered on the Civil War, I would suggest taking it when you can.
I really enjoyed this class, and it was a cool look at the Civil War if you are interested in learning more about it like I was.
There's a lot of reading, but apparently Professor Stauffer is going to cut down on the reading list next time the class is taught. The material is really interesting though!
This is a good Gen Ed that makes you work (and really read) without making things impossible for students without expertise. The reading list alone is worth it, whether you get around to reading everything or not.
This class is interesting and manageable. Jacob Spencer is an amazing TF - get him if he's teaching it again. Profs. Stauffer and Claybaugh are extremely friendly and accessible, so make sure you get to know them - I regret that I did not. And if you are swamped by the readings, do not stress. You don't have to read them all.
This class was more challenging than expected but was well worth the extra effort. You get a whole new perspective on the most influential war in American history.
This class is an awesome and unique way to study the civil war. EVERYONE should read Lincoln, Douglass, Stowe, and some of the other class civil war writers. The syllabus is great. Do the readings before the lectures. There's not much incentive to do the readings, but you'll get infinitely so much more out of class if you do, since the lectures analyze them.
The lectures are rich, vividly conveyed and taught by two masters of their field.  Keep up with notes in class and prioritize certain readings through the term - 200 pages is a lot to get through.  A rewarding, if challenging way to fulfill the US in the World requirement.  It's incredible to believe that "Radical Republicans" described the most progressive political faction in this country...
If you're looking for a solid History course on the Civil War, you might want to consider other options. This class was much more Hist&Lit and English oriented than I was expecting, which was disappointing.
a lot of reading - take notes throughout the semester on the readings for the final
This class is very interesting and enjoyable.  It has a lot of work, but as long as you keep on top of it, it is manageable.
THIS CLASS IS SO INCREDIBLE. stauffer and claybaugh are genuinely amazing.
If you are interested in the Civil War, you should definitely consider taking it.  The professors are great, though it can get a little tiring if you are not as into it.
A great class, if you're not afraid to do quite a bit of reading (either during the term or during Reading Period!) The professors, especially Prof. Stauffer, are excellent and they really know their stuff. The workload for the class apart from the reading is quite light, so make sure to do well on everything if you want to do well in the course. Section was a high point rather than a chore.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. The professors are incredible, and the reading material is really interesting. I came into the class knowing very little about the Civil War, and left the class feeling as though I witnessed the whole thing.
Just keep up with the reading because it is a lot to try to catch up with and the IDs for the final come from the readings.  Also, do your best on the papers because there is no midterm in this course and no other real grades.
Great course, a bit dry at times, but the readings are really interesting and the lectures are organized and the professors generate enthusiasm for the subject. Never thought I'd enjoy learning about the Civil War (took this as a Core), but it was pretty solid for a Core/Gen Ed requirement.
As a Hist and Lit student, I'm well versed in humanities classes with extensive reading and writing assignments. It might be challenging for someone not as experienced in this kind of class.
This is a very good, rewarding class. The Professors are excellent and the lectures are stimulating. Be prepared to do a lot of reading. If you do not feel that you can read at least 100 pages of primary source material a week, with a few novels sprinkled throughout, this is not the course for you. If you put the time into this course, you will get a lot out of it. It is not an "easy" course that you can pass by skipping lecture and skimming the readings. Which is one of the reasons that it's a class worth taking.
It's a new course, so the structure is still being worked out, I found it sometimes confusing lecture to lecture
I wouldn't take this class unless you needed a core, but even then I'm not sure it's the best choice. It's a lot of reading and I don't feel like I got out as much as I put into the class.
This class is not very demanding and can be rewarding with little work. Its primary interest is in the culture history of the 'long' Civil War and it uses some very interesting primary sources.
Be prepared for a syllabus with many short readings and just a few longer texts.  We covered the material very quickly, but there was no need to try to read everything on the syllabus.  This course gives a general overview of the attitudes that started the Civil War and the government/military actions during and after the war.
great class for history enthusiasts or literature students
this class is amazing. it's not that much work but you learn so much
Incredibly interesting, fun, and relaxing course. Even if you have learned extensively about the Civil War before, this course still offers an extremely unique perspective on it.
This is definitely more of an English course than a history course. To me it seemed pretty average; it would be an alright choice for a USW gened, but there's probably something better out there.
Definitely take this course. Stauffer is a great lecturer and is so enthusiastic about the material. He and the TFs are really interested in engaging with the students.
This class is very very disappointing. Stauffer acts like it is going to be very intersectional and then provides a completely white-washed syllabus and fails to address individual black experience. Instead he refers to black people as abstractions, as "blacks."
I thought that this class was an interesting introduction to historical issues of race in the United States. But, at times, it could feel less like a lecture series and more like an opportunity for Professor Stauffer to voice his own political opinions.
TAKE THIS CLASS. SO IMPORTANT.
Engaging with the primary material and actually getting insight into such a tragic part of America's history is a wild thing.
This class is probably the best gen ed I've taken at Harvard. Everyone is taught about a different version of the Civil War in their high school history classes but the class comes closest to the truth. As a student who is very moderate in their political views, I definitely do not feel that this class is biased in any shape or form. Professor Stauffer applies the history of the Civil, patterns and concepts to today that are very applicable. He is controlled, masterful and paints a true and accurate history. He is a true historian, not a politician. Take it and you won't regret it. In terms of grades, you don't have to worry about a thing. Just come engaged, prepared and everything will take care of itself.
A great class. Professor Stauffer gives engaging lectures, and offers a much different view of the Civil War than you might have had in other classes. The class is really more about slavery than the military Civil War, and it was extremely interesting to look at how slavery has shaped America in the past and today.
Michael King is the best TF ever for me at Harvard. He was the first TF that made me want to close my computer, listen to his talks, and participate in discussion. Michael really challenges you to think, and I really enjoyed every section with him. The exams are really easy  because the review lecture covers 100% of whats youre tested on, and the passage ID always/only comes from the lecture slides (which are uploaded). Dont need to go to lecture.
This is an interesting class, but I do think that it could definitely be improved with a more diverse array of assigned writers and thinkers.
Prof Stauffer and the whole teaching staff are wonderful and really enthusiastic about the material
This is a great course! Very politically relevant, great lectures, interesting assignments, and a really cool range of topics studied. It's not your traditional military history Civil War course, but if you're willing to engage with literature, movies, and media to study the long civil war, this course is really fantastic.
This class is a great class!! Stauffer and all the TFs are extremely engaging. The material is interesting and it is a manageable workload.
Overall I was satisfied with this courseeasy A, interesting and informative readings, friendly teaching staff. However, I find it disconcerting that this course essentially became an echo chamber of politically correct, left-wing ideology. In his lectures, Professor Stauffer consistently attacks conservatives as feeble-minded, racist, white supremacists while liberals are deemed enlightened, sensitive, high-minded elites. He takes every possible opportunity to malign President Trump, expounding comparisons between Trump and nearly every villainous figure that appears in the lectures or weekly reading assignments. Of course, Professor Stauffer is entitled to his own opinions, but I find this unabashed advancement of his own political views to be profoundly unprofessional. At the very least, I could usually understand the reasoning underlying his claims, but some of his comments do verge on the ridiculous. For instance, he argues that the term states rights is a contemporary euphemism for racism. It is as if he cannot conceive of the possibility that someone who does not share his particular worldview is not a racistor, for that matter, capable of enlightened thought. Ideally, professors should instruct students about how to think about history, not what to think. Unfortunately, Professor Stauffers claims have the effect of silencing the minority of students who may not identify with his politics or interpretation of the past.
This is the greatest class you'll ever take. Just take it.
Was a fantastic experience learning more about a really interesting, really relevant, really complex part of American history. would highly recommend as a low-stress and meaningful and enlightening Gen Ed
You should take this course even if you have already fulfilled all of your general education requirements. It is both engaging and useful for real life. Professor Stauffer takes time at the beginning of each lecture to connect the points he is going to make about the Civil War to current events which makes learning about the past much more relevant and interesting. The books we read were entertaining and useful in discussing the events of the Civil War era.
USW 34 was an engaging course, if a bit disorganized and unrewarding. I appreciated Professor Stauffer making himself totally available to his students, allowing us to engage with subject matter in an interdisciplinary setting and work on a creative final project, and centering the course on an argument that resonates in today's world. However, whether or not Professor Stauffer occasionally did not go far enough or presented controversial points, class (both lecture and section) tended to feel highly political. That may be a plus for some and a negative for others; regardless, it should be known. Moreover, I don't feel I left USW 34 having learned a lot (I feel like a more informed, thoughtful citizen, but not much otherwise).
Absolutely loved this class, highly recommend. Great and engaging lectures and sections, fun materials, and low stress/demand.
Honestly one of my favorite classes this semester! Heard good things about Stauffer and Mike King! Mike is such a great TF, super nice and very aware of social issues! Our section had really great discussions and he was always on point with his emails and outlines
This class is a really great class, and pretty easy in my opinion, but it's kind of all over the place. If you liked his wandering lecture style then this is definitely for you, but it can be really frustrating sometimes when he starts talking about something and then ends up talking about something completely different.
This class is a really great GenEd class. If you are looking for a class that will expand the way you think about race and racism and that will make you a better citizen, this is a class to consider. Most of the readings for his class were extremely informative. Assignments were really stress-free. The two exams in the class are also stress-free since there is a review a couple days before that really details exactly what you should focus your study on.
Great class! A rewarding gem of a gen-ed
If you want to know more about the Civil War, you're interested in the cultural and not just military aspects of history, and you enjoy / are fine with doing readings and writing a moderate amount, this is a really good course for you. Overall interesting and not relatively stressful course, makes some great points about how what people did and said in the Civil War is related to, if not directly repeated in, today's U.S. Keep up with the readings so you can get the most out of lecture (which corresponds really closely to the readings) and section, and so the midterm/final is easier to study for -- although both are not that bad. The midterm is good practice for the final. Plan something fun but manageable for your final project and it'll be a good time. Prof Stauffer is a really good lecturer and gives great historical context while also bringing in literary analysis.
I loved this class! Great balance if you have a bunch of other difficult STEM classes or need something interesting to take for the semester.  The lectures were great, readings weren't too bad, and the exams totally reasonable.  One thing to know is that it's primarily a Civil War literature class (rather than Civil War history).  You'll learn the history of the Civil War, but there will be a huge emphasis on literature of the time and literary analysis.
you're gonna love it.
This is a great class, not only is it easy but it is very interesting and relevant to the world today. Highly recommend
It is SUPER easy to do well in this class. The amount you'll get out of and retain from this class, however, depends on your own interest and willingness to make use of our amazing professor and TF! I thought it was a really good Gen-Ed.
This class is a gem.  Professor Stauffer's lectures are captivating, especially if you enjoy US history, and the workload is quite manageable with other difficult courses.
Possibly the easiest and most applicable course I've taken at Harvard
This course is low-stress and really interesting. Prof. Stauffer is great and super engaging. Take this course.
90% of your grade is up in the air before you receive your final grade. The only grade you receive your entire semester is the 10% midterm grade.
If you're looking for a course that will make you excited about the material but not stressed about memorization, this is for you!
this class is very straightforward and you will do well as long as you put in the work and go to section
Not only is this class a gem, it will help you to learn about race, regional difference, politics, and Civil War consequences from literary and historical perspectives. Highly recommend to round out a rough schedule for the low stress and the interesting material.
This is a great course! Very interesting and not too difficult as long as you are capable of putting in a little bit of effort; mostly memorization.
A very interesting class that only requires however much work you want to put into it. The readings are all interesting. Lectures are good, particularly at the beginning of the class and about the literary texts.
My favorite class this semester. Learned so much and loved the teaching staff.
Incredible USW option. Excellent materials and really engaging lectures. For US History fans, this class is a must!
This course is easy to take, easy to understand, and very friendly!
This course is such a gem! It's informative and interesting, and the exams and assignment are not difficult. If you can, get Mike as your TF!!
Very good class for US-world requirement
This is a GEM of a class. Super low time commitment and really interesting information. Even if you have previously learned about the Civil War in high school, I would recommend this class because it approaches the period from the social issues instead of battle dates.
Gentle class. Loved the assignments because there were no actual required essays until the final. The teacher is super passionate and involved.
I took this class as a gen ed to take the load off of some of my more work-intensive classes.  I was really impressed by the material of the course and it ended up being one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard so far!  Stauffer's lectures are passionate and though-provoking, and I found myself thinking about the themes we went over outside of class.  There is quite a bit of reading assigned, but it is not really required.  The midterm was not too challenging, and there is a final project and final exam (which are a little time consuming).  Other than that, this was a chill class that I got a lot out of, would highly recommend
This class is super easy, decent way to fulfill a GenEd.
Prof. Stauffer is a good lecturer but sometimes it can get a little dull. Be prepared to discuss the readings in detail in section, but you can also get away with skimming them beforehand.
Very fun and engaging course. Decent amount of reading, but it's all pretty interesting.
The class is a joke, so if you want an easy gen ed and don't know anything about the Civil War, it's a decent option. If you want to learn about the war in depth. The lectures are rather slow and, while the slides and primary source materials are interesting, Prof. Stauffer often goes on for a long time about less important issues instead of covering new, relevant content. For example, every other lecture he would make the same comparison between Donald Trump and a figure like Andrew Johnson without adding new insights about the comparison.
The class is an easy way to fulfill a requirement, but it is also extremely engaging and touches on great ideas both in lecture and in section so that it never feels like you're wasting any time you're putting into it. You get out what you put into it.
This course is a very easy, fun way to fulfill the USW requirement. Although there might not be a ton of work, the material is extremely engaging and taught brilliantly. Both lecture and section encouraged discussion and consideration of how the Civil War is still being fought today, which has made me a much more conscious American citizen.
The liberal lean in this class was so strong that it made me more conservative...more about politics than history
This is a great GenEd. Very interesting and not too stressful in terms of work.
This course is amazing. FUN lectures. I am not usually one to praise lectures as being fascinating or entertaining, but these ones were. Professor Stauffer is an incredible lecturer. The course is also just very interesting. I was never bored, and everything was tied together very well. The exams and essays synthesized things well without being a burden. Take the class.
This course is a decent way to fulfill the US World gen ed requirement, but it really just reiterates what you would have learned in an American high school.
You get a very specific story of the civil war which I found enormously interesting. Super easy.
As I trudge up the stairs of Sever Hall to my class, I am suddenly transported back in time. I am on the front lines of the Civil War, feeling nauseous as I have to deliver a message between trenches. I take a seat in my section, heart beating so fast it drowns out the tourist groups just outside the window. I have not done the readings. Not a single one. You would think that this would disadvantage me on the battlefield, but it instead fuels me, allowing me to run faster than possible. I peer over the top of the trench, just as my teaching fellow asks the first question about the readings. I take my chance, pushing myself up onto the muddy bank, feet barely touching the ground as I wade through the mist. I am the first to give my response, having just glanced at a Wiki summary of the literature in question. A volley of bullets has missed me by a considerable amount, and I am emboldened to build off of other classmates statements on the readings.But then, my TF says lets unpack that as it relates to the readings, and I realize that I have truly become a moving target. I should be concerned with the artillery that is now being utilized. I weave through the car-size craters left behind by the shells, evading questions that pin point specific sections in Benito Cereno and Huckleberry Finn. I throw myself into the dirt, thinking is this the end? The questions do not end, but now they pertain to lecture. These shells are potentially just as devastating, as I have not attended lecture in a month.But suddenly, a stroke of luck, as none of my classmates, even the ones who have done the readings, dare to speak. I am home free, picking myself up and making it to the other trench, as my TF is forced to answer their own question in order to facilitate the discussion. I sound off with one final comment on how the readings relate to my general knowledge of the Civil War and how I perceive the tone of the authors work. The Memorial Church bell tower rings, and I quickly pack up my bag. Next week, I will have to pick out random quotes from the readings in the middle of section. Next week, I will have to deliver another message to the trench.
First things first, it's very strange that in 2017 a course about slavery and the Civil War had only one black author (Frederick Douglass) on the syllabus. That being said, Mike was a fabulous t.f. who prompted us to interrogate the lectures and readings from a truly provocative and often unsettling perspective. Stauffer's lectures were very well-put together and informative and I definitely came away from the course with a better understanding of the general history of the Civil War. I just wish the course materials hadn't reproduced the white supremacy against which the course itself is arguing. :(
The class requires very little work, but for those interested in more of a nuanced understanding of the Civil War, rather than a general historical approach, this course may not be for you.
Stauffer is an incredible professor presenting a very interesting topic.  This was probably my favorite Gen Ed course; it's a must-take!
The course staff are really awesome and are well-versed in the material. The lectures are very fascinating and the workload is relatively painless. All in all, a great gen-ed to take.
one of the best classes i've taken at harvard.  cannot recommend enough.
Take this class!!! It's an absolute gem! This class was honestly one of the most rewarding classes I have taken, and definitely a defining part of my Harvard experience.  The material, specifically the underlying motives of the Civil War and the issue of racism is incredibly relevant today, and also Professor Stauffer is amazing.  He is one of the leading authorities in his field, yet he is so accessible, friendly, and welcoming to students.  The workload was managable and rewarding - definitely a great and rewarding class!
This is an EXCELLENT Gen Ed that isn't too much of a time commitment. The entire course staff had realistic expectations and was committed to having students walk away having learned something and changed old perceptions.
One of the best courses at Harvard. The material was really eye-opening and enjoyable to learn. Honestly, learning about the ramifications of the civil war has taught me to see better some of the issues happening today and why they are happening today.
Professor Stauffer in lecture after grading midterms: "I was giving A's out like popcorn."This is a gem. Take this class.
This class was interesting, but I bet you could find better on the Civil War. It's pretty white experience-centric. I was impressed with how receptive Stauffer was to student feedback, but the class was just so, so white male focused. Wicked manageable with a tough course load, though, so that was nice.
It was awesome.  You should definitely take it.  It requires very little work but you learn a ton.  It's like a perfect balance.  Lectures are really well-done, and I feel like I've learned something every time I leave class.  It's an easy class that can help you fill out a busy schedule and fulfill a Gen Ed, but you also learn a lot more about the Civil War and its aftermath than you ever did in high school, which was really interesting.  The staff also does a great job connecting current events to the course's main themes, which makes for a really dynamic environment.
The class was extremely interesting and taught very well; overall much better than I expected it to be
Fantastic class, Prof. Stauffer is very passionate about the material and is an excellent lecturer. Very low stress assignments and tests. Highly recommend this class.
Great class - Professor Stauffer is a fantastic lecturer and the subject matter is very interesting.  Both he and the teaching staff are extremely knowledgeable, and section discussions were always insightful and interesting.  Overall not too difficult either - there was a fair amount of readings, and the essays and exams were not terribly hard.
Take it if you don't mind hearing a lot of references to current events/expressions of the professor's political opinions.
Could not recommend the course more highly. I took it with a stat-major friend who had never taken a humanities course - his mind was blown. Worthwhile for anybody.
Mike King is the best TF!!! Make sure you are in his section!!
This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard by far! This was class was one of the first classes that I ever looked forward to attending every lecture. Section was also incredibly useful, unlike a lot of sections here at Harvard.
It is an awesome course, potentially life-changing
Very manageable workload, professor Stauffer is a talented speaker, the use of primary sources to learn about the period is the best part and constitues the reason why I enjoyed the class so much
This is an extraordinarily interesting course, focusing on the cultural impact of the Civil War rather than the Civil War itself.  In other words, it's a cultural history course, not a military history one.  Readings, though light, are very interesting and worth reading in full.  Professor Stauffer is one of the most engaging lecturers at Harvard.  This is a class worth your time.
interesting subject matter, great lectures, and exposure to great literary works of the 19th century. Not too difficult, and writing assignments are moderate and meaningful. Definitely take this class if you have any interest in American history, literature, or Af-Am studies.
This is one of those no-downsides courses. Lecture was great. Section was great. The readings were short while remaining very informative. The assignments are not bad - fun, even. It also fulfills a gen-ed. What's not to love?
This course is extremely engaging and thoughtful. It will provide you with a new perspective on the Civil War that you likely have never seen before. It helps your critical thinking ability and encourages you to engage with the current political climate, which is very valuable. The assignments are also very reasonable.
Interesting lectures and readings. Good group of teaching fellows.
A really amazing class that pushes your understanding of the Civil War past the superficial stuff you learned in APUSH. Stauffer gives legendary lectures, and the TF is awesome as well. The assignments and exams are not meant to punish--the whole class is about gaining a better sense of the era and how it connects to today. Definitely one of my favorite classes at Harvard.
This class requires more reading (and lecture attendance) than most gen eds, but the material is interesting and the lectures are good.
The course content was very interesting, and Professor Stauffer's lectures were pretty engaging. There was very little work: only a super easy midterm, one response paper, and a final project/research paper. You'll get out of this course what you put in. Very easy to get by without doing any work until the very end, but you'll probably enjoy it more if you pay attention throughout.
This course, overall, was fantastic. Prof Stauffer is one of the best lecturers at Harvard, and if Marissa still TFs it, she's an awesome discussion leader. I felt like I finally (after many years of learning about it in APUSH or whatever) got an in-depth understanding of one of the nation's most important conflicts. Though the course focuses on culture rather than politics (e.g., you'll never memorize a list of battles), I felt like I got answers to some of the questions that are the most important to me: what kind of America could have produced such a conflict? What were its intellectual and cultural features? What kind of American culture(s) were produced by the war?My only reservation about this course--and it is a serious, if somewhat personal reservation--is that the political views of the professor and TFs were not only apparent but sometimes enforced to the point of offensiveness. I'm a moderate liberal, but I don't believe that Hillary Clinton is a racist (as both professor and TFs sometimes implied); that she should "sit down, be quiet and listen" to the likes of Beyonce, as Mike King's concluding lecture suggested; that the country would be better off if Alabama seceded again (as the professor joked); or that Southern accents are necessarily associated with racism  (as Colin Bossen implied when, in his lecture on racism and reconstruction, he imitated the southern accents of the racist white southerners without imitating the accents of any other characters in his narrative). Needless to say, I was squirming in my seat a lot. It's worth it to squirm a little--completely worth it--in order to mine Prof Stauffer's amazing fund of knowledge and get a deep sense of American culture before, during and after the war. But I think it would be wise of the teaching staff, and especially the TFs, to moderate their political tone a little bit. We're here to learn and draw our own political conclusions, not to uncritically embrace theirs.
These lectures are absolutely excellent!  The professor is amazing.  Section, though, varies significantly with your TF.  Mine was very very sweet, though harsh in her grading.
This course is amazing! I am no history buff but I was attracted to this class because the syllabus had interesting readings on it. You do not do read it all but I would! It really improves the quality of the section and the readings are just good. Take this class if you have any interest in the Civil War, the history of race, or even racial issues in the present. This class is awesome!
It's a very informative, easy, class.
The lectures are incredibly engaging and the material itself is not that difficult to digest. Fairly easy, yet rewarding hist & lit Gen Ed.
This was a great choice for a USW requirement, especially for people who prefer a literary look at history. The lectures were really good. The course staff were all smart and cool, and section had a lot of good discussion about the readings.
This class is an interesting introduction to Civil War history. The midterm and final project weren't bad.
Its REALLY not a history class. If you are looking for history class about the Civil War THIS IS NOT IT. Its way more English-y and HistLit-y, so be aware going into it.
This class completely changed my view of American history. With a literary and cultural approach, this course completely altered my perspective. It is definitely a must-take course!!!!
This class is incredible. It is everything a Gen Ed is supposed to be, and then some.
This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard! Professor Stauffer's lecturs are phenomenal and his incorporation of art, literature, etc. in his presentation of the Civil War adds great depth to the history
I thoroughly enjoyed this class. Professor Stauffer is a fantastic lecturer, and if you have not had the opportunity to work with him, you should! Lectures were interesting, both because of the subject matter and the way that Stauffer presents the history. He provides a nuance look not only at the armed Civil War, but the background to the war and the postbellum (and continuing) implications of the war. Readings a light and limited, assignments are limited, too. The course requires very little work, and you can take a lot away from it - if you put in the time.
This class is a gem in the GenEd system. I wish I had taken it before senior year so that I could have invested more time and energy into it. Prof. Stauffer is a phenomenal lecturer who holds your attention and seems truly passionate and impassioned about the subject he teaches. This class will make you more equipped to cut through the misconceptions about the Civil War and Reconstruction that have big consequences for contemporary America. It has made me critically reflect on the narratives of US history I received from my middle and high school education. The workload, while not insignificant, is not too onerous, and you get a lot out of it. Section was great (Mike is an incredible TF, one of the best if not the best I have had during my Harvard career) and REALLY pushed my thinking on things rather than being merely a rehashing of lecture.
One of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard. An exceptional and in-depth examination of race and racial violence in American history.
Awesome class! Assignments and readings are super fair (except maybe Uncle Tom's Cabin just because it's so long) and Stauffer is great.
This was my favorite course that I have taken at Harvard. Although there were many factors that contributed to it being such an enjoyable course, the quality and enthusiasm of the teaching staff cannot be understated. Professor Stauffer is the most kind and helpful professor that I have met at Harvard, and he is an extraordinary mentor for a variety of academic interests. Speaking with him during office hours prompted my interest in a career in academia, and I cannot thank him enough for all of his help. The teaching staff was also very engaged and helpful. Overall, this course had interesting and relevant material, was enjoyable, and had something to look forward to with each lecture; I would highly recommend.
This is a fantastic course to take for your USW! The material is so important and has absolutely helped make me a better critical thinker and historian. Professor Stauffer is such an expert, and it was a pleasure to hear his lectures. My section was also great, and I had some fantastic discussions about how this history relates to today.
Professor Stauffer is amazing and makes the class so enjoyable. He really cares about his students and the subject matter and his passion is contagious.
Professor Stauffer is a phenomenal lecturer. I did not expect to be interested in the Civil War time period, but his outstanding lectures really pulled me in. The class' workload (weekly readings, a midterm, and a final project) is completely manageable, and, if this interests you, the class allows you to do a creative project (like poetry or fiction or filming) instead of an analytical essay for the final project.I appreciated that the readings were, by and large, primary sources (like novels and speeches) rather than history textbooks. As someone who enjoys history but is not a history concentrator, this approach made the history very accessible to me.Finally, I loved that the course focused on the social, economic, and political contexts of the Civil War without focusing on the battles. There was very little discussion of war techniques or battle history, which I would have found to be dry.
This is a great framing of the American Civil War. Stauffer does a good job of presenting myths and truths about it. At times he gets too excited and ventures to speculations but if you keep your eye out for that, it should be a good way to learn about the Civil War. It definitely is not an English class, even though the professor likes to claim that he 'close-reads' photographs, which just is his way of saying: I can recognize people in this picture but I want to make it sound like this is an English class.
Overall a pretty interesting class. If you're interested in the Civil War and don't mind doing a little bit of reading, take it.
Pretty solid course
This class was so nice. The content was very interestign and Professor Stauffer is always great to listen to. He is inspiring.
very easy
USW 34 is an awesome class, either as an elective, history requirement, or gen ed. Professor Stauffer is a great teacher, and the lectures are always engaging and interesting. The course covers a large amount of material, but never feels overwhelming. The integration of fields makes for an enriching experience. The coursework isn't too difficult, and the readings are always fun. Highly recommended!
GEM CLASS! Prof Stauffer is pretty cool and a great lecturer, mid term was easy and material very interesting
This course introduces a wide range of texts, historical and literary, and considers each in terms of breadth and depth very well. From novels such as Uncle Tom's Cabin, to "Battle Hymn of the Republic" and Lincoln's speeches before and during his troubled presidency, this course is a great way to introduce a variety of sources and analytical approaches that will be helpful throughout college.
TAKE THIS COURSE! Especially if you love the Civil War or have an inkling of interest. Prof. Stauffer is amazing and such a fantastic lecturer, and all the staff is so interesting.
Lectures are very engaging, and the subject matter is important. Not too bad as far as USW classes go. As long as you do the readings you'll be fine.
This course is actually incredibly useful, in that it truly altered my worldview and made me sensitive to things I was not sensitive to before taking it. The workload is very manageable, and you can approach it more like an English course than a history course if you want to (and you probably should). So pleased that I found such a painless USW.
I highly recommend this course. The subject matter is really interesting, the readings are all very informative and discussion in section is thought provoking. This is a great course for someone interested in history or literature. The professor is very passionate about the subject material. I learned more about this time period than I had ever known before and there were many connections to the present day which were fascinating.
Great class, super interesting and not too difficult.
Great course
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard! I am so glad it was offered before I graduate. As a science concentrator, I don't get to take a lot of classes in this genre, but I absolutely loved USW 34. I would like to see more classes on the South during/after the Civil War at Harvard.
Greatly enjoyed the course --  accessible to people of various levels of comfort with history/writing
Wonderful class, Stauffer is a great lecturer! The work load is pretty light, usually less than 100 pages a week of reading, the smaller papers are very flexible in their deadlines so you can easily pick weeks that are not as busy to do them, I'd recommend knocking them out in the first month if possible. I really enjoyed the variety of perspectives we looked at in the course, the material felt very fair and as unbiased as is possible with such a charged topic.
Great class - excellent readings, prof. Stauffer is amazing, sections are interesting and insightful, and the workload is painless.Definitely recommend that you take this class, you won't be saddled with work and you'll have interesting things to talk about
You will love this class. It is not about the battles and tactics and strategy of the war; it's about the social causes and implications.
This class was great! Professor Stauffer is amazing--I loved the lectures. The assignments were also very manageable and very fair. I highly recommend this class.
I thought this was a great course! I thoroughly enjoyed the reading material, especially the literature. This course succeeded in helping me understand the Civil War culture.
This course covers really interesting material and the readings and movies were great!  Professor Stauffer is a great lecturer and brings the Civil War to life.  The section leaders were also really engaging!  The class is a great way to fulfill USW and was not a huge work commitment - definitely take it!
This class was a very interesting take on learning about the Civil War, and the issues leading up to it and in the aftermath. The literary focus made it a pretty unique course, and I quite enjoyed many of the readings.
Do the readings! They will help you get so much more out of the course. Also, get to know Professor Stauffer if possible--he is a fascinating guy. Be prepared for lack of guidance or details from the teaching staff, but don't let that deter you from taking this great class.
Prof. Stauffer among the best educators I've come into contact with at Harvard.
