This class was amazing! Pretty minimal work and it's interesting material. You do not have to do the readings to succeed, but you do need to get a one sentence summary on each from someone who did read.
This is a great class that will teach you everything you've wanted to know about US-European and US-Asian relations.
This course is certainly one of the best ways to fulfill the gen ed for USW. How much you enjoy it will largely depend on how interested you are in the material. The lectures are well-delivered and the course is competently administered. The caveats are those standard to a gen ed. Many students are there (myself one of them) simply to fill the requirement, and this will likely frustrate the more motivated and interested students.
This was one of my favorite courses of the semester. The instructors are incredible and very knowledgeable of the material. The topics taught in this course prepare any individual well for discussing 20th century history and U.S. foreign policy.
Take it, its easy
The scope of the class is broad, but I'd definitely encourage you to take it if you're at all interested in American foreign policy/are looking for a more writing intensive Gen-Ed
Do not take this class if you are looking for an in depth Cold War class. I thought that was what I was getting, and it ended up being a survey of 20th century history that was review from US and European history in high school. That said, the class is exceptionally well run, the paper writing process allows for a rough draft and feedback prior to the final grade, and Professor Sarotte is a fantastic lecturer.
This was an absolutely fantastic course!! Professor Sarotte is one of the most gifted teachers I've ever had and she cares a great deal both about the course and about the students in it. I left with a very good grasp of US foreign policy over the past century. The assignments were completely fair and I actually enjoyed doing the research paper. It's such a shame that Professor Sarotte won't be back next semester to teach this class again as she goes back to USC.
If you're interested in US foreign policy and its history, this is the course for you!
This class is amazing! Highly recommend it.
It's a relatively easy way to gain valuable knowledge about American foreign policy. The readings are not hard or too lengthy and there is only one essay, which is actually exciting because you get to choose the topic. Otherwise, the tests are also not difficult if you study properly and take solid notes.
USW40 is a fantastic gen-ed for someone interested in international relations. As a science major with a strong interest in international relations (Gov secondary), I was looking for a solid IR/history class to fulfill both the USW req and count as a Gov class, and I was so happy to get in USW40. Professor Sarotte is absolutely fantastic - she was a really great person to get to know in section, as she led fantastic informal discussions and really pushed students to think deeper about what they thought they already knew, and was very interested in how students were doing; it's unfortunate that she's leaving! If you are a student interested in fulfilling an easy gen-ed, this may not be the class for you because of the pretty demanding reading (for a gen-ed), but I would absolutely recommend anyone to take it that wanted to deepen and broaden their understanding of IR and history.
This class is an easy one and a good introduction to the topic of US international relations if you have little background on the subject.  Especially interesting if you're interested in Cold War politics.  Overall, if you have taken an AP US History or European History course, you probably know most of the material taught here, but the professor is passionate and her lectures are thorough, if basic.  A good 4th class that requires little to no outside work; the one paper assignment is easy to complete quickly and the exams are fair and straightforward.
Awesome class
It's really not that hard and you get to learn more modern history that you were never exposed to in high school.
This course seems like it's built for freshmen, even though the material is really interesting. Good if you want built-in help for picking paper topics and for paper-writing skills
This class was fabulous! I would highly recommend it!
Take advantage of all the resources offered to you, and do research on the TFs
USW40 is interesting but mistreats students.  There are many stories even just within my friends in the class of Sarotte berating students and having pointlessly unflexible policies (while yelling at students who ask for exceptions). Thankfully, the teaching staff were quite pleasant.  The tests are set up so that students have to memorize minute details for 30 IDs only to be asked 2 of them on the tests.  They unfairly come down to luck and wrote memorization rather than learning (this is not a retaliation, I did well on the tests).  All in all, it is fascinating history, but needs to care more about students and Sarotte designing more fair and empathetic policies while treating them better herself would be a good start.
The course is structured well and the material was interesting.  At times, it seemed like I was more reviewing things I had learned in high school- that is not necessarily a negative aspect though, for that material would be reinforced and teaching styles are always slightly different.  The structure of the paper was also helpful with feedback provided.
Grading and feedback can be very reliant on which TF you choose
Great material. Great lecturer. Incredible insight. Take it.
It is a comprehensive and informative look at US relations during the cold war and beyond.
This is a great history course for everyone with an interest in history and how it relates to current events--what with the events unfolding in Russia these days, it was very topical.
The class was awesome. The workload wasn't too bad at all and I think I genuinely learned a lot. Tests aren't too bad and overall, it's probably one of the best options to fulfill the gen ed requirement.
If this course is ever offered again and it looks at all interesting to you, take it.
Unfortunately, Professor Sarotte is no longer teaching this course, but if she was, I would tell everyone that they owe it to themselves to take it.
This is a great class and very interesting, but the workload is overwhelming, especially for a Gen Ed. The exams expect you to know really nitpicky details about events that happened, but we're still expected to read hundreds of pages a week. Sarotte is a great professor, and I wish I had gotten to know her personally.
This course is not a ton of work but does well to introduce students to cool new Cold War themes.
This class is hands-down the best class I've taken at Harvard.  My knowledge coming out of it and my ability to actually understand the history of and implications of current events is incredible, and something I value so much!  Also, the teaching in this course is fantastic.  Professor Sarotte is one of the most knowledgable, intelligent, engaging, and friendly professors I've ever had--that's a hard combination to come by!  Added to this, the TFs are absolutely amazing as well, always willing to discuss topics further or help make my writing better.  I am so so sad Professor Sarotte is leaving after this semester, but the students at USC are in for a real treat when they take this class!
It's more work than a typical gen ed, but it is worth it. The material is incredibly interesting. Most importantly, the teaching staff works with you on every assignment so you should be able to make good grades.
This is a great class if your goal is to attain a solid understanding of American foreign policy since the first world war. It also acquaints one with the changing role of America in the world and looks at counterfactuals. Great great class!
Good lectures and straightforward requirements--not too difficult and provides a solid overview of important foreign policy issues that are important to understand
Great class to learn a lot of interesting information in! A little more work than a typical GenEd, but still worth it.
This class was one of the most enjoyable history classes I've ever taken. It was my only option for a US/W gen-ed for a few reasons, but I am so glad that I took it. Every single lecture was extremely interesting and engaging. I looked forward to going to class as a fun way to start my morning. Also, sections were engaging. We reviewed key points from lecture and the readings and also engaged in some extremely interesting discussions. They were run in a way that really made everybody want to participate, and it seemed everybody had something valuable to contribute. Also, the paper is done in a way that isn't too stressful. Rather than forcing you to write something long (and frankly, bullshitty), they really stress writing effectively and meaningfully about something that you care about. I think this class is a great way to fulfill a gen-ed credit regardless of your concentration. Although be aware that there will most likely be big changes now that Professor Sarotte is no longer teaching the course.
--
So I'm pretty sure Sarotte is never teaching this class again but if someone else does, I would say this is a really good balancing class for gov concentrator a. It's so basic that it's fairly easy to skate by throughout the course of the semester and then hone in to prepare for the exams. It's a good class for freshmen trying to transition to college because it will remind you of how a high school class is run.
Very interesting but also very rigorous
Great course! Professor Sarotte is wonderful, fun, and gives such clear and engaging lectures.
I loved this course. I felt that it broadened my understanding of US history and international relations, as well as extending the themes of the 20th century to today's world - such as through analysis of Russia's encroachment in Ukraine - preparing me to deal with a rapidly changing world in a constructive way.
Unfortunately Professor Sarotte won't be here next semester, which dampens my enthusiasm a bit; she really made the class. Her enthusiasm for the material really pervaded the lectures and made them a lot of fun to listen to.  In any case, the course material is really important and it gives you a broad overview of American foreign policy since WWI, which really enhances your understanding of critical issues of today.
Very moderate workload and interesting material.
First, let me say that the material in this class is really interesting for people who have no background in European/American history in the 1900s and I enjoyed the overview I got. However, my gov/history friends have complained that the course only skims the surface of every topic and leaves out other major events that were taking place in other parts of the world. However, material aside, this class is one of those classes where it feels like the prof and TFs are out to get you for any tiny infraction. There is absolutely no leeway in this class to the detriment of it. If you have interviews or other obligations, the professor and TFs will just tell you to "drop the class," as it says on the syllabus. They aren't kidding. Also Prof. Sarotte refuses to release her lecture slides before exams, which is especially annoying giving how fast she lectures sometimes. And the review sessions are incredibly unhelpful. As an example, in the final review session, the TFs refused to clarify or give answers to students' questions, only asking other students to give answers. It also seemed like the TFs didn't have any clear answers on how to answer the essay questions on the review sheet. In fact, they themselves seemed confused on what the question was exactly asking and kept equivocating on answers.All in all, the material is good/interesting if you haven't learned about it before but a really annoying class to take in terms of random bureaucratic things.
This course was a pretty good overview of 20th century history. If you've taken AP History, it's a lot of the same material, but slightly more Europe-focused. Professor Sarotte is a great lecturer, and the TFs worked really hard to give us feedback and support.
I LOVED this class. It's fascinating, not too hard, and Professor Sarrotte is the best. It's a great way to satisfy the Gov IR requirement. I learned a lot and it wasn't painful.
AWESOME COURSE. i took this course with no IR / history background whatsoever, but it's made me want to explore careers in IR. might seem a bit shallow to people who have a strong history background (from what peers have said), but it's a great overview of everything significant that's happened over the past century. it also ties in nicely with what's going on now in crimea.
This course was easy and interesting, for anyone with any interest in American foreign policy.
Best Gen Ed I've ever taken, hands down. Professor Sarotte's lectures are interesting, the reading load is relatively light, and the assignments are very reasonable. If you need a good US and the World (or are just interested in US foreign policy), take this course! It was a great way to understand the historical roots of current foreign policy problems facing the US, like the war on terror and Putin's aggression towards the Ukraine.
This should be a given, but definitely go to lectures. It's a great course and Prof. Sarotte is a powerhouse and an amazing lecturer. The topic is fascinating and you learn a lot. I love the Cold War, but I found the final section about the world after 1989 (up to the present) to be really the most useful - I feel much more well-versed on contemporary issues and better able to understand the real significance of things that I read in the newspaper, etc. Great course. Take it!
This is a great class that will cover a huge timespan. Because it goes from WWI to the present day you don't get much depth, but if you want to learn about the key events that shaped the world we live in today and how the US played a role in that look no further.
A great course on 20th-century U.S.-European relations! Lectures are engaging and full of information, and the primary- and secondary-source readings are very interesting and give multiple perspectives on the events we study. The research paper is fun because it allows you to research an area you're interested in in-depth.
Fabulous class! Definitely my favorite of the semester (one of my favorites hear at Harvard) and it got me to rethink my career interests and consider government work abroad in foreign policy.  Professor Sarotte is highly knowledgable and delivers effective lectures.  Every lecture has a video to watch for a few minutes, and we even made it all of the way up into the 21st century.  Reading is manageable, interesting, and worth doing, although you can certainly get by week-to-week without it.  You write your paper draft in mid April and receive feedback, which makes the process much easier when you're trying to study for the final and submit the final paper.
This course offers an excellent overview of US policy from World War I to the present. It has everything students should expect from an outstanding lecture course at Harvard - a professor who is knowledgeable, inspiring, insightful, and committed to her undergraduates as much as to her research. Know that when you sign up, you are not signing up for the easiest Gen Ed course - the reading is heavy, although it varies from week to week - and papers and exams are worth very high percentages of your grade, so you can't afford to make too many mistakes. However, if you are invested in the course and passionate about history, government, and international relations, this is without a doubt one of the best classes you can take for a remarkable introduction to twentieth century history. You will be hard pressed to find a better lecturer and professor than Professor Sarotte, whose passion for the subject and overall knowledge of European history is inspiring and remarkable. Her TFs are equally outstanding.
Great class.
This class is a great course for anyone who has always to learn more about the Cold War era and international relations without going too much into depth with the nitty-gritty political science stuff.
TAKE THIS COURSE!!!!!!!!!! It's one of the best courses I've ever taken. You will learn so much and feel smarter after every class. It's uses history but in a way that applies to the present and helps you understand how and why events happened the way they did. Professor Sarotte is also amazing- she's so smart and passionate about the material. She's done so much research in this area and generates so much enthusiasm for the topic. Her lectures are fantastic and very well organized. You learn so much from every lecture and reading. It's the only class where I have been fascinated by every reading and discussed them with friends in my free time. Professor Sarotte clearly devotes a lot of time to the course and really cares about undergraduates. She's absolutely amazing but will only be at Harvard for Fall 2014 and then is leaving because she's a visiting professor.
This is a fantastic course! Take it if you are interested in national security, the Cold War, history, or current issues. Professor Sarotte does a wonderful job of tying together past issues of the World Wars and the Cold War to modern day tensions between the US and Russia (and the world). You will discuss everything including 9/11 and the Ukraine. The exams are fair, the readings are interesting and the paper is flexible. The only thing I didn't enjoy was the fact that the paper was due three days before the final. Other than that, I loved this course.
This class is very interesting but requires a lot of reading.
I really really enjoyed this class. It was extremely interesting and included recent history which I had not learned about.
Despite the name, the course is just a review of US foreign policy from ~1915 to ~2005 or so. There is far less focus on the Cold War, and especially post-Cold War, than the title would imply. Sarotte's lectures are average, but the absence of lecture notes/lecture videos was unfortunate. The readings are pretty good, and the assignments are pretty easy. Feedback for the final paper was extensive and very good, so that's definitely a plus. I would recommend keeping the length of the paper in mind very seriously when picking a topic for your paper--2000 words, the limit this past year, is not really enough to ask any big questions + do a lot of research. Sarotte was super old school in her demands for hard copies of everything and to not allow students participation in intercollegiate competitions to miss the midterm (even if they would take it before/during/after the competition). Colleen's sections were great--I would recommend trying to get her as a TF if she is TFing again.Overall recommendation is that this is a fine gen ed without much work, but there are comparable but better history courses of the US in this time period--I would recommend HIST1465 with Erez Manela over USW40 if 1465 is taught again.
Great class! It's relatively new so Professor Sarotte is trying to do her best to make it very engaging and interesting! This year it was offered as a gen-ed which I think was a very reasonable workload for a gen-ed class. The final paper, however weird it may sound, is really (!!!) fun because you get to choose any topic that interests you and do very interesting research! If you need USW gen-ed or are looking for a gov elective or just a fun class in general, TAKE IT! You won't regret it, it's great!!!
if you have any interest at all in the subject matter, take this course! Sarrotte is a fantastic lecturer, connecting the past to the present and forcing you to look at why people chose to do what they did. A gen ed with not that much work (except a lot of reading!) it was a fantastic way to fulfill USW.
Fantastic class. Prof. Sarotte is awesome, as are the TFs. Make sure you pick a good paper topic (one with lots of good primary sources that you have access to) otherwise you'll be very frustrated. It seemed like the teaching staff wanted the paper to focus more on detailed anecdotes than theories/explanations of why things happened the way they did, which can be weird for gov students taking the class.
This class is truly a gem, and I consider it one of the most important classes I've taken at Harvard. It's quite a lot of reading for a GenEd, but the readings chosen are not dense (esp. for a course that counts as a gov elective) and important. You'll want to do them. The teaching staff is harmonious, and Chris--especially--was a great and available TF. Professor Sarotte's lectures are always on-point, focused and comprehensive. She is without a doubt one of the best professors I've had at harvard, and in addition to her teaching skills, she injects a positivity and humor into the classroom that make getting through the drudge of second semester winter much easier.I now have a *much* more solid understanding of European and US joint history in Europe following WWII, which has done a lot to fix the ignorance I had previously had of the subjects. The study of the Cold War and the mindset it produced in our older generations of politicians has made me much more empathetic and less dismissive in understanding their politics...for example, I saw John McCain speak at the Forum a few weeks ago, and for the first time, I finally understood where he was coming from, and while I still don't agree with his views, I can offer more empathy. Which makes me a better person.
This is an excellent class that will help you to understand the course of history post World War I. Additionally, the work load is not too much. While there is a lot of reading, the midterm and the final are definitely manageable, and the paper is not too long.
Professor Sarotte is not the most dynamic speaker but she knows her topic (Cold War history) very well. If you like international relations and learning about American foreign policy this is the course for you.
The last time this course will be offered is next semester, so I would highly recommend taking it! The expanse of history that we covered from WWI to present day was amazing. I felt like I actually had a firm grasp on the policy and leadership issues that these historical events tackled beyond just facts or dates from rote memory.
This class provides a broad overview of world history from WWI. It is well taught and provides interesting information, but quite a lot of it. It is really important to go to lecture as that is where the organization of the information comes from as well as many of the future midterm and final essay questions. Otherwise is was a great course and I feel like a much more educated citizen from having taken it.
You will get to hear about a changing part of the world from the person who knows it best
You won't regret it and some of the things currently happening around the world will make a lot more sense. It was really hard to see the extensive brokenness found, caused, and perpetuated around the world. Lord, we need you.
TAKE THIS CLASS. The professor is dynamic and knowledgeable and interesting. My TF, Colleen, was extremely helpful and willing to meet to answer any questions I had. The course itself covers WWI up to the present day, explaining events of which you had perhaps already heard, but then putting them into the context of global ordering strategies. It is a US in the World class that truly addresses the role of the US in the World. Plus, the information is really relevant and interesting.
This course is definitely on the heavier side of the GenEd workload. However, if you are willing to put in the extra work, this course is definitely worth it.
This course is incredibly well done. The lectures, section discussions, readings, and assignments compliment each other nicely and are incredibly engaging. The course hits the mark, leaving students throughly grounded in 20th and 21st century international relations. It is a reasonable amount of work and there is a lot of support offered during the essay-writing process. As a whole, it is throughly enjoyable and fascinating, not to mention that it fills several concentration and Gen-Ed requirements.
Fantastic class. Great way to fulfil Gov IR requirement and/or USW or just for an elective. We covered a huge breadth of history and current affairs. I feel like a better world citizen. Professor Sarotte's lectures were extremely engaging and clear.
The material in this class was really fascinating, and helped me to understand relevant conflicts in international relations today. The workload is fair, and you have time to produce quality work rather than stressing and submitting subpar assignments.
Be prepared for a lot of reading and to cover a lot of key events pretty quickly because to get from 1914 to today, things move pretty fast.
This was a great course. The information was very interesting, and highly relevant. Cold war international relations directly relate to our current state of international relations. Professor Sarotte is an expert in this topic, and she will be leaving after next semester, so catch it while you can! You learn a lot about history and government and the United States in a pretty painless way.
