What an amazing course. I mean, really! USW 39 changed the way I view American politics and democracy. Not only do I now have a historical grasp of American democracy, but I also understand how complex and shifting democratic governance can be. Prof. Moss is just such a great lecturer. He's a pro at facilitating discussion, and he's just a real boss on the subject of American government, civics, and politics. Take this course. You will not regret it one bit. Sure, other courses may offer you a glimpse at the world of "business" or "entrepreneurship," but USW 39 helps foment a certain sense of citizenship and democratic duty that is PRICELESS. This course represents all that Harvard is and all that Harvard should be. Quintessential Harvard course. DO IT.
This class will change your entire view of the US government, especially if your background in US history is not strong. Every class is a treat, and Professor Moss is an incredible instructor who's highly engaging. As a takeaway from his final class, I think most students who have not taken a class diving into US history are missing out on something fundamental to their education. Highly recommend.
I would highly recommend applying for this course.  Professor Moss is potentially the best teacher I have had at Harvard.  The case studies are always interesting, and the assignments are fair.  The case study format may be nerve-racking at first given the heavy emphasis placed on participation, but I would not let this deter you from taking the class.
One of the best classes I have ever taken. I learned so much about democracy and American history in a totally new perspective. It really made me think about the United States and its history and how that relates to issues today.
This is far-and-away the best Gen Ed course that Harvard has to offer. Beyond being an amazing way to engage current issues of American democracy and society, the class itself is an absolutely unique experience. You get to take a class at the business school, learn alongside MBA students, and experience David Moss, one of the most brilliant historians and able professors around. Shop the course and you will immediately see what all the fuss is about.
Your grade in this course is based entirely on participation and on your final essay. This means that yes, it is very important to attend lectures and participate (not difficult, given the excellent teacher and readings). However other than that, coursework is minimal; only two assignments of 750 words all semester. In all honesty, the readings need to be done insofar as you can participate in class, and can write a good final essay.
Among the best classes you will find at Harvard. The cases offer a very different and interesting way to study U.S. history. Professor Moss is outstanding. That being said, the case method style of teaching is not for everyone. If you are looking for clear answers, look elsewhere. This course raises more questions about American democracy than it answers, but it will leave you with a strong context and framework for discussing and debating these questions rigorously.
This class is amazing. It is a great example of a gen ed and you really need to take it.
Can't say enough good things about what I've learned from this course. I've been able to think about almost every aspect of the foundations of our political system from the stance of the decision makers who were facing the challenges at the time, and Moss' teaching and discussions has been invaluable.
Take this course. If you are even considering taking it, take it. Tell everyone you know about it and take it.
One of the best classes at Harvard. This goes way beyond your standard AP US history, bringing out cases that you never had even heard of and certainly didn't see as formative to our democracy, but within five minutes you will be engaged in a debate, ready to form an opinion and then get it blown to pieces. Every conversation followed me out the door and became a topic I brought up at dinner for the rest of the week. Moss does an inspiring job drawing everything together, and you'll leave this course excited to vote, debate, and solve our world's problems with a democratic heart.
If you're going to take this class, be prepared to speak in class, but please, only when you have something useful to share.  Generally a good, engaging class.  Fun to learn with the case method.
Take with caution.  Yes, the workload is light, but the cases are dry.  They often haven't gone through their final round of editing, and it shows.  Read the first case.  If you like it, great.  If you don't, then be warned that subsequent cases only get longer and denser.  This course did not revolutionize my perception of democracy, and the constant flow of guests and filming of the course eventually got on my nerves.  As much as I love Professor Moss, the semester became less about learning and more about advertising his research projects and approach to civic education to the world.  That being said, this is a perfect class for the politically-inclined first-semester senior who is confident participating in front of large groups.
This is an absolutely fantastic class, especially if you are thinking of Business School and want to see what classes there are structured like.  Professor Moss is passionate about the subject material, and he is a great lecturer and discussion moderator.  The case method is my favorite style of learned, and I highly recommend this class!
This is probably the best class I've taken at Harvard.  I feel that it has fundamentally altered the way I think about American government.  David Moss is a spectacularly good professor, and a master of his craft.  The cases are extremely interesting.  Hands down the most engaging class I have taken at Harvard too -- it's nearly impossible not to pay attention in class.  Needing to participate regularly in front of 100 very smart peers can be stressful and at times a little frustrating, but it is so, so worth it.  This class will make you re-evaluate everything you thought you knew about American democracy.
Best course I've ever taken at Harvard.  It is challenging and scary, but isn't that why you came to Harvard?!  It will totally change the way you look at the world and will push you to be a better student and citizen of the world.
It's not an easy A. Take another gen ed if you want an A.
Take this if you can for the Gen Ed!  Best Gen Ed I have taken at Harvard by far, and one of my favorite classes.  The three writing assignments are not too taxing, and you learn a lot just by coming to class prepared to participate.  If you are shy about participating, this class will empower you to learn how to question material and contribute to class discussion.
Amazing course. Would highly recommend
This course is brilliant--one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Prof. Moss' cases are successfully nonpartisan, something very hard to find in most social science classes at the University. Prof. Moss is a brilliant lecturer and is so engaged with what he does. This course made me made me appreciate and understand the development of American democracy and my role as a citizen. Great for History/Gov majors and non-majors alike. Each case (you have two a week), takes about 1.5-2 hours to read and the assignments are very manageable.
Best public speaking I've encountered at Harvard was in this class. The standard for contributions was high, and the fact that participation is a large part of the grade contributed to each class being extremely interesting and enjoyable. However, it is a bit stressful if you are uncomfortable with public speaking. Overall, a great class that I got a lot out of.
It's your civic duty to take this course.
Incredible lessons, beautiful cases, amazing teaching style from Prof. Moss, and really interesting debate format for the class. Very exciting, inspiring, encouraging! Don't take this class if you're not going to put in the time to do the readings thoroughly, you won't be able to pick things up from the lecture itself because it's taught in a distinct style that moves beyond the text into the philosophical and political realms.
This class is the best I have taken at Harvard. Professor Moss is outstanding as a lecturer and facilitator of discussion and the course offers a great introduction to the case study method. I can't recommend this class enough.
This is a wonderful course that will at the very least challenge the way you think about democracy and governance. The professor is amazing and actively sharpens students' understanding of the material.
Phenomenal course. You will learn the importance of citizenship and involvement to the American Democracy though a series of historical cases and in class discussions.
Definitely take this class. Professor Moss is incredible.  Every lecture is insightful and engaging, and some of them will blow your mind. Everyone should learn the lessons of US history and no other class has so aptly taught them.
Everyone and anyone will benefit from this class. Through interactions with Professor Moss and the other students in the class, you learn and are inspired about everything from politics to public speaking.
This class will teach you more about American democracy, government and history than any other class. Be prepared for the case method style though. It can be a little intimidating at first because the class is large and participation is required. But in the end, you will be grateful to it because it forces you to stay super engaged and get a ton out of the class.
Professor Moss is amazing and learning American History through the case study (HBS style) is a very unique experience
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. Take it.Moss is an amazing teacher, and you will feel like you learned a lot after each class. The case study method is very engaging, and I was always excited to go to class. Talk to Moss after class or in office hours. He's really cool and very enthusiastic about talking to students!
THIS IS HANDS DOWN ONE OF THE BEST CLASSES YOU CAN TAKE. It's pushed me to be more vocal in class (due to the case method and public speaking aspect), but also made me more informed about politics. It made me want to vote! Seriously David Moss is a genius and just such a kind person and students at Harvard should NOT be intimidated by the walk across the river or the MBA students--this class is worth it all.
I would highly recommend this course. Prof. Moss does an incredible job curating engaging discussions about how and why different decisions made throughout our countries history to illustrate the mechanics behind democracy. I left the class feeling like I had a much better understanding of our government.
One of my favorite classes. The case study method of teaching is very user friendly and informative. Professor Moss did a great job of facilitating conversation and raising unique questions
This is the best class I've ever taken at Harvard. I've always felt insecure about having an insufficient background in history/politics, but I wasn't super interested in taking a classic survey course, and this class was the perfect solution to my problem. You learn so much about a variety of issues while also learning how to think about analogous problems/dilemmas surrounding democracy, and the case study method is really engaging. You definitely have to prepare for every class to get an A in participation, so it wasn't an no-work course, but I found myself really wanting to read all the cases just to have to knowledge for future use outside the class. Couldn't recommend more highly.
This was a great course.  The best part for me was that the course forced students to think about different problems in American democracy as if we were decisionmakers from the era when the problem occurred.  We had to think about different compromises or policy proposals and evaluate how well they would solve a problem and how well we could actually implement those proposals.  In that sense, I feel like this course allows students to practice some very valuable, practical skills that could be applicable in a number of different careers or situations later in life.
Taking this class for the case method makes it worth it, especially if you are a history buff! The cases are incredibly detailed so they are a bit difficult and time consuming, but they are interesting. Professor Moss's insights at the end of each class are incredible. It is a lot of preparation and work for each class though, and the emphasis on participation is stressful.
Best class I've taken at Harvard so far. Take it if you want your faith restored in American democracy.
Take this course! It will change the way you think about American history and how you view your participation in American democracy moving forward. All courses at Harvard should be taught this way. The case method puts the onus on students to prepare for class discussions (which while a little intimidating at first, gets easier over time). And written assignments are fair and not overly time consuming. This is a fantastic course!
This is a great class for almost everyone. David Moss is one of the most engaging professors I have encountered at Harvard so far, and has done a truly remarkable job with putting this class together
This class totally changed the way I view democracy, and after taking it I feel like I can really engage in critical discussion on important political issues. It can be intimidating to speak up in such a large class, but Professor Moss is really supportive and makes your comments sound smart no matter what. The class has a great energy to it, and Professor Moss's sense of humor really made it an enjoyable environment.
This course is an excellent inquiry into the purpose of democracy and the role of citizens in it. It provides a fantastic overview of American history through the lens of specific, extremely interesting cases. Class discussion is really interesting, and Prof. Moss is incredible.
Take this class. It brilliantly weaves together important themes in democracy in order to get students to think critically about what makes America work and how history has shaped where we are today. Professor Moss and the TFs do an amazing job with it, and challenging yourself with a case-method class is very rewarding.
This is an amazing class that teaches you A LOT and gets you to really think about what democracy means and what makes democracies function. However, in-class participation is heavily weighted in your final grade, and the pressure to say something decent often detracts from your ability to really engage in the class material.
Take this class. Professor Moss is a convincing proponent of a system it's easy to believe is failed. I was genuinely disappointed whenever class ended. Highly participation-based, but not in a bad way--if you're anything like me, you'll want to leap into the fray. Oh, and go to his office hours!--he likes talking with students, it'll give you a chance to shore up your understanding of some broader themes and pose questions if you've got any particular issues (current or historical) you're keen on.
This class is a wonderful way to fulfill the US in the World Gen Ed requirement for undergraduates. The workload isn't too substantial; it's typically a total of 30-40 pages of reading a week, plus 2 short (750-word) papers and a 12- to 15-page final paper. All in all, the class is fairly painless. At the same time, it teaches a lot about about the problems that the US democratic system has had to face and overcome in the last 240 years. Through the class, I learned a lot about what aspects of US democracy are best-equipped to deal with particular political and democratic issues. Prof. Moss is an excellent instructor. It is clear that he is both extremely knowledgeable and very passionate about teaching. The class is mostly based around class participation, and Prof. Moss made sure to solicit a lot of class participation in order to make the course run well.

Overall, this class is absolutely worth taking! I am an applied math concentrator, so this is not the sort of class I would typically take. And yet, I still learned a ton and enjoyed myself in the process, without putting in too much. Take this class!
This is without a doubt the best class I've taken at Harvard, and probably the best class I expect to take. Professor Moss is a fantastic lecturer, and really makes you think deeply about democracy in the U.S. Every time I left class I would have conversations with roommates, parents, and others about what I learned. Truly phenomenal experience.
It takes some work but it's well worth it.
This is hands down the best class I have taken at Harvard. Professor Moss is the best teacher I have ever had. The case study method (both in reading and in class) are a lot of fun and a pleasant break from history classes that drown students with reading. The variety of types of thinkers in the class makes the conversation awesome. Basically, take this class!!
The class itself is quite competitive since so many people want to participate in the lessons. You are supposed to participate in every lecture. Only listening is not enough.

This sometimes distracts you from really listening and leads you to mostly thinking about what your personal statement will be today.
Professor Moss is amazing! When I usually listen to a lecture on these topics, I become bored and unable to follow - it feels like the person talking is not really saying anything of substance (I'm a math concentrator, so that might be a reason I'm experiencing these symptoms). But with David Moss, it's a totally different story - he really made sense, even to me, and made the lectures engaging and interesting. Also - very important - be prepared to speak up.
Come to class with an opinion and be willing to speak up in class. This can be challenging in a room full of 90 students but this class is really the best course at Harvard.
After taking this course, I regret ever giving any other courses a 5 for a Q-score. Hands down best class I've taken at Harvard, Professor Moss is the best. If you are deciding between this and the other Business School USW course, take this one.
Best class I have taken at Harvard! I initially was wary because I have no interest in history or politics. But despite being a hard science major, the discussions often made me want to study economics and government deeper. The classes are discussions on case studies, so not really lectures, but rather discussions guided by the professor. It is amazing how engaging he makes the discussions, as they are not simply regurgitating material from the readings.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Professor Moss is incredible and it changed the way I look at much of US History and modern day issues. Absolutely my favorite class this semester, be prepared to do some work and lots of reading but I truly loved it.
Super interesting class, amazing professor but make sure you really understand the readings in order to participate in class
This class is amazing.  Prof Moss is great at directing the discussion, and provides really enlightening conclusions at the end of each class.  The cases we read are all written by Prof Moss and his colleagues, and they are all easy to read without background knowledge.  That being said, don't take the class if you won't bother to do the readings: the entire discussion is based on it, and you won't contribute anything valuable to discussion if you don't.  

Also the two short paper assignments and the final paper are all very painless.  I had a lot of fun even though I haven't written a paper in years.
Hands down, the best class I've taken in my life, let alone at Harvard. This provided me an entirely new way to look at democracy and contemporary political issues, and quite literally changed my life. The readings are fascinating yet short, and you're at times brought to tears with how profoundly monumental these seemingly minor political decisions have been. The last lecture, addressing whether democracy is more "broken" now than in the past, is breathtaking. 
Take this class. You'll never find one better.
One of the best classes on offer, regardless of category. Take it even if you've already fulfilled US-W, but be sure to to participate.
I am a senior and this is the best class I took at Harvard. Just take it! This will sound like such a cliche but I really did think it was the essence of a true liberal arts education - really teaches you how to think about democracy and incorporate it into how you live your lives. I would spend time thinking about these ideas outside of class every week and some of the cases really stayed with me. This was a total elective for me and I am so so happy I took it.
It's a great class. Moss is a great teacher, you will learn a lot. But be careful, the participation grade has a lot of weight. And sometimes the class can be frustrating, and it can be hard to participate. So you will spend lots of time reading a case study, and then not be able to even get any credit for it. But it's part of the process.
This class is truly special. There are few classes which are as instructive, thought provoking, and memorable, as this class is. I cannot think of a course in which I learned more. Low workload, high reward - this class is simply amazing.
David Moss is a boss. That rhymes and is true. Being a citizen is cool and important, and you'll learn a bit about that in this class.
Best class ever. Case studies are amazing. The professor manages the discussions incredibly well. Dive into cases, not just go over. Analysis is great. I do my readings ~2 hours before each class, only 2 midterm papers as hw (short), with a final paper that's a bit longer but manageable. Only bad part is so many ppl ~95 means that you'll have to raise your hand a lot and generally only get called on once per discussion (and not for every discussion).
This is a great opportunity to see what the case study method of learning looks like. Professor Moss is so approachable and a great lecturer, but the majority of the course is really just staying on top of the light reading and contributing in class. Don't be afraid to speak up!
One of the best classes I've ever taken. Professor Moss is a special kind of teacher, and most students remained really engaged. The 1.5 hour classes flew by. The case method is great
This class was my favorite of the term. Although classes were stressful because I constantly felt pressure to speak (because of the large class participation portion of the final grade), I loved going to every class. Some of my most basic beliefs about government were challenged and I credit Professor Moss and my classmates for expanding my knowledge of democracy.
This class is wonderful. There is a reason why David Moss has won so many teaching awards, and it is because he is great at what he does. He may also be a virtuoso in other areas outside of the classroom, but inside of it he is entirely focused on the students and teaching them. He has a magic touch when it comes to balancing class discussion, covering everyone within the class, getting to show a wide range of ideas and opinions... he will also know everyone's names by week 2, minimum, and really works to get to know his students. He is an absolutely incredible person and teacher. Take it just for him. The case-based classes are also a great way to learn which I loved and found to be both interesting and helpful, but the number one thing is to take it for him. You will walk away feeling so much better informed about American democracy, how it works and how it should, and inspired to change it for the better.
This class is great.  If you are tired of passively listening to lectures, then take Am. Democracy as you are encouraged to be active in the discussion.  The professor writes the materials, and they are often a reasonable length.  The workload is manageable, except the final paper which felt somewhat daunting considering there was no real lead up to it.
This a fantastic class, and Professor Moss is a fantastic professor. He moderates the discussions with great poise, summarizing all the relevant points while asking all the tough questions to force individuals and the group as a whole to advance their thinking. It's sometimes tough to get called on due to the fact that there lots of people in the class (80 undergrads, 20 MBAs), but you definitely will get the chance to speak. Absolutely recommend it!
Take this class. Take it. Now. This is by far the most rewarding course I've taken at Harvard. If you're not used to speaking up in lecture, get ready. The course is incredibly engaging and beautifully catered to come together.
you should definitely take this class! The case-based structure of the class was a uniquely effective way to examine american history. The professor is incredible, the emphasis on discussion participation is refreshing and engaging, and the material is fascinating! Couldn't have taken a better class to fulfull the USW gen ed requirement
This course was amazing--it's not too much work, but you learn more than you do in most classes. The case method was also very fun and engaging.
TAKE THIS CLASS

The cases are incredible, the discussion is amazing and professor Moss is a WIZARD. He'll massage just what he wants out of the class discussion, constantly prodding and questioning, really boiling the cases down to essential questions about democracy and government. At the end of every class, I felt a rush of endorphins (or something) because every class was a ticket to a masterfully crafted story that culminated with a remarkable realization about democracy or government.

TAKE THIS CLASS.
Amazing class! Relatively low workload, really interesting material, cool discussions. And Moss is a brilliant professor.
Take this class! It is such an amazing course and Professor Moss is the best facilitator I have ever seen. He puts a whole new spin on American history.
Take this class. It was probably the best history course I will take while at Harvard. Professor Moss is amazing, the course readings are manageable and very interesting, and the class format is awesome. You will learn a ton about lesser known dilemmas in American history and about what makes democracy work.
Really be ready to push your thinking, speak in public, and adapt/react quickly. Moss is a terrific professor, and all the TFs were very helpful in office hours prepping to write the papers. If you're not going to do the reading (not too many pages but did take at least an hour to read), don't take the class. Very important class for being an educated American, learned SO much, got a lot out of it! One of the best I've ever taken.
The class centers on an exciting discussion that is guided and woven together by Professor Moss. Class ends with a conclusion by Professor Moss that makes you think seriously about how problems in the United States should be handled. It's an excellent class to take if you are at all interested in the workings of the democracy.
If USW 39 isn't the best class I've taken at Harvard, it certainly ranks among the top few. I'd especially recommend this class to people who haven't yet taken a course that uses the case method. All the cases are engaging, thought-provoking, and relatively short (approximately 30 pages of reading a week). The discussions in class are fantastic. And Professor Moss is one of the most insightful, thoughtful, and dedicated teachers I've ever had. I cannot recommend this class highly enough. If you are fortunate enough to lottery into it, take this class.
This class is amazing!  If you are looking for a class that lets you dive into the heart of political debate and American democratic history, this is THE course.  No background necessary.  I feel much more well-versed in political discourse to the extent that I can draw historical parallels and much better understand the problems facing our democracy today.  Dr. Moss is an amazing professor in both facilitating discussion and lecturing himself, not to mention he's advised some of the big players out there in our country so he's got years of incredibly impressive experience.  This course also challenges you to speak up in front of a lot of people.  My only complaint is that the class is way too big, and it's very stressful when 40% of the grade is participation and the class has around 80 people in it.
INCREDIBLE.
Overall, I am pleased that I chose to fulfill my US-World requirement with this class.  That said, I'm not sure I would have taken it if it didn't fulfill a Gen Ed.  This is NOT because this isn't a good course; on the contrary, it is excellent.  But it does draw a particular type of student.  I am not the kind of person who enjoys speaking in large (100+ students) classes.  Like any class as HBS, US-World 39 relies on exhaustive discussion of each case (I often felt as though we were beating a dead horse on some of the issues the cases brought up).  Keep in mind that a considerable proportion of the class is composed of MBA students who have significantly more knowledge and experience on some of the issues covered in the cases (particularly the finance ones, of which there were quite a few though by no means a majority).  Though all of the students in the class were generally courteous (case discussions only got tense a couple of times in the whole semester), I still found the structure a bit intimidating, which is not good considering that participation is a huge component of the final grade.  This also meant that I was not fully aware of where I stood in the course throughout the semester.  Overall, though, the cases and discussions were quite interesting, and Prof. Moss is a great professor.  The optional section workshops were often quite interesting, and you could choose to attend (or not attend) those which you found most relevant.  The workload is very manageable: cases are around 15 pages each, and the two short op-ed style papers during the term can actually be enjoyable to write.  The final research paper (like the other two papers) is very open-ended, which allows you to engage deeply with an issue related to democracy that you find interesting.  If you enjoy class discussions (or if you don't but are looking to go outside of your comfort zone), I would recommend this course.
This class is great. David Moss is wonderful and a great lecturer (funny and engaging). Be ready to speak in class.
Take this class if you like having an opinion. One of the best classes offered.
I am a Senior, and this is the 2nd best class that I've taken at Harvard. Professor Moss is incredible...incredible!!!!! Lectures are engaging. You learn SO MUCH, but the workload is very manageable.
This course is great! Very engaging. The cases that we read are really interesting. And there are only 2 very short papers through out the semester. The only thing to be wary of is that participation is a huge part of the grade, and it sometimes can be hard to participate because there are a lot of people in the class.
This is a great class, you learn so much. David Moss is one of the best in the business, is engaging, and the teaching staff is top caliber
Fantastic class! You will learn a ton and have fun doing it!
This class is absolutely phenomenal. It is one of the best classes I have taken here at Harvard. The professor is amazing, and the way the class is set up is unique. I definitely recommend that everyone take this class. It is especially great for people who want to learn more about the history of democracy and wants to learn in an actively engaging atmosphere. It is extremely important to read every single case study if you do take this class.
I absolutely LOVED this class! The case studies were interesting, Professor Moss is incredible, and every class is just a discussion. One of the main things I'm grateful for is that it teaches you the meaning of "becoming a better citizen" and what factors keep democracy alive. In addition, I really enjoyed the fact that the class was offered to undergraduates even though it was taught at HBS. Overall, fantastic USW gen-ed course!!
This is by far the best Gen Ed I have ever taken. The case studies are extremely interesting, Professor Moss does an amazing job facilitating discussion, and his conclusions and insights at the end of lecture are always really thought-provoking. Every American (and non-American!) citizen should take this class!
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard (I'm a senior)! Incredibly enlightening discussion every class. Every week, you leave with some good questions that you can and should continue to talk about with your friends, roommates, etc. I feel like a more informed citizen after taking this course. As a science concentrator, the workload was totally manageable (one of the few courses where I actually did all of the readings). The one qualm I had with the course is that participation is 40% and given that there were close to 100 students in the course this year, it was often hard to speak up as much as one would like. That's something that will hopefully be addressed in next year's version of the course. Nevertheless, fantastic course!
Prof. Moss is a phenomenal lecturer and discussion lead. This class will necessarily just make you more aware to many of the undercurrents of democracy. Take it.
Great course. Do the reading. You'll like the class more and the class will like you.
Seven semesters under my belt and this is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. Everything you imagined a college class to be; informative, smart and interesting discussions with your brilliant classmates and professor. Professor Moss is a master at managing the discussion and a fantastic lecturer. The case system is awesome and completely manageable. I've taken a bunch of Gov courses, and this is the first class that got me to think differently about government. I can't praise this class enough. One thing, if you don't like speaking up in class proceed with caution, the class is dependent on it.
Take this class. Hands down, this is the best class I've taken at Harvard. I can't really expect to find one that exceeds or even matches it. Professor Moss is so inspiring; he brings his own perspective and his own ideas to class. This class is more about listening to your classmates, but the 10 minutes he spoke every class were so rich. He is also great at facilitating the discussion, making it a fluid, lucid, productive 1.5 hours. You will leave this class intellectually enlightened and with a new sense of hope and optimism for the United States.
This was by far the best academic experience of my life, as Professor Moss is extremely engaging and exciting as a professor.  The class was very well prepared and relevant to the modern day, and I came away from each class feeling like I had learned so much.  This is exactly the type of class that you come to Harvard to take, as it is so intellectually stimulating and always keeps you on your toes.  I would implore any future students to do whatever they can to get into the class and read all the cases thoroughly, making sure to participate in the class itself as much as possible.  If you do that, you will come away with a fine grade and an amazing experience.
MUST TAKE. Professor Moss is one of those life changing professors whose knowledge and humor will make the 1.5 hour discussions go past way too quickly. This is the best class I've taken at Harvard and probably for years to come! The assignments, though difficult, are few and far in between so you have time to figure out how to do well when they come by. The topics really change your perception on American history and democracy in general, especially on subjects like tyranny of the majority and states rights that still matter today. I felt lucky to have been in this discussion based course amongst brilliant undergraduate and HBS peers.
I think this is the best possible USW GenEd I could have taken. The professor is great and I think the opportunity to interact more so than in most class with other undergraduates, and the Business School Students is amazing. If you take the class seriously, you'll be able to think a lot more critically about American Democracy.
This is what Harvard is supposed to be like. Every other course I've taken at Harvard falls short of the type of amazing broadening academic experience I had this semester. In talking with classmates outside of class, even those who aren't particularly intellectual were genuinely excited by this course every week. David Moss was the best/most engaging professor I've had so far in my years at Harvard. Not a difficult course at all in terms of reading or assignments, but the nature of the case method requires a bit of mental grappling with the material ahead of time. My only regret is that there aren't more opportunities to take HBS courses as an undergrad as the case format lent itself much more pleasant and fruitful academic experience than the typical lecture/section FAS course with a compilation of readings to wade through each week.
TAKE THIS COURSE. BEST WAY TO FILL USW. Readings for each class is only about 15 pages. To do well in this class you have to 1. Show up. 2. Have an opinion. So easy to manage. SO FUN and THOUGHT PROVOKING (Professor Moss is the bomb.)
This class is one of the top 3 classes that I've ever taken at Harvard (as a junior), and I'm a science concentrator, so the rest of my favorite classes are of course in those areas. The course structure fantastic with its case studies, Prof. Moss leads the conversation during class so skillfully, and discussing cases and concepts as a class without a formal lecture really does something to imbed the material much better than just being lectured at the whole time - and you get input from people in the class that come from different backgrounds, and some of whom are also of course MBAs. The workload is just right for a GenEd, but most importantly, the discussions you have in this class and the concepts that those and Prof Moss introduce, are some of the most important that we need to discuss in America today, and one's that are relevant to any discussion of democracy or understanding of our country. Everyone should be aware of them, and these kinds of discussions really are necessary for us to move forward productively in view of our history. Simply fantastic, and something that I wish every Harvard student could take.
This course was great, and the material was not burdensome.
dont be afraid to speak up
This is one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard. Professor Moss's lectures at the end of class are terrific and the case study readings were very manageable and interesting. Only take this class if you like to speak up since forty percent of your grade is class participation!
I looked forward to this class every week and was sad every time the hour and a half was up. It's hard to find a good survey course at Harvard (I think there should be more, since that's what Gen Eds are nominally about), but this is a great survey of American history that rewards critical thinking and active discussion rather than rote memorization. The workload is completely manageable and interesting--there is no reason not to take this course! Professor Moss is one of the best professors I've had a Harvard. .
This course is interesting if you enjoy history. It's also completely discussion based and participation is a big proponent of the grade so definitely give it some though if you have trouble speaking in class.
If it's offered again you have to take it. Business school students are super interesting to talk to, and you get a semester's worth of insight from every single class. If you like American history at all, you will look forward to every class. Takes literally an hour of reading per class.
If you are interested in case-study method, take it! You will not regret it to take a course with this fantastic professor.If you are interested in US history and critical issues regarding democracy, take it! This course might give you an unique view on the past.If you have no clue about the US, take it! :D
You should really (really) like to participate in class.  If you are the kind of person who likes to thoroughly think through your commentary, this class might now be for you.  Professor Moss is an excellent teacher, though.
The course is great. Professor Moss is an excellent instructor who holds the class with such an energy that one does not feel a single minute of boredom and about 90% of the class is discussion. The class is taught by the case method, so that every week there is a new case of around 16 pages that you have to prepare. The assignments were really fair and the TF Danny is always eager to meet up with you and provide you with help as well as with very detailed comments on your assignments. There are also around 20 MBA students in the class, which is very nice as you are able to get in touch with them and see how they are arguing - nevertheless one does not need to fear them as undergraduates are graded separately and in our class the participations was around 50:50. Great course that I recommend with enthusiasm!
An absolutely wonderful class - Prof. Moss is the bees knees: a dynamic, engaging, incredible lecturer who has a special ability to both ask big questions and work with complex matter in a way that distils it into approachable critical questions. It's a rare opportunity and an absolute must, to experience Prof. Moss's brilliant teaching. The course itself, in its case study format is wonderfully conducted, with Prof. Moss really bringing the undergrads and the HBS students together to think on our feet and to conduct (what feels like) a true and dynamic conversation throughout the lecture/discussion. I would take this class as an elective even if it didn't fill the USW requirement! Future undergrads are EXTREMELY lucky to be able to experience such incredible teaching, on a topic that really does shed more light on "US and the World."
The class is great. Moss is an excellent lecturer. My only complaints are that it took foreeeeever to get assignments back and that the course presupposes that democracy is the best form of government.
