This is an excellent introduction to Constitutional Law. Professor Tribe is a Harvard gem, and you should definitely take advantage of an opportunity to hear him speak a few times per week.
Thinking About the Constitution was one of the best classes I have taken yet at Harvard. Professor Tribe is one of the preeminent minds on American constitutional law, an excellent lecturer, and accessible to those who want to form a relationship with him. I recommend this class strongly to anyone who has an interest in the Constitution, no matter if the Constitution is only of passing interest to you or if it's been an academic passion of yours for some time.
Professor Tribe is amazing and generates great thought about the Constitution.  Take this course!
Prof. Tribe's lectures were pretty great, though fast at times.  The readings were quite fragmented (e.g., "1625-32, 1639-42 (stop at the end of first full paragraph), 1653-58 (stop at the end of the carry-over paragraph), 1662-65") and changed pretty often, so the course had a somewhat schizo feeling to it.  My TF was absolutely terrible, but he'll be gone next year.  Also, lots of suck-ups in this class, as you might expect in a "pre-law" class with Larry Tribe.
This is probably one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. If you are at all interested in law, this is a must. Professor Tribe is an excellent lecturer and it's great to hear his "war stories" - when else are you going to be able to take a class with someone who's argued more than 20 cases in front of the Supreme Court? It's definitely more rigorous than most other GenEds, but you will learn so much if you do the readings and go to lecture. This class wasn't just a dry overview of constitutional law - we saw how the Constitution is tied to some of the most divisive political and social issues today.
This course is a real gem. It provides substantive exposure to questions of the Constitution and its interpretation, maintaining accessibility without ever being watered-down. This is a course in which I truly felt that I learned a great deal, and I am proud of the knowledge that I have garnered. Professor Tribe's ability to seamlessly connect historical questions with current events, and especially his ability to draw on his own very relevant experiences in a way that was genuinely interesting and helpful, really helped this course to shine.
At the end of the final lecture, Professor Tribe gave an unrehearsed speech. I realized suddenly that I was crying, then I looked around and saw that everyone else was too. Good luck finding another class at Harvard that you will miss that much.
A really sweeping view of a whole lot of constitutional topics, rewarding also when the class goes into detail about particular cases. Prof. Tribe is a very good lecturer, and sections almost always provide engaging forums.
This is a fun and interesting course, just a little difficult for a gen ed
I would recommend this class to anyone who is interested in Constitutional Law.
It provides a bulk of quality information without an overwhelming amount of work.
It's interesting.  Grading isn't that easy but not much work each week.  It's a good way to figure out if you actually want to be a lawyer.  I saved 200k and figured out I don't.
Definitely not an easy class, but it is very interesting and Prof. Tribe is the man.  Section is pretty intense, but definitely a class you should take before graduating.
Without a doubt one of the best courses offer at this University, not least because Professor Tribe is a legend. That he got about a 5 minute standing ovation at the end of the course speaks to his great talent as a Professor. I am truly sad that this course is over. If you are ever to make a decision you will not regret here, it will be to take this course. Learning from Tribe is a rare opportunity that  you should be so lucky to have and to cherish if you do.
Tribe knows everything about the Constitution  what's in the text and, more importantly, what's not. The class was a bit disorganized with regards to structure, but these problems should hopefully be fixed the next time this course is offered. The teaching staff was incredibly helpful and responsive to student feedback, also.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  It requires genuine thought, but does not ask you to do busy work.  Take this class - you won't regret it.
This is one of the most intellectually rigorous and deeply engaging courses I have taken at Harvard. This course sets a very high expectation, but the attempt to meet that expectation is incredibly rewarding. Professor Tribe is brilliant, passionate, accessible, and kind. I feel truly lucky to have taken this course.
This course was amazing and I highly recommend it to anyone and everyone. Professor Tribe is amazing-he has personally argued lots of the cases we cover in front of the Supreme Court and he is very aware of not making it a law school course but synthesizing the material and laying out the big and important concepts of the course. He made it really interesting and he is a great lecturer, and he is very accessible. The TFs really care about the material and are also really cool. The material in this class is really interesting and relates to everyone's life in the US and gives you really good analysis and general abilities to defend your beliefs. I'm obsessed with this class and everyone should take it-it's a great way to fulfill a GenEd with not a lot of work and an amazing professor.
Take this class. Larry Tribe is a God among men. His lectures are works of art. The TFs are amazing and enthusiastic.
This is a great course!!!! Take it, please! It will make you a much more well-rounded individual and take away any fear you might have about discussing political topics. You will really learn so much! BUT BEWARE: Unless you've taken classes like this before, this course throws a lot of jargon at you that you think you understand only to realize you missed the point all along in the end. It assumes a lot of familiarity with law and the current political environment.
Great class, Tribe is wonderful, section is quite fun and engaging, the readings and material is great - my reserves are mostly in the weekly random question/essay assignment, but hopefully that will be tweaked later on.
If you're interested in Con Law or law school in general, this class is for you. If not, it's probably not for you.
This class has really involved material, and without a prior background, it would be tough. However, if you have an interest in law or government, take it regardless as it can teach you a lot about constitutional law, which is an esoteric but critical element of American political understanding.
Be prepared to cover a lot of information. It is annoying that they don't post the videos online until the end of the semester, so practice taking as little time as you can taking notes.
Heavy work load
You had better be pretty into the Constitution to take this class. Also, Professor Tribe is a great lecturer, but there is a moderate to jingoist pro-liberal bias in the course.
It is a really great class that makes you think about things you may have taken for granted.
TAKE THIS CLASS!! I took this GenEd as an elective, and it was by far my favorite course this semester.  Professor Tribe is an incredible person and an incredible teacher.  You will learn so much in this class.  It's not too much work, and the work is very enjoyable.  Also, go to office hours and talk to Professor Tribe.  You'll learn a ton.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading and to obsess over the essay assignments.  Also, very difficult questions may be posed in section, and you may be forced to answer them on the spot.  But, the professor and teaching fellows are extraordinarily talented and do care that the course is stimulating and enjoyable for you.
Great Class, tribes a good lecturer
this is the most difficult gen ed you will ever find. they try to teach you so much and the work is too much to cover even for the professor/teaching staff. if you dont have basic knowledge of american constitutional law, i would not recommend this course.
This course is truly amazing! If you have any interest in the constitution, the judiciary or with some big political issues of today, take it. Professor Tribe is an amazing lecturer and he is extremely approachable. He provides an excellent, somewhat detailed overview of most of the major constitutional questions. The course dealt with the Affordable Care Act, gun rights, gay marriage, etc. The TFs are also remarkably intelligent and do a great job of establishing understanding of the material through interesting discussions. My favorite course this semester.
This class covers some very important issues and I believe understanding how the Constitution is interpreted is something everyone should at least be familiar with. The Constitution clearly covers important issues in our lives and it helped understand how some of these issues have been resolved by SCOTUS. It is a lot of work but every topic is just as interesting and just as relevant to your life outside of the classroom.
If you have any interest in the American Constitution, I cannot encourage this course with more enthusiasm. Use Tribe's office hours--he is so great, and almost no one goes!
It is Larry Tribe's Constitutional Roadshow. As constitutional roadshows go, that's not a bad one. But keep it in mind.
Thinking About the Constitution is a great way to learn from one of the most influential legal minds of the past century. Professor Tribe is funny, accessible, and flexible in his arguments and you emerge from the class with invaluable skills to approach American politics with.
I took this course as a Gen Ed and found it very challenging at first, but also very enjoyable. Prof Tribe is awesome and the TFs are also amazing. Be sure to ask lots of questions!
Be sure to take this class. Professor Tribe cares deeply about his lectures and the academic and intellectual enrichment of his students. I recommend the course without reservation. The material is timely, salient, and intriguing, and all readings, lectures, and sections will be engaging. Prompts are interesting, and assignments are moderately tough, but fair. Manageable class well worth your time, although more work than a typical Gen Ed.
This class was really awesome in the way that it engaged with hotly contested issues. We debated things in section at the same time that they were being debated in the Supreme Court (gay marriage, Affordable Care Act, affirmative action). It kept me in touch with life outside the yard and taught me a lot about the Constitution.
Constitutional law isn't for everyone. Be prepared to wade through convoluted and controversial Court decisions, and emerge thoroughly disgusted with the undisciplined and incoherent process of Constitutional interpretation.Regardless, it is useful to think about the Constitution as an American, and it provides an interesting angle on the squabbles over mundane popular issues like abortion, affirmative action or guns.
You have to take this class!  Professor Tribe was the most interesting Professor I have had yet.  This course changed the way I look at the Constitution and the world.
Take this. It's fantastic. Much better than justice mainly because of improved course materials.
TAKE THIS COURSE.Lectures: Professor Tribe's lectures twice a week are great. As such a renowned scholar of Constitutional law, he is very knowledgeable about everything taught in this class, and a good deal of the Supreme Court cases we discuss were argued by him! He's full of wonderful anecdotes from his many years of experience as a lawyer and law school professor, and he gives insight into the topic of the Constitution that is undoubtedly better and more authoritative than one would find almost anywhere else. He holds office hours every week, and though I never had the pleasure of attending them, he really cares about this class, the students, and doing everything he can to make this class the best it can be. He isn't some detached, famous figure. He's truly involved in this experience and works very closely with his TFs to ensure that we have a wonderful experience in the course. TFs/Section: Though my TF is, quite unfortunately graduating from law school this year, I have to rave about the wonderful experience I had with him and in sections this year. Never have a had a TF or a section experience that really challenged me in my views and opinions as this class. We were constantly put on guard and really made to think critically about everything we stated and how it fit in with the teachings of the course. I received a very in-depth review of my first essay in the course, which was incredibly helpful for seeing where I was really understanding the course, and where my arguments could use improvement. And I must also talk about office hours because they too were one of the hours I looked forward to most in the semester. My TF quickly grew a quite devoted office hours following because he would spend the entire time discussing any Constitutional questions or issues with us that we wanted to talk about. He really cared about each and every one of us and the day that I left his last office hours, was quite honestly one of the saddest moments this year at Harvard. More than one of us were tearing up at the thought of the end of this course.Essays/Final Exam: The work in this class, in addition to readings, a weekly discussion question to be sent to your TF, and section participation, consist of two relatively short essays, and an 8 hour final take home exam. The essay topics were some of the most interesting topics I have ever encountered in a class. Instead of forcing you to regurgitate information learned and search through texts to find obscure quotes and direct answers, they really allow you to form your own opinion about an issue, and use the skills we learned in class to defend it. The short word count limit really challenges you to cut out all of the extra nonsense from your essay and really focus on the best possible arguments you can make about the topic. I really enjoyed writing both of my essays. The final exam is an 8 hour take home exam given one day during reading period. It consisted of one essay that everyone had to write, and another essay that could be chosen from a group of three essays. I felt as though the essay topics were very fair, and that I was fully prepared to answer any one of them. Fairness: One of the aspects of this class that I felt was emphasized more than in most was fairness, which I really appreciated. There were strict deadlines and word count limits on all of our essays/the exam and on our discussion questions. This was always made clear and there was always plenty of time given on each of these assignments (usually a little over a week on our essays). Also, all of the essays are graded blindly. While this undoubtedly lowered grades on essays slightly because TFs couldn't tell whose was whose, I really appreciated the fact that my TF was able to give me feedback on an essay completely unbiased.Overall, I cannot say enough positive things about this course. Everyone should take it. Seriously. Best. Course. Ever.
It's a great course, super interesting, you learn a lot, but it is difficult!
Lawrence Tribe is an excellent teacher and you should take this class because he will some day be on the supreme court.
Being in a class taught by Laurence Tribe in itself was a privilege. Who else can tell you what it was like to argue in such significant cases as Bush v. Gore or Bowers v. Hardwick? I learned so much about the Constitution, the Supreme Court and significant cases in our nation's history. The course was also extremely relevant to present day cases and issues. Be warned, though, that this is not an easy class by any means. Section can be intense and this course forces you to grapple with difficult issues. What I really loved, though, were the conversations with friends that arose from this class.
Generally low workload, although the readings may take a little bit of time each week.
It was a good course especially if you are interested in the material. At times the lectures can feel slightly long, but overall Tribe is a knowledgeable professor with a lot to teach.
The course is tough for a gen ed.
A great way to fulfill United States in the World and learn about this country's Constitution.
It is a lot if you already have a full plate, but if you have a little room to play with, I would not pass it up!
Lawrence Tribe is fantastic. The course pack is worth every one of the 100+ dollars it costs.
This class has good material, but it's not the best if you want to really delve into doctrine.
Take this class if you want to be an informed citizen!  It will forever change the way you think about and approach key issues including health care, affirmative action, education, free speech, privacy, and same-sex marriage.  Tribe is brilliant and fun, the TFs are great, and the assignments and readings are interesting, fair, and totally do-able.
This is one of those classes that you come to Harvard to take. For pre-law students, the course will give you a real taste of what types of material and assignments you'll grapple with in law school.  As a premed student, I was able to explore a different area of academia that is not only very relevant to living in America and challenge myself to creatively build new arguments.
The main reason to take this course is Professor Tribe. It's an incredible opportunity to learn constitutional law from a legend. He also seems to very energetic about teaching undergrads. It's a great class all around--lecture, readings, and section are all good--and the entire teaching staff clearly puts a lot of effort and energy into the class. With that said, though, I thought Professor Fallon's con law class was a more comprehensive and more serious intro to con law. This class feels like a GenEd, while Fallon's feels like something straight out of law school.
Tribe is a great professor, and the teaching team is fantastic and helpful. My favorite class this semester. The difference between this course and Fallon's course is Tribe wants you to think critically about the Constitution, and engage with it, while Fallon is more about regurgitating facts.
This is an AMAZING class -- incredible teacher, great TFing and basically no work! HIGHLY RECOMMEND.
Take this class, especially if you are considering law school. It is a great introduction to the legal side of the controversial issues that affect our nation today. It makes you look at these issues with a different perspective, and changes your view on politics.
Professor Tribe is fantastic.  His experience and knowledge are truly impressive, and his imaginative teaching style--his blackboard drawings and graphs, for instance--will certainly make you think about the Constitution in new ways.  If you have a genuine interest in the subject and are willing to do the often long readings, you will really enjoy this class.
Great class in all ways.  Really low workload, because the readings fly by.  Grading is forgiving.  Take it!
Prof Tribe is great to listen to, but the class if pretty inflexible.  This class is almost completely about important Supreme Court cases.
This class was one of the best of my undergraduate experience. Professor Tribe is brilliant, of course, but the wonderful thing is how personable he is. I actually wanted to wake up for the 10 am lectures.
It's a good class, and Laurence Tribe is amazing. But, annoyingly, the way the class was structured the TFs weren't allowed to give much help except for what they taught in section.
This course is fun and not particularly hard, and about a subject that practically any student can find interesting. Lectures can be a little dry (although still content-packed) and feel slightly secondary to the materials of the course, but having an awesome professor like Tribe who in one minute can offer inciteful analysis of SC cases and in the next be sharing a personal anecdote with an encounter he had with Justice Scalia is hard to pass up. Also, the workload is very light and easy. Recommend!
great class. read the readings. important issues. take a stance on things. formulates opinions and outlook
This is absolutely one of the BEST classes I have taken at Harvard. I cant say enough good things about it. TAKE IT IF YOU CAN!!!
The cases are the most important thing to read.  Attend the lectures.
Prof. Tribe is a gem of the law school and we are so fortunate to have had him as a lecturer at the college. A true teacher, so passionate, just amazing. Not to be missed.
This course really pushes you to learn the facts behind some of the main, divisive issues that embalm America in the present. It pushes you to examine, or re-examine your position and why you have taken that chosen position. Also, hearing from Tribe is amazing
Take this course!!!! It is by far the best course I have ever taken and likely will ever take at Harvard.  Tribe is the world's premier legal scholar and it shows in a class that was mind-bendingly awesome.  I cannot recommend this with enough enthusiasm.  It changed the way I think about the law and the United States and was truly the time of my life.
This class is wonderful. Though, it is very stressful and I found the final exam to be very difficult, even though I did fine on the midterm essays. It's a challenging course, but you will definitely feel that you accomplished something in the end.
If you want to learn how to bullshit about the Constitution, take this course!
Take this course! You will never have another opportunity like this.
1. Do the readings (at least go through all the landmark cases), this will be invaluable in deriving the maximum benefit from the class2. Go to office hours. The TF's for this class are amazing, they are some of the top students at the law school and you'll gain a lot simply from your interactions with them. Also, Larry Tribe is incredible and he is extremely available via office hours, as long as you are willing to walk out to the law school.3. Understand the requirements for all the assignments in the course. Word limits are often strict and it will save you a lot of time to keep this in mind during your writing process.
Professor Tribe is beyond astounding. His lectures represent the model to which other professors should aspire - engaging, enriching, but also genuinely thought-provoking. You leave lecture still thinking about what he talked about, deciding where you stand on it, instead of agreeing with him by default - and that's exactly what he wants. The course is ridiculously difficult, however, for someone who has never taken a legally oriented class before. The readings are incredibly dense, and the TFs refuse to help you with papers (they're not allowed to in this class - which is intimidating given how differently you have to write for this class.) In general, a great class - but it is NOT just another easy GenEd. It's hard. But I think it's worthwhile overall.
This is a great way to fill your US & the World gen ed requirement. The workload isn't too bad, and the material is both fascinating and extremely relevant to current policy & civil rights debates in this country.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  Definitely take it.  It is worth it.
It is an honor to learn from Laurence Tribe, one a student should pass up if given the chance. I recommend any student interested in government or law to take this course, but beware of extensive, at times dense, readings and the TF grading essays toughly.
This is a great class to take if you have ever wondered how the Supreme Court reaches its decisions on different issues, and also the responsibility we have as individual citizens in interpreting the Constitution. Professor Tribe is not only one of the top scholars in the field, but also a fun and engaging lecturer. The reading material was genuinely interesting, and not all of it was past cases. I also enjoyed the discussions in section on current, controversial topics.
