It's a great class, and will make you appreciate the multiplicity of the Boston landscape (in terms of geography, infrastructure, culture, politics) in a deeper way. A flexible class that can provide whatever you want from it.
This was an absolutely amazing course! We had the opportunity to learn how important and special Boston and other cities are - with topics ranging from gentrification, the innovation economy, the creative class, de-industrialization, racial segregation, etc. All of these built narratives for what Boston is today and the issues its currently facing (need for more affordable housing, the green line expansion, the big dig, artists being pushed out, etc). You will have to find time to go into the city for each assignment though (there are 3 and a final project). But it's an incredibly rewarding and makes for great incentive to spend a day out of the Harvard Bubble. (Most assignments, you could also probably bring a friend along and hang out there afterwards). The assignments are not particularly difficult and instead make you think about what you've learned and apply it to a specific place in Boston. The professors (Luberoff/Kaliner) and TFs (Justin/Alex) are great - they care about the topics and are willing to help you along the way. Guest lectures also great - there's 1 every week and they all really contribute to our discussions!
Going into Boston was the best thing I've done for a class ever. I learned about a music ensemble that I ended up playing with I otherwise would have never have made the effort to find. It's so important for us to get to know the city and community around us before we graduate. This is such a good way to do that. The guest lectures for this are also fantastic - mayor of Somerville, Massachusetts transportation authority, activists during Boston busing crisis, so much amazingness..
This class is AMAZING. I'm so glad they offered it in the fall, because it involves different trips into Boston and those are so much more enjoyable with good weather.Basically, go to lectures. They're amazing. I went to fewer than I should have or wanted to, and it is my major regret of the semester. They hosted INCREDIBLE guest speakers.The assignments are fun. Going into Boston and then writing about it? Super easy and the best way to "force" yourself to get out of the Harvard bubble. It made me much more aware of my surroundings as a home, a city, a system, a network of moving parts, and it is fascinating.
This is quite possible one of the best classes that I've taken at Harvard! The course staff are great and most of the guess lecturers were good. I also really enjoyed exploring Boston, writing about my observations and coming up with my own interpretations of what I saw. I feel like the course is pretty low stress and fun. Additionally, Justin is such a great TF, he is very knowledgable but also very humble.
As far as Gen Eds go, good class. Not too much work, but do learn a good amount about cities, esp. Boston.
This class is outstanding. Best class I have taken at Harvard.
The lectures may be a bit dry because of how much information there is to just know. But the TFs are amazing and very accessible (they really made us think about the information from class during sections and preparing for sections), the lecturers are smart, interesting, charismatic, and approachable, and the assignments are out of this world. I meant, what class is going to let you have fun in Boston (with a short write up) as an assignment?
INCREDIBLE class. The material, the lectures, the section, and the assignments introduce you to Boston in a comprehensive and fascinating way. You will learn more about the city and the people than you could ever learn by living in Cambridge, and there is no better way to break out of the Harvard bubble. Could not recommend this class more!
This class gives you a much better understanding of the city that sits across the river. Some of the readings are put-your-pen-down-and-say-wow-I-am-so-glad-I-know-that-now interesting.
The later lectures after the first month are the most memorable. Pretty good intro to sociology with enjoyable assignments.
This class is interesting and changed up the material every week. Good to know about, a great way to get out of the Harvard bubble and into areas of Boston you never would have.
This course show many aspects of Boston we would not be able to see before. But sometimes a few neighborhoods would make me uncomfortable during the visits.
The course is extremely interesting, the guest lectures are super cool, and the two professors were great! A great way to get a gen-ed done.
Take this class with cautions. This course can be great if you don't mind skipping lectures or leave in the middle of the boring lectures. The assignments in this class is absolutely fabulous though. You get to travel to Boston a lot and deeply involve into the local community. I have a few really touching experience with the community and I definitely learn a lot. Final Project is a bless too. You get to choose any topics that is related to Boston and do a research on it. However, the lecture component can be really boring sometimes because there is not continuity from lecture to lecture. If you don't mind skipping lecture and love exploring Boston, then this class is for you!
This is one of my favorite courses that I have taken at Harvard. This course will take you out of your comfort zone. You will learn so much about Boston, both things you expected to learn and things you had no idea related to the city. I truly looked forward to completing the readings and assignments and attending the lectures for this course. The teaching staff is very passionate about the course, the topics covered in the course, and the students taking the course. I could not have hoped for a better General Education course.
The class is fun and gives a good overview of Boston's twentieth century rise-and-fall-and-rise, but it's is a sociology course, not a history course. Take it if you'd like to have a relatively easy course with a lot of cool guest lecturers who have had important roles in shaping Boston; don't take it if you'd like a "precise" one.
Assignments are unique and engaging, and the lectures are rarely dry and include some inspiring people from all over the Boston area (I don't use the word inspiring lightly, I'm a crusty old stone-hearted senior). Don't be scared by the fact that you have to go into Boston to do some of your assignments - I always think of it as a pain and then afterward I'm thankful for the perspective gained by simply leaving the Harvard bubble.The readings are usually interesting, and they're light enough so that it's easy to catch yourself up if you inevitably get behind. Sections are easygoing and engaging. The staff are all really nice people that obviously have a passion for what they do.A+ course! Highly recommended.
Take this Gen Ed if you want to change how you see the world around you! This course really helps people who aren't familiar with sociology, politics, or design get a broad understanding of key concepts and challenges. You will have to spend time throughout the semester making trips to Boston to places like Charlestown, Dorchester, East Boston, and South End, but I found that the trips were fun when I went with friends. I also liked learning about the cultures and communities of different parts of Boston. Weekly guest speakers, no exams, and a relatively light workload (three term papers and a final paper), make this course a well-balanced course.
It sounds interesting - but it kind of gets old after a bit.
It's a great class to take to learn more about Boston and cities in general. It really makes you appreciate Boston, and why not take it if you're living right next door?
Interested in Urban Planning?  This class gives you the freedom to explore what you want to, from urban design, city government, planning, and even the sociology of cities.
This class is the perfect excuse to escape the Harvard Square bubble and see the many things that Boston has to offer.
I learned so much about how to view a city through taking this class. The lectures given by both the professors and the guests are great. This is a very informative and fun class.
Best Gen Ed I have taken at Harvard
This class is a gem. It's a super fun way to get to know Boston better, lots of the lectures are very interesting, you don't really need to do all the readings, and grading is lenient. I will say some lectures were super boring but it seems like the kind of class that gets better and better with each passing year.
This is a great course because there is no testing on the lecture material--the essays are basically unrelated.
The content of this class is so so fascinating and is delivered  well. The combination of guest lectures keeps lecture from getting boring and the hot topics we discuss make section interesting. I actually looked forward to going to this class.
Take this course! It's so wonderful for getting to know the city we Harvard students live in!
A good way to fulfill USW, and a great way to learn about Boston. Fun assignments, friendly teaching staff, very manageable workload.
Take this class! You should be aware that the assignments are quite time intensive (they require you going into different areas of Boston). However, it's well worth it. I learned more in this class than any other course at Harvard. The professors are both so passionate about their work, and they really spread that to the students. I wish there were more classes like this at Harvard.
This class is a great excuse for going out into boston and getting to know the city. We're stuck in the harvard/cambridge bubble a lot because of classes, and now here is a class that tells you to go for class.
THIS IS AN AMAZING CLASS.  It's so well structured and lectures are very interesting.  So many amazing speakers came to talk to us.  It really challenges you to think about civic structures and our place in cities.  Readings are less than necessary but the insight they provide more than makes up for the time invested in doing the readings.  Lectures were interesting and covered a diverse range of topics.  I feel like a much better citizen after taking this course.
This class is a gem of a Gen Ed.  You will learn a lot about the city of Boston and engage authentically with the city.  This course will have you going out into the city and experiencing a number of new places and things.  If you need a USW Gen Ed.  or are slightly curious about the greater Boston area, take this class.
The class is fascinating, and does a really good job of bringing in good guest lecturers and balancing that with academic presentations by the professors. I think my favorite part of the class is just the pure passion of everyone involved in teaching it- it got me so excited about many of the concepts we discussed. The assignments are really fun too, and the workload isn't too intense.
This is a really interesting course that gives a lot of insight into the city of Boston, and offers a structure for thinking about and understanding other cities. It is a very manageable workload, despite the fact that you have to go on 3 field trips into Boston and write 4 papers (8-10 pgs. each). The papers are pretty fluffy, and mostly pertain to your experiences and observations on your field trip. The one thing that was really frustrating was that Boston and Cambridge were often conflated as one in the same.
The class materials are not hard, but there are actually a lot more work than you would expect in a gen ed class, because for every paper you need to conduct a field trip, and there are four of them.
Great way to fill your United States in the World gen. ed requirement. Assignments are quite interesting and fun. You get to explore Boston as a city for a class and gain new perspectives on urban life and setting and how cities are structured.
This is a great class.  Taking it as a senior doing job recruiting and writing a thesis, I appreciated how laid back the teaching staff was.  While this wasn't my hardest course this semester, I still feel like I got a lot out of it without being very stressed (which is very atypical in my experience).
This class requires time if you want to enjoy it. I wish I had had the time to engage more with the material.
If you want to fall inlove with Boston you should take this class
This class was absolutely amazing. I had the chance not only to explore parts of Boston that I did not know existed but also to learn to observe my surroundings with a critical eye. I loved venturing into neighborhoods, talking to locals, and dispel any misconceptions I had of Boston. Papers are super fun to write - the teaching staff is accommodating and wonderful!
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Many of the things we discussed in the course really do impact our lives as residents of the greater Boston area. This course was a great introduction to all things Boston and a great gen ed.
This is a great class to further your understanding of Boston and to burst the Harvard bubble.
didnt learn a lot of general principles in this course, which i would have liked
Beyond just the manageable assignments and moderate workload of readings, the class gives you an excuse to explore Boston, a goal that falls short of being achieved by most students attending school. Not only do you know more about Boston itself in the realm of the class themes, but you a more intimate knowledge and newfound curiosity of cities in general.
A cool class that gives you a great opportunity to really understand the city you've been living in throughout college.
Cool neighborhood visits, cool visitors such as Mayor Menino, BUTgrading is very difficult when it shouldn't be, poor communication between staff and students, disorganized
I did certainly learn a lot more about Boston, and that feels highly relevant to my life. I did not always enjoy the guest speakers or sections, but that is okay. The neighborhood visits for memos were great, and David was a phenomenal teacher who made the class more worthwhile.
This class is mad easy (readings are not necessary, assignments are just to hang out in Boston and write about it), but doesn't teach you anything about sociology. In fact, the teaching staff makes a conscious effort to ensure that things don't get too sociological.
You can't go to school here for 4 years and not know a thing about the Boston area - take this course!
Very illuminating course, but there's some work involved. Neighborhood visits are awesome, do as many as you can so that you can enjoy some neighborhoods without having to analyze them. Make sure to have read well ahead in Common Ground before the semester starts, or you'll fall behind and never catch up.
This class is awesome
The lecture and independent components are useful and enjoyable. According to my experience and that of my friends taking the course, section leaders are very inconsistently understanding of different perspectives.
Easier than in years past (they decreased the neighborhood memo requirement to only three papers), but you still have to go out into Boston at least three or four times, which can be tough timing-wise. However, it's completely rewarding and really does pay-off in the form of a more informed citizen. A great course if you're interested in the place you live and want to learn more about Boston.
Grading was highly arbitrary. How do you quantify someone's participation in section with a number; for example what does a 3.356 mean for a participation grade?
Assignments are very easy. You do hardly any work in the second half of the semester, besides a final paper. Grading, however, can be tough.
This course is good for students who would like to gain greater understanding of Boston's history, neighborhood structure, and current economic state. It has lots of guest lectures, and it is not very difficult.
Really cool course about Boston! You get to meet/hear from tons of people who are actually doing really big things in Boston today. Forces you to actually go into the neighborhoods of the city and explore, and makes you look differently at your surroundings everywhere you go. Also, a cool class for people interested in the sociology or cities in general, as you address lots of relevant sociological issues that Boston has and had overcome. Class teaches about the city in a really interesting way, by using history and sociology and a really diverse array of speakers to give a rich sense of Boston and its people. The readings are a little much, but section was cool. Don't buy the course pack if you don't have to.
Section wasn't great, but the class is worth it for the knowledge you'll gain about Boston and for the speakers who come and talk. This course is worth going to lectures for,
Very interesting class... great way to explore boston
Take it! This is your only chance to go out into Boston, meet several new friends and people, learn first hand about the triumphs and challenges of our neighbors across the river - and be able to do it all for a class grade.
I became much more comfortable with the city.
This class is fantastic if you want to get a basic understand of key sociological issues. However, the best part of this class in the neighborhood visits. While they may seem time consuming, they really allow students to observe and better understand the issues learned about in the classroom. Also the class is a great way to better learn about Boston, no matter if you live locally or come from far away.
This class is definitely very specific to Boston, which may get tedious at times. There are guest speakers for almost every class, which can be hit or miss. This class assigns a lot of reading, often long articles which are hard to get through. However, the themes of this course and its sociology aspect are incredibly interesting and section always brings an interesting discussion.
This class is unique in the sense that you get to hear from a lot of different speakers and you get to explore Boston, but the grading system is arbitrary and broken, and the readings are more than the syllabus lets on. How can they possible give failing grades for writing about a visiting a neighborhood? It's pretty sad by the amount of effort I put in the class and the amount that I learned, yet my grade will probably not reflect that.
Pretty cool guest lecturers.
I really liked the out-of-class component, as well as section.  Lectures were very hit-or-miss depending on the guest speaker.  Some of the people the course brings in are incredible, but others less so.  Be ready to spend a significant chunk of time out of class on neighborhood visits and your final project, but that time is worth it if you want to explore Boston more than you ever would otherwise.  It's a great chance to see this amazing city!
The topic and focus of the course are spectacular, and I learned a ton about Boston and cities in general.  The neighborhood visits are actually a lot of fun.  The class can be frustrating due to disorganization, and the TFs aren't really helpful with this, but it's a great way to learn a lot more about the city.
This course is very interesting and fun, especially for students from the Boston region or just simply interested in the topic. The neighborhood visits were very fun, however the readings were a bit long at times and the midterm was very difficult in the sense that it was unclear how it would be graded
The lectures are super interesting, and I feel like I learned a ton about the city of Boston. However, the grading is pretty bizarre, and it's difficult to determine what you need to do in order to succeed.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. Unless there are changes in the class structure, grading policies, and mission, I would not recommend this class. Please go on the first day, pick up the syllabus, and then attend the guest lectures that you think are interesting. The mayor, Glaeser, all of the lectures on education. Those are great and are absolutely worth going to. The readings are even interesting, particularly those drawn from local media. But it is way too stressful, the grading system is absurd, and the class structure is bizarre. It had the potential to be the best class I've ever taken, but fell way short. Just go into Boston on your own, wander around, and enjoy the city. Maybe take the class pass/fail, but don't expect them to be generous with you.
Best. Class. Ever. Seriously, it's AMAZING. You effortlessly learn about things that will impact you if you ever live in any city. It's just one of those classes that make you better informed person about life. Not to mention it's a great way to get out of Harvard bubble and learn about Boston - after all we all "go to school in Boston," right? ;-) Teaching staff is amazing, and some of the guest lecturers were just phenomenal (some weren't as good, but the fact that you get exposed to so many leaders of Boston from different fields is priceless). If you can take it, take it.
Everything about this class was poorly organized except the lecturers. Find the syllabus, go to the lectures that interest you but don't enroll. Not worth your time. Even if you take it pass/fail, it's not worth it. Some lectures were AMAZING. Go into Boston on your own. Read the Herald if you want the stories this class tells.
this is awesome and fun. and the neighborhood memos and final project are quite rewarding. to freshman, make sure you make friends with the other freshmen in this class - they will be your neighborhood visit buddies for the rest of the semester and you will have great fun exploring and learning more about boston's various neighborhoods with them!
The guest speakers are amazing, come with questions!  Spend more time than you think you need on the neighborhood visits!  It's worth it!
take it!  a great way to fulfill the US in the World requirement while getting to hear from mostly non-academics about their work in the community - if you're interested in poverty, race, education, this class will be great. work on the final project early -- it will take time to do research and interviews
An awesome way to get out of the Harvard Bubble and hear from some really interesting speakers.  You will be really set if you are coming from a sociological background.
If you are not originally from Boston, you'll learn a lot about the city and eventually become attached with it.  If you are from Boston, you'll gain a deep knowledge about your city and learn things you never knew about.  Either way it's a win-win course.
The class encourages you to break out of your comfort zone.
This is going to be a long review so bear with me.  Ultimately I think this is a great class to audit but not to take.  If you're interested in learning about Boston and hearing some really great guest lectures, almost every lecture is a guest lecturer, like Mayor Menino, the Police Commissioner, charter school founders, businessmen, etc..  Then pick up the syllabus on the first day and attend all the lectures that look interesting to you.Do not actually take the class for the following reasons1.) The teaching staff takes themselves way to seriously.  They attempt to make everything rigorous and objective and fail miserably at doing so, but think they are suceeding.2.) The grading of your neighborhood memos (you must visit three boston neighborhoods and write 3 pages about them) is arbitrary.  On the first memo everyone in the class was given between a 6.5 and 7.5 out of 10.  There is no rhyme or reason to how grades are determined. 3.) Section is over-planned and conversation is forced.  The TF checks you off every time you speak to compute your section grade.4.) Some of the lectures are really boring5.) The class is just a survey - there really isn't a common theme or anything that ties it together - not necessarily bad, but something to be aware of.
This is a great class to take if you want to know more about Boston and actually want to get away from Harvard from a couple weekends and get to know the area that you are living in. You get to know so much more about this great city, things that you would not expect to come from Boston. It gives you an opportunity to discover all of the culture and diversity that Boston has to offer.
I took this class because it looked fun and easy-I wasn't expecting to be so inspired by the lectures! All of the speakers were amazing and you leave the class with not just a solid understanding of Boston's history, but also some timeless issues like crime and education.
a great exposure to the city of Boston and an opportunity to leave the yard behind, both in class lectures and in homework experiences.
read this article: http://harvardmagazine.com/2012/01/out-of-cambridge#article-images
Great class if you want to actually get to know the city you're spending 4 years in. Well worth it.
This class is harder than other GenEds but definitely worth your time.  The sooner you take it, the longer you'll have to really appreciate Boston in all its glory!
Some interesting material, WAY too much work (busy-work), class is late to give feedback/wont give it.  Section is pro to class, but doesnt make-up for cons.
very time consuming
Definitely take this class with friends! The neighborhood visits will be much more fun and interesting if you have a group of people to go with. The class requires a bit of a time commitment outside of lecture/section but it isn't hard work. It is really important to keep up with the readings as much as possible because the midterm and final essays will include questions that require you to draw information from several different weeks.
It's a great class that gives you a wonderful opportunity to explore Boston. The readings are good, but the real strength of the course are the guest lectures --- introducing you to Boston's top leaders in government, education, technology, and the arts.
You hear from tons of interesting people, and learn a lot about the city and sociology. It gets you out into the city, and talking with other kids about important issues. It's very fun and a fair amount of work. Not a blow off gen-ed, it's involved and interesting.
This class is great for forcing you outside of the Harvard bubble and into neighborhoods you might not normally walk around. The workload isn't too much and the lectures are generally interesting, but the extremely heavy emphasis on section participation often makes the classroom atmosphere somewhat uncomfortable at times. Generally section leaders are aware of this though and do their best to remedy it.
I'm pretty sure this is the only class where critical thinking can actually lower your grade.
This class is like the jack-of-all-trades of classes. Its got some economics, some urban-planning, some history, education, etc. I really learned about a broad spectrum of topics, helping me fully understand not only Boston but cities in general.
This class should be required for all students at Harvard. It lets you explore Boston in a way beyond the Common, Back Bay, Downtown Crossing and the North End. It's great to be in different neighborhoods, such as Allston and East Boston, and see how different these neighborhoods are from the idea of Boston formed if you only visit the Back Bay and Beacon Hill. The course load makes it very manageable and the readings are top-notch.
I wouldn't recommend this course.  It sounds really good, but the course doesn't really deliver on its promises.  The class doesn't deliver a coherent or compelling vision of Boston, and lectures are too scattered and badly-prepared to set up the visiting lecturers to their best advantage.  I have a feeling this class is more interesting for the professors than the students.
Very interesting speakers, too much work at times.
This is a great course but I would recommend for freshman not to take it with expos. This a very interesting yet time consuming course and I would not take this course if you have a hard semester.  Otherwise, I really liked this course.  I feel like I learned so much about the city of Boston and how to conduct interesting and effective research
Go on as many neighborhood visits as you can. They help give you a real feel for what you read about and what the speakers are talking about. The neighborhood visits also bring about good ideas for topics for the research paper.
This class takes a lot of time, but if you want to learn about how cities work, or if you want to become familiar with Boston and getting around off campus, then it is definitely worth the effort. You get to hear from engaging speakers from many different sectors and you get to experience the different neighborhoods of Boston. I learned so much in this class.
Get excited about the material if you want to take this course and enjoy it.  I really gained a better sense of place in Boston because of this course.  The only reason you won't think the course is worth while is if you think it's a zero work class and you wouldn't want to have fun doing homework by going into Boston and eating...
great way to get familiar with the city and a perspective on urban issues
Be sure to make time to have effective site visits!  The time is worth it.
It is scattered, and really doesn't have a "takeaway" in itself, other than having a compulsion to go into Boston and really explore the place. Getting out of the Harvard bubble is great, but it would be more worthwhile to organize the same excursions with a small group of friends rather than take the class.
This class looks very interesting at first, and most of it is, but there's very little connecting the course as a whole.  Some of the guest lectures are fantastic, and it's not a ton of work, but the course feels very disjointed.
it's great! very interesting stuff.
A significant chunk of every weekend will HAVE to be devoted to exploring each neighborhood in depth, talking to its residents and trying to get an understanding of how it works. The neighborhood visits seem like a separate part of the class though, as they seldom intersect with whatever the week's speakers are talking about. The speakers are awesome though, and if you come to class with questions about their work (which you learn about in the readings) you can learn SO much about Boston and urban politics, etc.
One of the greatest courses I have ever taken. This is a very different course..it requires you to step outside of your comfort zone where you have to (on your own time) go outside in the city of Boston, ask strangers question, and make observations. It's great. However- the papers are long.
if you're interested in sociology or how cities get things done, take this class!
The course assignments and section are very fulfilling since you get to explore Boston and develop a better understanding of the city both experientially and academically.  My TF did a great job at integrating the sociological theories we read about with the actual events we studied, so it was rewarding to gain a more academic understanding of these moments in Boston's evolution.There are several factors that very much detract from the course, however.  First off, the lectures feel a bit haphazard and are not nearly as rewarding as the other parts of the class.  You do get to meet and hear from a few very interesting people, but the execution of the lecture series leaves much to be desired in terms of cohesion and actual learning.Also, be aware of the fact that the class will take a lot of time if you really want to gain from the experience.  There is a lot of reading, and trips to Boston for neighborhood visits and final projects can be very time-consuming.  If you'd rather glide through a class to fulfill US and the World, this is probably not the best class for you.  If you're willing to devote a lot of time toward a fulfilling class, however, this course is a good choice.
This material for this class is very good, but sometimes the assignments and grading systems are a little over the top.
Too much work for a gen-ed, but the trips to Boston for neighborhood memos are enjoyable... TAKE WITH FRIENDS.
We've lived a 15 minutes T-ride away from downtown Boston our whole time at Harvard, but don't know the first thing about it. (Unless you're from Boston already, I guess). Either way, this is your chance to gain a much deeper appreciation for this town, and then, for all cities, wherever you might end up. I'm not a Bostonian and am headed back home as soon as I graduate, but I leave with a true love of Boston for what it is. Regardless of your interests, this class will enable you to understand how what you've learned in the academic world comes to play in the real world beyond Harvard's walls. It's an important chance to learn the shortfalls of your discipline and the problems we will all have to tackle after graduation.
If you're interested in learning about the city around you and dedicating a bit more time for this class than a typical gen ed, you will benefit. though at times i wished i had taken a course with less outside work (ie: neighborhood visits), in the end i realized how glad i am that i put in the hours.
Great class if you want to break free of the bubble. It is a lot of work and the lectures, sections and neighborhood visits don't really tie in together.
great expereinces come along with this class
This class is a class for the adventurous. As a freshman not from Boston, I found it very valuable and informative to visit different neighborhoods of Boston and discover the resources available to me. Now I'm riding the T like a pro. I feel that this class should be required of all students.  But be warned, neighborhood visits take time; however, the experience is well worth the time commitment.
This is a great course for students who are interested in urban social issues and in the City of Boston in particular.  The course does not require any prerequisites, but students choosing to take this course must ensure that they will have sufficient time to conduct neighborhood visits and to arrange the logistics of their final project amidst whatever other classes and activities they will already be doing.
This was a great class.  I got so much out of it.  However, it does take a lot more time than initially seems.
I loved this class! By far my favorite course I've taken. Most classes involve guest lecturers from Boston leaders in a variety of fields. It's so awesome to read about how someone changed the fabric of the city, and then show up to class the next day and listen to them/get to ask them questions. This is a fantastic course for anyone interested in current events-- it really lets you get to know the city. Be forewarned, however, that the neighborhood visits do take some time out of your week, so plan your schedule accordingly. Also, make sure you start thinking about your final paper topic early since interview-based researching takes more time than your average, lock-yourself-in-Lamont research paper.
The only reason to take this course is if you are a social sciences/history concentrator and you have an idea for a research project involving Boston or Boston's neighborhoods that you would like to pursue. This class will give you a chance to do that, and the lecture material will give you a decent enough background.
Don't be scared of the workload, but definitely stay on top of your assignments, it's somewhat easy to fall behind. DEFINITELY TAKE THIS CLASS
Access to a car is a big plus. Requires a lot of time visiting neighborhoods
This class is incredible. I learned so much about the city I am living in - so much about it's history but moreover about current issues and current actions that are being taken to fix these problems. The speakers were on the whole incredible and influenced the way that I think and the work that I want to do. The TFs in this course are also incredible. David is the best. There are some issues with the class - organization is bad and the teaching is sometimes not the best. But I would recommend this course because of the guest speakers who bring something incredible to the classroom and will, without a doubt, open up your horizons a bit. Take this class to get to know Boston.
This class rocks!  I feel like everyone at Harvard should take it!  This class really gets you to interact with Boston in a way that few students ever get the chance to. I am so glad that I did.  I feel like I am really on my way to getting to know Boston.   Love the guest lecture format because you get to hear sweet people and get so many different perspectives. Love the neighborhood visits where you need to go out to different neighborhoods and then write memos based on the visit.  Only downside of this class is the workload.  Doable but look at the syllabus beforehand.  Might think about taking it pass/fail.
USW24 is not a bad class.The material *can* be interesting at times, although it's rather scattershot. Different lecturers for most classes give you a lot of different and interesting perspectives, but rob a lot of them of a sense of continuity and through-lines. Even lectures, sections, and assignments feel almost unrelated at times.
A lot of material is thrown at you in lecture and weekly readings, and you do not get to discuss much in section. The topics and material are highly interesting, but I wish perhaps we had covered less in greater detail. Section with Aaron was mostly spent explaining and clarifying what an ethnography is and the kind of writing that is required for it. As a person who took the class because of my interest in urban planning and design, and who does not plan on becoming a sociologist, this felt rather unhelpful and pointless.
Get Justin's section. He's the only part of this class thats worth it.
Take this course, especially if you already enjoy getting out into Boston and exploring on your own. You will learn -so- much about the city, from how politics works to what issues different neighborhoods are facing. After this class, I feel much more like a true resident of Boston.
This course was surprisingly educational. I took it as a graduating senior having not yet fulfilled USW--but as time went on I stopped thinking about it as a requirement. The assignments into Boston are super fun, and make you completely rework the mental map you probably have of Boston as a Harvard student. (Boston extends southwest for a long ways!) Lectures were hit or miss, but had enough hits that they were worth going to. Boston busing is something everyone should know about, but I had never even heard of it until this course. My only reservation about the course is that there are tons of assignments, particularly readings and questions that seem more like busy work than actual work. I hope that those will continue to be refined, and that some of the less enlightening lectures will be cut. But overall, a really surprisingly good course that might actually change your life for the better, which is so rare here.
Overall, not too difficult a class. Definitely more work than your typical gen ed though, and many of the lectures were like watching paint dry. Some of the assignments were pretty cool, going into Boston and all, but don't let that fool you, they take quite a bit of time and having an assignment to do can really help ruin the experience.
Take this class if you are at all interested in Boston, but expect to spend a lot of time workshopping sociological writing in section. If that's not your cup of tea, this class might not be as interesting as you'd expect. The workload is, however, reasonable, and the assignments are a fun way to get out and explore the city. My overall class experience was unfortunately negatively affected by a less-than-stellar section and TF, but lecture was always pretty interesting and guest speakers kept things fresh. David & Matt make a good teaching team, and both are incredibly friendly, personable, and engaging speakers. It felt like a lot of time and care was put into this class.
Getting trapped in a Harvard bubble can be very easy. This class lets you explore Boston and interact with the city for assignments, which is unique to other students' experiences often unable to leave Cambridge.
Get to know the instructors, they all really care about the class and students and know SOOO much about Boston. Do something fun for your final project- actually, all the assignments are fun!
If you like Boston, or even just knowing things about cities, or just knowing things your friends don't, or going outside, or anything, take this class. The lecturers were pretty uniformly awesome except for 1 or 2 exceptions, and you come away feeling like you have a lot of awesome practical real-world information that your friends maybe don't have. The professors are nice and cool and the in-the-field assignments are totally awesome.
This is both the only Gen Ed that I've found to be genuinely life-enriching, not overly difficult, and genuinely fun. Get ready to have face-to-face chats with politicians and media folk, explore the streets all over the city by yourself and talk to strangers, and generally learn a lot of gritty weird stuff about the city you're temporarily calling home. As long as you have time on 4 weekends to do your trips in the city, I'd 100% recommend this course.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!!!!!!!! It is not only an amazing way to either fulfill an intro to Sociology requirement or Gen Ed Requirement, it allows you to explore the city and get out of the Harvard Bubble! The dedication of the teaching staff is quite evident, and valuable feedback is provided on each assignment.
This course is truly wonderful. There is nothing quite like it at Harvard. Definitely take it--especially if you are from Boston or plan to stay here after graduation.
Enjoy!
I would recommend this course if you have a burning passion to learn about Boston and also had a background in sociology.  The assignments were interesting, but a bit challenging to do well if you hadn't had any experience with them before.  Otherwise, you might want to look somewhere else.
This was one of the most worthwhile classes that I have taken during my time at Harvard. The professors worked very hard to engage with students and to create interesting assignments. The field visits that we had to do around Boston gave me a great excuse to get off campus and to see parts of Boston that I might not have otherwise explored. I would recommend trying to take this class with a friend so that you can do the field visits together. We also had a ton of really interesting people from all different fields in Boston come in to speak! There was more writing than I had expected, so be prepared for that. It was never unmanageable though and you don't really ever have to do the readings.
The class itself can be a little boring, but the assignments really are great. The final project was also awesome because it was so open-ended and allowed me to be creative and actually study something that I watned to know about. Overall, a pretty easy way to fufill USW gen ed.
took this class because matt is an awesome professor, had some frustrations with the format, but looking back the subject matter was fun, and the neighborhood assignments were fun!
easy
I suggest taking the class for the USW Gen Ed -- assignments are very manageable and interesting as the require field trips (on your own time) into boston, and reading and lectures are on the whole unnecessary, although the material is very interesting
This is a really great course to take if you are at all interested in Boston or even cities in general. It gets you actually out and around the city and you get a slew of really interesting guess speakers coming in and talking about various aspects of Boston. This is a great way to fill a Gen Ed (or even take as an elective) so I'd definitely recommend taking it.
The assignments and planning to go out into Boston can be a bit annoying and tedious but the class overall is a great Gen. Ed. that is interesting and helps you learn about Boston. Having no midterm was also very nice.
This is such a unique course, it's worth any trouble you may encounter. Even though directions on assignments are hazy, half the lectures are boring, and the final assignment is annoying, you should definitely take this class. It gives you a good opportunity to get out and know Boston.
This class is fun and interesting as long as you can handle being the type of person who doesn't do any of the readings, and who doesn't mind leaving lecture when the guest lecturer is painfully boring, which happened about half the time. A few of the guest lecturers were amazing. You have to do five essays, and each involves going into Boston. It's more work than it should be and the grading seems arbitrary. I should also warn that "ethnography" is one of the focuses of the course, and it's a euphemism for "being racist and making sweeping evaluative claims about people, especially poor people, based on a cursory glance at their physical characteristics."
This was a great course in being able to get exposure to five different teachers and many guest speakers, so the content was diverse. That being said, it was far more ethnography-centered than I expected or would have liked. I think the policy portion of the course ended up underweighted. However, being able to explore any topic in your final paper was nice.
Really fun class, but may not be everyone's cup of tea.
Take this course. It is a wonderful introduction to the city of Boston, and I really wish I had taken it earlier than senior year. The lectures are a lot of fun, and the knowledge that comes from the course is extremely valuable. Just take it.
This class is great for students from all disciplines. The assignments and materials allows room for a very individualized approach to studying Boston.
This was overall a good course. The guest speakers were generally very good, as were some of the readings (especially "Common Ground"). The assignments can take a while because they involve traveling around Boston and writing up "papers" that respond to overly-specific prompts, but it's totally doable and the teaching staff is flexible about giving extensions if you ask ahead. The professors are incredibly devoted to making the course a transformative life experience, which is both positive because they are invested in your learning and negative because not every student seeks a transformative life experience in a gen ed.
A class about Boston is automatically awesome! This course has a good combination of interesting guest speakers and lectures by the professors - don't go if you want an easy class that you can skip, because you definitely need to attend class to be on the professors good side/ not have to take final exam.  Also great things about this class: the chance to visiting Boston's neighborhoods and really get a better understanding of the city! Boston is super cool - everyone should take this to learn about it.
Take the class because it gives you a solid sense of what the city you are currently living in faces in terms of policy issues and of the demographics and dynamics within each neighborhood. However, keep in mind that this class does not necessarily give you the best sense of what sociology entails compared to some of the other classes.
There are some really nice things about the course - certain lectures and the neighborhood visits, for example. But to really appreciate the course, I feel you have to dedicate some time to it. You can pass without much effort - but that really makes it drag.
Solid course, lectures were interesting at times but sometimes unfocused. Memos were an interesting portion of the class but can take some time with the visits. Assignments were not too hard but could be graded a bit tougher.
This course brings in incredible guests who have fascinating stories and a wealth of knowledge to share. Enjoy listening to these amazing people. Though neighborhood visits can present scheduling difficulties, getting out into Boston is so much fun. This class is interesting and not too difficult, though grading may often seem subjective.
This course provides one of the most undervalued parts of a college education-- the opportunity to get out into a local community and see what you're learning in class firsthand. It also brings incredibly fascinating practitioners in a bunch of fields (healthcare, education, politics, economics, housing, transportation) from the Boston community to come speak to you. Some of them even asked our advice on policies that they would have the power to implement as major leaders in Boston. However, I have reservations about thsi course because of the lack of teaching ability from one of the professors. The sociological background he provides in his own lectures is embarrassingly bad; some powerpoints had data 30 years out of date! I'd still recommend taking this class, because the awesome guest lectures are much more frequent than the unhelpful non-guest lectures.
Take this class!!!  It's so interesting.  The workload is light, the readings are interesting, and discussions in section are actually fun.  The topics are current and relevant to all cities (not just Boston).  You also get to go to the neighborhoods, so that's cool.  You have to commit to going to the places, but wouldn't you rather spend the time doing something interesting like going to a neighborhood rather than doing dry reading for another class?
The best part of this course is the guest speakers, who are actually involved in urban governance and organizations in Boston. The course covers a lot of topics very briefly, so it's a good overview of what types of things city officials, nonprofits, and others are doing to improve conditions in cities. Some of these speakers might inspire you to consider a career in some form of public service. On the other hand, don't expect too much detail on any one topic because there is so much to cover. The professors are also very interested in the topic and create interest among the students. You should note that you will have to physically visit neighborhoods in Boston and also write a final research paper, both of which take more time than some other US-W classes might. If you are interested in these topics, the time is worth the effort! I would suggest looking over the syllabus to see whether the topics in the course interest you.
The assignments take time. Its a GenEd that definitely takes a lot more time than other humanity GenEds
I think this has the potential to be a great class
This class is great if you want to learn about the history of Boston as well as the diversity of its population.
This course was incredibly fun and insightful but the grading was a bit harsh for a gen-ed. Way too much work too...
This course is a lot of work but very enlightening.  I feel like a better citizen having studied these issues.
Disorganized and did not give a good overview about anything about Boston, but worth taking just as an excuse to visit different Boston neighborhoods. Very low workload.
This is a great class if you want to learn more about Boston, period. You get to learn about all kinds of different neighborhoods within the city, the city's politics, and the history and future trajectory of Boston. Great for any future Bostonian who wants to be educated about their town.
This course is an incredible opportunity to really understand how Boston functions from multiple different perspectives: theory, history, policy, etc. The guest speakers that Professors Winship and Luberoff brought in for this class were truly incredible- they would be people with on the ground experience in the unit that we were studying that week (housing project management, Massport, etc.)- and they really made the class special. That being said, you'll be expected to visit neighborhoods and write up memos about your experience, which is both exciting and incredibly annoying to do, since it can take up a couple hours of your day that week. Make sure to do them early and make time in schedule if possible, though, because it really is a fantastic way to fulfill USW, and a great course in general.
Take this class. You will meet such cool and important people from the Boston area, and get exposed to the "real Boston," rather than the tourist-y ones Harvard students are inclined to visit.
Don't get behind on the reading. Go to section and class.
I definitely recommend this course to Freshmen or Sophomores, it gets you really comfortable with going out into Boston!
This class is an excellent way to get to know Boston. I highly recommend taking this course as a freshman, because it really help to familiarize you with Boston early on in your college career. This course is fun and interesting, and if you are thinking about sociology, it will be even more interesting to you.
Great, fun class to learn about Boston and contemporary American urban issues, but could be more tightly organized
there is a lot of reading, but the professors organize a tour du force of guest speakers that offer a deep understanding of boston.
This class is a lot of work, but it provides a meaningful exploration of the city of Boston and its people.
Take this class with friends, or you will suffer!
more work than anticipated, but worth getting a better understanding of the city we're now living in
the neighborhood visits seemed wasteful and the responses were annoying to write especially when there wasn't much emphasis on them. THe guest speakers were great though.
you have to go into Boston often on the weekends
Taking time to actually go into and visit the different Boston neighborhoods and listen to the various community leaders from Boston is something you cannot find in another course at Harvard.  It is truly an opportunity to explore Boston and get to better know the city around us.
Do NOT buy the City Reader. It's really expensive and you don't ever really have to read it. Also, don't try to do all of the readings. Generally do some of them so you have stuff to talk about in section, but as long as you go to the lectures and pay attention you'll generally be prepared. There's no way you could do all of the readings, especially Common Ground, although it was a really interesting book.
the readings can be time-consuming, but its the best class to take if you want to get to know Boston better, i met so many interesting people during neighborhood interviews and learned a lot about the city
This class is like nothing you will ever take.  The vast majority of lectures are given by guest speakers who actually have interesting and important roles in the city, so nobody is ever sure quite what they are going to say.  Some have complained about the lack of predictability in the course; be aware that you will not be able to tie it up in a nice little package and, by the time the final comes around, be able to know just what you need to study to get an A.  The unique nature of this course reflects something closer to real life, and if you are passionate about the subject matter, this course will blow your mind.  The best course I took this semester, hands down.
There is a lot of reading and you actually have to be interested in urban issues and the history of Boston.
It is great because it encourages you to discover Boston
If you are interested in learning about a city upfront and personal, this is the class. However, this is not a class for a theoretical or historic treatment of urban studies, aside from the City Reader book. Also be aware that the writing for this course really adds up.
EVERYONE should be required to take this class, about Boston or about their own city!! You will gain a much deeper understanding of how cities work, and of what role neighborhood communities, individual leaders, and institutions (from governmental to non-profit to economic and business institutions) play in building a city.
This is a great course to provide a general overview of Boston, especially to a first-year student (which I was) who wants to learn more about the area around him or her. It forced me to leave Cambridge and learn about various neighborhoods and parts of the city, as well as various institutions and problems the city has had to deal with and that cities face in general. Definitely take it with a few friends because it makes the neighborhood visits easier since you should not do those alone, and do it as a freshmen so that all of you can get out of the Harvard bubble and see some amazing places your first year. Also if you are thinking of sociology like I am this is a really cool way to fulfill the intro soc requirement, although I did not learn much actual theory - I learned more of a way of approaching sociological questions and ethnographic studies in the field which was definitely useful. It's a really neat, different course and you take out of it however much you put into it but it's really interesting.
This is pretty close to being the definitive class on Boston and should be taken by everyone who plans on being in this city for four years (i.e., every Harvard student). It is also not a conventional class because of the unusual assignments (neighborhood visits) and each lecture being given by a different Bostonian, but these touches were excellent and a refreshing change from normal Harvard. I felt like I was not at Harvard when I was in this classI felt like I was stepping outside of the bubbleand I really appreciated that. It is also a very good introduction to the sociology department, if you're interested in that. It is also a good lesson in life, including in power structures and in leadership.
This a great course to get to know Boston with, but make sure you have the time to visit neighborhoods and interview people for your final paper.
Do NOT take this class unless you enjoy sociology and gov classes.
This class is a great introduction to sociology and to the city of Boston.
Fantastic class that throws tons of resources your way. You just have to figure out what you want to do with them all.
USW24 is a must for students wishing to get to know Boston...it's the prod that gets Harvard students off campus and into the city. But buyer beware: you should be comfortable exploring, getting lost, and talking to strangers.  If that doesn't describe you--if you have no sense of adventure--this class is not for you.
My favorite class so far at Harvard.
Interesting course, though it can be a bit redundant and sometimes feels like we are not really learning anything concrete. Neighborhood visits are interesting.
This class should be required freshman year. It gives you an invaluable perspective on the city right next door.
This is a fun way to learn about Boston
If you're looking for a history class of Boston, this isn't it. Very interesting in terms of where Boston has been and where its going, but it definitely concentrated more on where boston is today and what the future looks like.
This class takes  A LOT of time out of your individual schedule outside of class time.  Going to conduct interviews for the research paper, neighborhood visits, and conducting research for the final paper was kind of a lot of time.  I didn't feel like the research paper was very applicable to the rest of the class because it could literally be about anything in Boston.
Sometimes I would walk out of this class speechless. Every class is a guest lecturer and it is amazing to hear these people talk about their passions. I came out of some of the classes inspired to follow the paths of these social workers, NGO leaders, city workers, etc. The class definietly has its problems, and sometimes I felt like I didn't have enough background knowledge about Boston. However, it is fun and engaging. You have to be excited about getting to know Boston (as you will be going in A LOT) and you should have a lot of  money on your Charlie Card (as you will be using it A LOT). Start thinking about your research paper topic early, as, with the right topic, it can be a great experience. I really enjoyed getting to talk with people in communities all around Boston.
This is an unusually good course about Boston.
The course seems disjointed, and the link between Boston's particular history and general urban theory is a tenuous one. The course is excellent in that it provides a great incentive to explore the city and escape the Harvard bubble, but much of the work seems irrelevant and excessive.
If you are at all interested in Boston, Urban and Social Theory, or finding equity in our society I would take this course.
The course is time consuming in visiting neighborhoods and conducting interviews but the skills you learn are great!
It's awesome to learn so much about the city we essentially live in the shadow of.
This class can become time consuming; so, make sure you take it with friends.
This class showed me the city of Boston. I never would have gone to so many neighborhoods had they not been a part of my curriculum. For that, I would fully recommend this class.
Easy and fairly interesting class. You get to visit Boston's neighborhoods, although there's little guidance about how to write up the reports, so you have to BS them.
There's a lot of reading involved, and I don't think it's fair that we had to write a research paper and three finals papers. However, it is an excellent course to take if you really want to get to know Boston. In all, I personally enjoyed the class.
This class has been one of my favorites at Harvard.  It broadens your understanding of Boston and cities in general.  I loved all of the guest speakers. However, this class is a very significant time commitment, much more than a normal Gen Ed.  You will get a lot out of it, but be prepared for the work load.
This class has very interesting guest lectures and motivating readings, and the most important things you will take from it are unique approaches to understanding the complex interactive communities that make up a city and the unique sociological observations and questions that can be drawn from immersing oneself in such a city.
This course was perhaps my favorite class I have taken at Harvard so far. What you learn about sociology, cities, and Boston will stay with you--at the end you really feel as though you are a much more socially aware and educated person. It completely changed the way I interact with Boston and has encouraged me to make better use of the city while at Harvard. It also showed me that Boston could be a great place to live after college.
easy, fun way to fulfill a requirement! you can write your final research paper about something that really interests you!
The guest lectures were worth the disorganization.
This is a one of a kind class that will put you to work with the neighborhood visits and the final paper, but if you're interested in how cities work or are just wanting to find out more about Boston, this is a great class for you.
This course is very different from others at Harvard - you get to hear from real people in Boston's different sectors and get to explore Boston yourself.
