this class was interesting. in weeks that you don't debate, you honestly don't have to do too much work which is nice. when you do debate (which was 4 times during the semester), you have to do more work and actual preparation. this preparation may take awhile in the beginning, but you'll end up figuring out how to prepare to debate more efficiently. lepore is an interesting lecturer and her historical perspective is interesting; all the readings are primary sources, which can be annoying, but they can also be pretty interesting. the class improved my speaking skills and overall, the debates were a cool experience
Read all of the material!
Great debate experience!
This class is awesome debating instead of normal section discussion is a really productive and exciting way to learn about the material, and the weeks I was debating I felt like having to learn how to argue a point and field questions ensured that I understood the material on a level far deeper than that required to write a paper. Studying for the final was genuinely fun thinking about democracy, the history of government policy, etc. is so interesting. I definitely recommend this class and feel like I got a lot out of it.
You need to be a good public speaker to do well in this course. The people who struggled in my section were the weakest public speakers. Lecture is a little bit dull, and you come away learning big takeaways from American history, rather than specific details. Don't expect this to be a study and memorize dates like you did in A.P. U.S. History.
If you don't like debates don't do it. It isn't a normal history class.
This is an amazing class. Professor Lepore is a highly engaging lecturer and does a great job presenting the course material clearly in interestingly. The sections are a great way to both dive deeper into a historical question, and practice debate skills in a format that is accessible for people who have never formally debated (like myself).
This is a well-structured course to give you a good idea of American history since 1492.  Professor Lepore is AMAZING.  Her lectures are well delivered.  She does speak quickly, but that doesn't mean it isn't easy to take notes.  Because she doesn't allow electronics, it's easy to focus on what she's saying.Section is intense, but you learn a lot.  Sections aren't discussion - they're debates over a resolution. Some are better worded than others, and thus result in more substantive debates, but because this was the first iteration of the class, it's expected that there would be a couple kicks.
Interesting and engaging survey course which requires you to think critically about the ways in which competing forces have shaped both history itself and also the ways that we think about history. The debates vary in quality, and be prepared for some busy work, but overall don't be frightened of the debate component; the format makes it accessible for any level of experience. Really interesting course with a reasonable amount of work. You will get a lot out of it.
Took this course just because I needed a gen ed.  It has ended up being one of my favorite courses at Harvard!  Debating each section is exciting, and required public speaking holds you accountable.  Jill Lepore's debate workshops are incredibly helpful and make what might be stressful (crafting a debate argument) very manageable.  The class requires time, but it's enjoyable.  Lecture is ok.  It spans huge junks of time, but Jill Lepore is engaging.
Professor Lepore is absolutely amazing. She is incredibly invested in the course and her students, and her class offers new insights into where our country came from and how we understand ourselves today. The debate structure means that you dive deep into the material during the 4 weeks that you debate, and the other weeks keep you involved by serving either as a questioner or informal judge. The workload is very manageable- no crazy readings or essays of a daunting length. This was a refreshing class structure with a brilliant professor and thought-provoking material. Take this class!!!
This class is cool if you haven't taken America history before. If you have, it will be a slightly different perspective but ultimately pretty repetitive.
It's easy on the weeks you don't have to debate and a little stressful the weeks you have to (4 times).
Take this class if you already have a background in American history and want to look at specific moments of that history in a different and interesting way.
Great class! You'll learn a lot, and improve your writing and debate skills.
Debating is excellent, the lectures great, and the material enlivening.
Take it! a fun and relatively easy way of studying more about the fascinating history of the making of the US. Will make you think. Don't expect your typical History lecture, it won't be all slides and dates, just a very broad overview, but the debates themselves will be a fun way of diving deeper into 10 or so topics and eras.
I took this course because I needed to fulfill a USW requirement. It turned out to be one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard, and that is entirely due to Professor Jill Lepore. She is brilliant, she is passionate about the material, and you're honestly crazy if you don't take this course. The general education program at Harvard is tragically ineffective at providing students with a broad-based foundation in cultural literacy and intellectual history, but I'm so grateful that intelligent and driven professors such as Professor Lepore are nevertheless teaching courses that are like diamonds in the rough: it's tough to find them, but they're 100% worth it. I would go so far as to say this course should be mandatory as part of a core curriculum at Harvard that would replace the general education program. Thank you Professor Lepore for teaching this class. And to the students who are reading this review and thinking of taking it, I know what you're thinking: no, it's not too much work and it isn't going to tank your semester, but even if this class were 15 hours a week it would be worth it to learn history from such a knowledgeable professor that is tremendously entertaining to listen to lecture. Take this course!!! It's everything the gen ed program should be and more.
GET HYPE FOR JILL LEPORE
Overall, good class. You really only have to do work 4 weeks out of the semester, and the debate format helps engage with the studies. That said, if you don't know much about US history, you'll struggle because this course uses lesser known case studies/debate resolutions that require background knowledge. Lepore is great though, and she genuinely wants this to be a great class. She takes feedback seriously. Overall, especially since this was the first year for the class, I would recommend this for next year.
TAKE THIS COURSE TAKE THIS COUSE TAKE THIS COURSE TAKE THIS COURSE JILL LEPORE IS MOM JILL LEPORE IS MOM JILL LEPORE IS MOM
Prof Lepore is incredible! Long lectures but we gave her a full round of applause after each one because they're genuinely interesting and engaging and fun. The section/debate component of the class is really fun and you definitely get more out of the class whenever you
This class is overall a well-run course. The lectures are quite informative, though this class will focus on certain themes throughout American history, and may jump over some sections. The debates were very engaging and on the whole quite fun. This class helped improve my debate and public speaking skills.
This class, done properly, will be significantly more work and stress than your typical Gen-ed, however it will also be far more rewarding. The readings and lectures are brilliant, so engage with them every week, not just the weeks you are debating. When you do debate, make sure to start the readings around a week in advance at least, to give yourself several days to think over possible arguments and outline your essay and debate statements. The stress in this course comes from feeling underprepared for the debates, so staying on top of the work is key to both your learning and your enjoyment of the class.
This is a fantastic course if you want to learn speech and debate and a fine course if you want to learn about American history. Professor Lepore's lectures are engaging and share some really cool facts but for the most part aren't drastically different from what you'd learn in AP History. The debates in section are a ton of fun and my speaking skills have greatly improved (the course provides a lot of support in this respect). There were a few first-year glitches (iffy debate topics, gender and racial imbalance in the class) but Professor Lepore seems to be working very hard to fix them. Overall, the workload is pretty light and the sections are pretty fun so I would recommend taking this.
The course is difficult. It is not the easiest way to complete your Gen Ed requirement. It needs a course textbook, because it is not physically possible to hand-write everything Prof Lepore says but you are not allowed to use a laptop or record her lectures yet the exam requires perfect notes on the lectures. I enjoyed doing the debates, but the formality that ties people to fixed positions does not help the debate move forward.
This class has enormous potential, and as is, I really enjoyed taking it. I would say, though, that it falls somewhere between a survey history and in depth debate class, and it sometimes fails to marry those things together very well. That being said, you will become a more thoughtful citizen, a better writer and speaker, and a better historian.
This is a great class! The lectures are interesting and the sections are great. Take this class if you want experience debating historical issues that are relevant today. While it may seem daunting to take a class that covers all of US history, Professor Lepore does a really good job of covering a lot of the major events while also going into detail about aspects of US history that usually aren't emphasized in American history survey courses (for example, the rise of political consulting).
Course is great and a really fun way to get a survey US history course. If you don't like public speaking, then this may not be the course for you. Weeks when you debate require a lot of work, but weeks you don't debate requires almost none. The final exam was a huge pain, asking you to prepare 6 essays, but ultimately did not count for that much.
Debates are fun
Lectures provide a general survey to American history, not really relevant to the debates but Prof Lepore is an interesting lecture and she knows so much.
It's incredible. I loved the debates and how it really brought us to analyze history while learning rhetorical techniques and how to think on our feet. This is how class was once taught at Harvard, and I found it to be an appropriate method for the course goals, as well as being a great experience.
This class is so much fun! It really isn't a ton of work so don't get overwhelmed. The debates are fun and you will learn so much!
Very interesting!
Interesting class with a great format -- would highly recommend to anyone interested in US history and debating.
Perhaps the only class where the sections are better than the lecture. This class made me a better speaker, listener, and taught me to appreciate history. Don't be turned off by the debate aspect of this course, especially if you've never debated. I never did debate, but this class gives you TONS of advice and prep to face your classmates. By the end of the class, you know everyone in your section and have tons of great memories. Don't be intimidated, take this class! A very unique learning experience.
