Take this class.  It's an easy class, and it will make you a much more informed citizen.  The lectures can occasionally be a bit slow, but it's clear that the professor is passionate about the subject matter and I found the ideas we learned about to be very interesting.  If your goal is to learn, on a basic level, how to think about the economy, I think this class is better than Ec 10 (though I have not taken Ec 10) because it helps you see economics from more than one perspective and think more critically about the things you read and hear.
This class does what no other class in the Econ department dares to do: that is offer substantial critiques of the discipline. The course feels like a breath of fresh air.
This class teaches you everything you ever wanted to know about economics (and some things you didn't). Warning: That is a lot of economics and it is very easy to get lost in all the material if you're not already familiar with basic economics!! Lectures don't help either.
for an economics class, it's a great one. Surprisingly interesting, especially for Social Studies students, because it's more real world applicable than Ec 10. I just wish I had given it more of my time and attention, because I would have gotten more out of it. Marglin makes everything accesible and understandable, even for someone with no previous knowledge of or experience with Economics. The exams were not tricky, you just need to study and keep up!
The class felt like a promising first draft to an amazing paper. The ideas in it were all solid, but the presentation was inexcusably messy. I was baffled by the lack of effort that went into making the problem sets. One of them was so clearly and excerpt from an old exam that it called the course SA-72--its old name when it was in the core. The first midterm was a disaster. Even though every practice exam was 3 questions long, it had 4 questions, and they didn't shorten each question. The lectures were disorganized, and often went well overtime, even though each class is 90 minutes long.So, if you can wade through the disorganization, it's very interesting and important material, though I cannot recommend it until more effort is put into recreating the class.
If you take this class seriously and keep up with the reading, you should be fine.  Doing nothing at all until a day before the midterm, and then trying to read the entire textbook, is not the way to go.
If knowing economics is important to you, then take this course; if you have no interest in economics, you will not find the course interesting.
Unless you want to be an economics concentrator, take this class instead of Ec10. You get the same material (or at least the important material for understanding on a basic level how economics works--with much less math) in only one semester, and you also learn CRUCIAL critiques of the economic framework as a whole. From Ec10 you do NOT get a good understanding of how flawed economics is. Take this class.
The sections are great. The first half is terrible if you have not background by the second half is a lot easier. The professor has terrible lectures
THIS CLASS SHOULD BE TAKEN BY EVERYONE AT HARVARD. IT WILL RADICALLY CHANGE THE WAY YOU VIEW THE WORLD/SOCIETY. It is not just an economics class, it is also philosophy in that it demonstrates some of the unknown (and potentially harmful) philosophical assumptions made by mainstream economics. Marglin is the MAN! Sure, his lectures aren't great and not always necessary, but he's really nice, and old, and brings apples to class.
Great but difficult class. Even if you attend lectures, get good marks on the psets, kind of do the readings, your good grade isn't guaranteed. However the work is totally worth it, Marglin is a great teacher and even if you don't agree with him in the end, his critical approach to economics is fascinating and well backed-up. I didn't do well at all in all three exams, but I still feel like I learned a lot, and I'm really took this class.Don't take Ec10 if you don't want to concentrate in economics. USW17 obviously goes much faster and less into details, but you get this unique intellectual and almost philosophical depth that Ec10 lacks. If you want to understand what it means to think as an economist, instead of understanding how to be an economist without questioning anything, then go for USW17.
A great into to Ec.  Although it didn't become clear until the end, the critiques discussed in class are surprisingly insightful and apt.  A great way to get your feet wet in the area of economic inquiry.
Incredible class, and considering that EC10 seems to make its participants miserable, this interesting jog through the major debates within and about economics seems like a cool breeze on an otherwise muggy, hot summer day. The fact that such an awesome class counts for your introduction to economics and takes half the time to do it in makes this deal definitely worth your time, and at least a shop.
If you have any econ background, take this class. It's very easy and also very refreshing.
If you are interested in learning some economics (which is pretty important to understanding real-world issues), this is the best way to do it. However, the class will probably result in some frustration at the flaws of mainstream economics, which might turn you off of taking other classes in the department...
It's unique experience, and one that non-economics concentrators (and econ concentrators too) can really benefit from.
The content was worth taking the course, but had the course not been a *critical* economics course, I would not have taken it.
Good way to fulfill your US in the World Gen Ed requirement.  While you do need to study well before the final because test grades are the bulk of your grade, as long as you pay attention in lecture the rest of the time, there is not too much extra work needed.
keep on top of what is going on (ie go to lecture and at least glance at the readings). Don't bother with optional readings though
One of the best, most thought-provoking classes I have taken at Harvard
I took USW17 because I wanted exposure to micro AND macro economics from a critical perspective, but I only had one term to dedicate to this endeavor.  Well, I was exposed to all of these topics, so I do not regret taking the course.  At the end, I had a basic understanding of how to think about microeconomics, the rudiments of the reasoning behind macroeconomic policy, and some very interesting (if not all very scientific, rigorous, or "economic") critiques.However, this course is a little frustrating.  Lecture is interrupted by student questions of little relevance, rarely covers the day's allocated amount of material, and doesn't spend more time on more important topics.  Furthermore, tests and midterms are much harder than psets; the psets aren't very extensive or challenging, and they don't require mastery of the material.You probably won't leave this course with a good idea of what the "mainstream" actually believes, since the "mainstream" isn't very well defined.  You will probably leave the course with a pretty good handle on some interesting critiques (Keynesian, distributional, ecological, and foundational).A good TF is essential to the experience of this course; you need to meet weekly with someone with a talent for distilling the important points from lecture.I found the textbook readings necessary for understanding, but all tested material comes from the lecture slides.  Anything marked "supplementary" is apparently optional, but probably interesting.
It's a good class for political dissidents.  Pretty interesting, but definitely not mainstream economics... Still interesting though.  It's important to think outside the box.
If you have to take economics for Social Studies, take this one.
It is very interesting and generally a better experience than Ec 10.
This is an awesome, unique, memorable course. It's taught with care and intelligence. You'll learn so much, both inside economics and critiquing it. I'm so glad I took it, and I won't soon forget it. It fits really well with Social Studies, especially if you take it junior year (so you can look back on all of SS10). Take this class! Don't write it off as communomics -- it provides a really necessary critical perspective and you're always allowed to disagree.
don't take it if you want to understand economics before you criticize it
The workload is light, and the course gives an excellent introduction to economics in a way that acknowledges all the limitations and caveats of the discipline.
It's great
Very interesting way to learn a little about economics and the faults of the field. Incredibly low workload and a really good overview. Has its faults, but it's a good class overall
never went to a single lecture. i don't think it's that hard. just make sure you try to reason through the somewhat bizarre logic that's presented in the critiques...
This is a very good, interesting alternative to Ec10 if you do not want to be an econ concentrator. The critiques were very enlightening and showed how much of the story is "missing" from mainstream economics. The exams weren't difficult, but make sure you go to lecture, even though class can be a little boring.
Marglin is a very interesting professor but his class is manageable only if you have a strong background in economics. He tends to put too much material on the final and this makes it very difficult to answer all the questions within the alloted time.
Absolutely take this course!  I'd already had a thorough economic training, but Marglin's opinions are incredibly interesting and valuable.  Also, he brings fresh apples from his orchard to class!  Also, if you're looking for an easy gen-ed, this is a pretty low time commitment.
Take this class! Don't take Ec-10! Marglin is wonderful and treats his class like a community. He brings apples, respects our questions, tries to learn our names. Don't let the work scare you -- weekly problem sets make sure you stay on top of the work and the exams aren't so hard. This is all coming from someone who is more literary than numerical.
Economics without the blind acceptance of questionable assumptions. I have a much better grasp of monetary and fiscal policy, and I got to think about a lot of interesting questions.
An excellent alternative to Ec10.
The lectures can be very boring, and the exams can seem relatively random.  On the other hand, it's a nice way to fulfill the Econ requirement for Social Studies without having to dive into Ec 10.
Though lectures may be a bit confusing what you will get out of this course is absolutely worth it!
This class is very straightforward.  If you're looking to learn hard economics, you will be disappointed -- there isn't time to go into all the mechanisms of neoclassical theory in depth.  But if you just want a familiarity with the language and general applications of economics, this is perfect for you.  There's lots of resources, this class makes it easy to learn.
Yes, this is preferable in many ways to Ec 10. It's interesting and valuable for the student who wants to pursue economics from a political, normative bent. But you have to do the work and really be "on" for class to learn the material, particularly micro. But if you can do those things, this is a great class!! I learned a lot.
