Fantastic! A word of advice: DONT MISS LECTURE. The reading material does not cover what the Professor discusses in class, and you will be tested on works of art that are not talked about in section or in the texts. So if you were absent the one lecture in which she mentioned southwestern native arts ... then you're screwed on the tests.
Easy and interesting subject matter, the best way to knock out this gen-ed!
Most college students watch the clock in lecture and count down the minutes they have left in class. Students in this course, however, look at the clock only to lament the brevity of an hour. Prof. Roberts transforms the most boring parts of American history into easily the best class Ive taken thus far at Harvard. Clear, brilliant, engaging, Prof Roberts cemented my decision to concentrate in HAA. Do yourself a favor and take this course.
This was such a interesting way to fulfill USW. I'm so glad I took it. The lectures are super comprehensive, but there were no lecture videos, so go to every class. Be good at memorizing things.
Great class! Roberts is a wonderful lecturer and if you don't know anything about art, it's a really awesome way to learn something new. I feel like my appreciation of art has grown tremendously just from taking this course. It's not the easiest gen ed ever, but it's really not bad and so, so eye-opening!
Take this course!
I took this as a class that would allow me to explore different subject matter since I am in the sciences. I absolutely loved this class. It allowed me to exercise my brain in a way that sciences did not. The department for HAA is wonderful and the TFs are fantastic. Professor Roberts in an incredible lecturer and brings an amazing amount of background knowledge and insight to the floor in her lectures. I would enthusiastically recommend this class to absolutely anybody, no matter what they are majoring in. GREAT CLASS
A fantastic snapshot of various kinds of art from around the beginning of American history. Roberts is an incredible lecturer, and always succeeds in tying everything together cohesively.
This was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. The lectures were so interesting and most of the readings were as well.
Professor Roberts is one of the best lecturers I've heard at Harvard. She makes fascinating points and takes care to give lectures that cater both to more seasoned art history students and students for whom it is their first foray into the field. I'd always wanted to take an art history class before I graduated, and I'm so glad I chose one with Professor Roberts.
This class is amazing and Jennifer Roberts is an amazing lecturer. Take it even if the material sounds boring--she makes everything (even the week on tombstones) so interesting.
This class is amazing!!!! No previous art history knowledge required. Lectures are really interesting and readings are not too bad... however DEFINITELY start studying for the midterm/final in advance -- you may feel comfortable with the context/material but there's no way you can memorize 50 slides in one night. But. This class is still awesome and i highly highly recommend it (ps im a science concentrator, totally not a humanities person and still LOVED it)
very interesting course, very tied into history/american culture which is great, lectures were among the most captivating ive ever attended at harvard
very interesting class on early american visual and material culture. take this if you are interested in cross cultural contact, especially between Europeans and Native Americans. You will learn a lot of crazy little interesting factoids. Professor Roberts is insanely smart, but also very accessible. Section can be a little meh- really depends on who you have.
This is a fun, moderately easy, enjoyable class. It wasn't especially profound, but I had a nice time and learned a lot of cool things.
This. class. is. awesome. I came in with literally zero interest in the subject matter, only taking the course for a Core requirement. Coming out, I really feel like I learned a tremendous amount about the art we covered and could talk for hours on the different themes we covered in the course. Jennifer Roberts is simply amazing. 1-hour lectures seemed like they only lasted 30 minutes, and there was always a perfect balance between staying organized during the lecture
Jennifer Roberts is fabulous.  You'll learn a lot from the lectures.  As someone with essentially no knowledge of American art going into the class, I feel that I've gained an appreciation for it.
this class is so fun and interesting.  lectures, section, readings, writing assignments, everything is satisfying.  the topics might not seem interesting at first, but once you hear jennifer roberts's lecture you will realize how interesting everything is.
1) Make sure that your TF is capable and competent--this will make this class drastically more enjoyable. Professor Roberts is an excellent lecturer--one of the best I've seen in my time at Harvard--and she'll actually get you looking forward to lecture. Keep up on the readings, and study hard for the midterm and final. Put effort into the visual analysis assignment, and participate in section.
Professor Roberts is wonderful, but this course is more work than it may appear. I think that how much you take away and enjoy this course really depends on your TF, so shop sections for sure.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Professor Roberts is so smart and is one of those rare professors that can effectively convey her knowledge of a subject within the span of 60 minutes. She is an incredible woman to learn from!
Such interesting stuff! Lectures are really great, Prof. Roberts's scholarship is super impressive, and you will learn a lot. Research paper can be scary if you haven't done a lot of art history (I enjoyed writing it, but got a mediocre grade).
This class introduces a very well-put sample of American art, and does much more than simply mentioning key American works of art. Through taking this class, one learns a great deal about American history, different perspectives of events and art movements, and the general happenings in the world as a whole. It's the perfect way to fulfill the US in the World Gen Ed requirement.
It's an excellent introduction to art history. I am impressed with Professor Roberts to make the most boring art compelling.
Do not take this class unless you are very interested in art history.
I never thought early American art would interest me, and I am happy to have been proven wrong.  This is a fantastic course, and Professor Roberts generates enthusiasm for the material. Don't miss a lecture!
It is probably the best option for USW requirements, but totally worth taking as an elective. It takes you through a lot of early American history, and I've come out of the course with an appreciation of American art (which isn't often talked about) as well as the historical forces relevant in the 18th and 19th centuries (for example tension with Native Americans, cultural influences of British culture, social class and status in early America). Prof. Roberts is an excellent lecturer. Only reason to not take the class would be if you are really bad at finding meaning in things, as you will be required to read into and talk about interesting or important aspects of artwork.
This is a very easy gen ed if you are interested in art history and have taken some art history courses in the past. I took three art history courses before this class and I found it very similar in format and structure. However, some peers in the class definitely struggled with writing in an art historical style and analyzing images as well as the readings, especially those who are not familiar with the humanities. The readings are especially important because the exams have multiple choice questions that ask you the main ideas of each reading, so you can't really get away with coasting on the reading in this class. I would suggest only taking this gen ed if you are a humanities concentrator or social science concentrator comfortable with creative writing.
This is a fantastic course for anyone with an interest in early American art, design, objects, print culture, portraiture, technology, mourning practices, syncretism, architecture, sculpture, landscapes, and museums. Jennifer Roberts is an amazing lecturer, and she spins wonderful stories and narratives out of a wide range of objects while formally analyzing them. Each lecture is wonderful, and together they create a fantastic series of themes beginning with the Puritans and ending in the antebellum period. The reading is, for the most part, wonderful, and sections are spent in the museum with actual objects, which is fantastic. Assignments include an object report and a final research paper - you're required to actually visit your object in person, which is fun and very rewarding. Definitely recommended!
This is your quintessential general education class: no prior knowledge in American or art history is necessary (although at times it is helpful), and it divides its attention perfectly between art critique and US history.  Professor Roberts gives informed, strong lectures while sections divide their time between the classroom, the galleries, and different colonial sites around campus.  And while you will have to take the basic midterm and final in this course, the assignments are different and enjoyable.  As someone who was dreading fulfilling the USW gen ed requirement, I am pleased to say that I highly recommend this course!
This class is not for students who are serious about art history, but it is a fun way to fulfill a requirement, and you are introduced to a wide-range of colonial art that is pretty fascinating, and which you otherwise might not encounter.
This is my favorite class I've taken at Harvard. TAKE IT. I had no interest in colonial American art but Roberts made it into a really fascinating topic. Her lectures are fantastic -- definitely the best I've heard at this school. If you need to fulfill USW, this is definitely the best way to do it. I would take this as an elective in a heartbeat, even if it didn't count for a requirement.
Take this class -- or, rather, take a class with Professor Roberts before you graduate. She is AMAZING, and the way she teaches art history makes it accessible and appealing to everyone. You will not regret taking this class, although I'm guessing one might enjoy one with more innately interesting objects for study.
the lectures are most fascinating and informative
The class is good, but if you don't like art history it may be a little bit dry.
Take any class that Jennifer Roberts offers.
This was a very interesting class, I took away a lot more than I had expected to and I became enthusiastic over the subject material in a way that I did not think I would.
Very interesting/engaging lectures, good lens through which to learn US history, but occasionally a chore w/r/t section assignments
Professor Roberts'  lectures are absolutely fantastic and she makes early American art history so interesting. The lectures and content of this course made it one of my very favorites. However, I would warn about the section and assignments-- there are not very many writing assignments, but I found that those that we had were graded very harshly, with a huge emphasis on very specific writing methods seemingly at the expense of critiquing the quality of the actual content. It was also interesting to note that the TF is responsible for almost the entirety of your grade.
This was a fascinating class that helped me appreciate a subject I otherwise wouldn't have given a lot of thought to.
I think the trick to getting a good grade in the course is going to lecture (I MEAN REALLY PAYING ATTENTION AND TAKING NOTES). I didn't see anything on the exams or in the paper that deviated from that I had learned in lecture (reading and section are optional, but I'd suggest going to section or meetings with your TF to get helpful tips on keywords, etc.). Also, memorize all those slides!
This was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. I wish I had discovered art history before my final semester when I had to take this as a concentration requirement because I likely would have taken more classes in the department. I learned a lot in this course and was always engaged every time I went to lecture or section. Exams are pretty tough. I highly recommend that you take this course!
It's more interesting than you think it will be, but not that much more interesting.  Everything is very reasonable and pretty painless.
You must take this course. Jennifer Roberts will change the way you see the world. This class has made my life more rich, enchanted, and interesting.
Really really great.  If you've taken any courses with Stilgoe in VES, you'll feel right at home.  While the readings are sometimes not discussed in section, it's overall a very well run course.  Professor Roberts is an engaging lecturer.
Great fulfillment for the colonial History and Literature requirement (America field, obviously).
If you're interested in history or art or looking to fulfill a gen ed, definitely take this course. Professor Roberts is an amazing lecturer and presents the information in an engaging and relevant manner. You should also check out her other course that covers American art from 1850-1960.
One of the best humanities lecture courses there is at Harvard.
Professor Roberts lectures are great! The exams are reasonable because they give you a list of objects you need to know before hand so if you put in the effort to learn those you will be fine.
Take this class! It's very unique to Harvard, Jennifer Roberts is an incredible and eloquent lecturer, and you will get to do lots of interesting things in section and explore Harvard's museums.
This is a course I would have very much enjoyed had I taken it as a Freshman. I would probably not have gotten the latent post-structural references and would have been very intrigued by the novel way in which Professor Roberts examined the objects in question. Yet, at this point in college, I found many of the lectures tenuous or, even worse, I found that the lectures were essentially pieces that I could read in a book. There was very little value added to hearing them as opposed to reading them.
Take this class.  I walked out of lecture everyday amazed. It gave me an entirely new perspective on American history.  Professor Roberts is the best professor I've had at Harvard- she's brilliant.
Please take this course! Even if you think you have no desire to learn about American art (which you should, it's incredible), you should take it because it provides a very contextual sense of history. I think it was the perfect Gen Ed course that doesn't deal with social science, politics-heavy subjects (if you'd like to avoid that kind of class).
This class is an amazing introduction to American Art History. Very little to no background in history or art history is required, and the material is both interesting and engaging. Professor Robert's lectures are spectacular, and the course is generally well organized and thought through. The readings are interesting - so you should do them, but I think you could probably get away with just skimming most weeks. My only complaint is that 70 percent of one's grade in the course relied on the final project and the final exam, both of which were in the last week of the course. This meant that if you didn't keep up over the semester, you could find yourself cramming for the final while also writing your research paper at the same time. Overall though, I'd definitely recommend the class!!!
USW 12 was simply amazing, and one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Each lecture prepared by Professor Roberts was deeply insightful, creative, and well-structured. Also, the course is extremely well taught, and it gave me so much insights on American history as well as ways of analyzing art, especially through close visual analysis. I highly recommend this class to any student!
Any class with Prof. Roberts is bound to be terrific. Having taken another course with her (HAA172w), I tell all my friends about how great her classes are. Lectures are consistently engaging, tying together history, literature (occasionally), cultural movements and ideological shifts to visual analysis. The lecture reinforce material learned earlier (really helps with retention of core ideas and to notice continuity and other trends!), readings are well selected, and section consists mainly of fun activities where you can engage directly with the material studied. Section is a great way to explore Cambridge and Harvard (we visited burial grounds on Garden St, Houghton library, Peabody museum, Natural History Museum, the MFA, to name a few). And during sections where we didn't go anywhere, activities were still fun! I would highly recommend this course to anyone with an interest in US history, visual culture of the colonial and antebellum period, or anyone who just wants to explore what art history can be like. Assignments are also very reasonable (midterm, final, research paper, and a few smaller tasks leading up to this final project), and expectations for the course are made very clear. A perfect course where you can decide how much effort to put into it, but by simply attending lecture will get A LOT out of the course. And if you do the readings diligently, you will get even more out of the course and have an incredibly enriching experience.
Excellent overview of early American art and awesome sections-great introduction to the field
Lecture is interesting but intense. Final project is intense but interesting.
Section for this class makes a lot of aspects worth it, since you get to travel to the different museums to see the works you've been talking about. The final project can be a cool opportunity if you don't save all your work till the last minute. Lectures could feel a bit loaded with information, since everything Prof. Roberts says is important and she says it all rather quickly. It can be tough to get it all down. The final was brutal to study for as it was cumulative and required a lot of knowledge about each piece of art. A lot of memorization. However, as someone who is not a huge history buff, I think it was a great way to fulfill my USW requirement with not too much work on a regular basis! If you're interested in art history definitely take it!
I loved this class. The lectures were so enjoyable, just make sure to attend all of them and copious note taking is strongly encouraged. Listening to Professor Roberts is like listening to a good audio book, she is very conversational and the material was easy to understand.
This class is an excellent introduction to visual analysis and art history. You should definitely take a class by Prof. Roberts when you're here in Harvard. She is an excellent lecturer.
This course is probably the most painless way of fulfilling the United States general education requirement while at the same time taking a pretty interesting and enjoyable course. The sections are a lot of fun as you get to take field trips to museums and sites of interest, keeping the material fresh and real to an extent. For those of you a bit weary about Art History beware that you will run into the over-the-top in depth close analysis in which an academic proclaims to understand every reason for the artists actions and prescribe a profound implication for even the smallest of brush strokes. This doesn't take much away from the class however and you still learn a lot of great historical facts through art.
For a US in the World course, I found this to be a very manageable class. If you take the class, I'd advise taking the time to choose an object for your final project that you are genuinely interested in -- there are so many potential objects to choose from that it is possible to find something very interesting, regardless of your academic background. And Chris Allison is a great section TF!
This class is incredibly interesting and taught well. Professor Roberts knows this material well and is very passionate about it. Section is actually quite entertaining as well.
Take this class! It's not only one of the most painless ways to get rid of your USW requirement, but all of the material is interesting--there is definitely something of interest for everyone in this class. All of the TFs are incredibly nice and helpful as well!
"Thomas Cole filled his entire notebook with a preparatory drawing for the Oxbow, linking this work with contemporary panoramas"  actual quote from Jennifer Roberts"The Puritans did have art... it was the Puritans themselves!" - guess who
Painless way to kill a gen ed!
Great when you can work hard!
I have learned so much from this class, and this class/Prof. Roberts has inspired me to consider HAA as a concentration.  Her lectures are extremely captivating (never fell asleep in a single lecture!) and she inspires a level of art examination and analysis that brings up lots of interesting thoughts.  This was my favorite class this year and an amazing way to fulfill US world gen ed! (also counts for HAA concentration credit!)
This class is absolutely your best bet for fulfilling the USW gen ed. I shopped it thinking there was no chance i would actually take it, but i thought i should check out the option because of the high q scores. and i was perfectly right, it quickly became one of my favorite classes of the semester and of my entire harvard career. it will really change how you think about so many aspects of every day life, Professor Roberts is a wonderful lecturer, and the TFs are super organized and the expectations of the class are always clear. TAKE THIS CLASS.
Having no formal background in art history, this course was a wonderful introduction to HAA at Harvard (and I wish I had taken it sooner than my senior spring). Professor Roberts is an amazing and engaging lecturer, and I will definitely think about art in a different way after this course.
Solid lectures most of the time. Her Art and Modernity course is better, though, so I was disappointed. I thought the workload was fair, but section was not good.
great class. she says A LOT in lecture, so pay attention. Sometimes, it's annoying when she suddenly gets to the last ten minutes of lecture and suddenly says EVERYTHING, but everything she says is very interesting, and about things you maybe never would have thought about.
Take this class or any class with Professor roberts! I left each day with a very clear idea of what she wanted to get across to us, and feel I learned a lot!
Only take this if you really like art history. Otherwise, it all seems a bit phony.
A lot of work at the end, but generally enjoyable
This is a great course. You learn a lot about the significance of art in U.S. history and you even start to wonder if art you casually see on a wall has deeper meaning too. This class has a low workload but at the end of the semester in ramps up a bit with the final paper and final exam. Still a great class to take though.
This course is probably the best way to fulfill the US in the World requirement. It is very straightforward and well-run.
Very interesting. Great lectures.
Professor Roberts is incredibly smart, and this is a good course for non-HAA folks to take. However, this is very material heavy, which is to say that you don't really look at that many "paintings" per se in the beginning. Also, the materials did get a little monotonous after a while.
Most of the material felt pretty contrived and irrelevant. Lectures rarely seemed that connected to sections, which themselves usually felt quite aimless
This was my favorite class of the semester! So interesting, and Roberts is an AMAZING lecturer. Definitely a great intro course if you like Art History. It pretty much solidified that I wanted to concentrate in it.
Great way to get your USW if you're interested in history or art history.
This class is not very demanding and a great way to check off a lot of boxes if you're a Hist/Lit concentrator. The material can get a bit dry at certain points, but the teaching staff does a good job of organizing field trips and outside the box sections, which keeps things interesting.
Roberts gives incredibly engaging, informative lectures that seamlessly link together overarching concepts.  You get all sorts of interesting historical stories that really help to convey art's role in the development of a national identity.
The material is really interesting and Roberts is a compelling lecturer. It's a good introduction to art history and the final project is very rewarding if you take the time to really dive deeply into your object. The weekly response questions are infuriatingly unnecessary but you don't actually have to do any of the readings thoroughly to do well, so there's that. But as far as gen eds go, it's a good one.
Professor Roberts is an incredible lecturer and this class provides a great overview of American art from the 1500s to the 1800s. Definitely take it if you have the opportunity!
The course is a fine first art history course, but its lectures are all over the place and difficult to connect. Lectures are repetitive and broad, but the topics are interesting.
It is a lot of work for a gened class but it's not super difficult.
this class is amazing! i had never takes an art history class before but found this class not only friendly to beginners but also super engaging.  professor roberts is a great lecturer, and layla is an awesome TF.  this class has definitely encouraged me to take more art history classes at harvard.
This course is everything you could hope for in a general education course. It was enriching, enlightening, thought provoking, and so much more. The lectures go by so quickly and are fascinating. The work that comes along with it is so interesting that you want to do it. Also, the hands on aspect of having sections at museums and the rare books library add another dimension to the course that makes it unforgettable.
This is a great way to fill the USW Gen Ed. I shopped at least 3 other USW courses for this spot in my schedule, and I am confident that I picked the best one. My one criticism is that, because some of the themes in the course started to become a bit repetitive, the lectures were slightly more interesting toward the beginning of the semester than they were by the end. But sections were usually interesting, and it was fun to get a chance to travel around campus and the city to see the different artifacts.
If you're interested in art history, then this class is very extensive and is great for you. If you aren't interested at all or think you might be just a little bit, this course is not for you. The material gets old really quick and it feels like the interpretations of some of the art have no support. I got very tired of this class quickly. The work load isn't bad at all until the final paper and the final, but even the light work load didn't make the class worth it.
This should be the model course for all gen ed courses at Harvard! I took this as an elective just because I've never taken an art history course before and everything about the class is enjoyable. Professor Roberts is a great lecturer and the sections are awesome because you get to go to all the different museums on campus which I doubt I would have gone to otherwise
this was an incredible USW! I learned so much art history and american history. We traveled to museums, read a few articles each week, but did have to cram for the midterms and finals. Still, the material is interesting and the final paper is very much up to your interests.
This class is really interesting and engaging, and the section component is a welcome and refreshing change.
Great class! If you are interested in art history (or not!) you should take it.
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard by far. I came in with zero experience in any humanities class (I'm CompSci), but learned so much with Professor Roberts. Some of the revelations in the lectures were mind-blowing. So engaging.
This class will teach you a lot and is not a lot of work, but it is difficult to get an A. Also you need to go to lecture and take good notes to do well on the midterm and exam and be able to at least name specific readings that apply to questions. It is a great way to knock on the USW requirement without having to do a ton of reading and writing like you would in another history class and it is actually pretty fun at times.
It was a fascinating course with a lot of art you would not normally encounter. It is in between a social history and art history course. Roberts is an excellent lecturer.
One of the best courses I have ever taken at Harvard.  Professor Roberts is amazing, and the material is wonderfully exciting. Take this class!!!
Although the content is all over the place, you get to visit a lot of cool places around Harvard and in Boston. Be expected to work hard at the end of the semester.
It's a good way to meet USW. Not too much work on a weekly basis, but the final paper was kind of long. Also, the final and midterm were not easy.
This course is just odd.  I'm really not sure what I learned.
This class seems easy and straightforward but has a lot of small annoying assignments. Great if you don't know how to write a research paper--but let's be honest--we all learned how to research in high school and latest freshman year.  Other than that it's super chill.
This class provides a straightforward look at early (1500-1850s) American art and how it related to the political situation of the different eras. Very well-structured, the readings are light and the weekly field-trips (during section hours) added great dimension to the lectures. Visited Houghton, Peabody, NHM, and the MFA several times. If you are an HAA concentrator, this class gets rid of an intro class and a US/W requirement simultaneously. Great look at a period of American art that is not often studied. A painless and straighforward class. Do not take if you are looking for a class of Buchloh-genre art historical analysis and connections, but rather a calm, story-telling type of art history.
Give serious thought to the object that you will focus on for your final paper. Ensure that there are useful secondary sources about your object and its relation to pivotal events in American history.
Professor Roberts is a fantastic lecturer, and for those who aren't art history concentrators, she's a wonderful professor to take a gen-ed with.
Amazing course. As a computer science concentrator, it was definitely outside of my comfort zone, but the material was interesting, the exams and workload fair, and the final project quite fun and rewarding. Do the readings and start early on exam preparation and the final project. This course taught me how to look closely at details (not just in art, but in general) and improved my critical thinking skills. The teaching staff is incredibly knowledgeable and helpful and the sections are particularly interesting (they take place in Harvard museums, and you get to look closely at some of the pieces studied in lectures). Overall an amazing course, and one I'd certainly recommend.
This is a great course if you are interested in art history. The workload is not bad at all and the material is very interesting. Professor Roberts is a great lecturer and her lectures are never boring. I do think that if you don't like art history, you probably won't enjoy this class. The section components are also really great and they were probably one of my favorite things about this course. Most of the sections (save for two to three at the end of the semester) were at museums or outside and it was a really different experience from other classes. I think this is a great US gen-ed or just an elective if you have free space. The reading was usually very interesting and although the some of the readings were very long, they were manageable.
