The content covered in class really enhanced my knowledge of the U.S. education system and how significant education is in anyone's life and. Professor Merseth is such an inspiring educator who truly strives to actually get to know her students.
TAKE THIS CLASS. I lotteried for it an embarrassing number of times and don't have the words to explain how worthwhile it was. Professor Merseth is amazing--go to her office hours and take the time to get to know her; she cares deeply about her students and about this course and it comes through in every possible way.
This course is dangerous. It presents some truly wonderful information, but there is an exceptionally strong liberal bias which may be too much for some people to handle.
Fantastic course! If you think education in America is simple, think again. Prof Merseth does an amazing job to teach students about inequities and unequal treatment that exists within education. Honestly, the course focused too heavily on social justice for my liking, but I learned a ton so it was worth it.
If you can, take this class. Plain and simple.
Wonderful class. Professor puts in a lot of effort and really cares about the students - quite amazing. Very insightful and lively discussions, both during class and in section. The more you put in the more you'll get out of the class!
This is the best taught class I have encountered at Harvard (and I am a senior). If every class could be taught like this, there would be no education problem in the United States. Take this course!
TAKE THIS CLASS. Professor Merseth is incredible and puts so much energy and care into every student. Lots of support on assignments. One of the most inspiring classes I've taken at Harvard. Freshies, lottery now so you have a better chance of getting in later!
Amazing class!! The professors and TFs seem like the genuinely love teaching about education.
This is a good way to fulfill USW. I was not as overwhelmed with the course as I thought I might be; don't buy into the cult mentality. Readings can be cursory, and sometimes discussions felt one-sided. This is a somewhat limiting survey course. I felt myself tugging to learn more about a particular subject or dig into nuances, but there just wasn't time. Papers can be frustrating (very broad) but teaching staff does a great job of coaching you through them. A sense of kindness among all teaching staff much appreciated! Does engage well with questions of privilege, especially here at Harvard.
There are a lot of readings to keep up with. This class provides a lot of support-- lots of office hours, teaching staff really listens to you.
It's a very good class to take for a USW Gened. The workload is fine. The grading is harsh however! It is only graded by 3 papers, and points are taken away for small details. If you want an easy A this isn't the class to take. But it is well taught.
Do the readings and get to know Professor Merseth if you can!  She is really lovely and wants to get to know each of her students.
Take this class if you are able to get into the lottery! Interesting lectures, readings, and a moderate amount of work. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard and Professor Merseth makes sure that she creates a USW 35 community!
This class is pretty good, but definitely overhyped.  Maybe I've just taken better classes than most other Harvard students, but this one didn't stand out to me as exceptional.  The topic is awesome, and they treat it pretty well.  You'll definitely have your beliefs challenged and be exposed to new ways of thinking.  There's quite a bit of reading, and the essay prompts are weird and graded toughly.  Not the easiest class but not bad and it's worth it.  However, be prepared to be treated like a fifth grader yet have the students' comments lead most of the lecture discussions (i.e. you dont actually learn anything from lecture).  Good class, though.  Take it if you lottery in to it.  Although they have a big head about this being the most lotteried-for class at harvard.
This class is pretty cool. There is room or curriculum improvement, but it is a great place to begin thinking about one of the biggest problems in the US- our education system.
This is a great class and a must-take for anyone who has ever considered a future in education or just generally wishes to be engaged with education issues. I will move on in life with a greater emphasis on education as a result of this course.
Doesn't live up to the hype (how could it?), but good
Do the readings.  The readings are amazing.  The first unit is a little more dry, but still--the readings do not take very long and you get so much more out of the course when you do them.
Everyone should take this class, but be aware that this class requires your investment. The entire teaching team, Merseth and the TFs and CAs, are all so dedicated to the course - but you'll get out of it exactly as much work as you put in. Be prepared to participate in lectures and in section - it feels more like a high school social studies class than any normal lecture at Harvard.
If you get the chance to take this class, definitely take it if you like the humanities and/or you're OK with writing papers. However, if you don't like papers and/or you're not a humanities person, I would exercise great caution when deciding whether to take this course or not. The workload is not heavy, but if papers aren't your thing, they can be a pain. In addition, grading is relatively strict. That being said, Merseth was a fantastic professor: she really cares about you and your learning.
Regardless of your career path, you'll realize that you have a responsibility to right an injustice in our country. Every child should have an excellent, high quality education.
best class ever.
You will learn that education in American society is incredibly unequal. It will open your eyes to the POWER of education as an institution to enact change and to make our society better. The day-to-day lectures were not life-changing, but you will come out of the class with a realization that you have benefited from what the best this country has to offer, and that you want to give back in some way. It will humble you to think about your achievements as a byproduct of an amazing education, and that so many other students are not as fortunate.
This course definitely opened my eyes and changed me as a person. The discussions, the readings, the interactions all come into play to create this unforgettable experience. This class is absolutely amazing. I would without a doubt recommend to this course to any student. Professor Merest and the TF team show an unmatched sense of care for not only the subject material, but also the students in the class and will do everything in their power to help you succeed. Best class I've taken thus far.
Very eye-opening course. Will inspire you to want to get involved in education to some extent, even if it that just means being more involved in your future child's education. May not be the easiest class to get an A in but that is not why you should take this class.
This class forces you to think critically about your own life, which has been absent from most classes I've taken at Harvard.
Class is hard and requires you think, but so worth it!
Lottery, lottery, lottery! This course has been put together with so much thought and care, that it's a shame that not all Harvard undergraduates take it. The readings are varied (from ethnographic research to persuasive essays to primary documents), dynamic, and balanced; the teaching staff is extremely knowledgeable and receptive, and Kay Merseth truly cares about each of her students academic as well as personal development. By this point, even my friends who didn't take the course are in on the endless debates and discussions this class has inspired!
Amazing
Amazing eye-opening class with supportive and passionate professor and section leaders.
This class was a good experience, but it was not the miracle I was expecting based on reading Q scores/talking to former students. I would recommend this class, because the subject is very interesting and hugely important and everyone should be exposed to the problems in our education system, even if it's only on a "skimming the surface" level. However, I would say not to expect that this class will completely blow your mind. It was a good class, I made several friends, thought about a lot of interesting topics, and generally enjoyed myself, but it wasn't the life-changing experience I had been led to think it would be. I would recommend taking this class if you can get into the lottery, but go in with more reasonable expectations than I did.
This should be a required class at Harvard. This class has the power to completely change your perspective on your own understanding of your path to Harvard.
Worth the lottery, whether you try multiple times or get in the first time like I did! The course challenged my preconceptions about education (which I had a lot of) and revealed just how complicated and deep the issues with US public education are. Kay and the TFs are excellent at getting the ball rolling and just watching the magic happen, which comes from students like you who are willing to not only argue diverse opinions but also be willing to consider different perspectives.
The only new thing I'll contribute to the comments about this class is that there is a palpable liberal bias in the classroom. This isn't unusual, but for a course that was so reasonable and level-headed, the characterizations of faith, esp. Christianity, were unflattering at best. Take it anyway.
It's not the "super class" that everyone seems to worship, but it is well-done and, I think, a must-take at Harvard--no other issue in America seems as pressing as the one thoroughly discussed in this class.
USW35 is the best course I've taken at Harvard in all regards -- material, organization, teaching staff, support, and beyond. I have never felt so excited to enter a class here and more sad to leave. I felt very supported and welcomed by all the teaching staff members. Prof. Merseth is an amazing person who really helps you understand the intricacies of education and feel the weight of it. The guest lecturers were also amazing, adding another layer of depth to our discussions. Take this class, for a gen ed or not, and you won't regret it! All I regret about this class is not making more time to read each and every word of the readings, because they were usually great! Seriously, if you get into this class, don't hesitate to take it. And befriend Prof. Merseth, because she is wonderful.
not as amazing as all the reviews say, but Professor Merseth is great and it's still worth taking
The CUE scores are real- this class works so hard to be an influential course and the effort pays off.
I can't believe that this class is NOT a mandatory course. You learn so much about the system that you grew up in, and Professor Merseth does an amazing job at making sure that everyone learns as much as possible.
This class is amazing!!! I now believe in all the hype. This class will really open your eyes to the issues in public school education, the historical causes of some of the issues, the complicated aspects of reform and what real people and leaders in education are doing to   improve the school system. The readings are very long, so make sure you area  good skimmer or have a lot of time to get through them so you can say something of substance in class. The professor will cold-call people, so you should do the readings, at least most of them. The papers are not the easiest thing, so make sure you talk to you TF and the CAs a lot to figure out what they want to see. They were graded strictly in my opinion.
USW 35 is a good class for getting a general understanding of the US education system. However it is the kind of class that creates a cult of itself before it actually deserves cultish status. TFs and alumni sing its praises and sing to the fact that you are in the class before it actually means anything to you. I found this to be disingenuous and slightly arrogant.
This is hands-down the best class that I have taken at Harvard. Professor Merseth cares so much about getting to know each one of her students and she is a truly incredible teacher. All of the TFs also have had really interesting teaching experiences prior to getting to the Ed School, so they are super engaging and have lots of relevant anecdotes and real-world advice. This course really pushes you to think about issues in the US education system from many different and new perspectives--I think that everyone comes away from this class a more informed and engaged person who is better equipped to think about the world's problems today.
It's true -- this might be the best class you take at Harvard. Kay is a singular, inspiring individual, and the issues that you'll grapple with in class are some of the hardest and most important problems our generation will face. Even (especially?) if you're not considering a career in education, this course will make you a better citizen. (If you get in past the 5-to-1 lottery, that is...)
This course is amazing. The teaching team is incredible and dedicated, the readings are fascinating, and the class lectures and discussions are enlightening and interesting. Professor Merseth comes prepared each class to deliver a lecture that leaves students inspired to make change, frustrated with the problems in education, interested in learning more, or excited for next class. Professor Merseth is amazing; she requires every student to attend office hours to get to know them on an individual basis - she really cares about all her students. Throughout the course, I learned so much about American education - about its history and purposes, the variety of important influences it exerts on students, and the ways it has been reformed and the possibilities for future reforms. This class is really incredible, and inspired my interest in education. From the professor to TFs to students, everyone is engaged, hard-working, and excited, and makes the class an amazing experience. I definitely recommend this course to anyone interested in education or in an opportunity to take a unique and engaging class.
Though a lot of work, the course is really well structured, and Kay really cares for her students (beyond academically). Class itself is often accommodates not having finished all the reading, and engages you by switching activity every 20 mins or so (e.g. talk with a neighbor, class discussion, guest speaker). Overall one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
This course is not an easy A; the essay grading is tricky, but it seriously made me a better writer. TAKE IT, though!!! Honestly, this class made me rethink my trajectory in life.
This class is made by Kay's enthusiasm about the subject. Opens your eyes to the reality of the education system and exposes a variety of important problems. Definitely something worth taking.
The best course I have taken at Harvard.
This class is inspirational. Professor Merest will care for you like NO OTHER PROFESSOR ON CAMPUS. She truly cares. she will take the time to go to your games, plays, etc. She makes all her students meet with her so that she can get to know them on a personal level. She knows many if not all of our names by memory. She is very accessible and responsive; sometimes replies to her emails within 2 min of you sending them!She along with the rest of the teaching staff are PASSIONATE. They truly give it their all. The speakers they invite for this course are also incredible and incredibly successful! This course is life changing and emotional! But grading can be subjective and at times frustrating.
TAKE THIS COURSE. It is by far my favorite class at Harvard. You would never know it is a GenEd because you leave lecture twice a week with the chills. Kay is incredible. Just take it.
Section was great, and TFs seemed to be carefully selected. My TF was not only well-prepared and well-versed in the material, but also unlike many other classes, actually a good teacher (may be a plus of getting people from the ed school who were former K-12 teachers themselves). The lecture itself was a little to discussion heavy for me, especially in a class that big. Because of the emphasis on discussion, we didn't spend that much time learning new material in class and I found this somewhat frustrating as I didn't feel like I learned enough during the semester. Be prepared for this, otherwise you may be a little disappointed.
This class has one of the best Q-scores for a reason.  It has an amazing and dedicated teaching staff, insightful material, and thought-provoking debates and discussions.  It will challenge your beliefs and ideals in the best way possible.  No interest in education necessary, just a general interest in the social forces that shape U.S. society.
The best class I've taken at Harvard. But you get out of it what you put into it. Do all the readings, not only because they're incredibly engaging and interesting, but because you will reap the benefits of a lively class discussion! But in all seriousness, it changed the way I think about American education, and made me interesting in becoming involved in education reform (I wasn't going into this course).
Best class ever.  If you lottery in, take it, and do all the readings.  You will learn so much about the American education system.  The lectures are incredibly engaging and I wish we had more time every lecture.  Prof. Merseth really cares about the students and the course, and it shows in how she runs the course.
Take it
Get to know Professor Merseth. She is an incredible woman who cares about her students. That is rare at Harvard. Take this course just for her.
The entire teaching team is truly invested in you as an individual, and this class is worth taking precisely because of that.
I haven't taken a gen ed class before, so I don't have a reference point, but I thought this was a challenging gen ed compared to most other gen eds
US & World 35 is a gem in the General Education program that I would recommend to all students from various concentrations to take to enhance their awareness as a citizen of the inequities and aims for excellence in the American education system. It is a rare and invaluable experience to feel a part of an actual learning community that fosters communication with the professor, teaching fellows, course assistants, and peers.
This course for me has been truly life-changing and eye-opening. I have always been interested in pursuing a career in education but this course has made this even more concrete for me. I greatly enjoyed gaining an insight into the history of US education and learning about the dilemmas and issues that still permeate the system today. Even if you aren't interested in a career in education, take this course. It will change your life.
Taking this course should be a requirement for all students. It is a humbling experience that will force you to evaluate your values and purpose. If you want to leave class baffled in the best possible way, then take this course.
Take this course. Lottery for it again and again. It will change the way you look at how you've been educated, why you've been educated, and what's wrong with the system and how to approach the solution. Kay Merseth isn't going to let you just sit in the back of the classroom passively though. She's going to know your name, she's going to use it, and she's going to ask you why you think the way you do. This class is run in such an interactive and purposeful way that you wonder why you haven't been taught this way your whole life. I've learned to think more critically about all the factors that play into my education, and every TF is so great that I've really improved both the way I argue and analyze as well as the way I write.
Take this class. This is by far one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. It is relevant to everyone, because we are all successful products of the education system but may not have thought about how our education system affects everyone in our nation. This class will cause you to question your educational experience and taken seriously the dilemmas of equity and excellence in our education system. I also believe that, as citizens, we should have an understanding of education reform policies and a stance on which levers of education reform are the most effective at maximizing both equity and excellence in our nation.
do all the readings for sure! or you will look dumb
This class is one of the best at Harvard.  Professor Merseth and her teaching staff know what they're doing and execute class lectures, discussions, and sections with ease and passion.  The readings are difficult for a gen ed, and participation is a big part of this course, but the teaching team is understanding and helpful with people who are more shy and less likely to speak up in the large lecture setting.  The assignments and discourse, as well as the different activities completed in lecture and section were enlightening and interesting.  Lottery for this class if you're looking for a great gen ed that doesn't feel like a waste of your time!
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. If you lottery in, you have to take it (they are making it bigger next year so your chances will be better!). Professor Merseth is truly passionate about the dilemmas of public education in the U.S. both today and back through history, and the level of discussion that she sparks in lecture is both powerful and direly important. The class reminded me of the incredible diversity we have here at this school, both in terms of background and thought, and showed me the beauty of forming opinions by taking in a diverse set of ideas and beliefs. This is one of the only Ged Eds I've taken here that has made me want to go out into the world and take action on something that I care about. Also, the teaching team is out of this world so if you do end up getting into the class, take advantage of the awesome TFs.
It's amazing but a lot of work
This is the only class I have been in in which I looked forward to coming to lecture every Tuesday and Thursday. This is the only class in which I have become really close to my entire section. Section involved discussions that weren't just performances for participation grades, but the conversations were about topics that we all genuinely cared about. Sometimes we would disagree, but I felt like I could share my own story, and my opinion was genuinely heard.
KAY IS THE BEST PROFESSOR EVER! SHE TRULY CARES ABOUT HER STUDENTS AND SHE IS AMAZING! THE TFS ARE JUST AS AWESOME TO! TAKE THIS CLASS
It is a great class and definitely caused me to question and reconsider some of my opinions and thoughts regarding the education system. The class makes me feel excited and more prepared for conversations I'm going to have with people over the next couple of years about the fragmentation of our education system and actually know what I am talking about. 

That being said, be prepared to spend a lot of time on this class. Kay also cold calls all of the time which can be uncomfortable.
This is an amazing class. Take this class if you are genuinely interested in education in any way. While it may not be easy, you will walk out of the class feeling like you've learned something of great value, and it gives you an incredible perspective on education in your own life and in the nation. Get ready for it to challenge some of your views, in the best way.
The Q-guide and the selective lottery are not overhyped at all. I could sing of all of the praises about this course which deals with very relevent issues today, but it's not really necessary. There is a substantial amount of reading, but doing all of it helps you get more out of the course. Also, sign up for office hours as much as possible.
This course is truly amazing. Coming from an engineering background, this opened my eyes to the purpose of education, and the challenges that are faced in the United States Education System. The teaching staff is great, and more committed to the class than any I've been in before. Definitely take this course if you can, but also be aware that there is a lot of reading assigned, which is expected to be completed. Additionally, the essays are very involved. Overall, one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
Professor Merseth is absolutely amazing - she works so hard to make this course what it is, and it shows. This class probably can't live up to the absurdly high expectations set for it, but it is definitely worth taking; I'm glad that I took it.
Stop reading the comments. Lottery for this class. If you get in, take it. No excuses. It will change your life. You won't regret it.
This is one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard and it is one of those classes that reminds you that you are in a special institution of higher learning. There are a lot of readings for the class, but they are all worth it, and the teaching team is incredibly motivated and engaged with the students. If anything, take this class just to get to know Prof. Merseth.
I took this class as an elective, as a senior, and because I am interested in education. The teaching team is phenomenal. They care deeply that every student learns something and enjoys the experience. It is also an opportunity to get to know a passionate Professor (Kay Merseth) and supportive, challenging teaching team. You will learn about the historical origins of American education, the challenges faced in the past and today, and how issues of equity and excellence play out in education. If you want a USW or an elective that is interesting and inspiring, this is a great class. It is not easy to get an A on papers - even if you are the best writer in the world. They want you to "show improvement" a la expos and all. If you are looking for a flat A, this class might not be the best choice, but it certainly is more interesting than most others and so important to learn about. The class composition will shape the class - with enough passionate, engaged students, discussion can be outstanding. Without it, discussion might stagnate - leaving you to be frustrated or happily sitting on your computer in the back of the classroom. I would recommend this to students across grade levels but also recommend that you try to do some of the reading - you will learn more from the class than without it. 

tl;dr - the teaching team is phenomenal, material interesting and accessible, workload very minimal, and the students in the class influence lecture the most. definitely recommend.
This course is incredibly interesting (especially if you like education!) and you learn a ton just in a short semester. Great to take if it fills your USW Gen-Ed, but expect more work/engagement than a typical Gen-Ed course. There is a substantial amount of reading but it all mostly very interesting. The teaching staff is great, Prof. Merseth is amazing and so sweet, and they bring so much energy to the course week after week. My only negative experience with the course was the paper assignments and subsequent feedback we received by our TFs on these. I found it's very difficult to do well in this course (based on the way they grade) coming from someone who has a background and experience in education. Definitely take this course, maybe just Pass/Fail!
One of the best classes at Harvard. The TF, CA and Merseth are the best you'll find. No matter what you're concentration is this is a class you must take. It will make you question your beliefs on race, religion, money, opportunity, politics, and yourself. How has made you become who you are today? This previously cheesy question becomes very serious in USW 35 and you will be humbled by the end of the semester. Lottery this and you won't regret it.
This class is definitely worth taking. If education policy doesn't interest you that much, you should still take it. Everyone should know how it works, and have the opportunity to take a class with Prof. Merseth, who is really a wonderful, wonderful woman. The class is made by the amazing teaching staff, and really only requires that you show up and do some thinking about the material. It is not meant to stress you out, but rather, to help you think critically about one of the most important, if not the most important, element of American society.
Forget EC-10. Forget CS-50. Lottery for this course every semester, because it truly is a course that must be taken.
Something that Professor Merseth stated at the beginning of the class goes something like this, "Education is the biggest civil rights issue of the 21st century." This class will show you exactly why that statement is probably the most valid you will hear during your time at Harvard. Education is tied to almost every other social and political structure the United States has today, and in order to understand our past, present, and future regarding equality, equity, and the well-being of our children, we MUST educate ourselves on the state of our education, and by discussing how we define excellence and equity is a very important first step in figuring out our own roles in this discussion.
This class is absolutely amazing. The workload is a bit more than a regular gen ed class, but it's completely worth it. The topic is so interesting and complex, and I learned so much. Professor Merseth cares about each student, which just shows how much she cares about the class. Definitely take it if you have the chance!
This class isn't easy, but it will make you think about education in a way you haven't before. If you stay on top of the readings, engage in discussion (though you should be aware that not all comments are equally valuable), and do the work, this class can be a valuable formative experience.
I cannot recommend this course enough. Everything everyone says about Professor Merseth and the class environment she creates is ONE HUNDRED PERCENT TRUE. This was the best class I've taken at Harvard, I made some great friends in lecture and section, and most importantly, I learned a lot about the areas of our education system that desperately need improvement. Take this courseyou won't know what you're missing if you don't.
Take this course!!! If you're looking for a gen ed to fulfill this requirement, do it. If you have any interest in education, take this for the best overview and understanding of the most prevalent issues in the system. If you have any interest in anything in American society, take this because you need to have a working knowledge of the things we go through in this class--ranging from topics on charter schools to education policy--to function in society.
Great class. Prof. Merseth is awesome -- really cares about the students. Interesting material. Sometimes essays are frustrating but other than that, fantastic.
This is the best class you will take at Harvard. Every student should have the experience offered by this course.
This class really opens your eyes about larger structural problems that underly the inefficiencies of our k-12 education system. The problems can sometimes seem overwhelming and the class will leave you with more questions than answers. The beauty of the course is that now you will begin to start asking the right questions and get one step closer to addressing the root of the problem and not just its symptoms. The readings and course materials are mostly interesting and section is a fulfilling learning experience.
Prepare to have your beliefs challenged.
This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Merseth and the rest of the teaching team are 100% dedicated to making sure each student learns, is challenged, and has a positive experience with the course. It is a good survey into the challenges facing American education and engenders strong and lively discussion. Although I found the material at times to be somewhat simplistic (I would have preferred some of the arguments to be a little more nuanced), this is the type of course that will make you question your beliefs, your place in the world, your background, and how you want to devote your life. I hope you take this course - you won't regret it.
MUST TAKE! This course is honestly one of the best (if not the best) of all courses available at Harvard. This course covers a topic with which we are all quite familiar and have lots of experience. The teaching team is great and experienced. You will learn to appreciate your education background, while also think about the problem with America's education system. Fun Gen Ed course that is also educational.
Such an incredible course! This course has challenged me to rethink my views on education. Professor Merseth is so caring and a great instructor. The teaching team genuinely wants students to learn. TAKE THE CLASS!
This class is inspirational. I learned so much about the education system which I hadn't even considered before. It exposed problems in our society that are troubling and deserving of our attention. The classes were great, and the teaching team is really talented. There was a lot of reading and papers but all of the work felt worthwhile.
This class will completely change your perspective on American education, and it's worth taking for that fact alone. This is a difficult class. The teaching staff expects you to put a significant amount of time and effort into the material, and their are high standards for the written work produced. But if you're willing to put the effort in, you will get a lot out of this course. This is by no means an easy gen ed, but it's a valuable one.
If you are in any way interested in education, take this course. Prof. Merseth is amazing! She takes the time to get to know everyone in the class and help connect your experience to what we are in the class. Even if you aren't normally taking classes in this area, I find that this is a relevant and meaningful subject for everyone to take  a look at.
This course if fantastic -- if it were possible, I would ask that it be required of every student. The teaching staff generates and facilitates incredible class discussions and are very supportive of all views shared. Students are lucky to be under the supervision of Kay Merseth - she makes a point of getting to know each student and is a wonderful conductor of class discussions.
This is what they meant when they said general education. I won't trust you as a fellow voter before you've taken this course. It created a wonderful feeling of community. Academic rigor was sometimes sacrificed for applicability, but it was a reasonable tradeoff.
This class KNOCKS IT OUT OF THE PARK. Wow. I really don't have words to describe how fantastic this class is. They say there is a "lecture" two times a week...."lecture" is more of a BIG all-class discussion (/debate...) about very thought-provoking topics. Everyone gets a name card and by the end of the semester, you'll know basically everyone's name and generally what their thoughts are on various topics. Sections are like a little family. The teaching staff POURS their heart and soul into this class, they genuinely want to make it awesome, and they are all so loving, caring, friendly, and truly want to get to know you. And not only you as a student. But you as a PERSON. That's so incredibly rare to find. You will leave this class a changed person. And if that sounds overly dramatic, then take this class and prove me wrong...I wish I could do it all over again. And again. And again.....and again. LOTTERY until you get in. Then soak it up because it'll fly by.
This is a great class if you are serious about learning about education and some of the ways we can go about reframing our educational system. The teaching staff for this classroom is great and I think that this may become one of the best courses that you take at Harvard. TAKE IT!
This class really made me think about my experience with education and how that shaped who I am. I changed a lot of my beliefs throughout the course of the semester and was challenged to consider other perspectives other than my own. The teaching staff is wonderful and thought-provoking, but a lot of the feedback on papers seemed critical and nit-picky. I often felt isolated and insecure if my opinion wasn't the general opinion of the class (the class's views were generally fairly liberal). Prof. Merseth is the best professor I've ever had at Harvard. She really cares about her students and knows how to lecture really well.
Take it if you want to explore how complicated are issues of race and class in education.
Best class I have ever taken at Harvard. You will not meet a professor who cares more deeply about her students than Professor Merseth. You will learn a lot of things you didn't know about the American education system. You will think fundamentally differently about your own educational experience at the end of the course. You may change your path entirely because of what you learn. Take this course!!
This class should be required for anyone interested in working in politics or education. The guest speakers are fantastic and the readings really hold your attention. The only annoying thing about the course is that it can feel like a parody of a social science/humanities course sometimes, as people share their personal experiences and feelings in lecture all the time. Greater weight is placed on anecdotes than data.
Take this course. Your perspective and knowledge base will grow, not only in terms of the Education System, but the country's socioeconomic, racial, and cultural spheres. You'll also meet incredible, passionate students, exemplary educators, and distinguished guest speakers. Your beliefs will be changed almost every time you come to class and you may leave at the end of the semester ready to take up a career in Education (be careful of this, I'm serious).
Be sure to spend time on essays, especially if you are not good at writing.
I really, really enjoyed this class. The section component was particularly good, and you could get a lot out of the readings if you put the time in. Sometimes class discussion wasn't as productive as I would have liked, but even that improved somewhat by the end of the semester. Grading was at times a bit arbitrary, I think, but overall a good course, if a bit harder than your average Gen Ed.
This course is very good in turning passive students into, if not active, then thoughtful ones. You cannot simply sit in the class and listen. You are forced to take a stance, and the openness of the environment to argument about contrasting opinions on education reform encourage you to become more invested in the issue.
Be prepared to learn what it's like to be a passionate school reformer in a sea of ambiguity where everyone seems equally right and wrong.
While this class does cover extremely interesting subject material, I was not fully convinced by the lecture-discussion style of teaching and learning. Perhaps this is me as a student, but I just don't think truly productive discussion can occur in a lecture of 60 people. What should've been diverse, nuanced discussion, often just turned into a rally behind whatever opinion the majority of people thought best. While we discussed some very relevant, interesting topics, I do wish we had delved deeper. Nonetheless, this class does offer an unparalleled opportunity to -- at least attempt to -- parse out some VERY socially relevant topics that are important for EVERYONE to consider.
Very engaging class that makes you think critically about a lot of issues facing the current educational system and weigh the costs and benefits of any interventions and reforms that could be applied. Professor Merseth is great, very passionate and very knowledgeable. Really looks out for her students and is a great mentor figure, especially for those looking to get involved in the educational space professionally.
This class has awesome discussion.  Get over the fact that sometimes they treat you like 4 year olds with stupid assignments and appreciate the larger discussions the course generates.  On that note, this isn't a class that teaches you facts.  I was most frustrated with that with how fast we were going over history and problems -- it's a wide approach rather than deep.  This class is designed to generate discussion, and it does that well.
Take this class!!!!! Even if you've already fulfilled this course, take it! It's absolutely wonderful. You will never meet a teaching staff who genuinely cares about you as much as this one..they are awesome! The conversations you will have in lecture and section will change your lifeforcing you to think about education in new, fun, upsetting, and encouraging ways. The education that you thought was a 'given' for everyone is not. And it's no accident. This course teaches you about more than education, but about how American bureaucracy, politics, and economics affects education. Take this class..you will not regret it!!
If you are interested in learning about education through history and current debates as well as future methods of reform it is a wonderful class to take. The staff and Prof. Merseth are awesome!
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard!I felt like I learned something significant. The course instructors are amazing and always available to you.
wonderful course! made me rethink my post-grad interests.
This is almost certainly the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. Whether or not you are well-versed in education reform policy, or you have no exposure whatsoever and have simply gone through the education system without putting much thought into it, this course will stimulate your interest in education and make you think twice about what you value. You will find new opinions, and walk away feeling like you've actually learned something, which is refreshing.
This course has it's incredible reputation for a reason - is is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.  Everything about it is excellent.  I strongly recommend it for anyone who has even a remote interest not only in education, but in social justice issues more generally.  This course made me want to pursue teaching. It is certainly not the easiest gen-ed, and you will be graded strictly on assignments, but it is absolutely worth it.
Great course! Papers are graded pretty hard but the class is worth it. Professor Merseth is the best--get to know her!
Great course for anyone. Do not have to want to go into teaching or  education to get a lot out of the course.
Great overview of contemporary issues facing the American education system that uniquely combines history with philosophical debates on the purpose of education. Do not be drawn away from the admittedly fluffy name of the class, and the first lecture or two. There are some superfluous debates here and there, but overall this class was very substantive. You will learn from classroom debates, and have a real opportunity to get to know other students who care deeply about education. This was a great course with excellent teaching staff who really care about building a community of personal, thoughtful, and substantive debate. Highly recommended to anyone interested in education issues.
This is an amazing class and you should most definitely take it! Professor Merseth cares about each and every student, and while discussions sometimes talk about everyone's own high school experience, it fits well within the more rigorous course content and allows everyone to have a broader perspective. Take this and do not be afraid to talk in class about your own educational experiences, for they will add to a phenomenal discussion! Class is great and assignments are fair. Get to know Professor Merseth very well, too, because she is awesome!
The lessons learned are invaluable. Be prepared for the workload!
This is the best class that I've taken at Harvard yet.  Kay's enthusiasm is contagious.  The TFs are incredible.  The discussions are thought-provoking.
Take this class!! You will learn so much and the teaching staff is really great. Kay works really hard and cares a lot about her students. The essays will make you think and are challenging, so start early!
This class is PHENOMENAL. Topics covered are essential to understand as a participant in US society. You will be pushed to challenge and deepen your own ways of thinking about society and your place in it. The teaching staff is incredible and care deeply about your own growth and who you are as a person. You will make great friends in this class. Your ideas are listened to and valued. Definitely one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Everyone should take this class. Unfortunately it's lotteried--if you don't get into the lottery, keep trying each semester.
This is a phenomenal course. If you have the opportunity to take this class, do not hesitate. I was on the fence about taking the class but I absolutely do not regret it and honestly wish I could take it again. The teaching staff is incredible and unbelievably dedicated to your learning. The class will not only help you better understand education in America, but also will help you realize ways you can help improve it. This is perhaps the only class I have taken here that I can undoubtedly say after that it has changed my life.
TAKE THIS CLASS.  If you care about kids, take this class.  If you care about America, take this class.  If you care about the world, take this class.  Prof. Merseth is easily the most caring professor I've ever encountered and the teaching staff is wonderful.  This class will challenge you intellectually and push you to think critically.  It will also to expose you the wild and wonderful world of education.  And it's really not too too much work.
I recommend this course with enthusiasm. It is probably THE BEST way to fulfill USW. It has been an incredibly impactful and valuable experience for me in large part because it gave me the opportunity to explore issues of race and class. There are so many cool and unique aspects of this course  school visits, non-traditional lectures, participatory classes, interesting guest lecturers, no exams,  and a teaching staff who REALLY know how to teach. Learning from Professor Merseth is such a treat. She is unbelievable devoted to making the course a positive and meaningful experience for all of her students and she takes the time to really get to know everyone.
this is the best class you can take at harvard
Take this course. There is no other piece of advice I can give. It is important that we are conscious of the current state of the US education system. This class will provide you with a number of resources that will help you form your own opinion.
GO TO KAY'S OFFICE HOURS MORE THAN ONCE. Engage in the texts. Volunteer at a low-performing school in Boston. Meet with your TF before the paper so that you can really understand what the assignment asks of you.
This is honestly the best class I have taken at Harvard! The teaching staff is incredibly supportive and really pushes your learning. All of the readings and topics covered are incredibly relevant and important. Overall it was a pleasure to take this class. Be ready to fully engage in readings and discussions in order to get the most out of it.
The grading is hard and they do not fully explain why it is so hard. They will give you rubrics but the rubrics are vague, unclear, and unhelpful. Do not take it for fun. It is not easy.
This course, though sometimes very challenging in the amount of work and types of questions asked of you, is the most rewarding experience I have had the opportunity of having at Harvard. The chance to work with a teaching staff who is composed of TEACHERS made the class so much better as they knew how to support us, question us, and continued to change the course to our needs and liking. Everyone at Harvard has mastered the education system, so even if you are not thinking of pursuing education in the future, I still recommend this class above all other USWs because it is applicable and, excuse the clich, life-changing.
If you are fortunate enough to have the opportunity, take this course.  Unlike most of the people in the class, I actually had some reservations about taking it at the start.  I was originally just looking for a quick and easy way to satisfy my U.S. in the World gen ed requirement, and I thought that the readings and essays in the class were a bit more than I bargained for.  But as the class progressed, I began to realize how truly fascinating and relevant the topic of education is.  K-12 Education is something that we're all familiar with, and yet at the same time have thought so little about.  This class caused me to totally rethink my future plans in life and made me realize how much work needs to be done in the field of education.  Professor Merseth is incredible - she makes an effort to get to know every member of the class - as are the rest of the teaching team.  Maybe USW 35 wasn't the easiest way to satisfy my requirement, but I'd take it again any day.
If someone asked me what course they had to take at Harvard it would be this one.  It is just too good.  The class is diverse in opinions and that has led to some of the most incredible conversations.
Incredibly dedicated teaching team!
Come with an open mind. Be passionate about what you're passionate about but leave your opinions open to change.
If you can get into this class, you should absolutely take it.  This class will definitely be one of the most memorable of my undergraduate career, and it has changed my life.  I learned so much about myself through examining my own educational background, as well as so much about the United States.  Examining the U.S. through education systems allows you to see and discuss so many structural issues of this country that are rarely mentioned in other courses.  This class was refreshing, enlightening, engaging, and so much fun.
A really great class with a really dedicated and knowledgeable teaching team. More work than expected, but worth the effort.
It's a great class to take if you're already interested in education, but I can't help but think that it would be better and more educational for students not already interested in the field (however, there are problems associated with that too). That said, I learned a lot and the teaching staff was wonderful. It seems like a lot of times, students brought their emotions and feelings into the classroom, and I personally didn't like that. I wanted to discuss arguments and ideas on tough dilemmas in education, but it seemed like others were more interested in discussing how they felt about these ideas. This made it tough to have great discussion sometimes. It's harder to say someone's feelings are unreasonable than it is to discuss why you think their thoughts about a reading are unreasonable. -Lots of great guest speakers!
Everyone should take this class. More people need to understand how important our education system is and the issues that affect the system.
The teaching team is incredible and are the most dedicated I have ever encountered. The course surveys a wide range of educational issues and pushes students to think about the deeper conflicts underlying these issues. However, I often found the course frustrating because I felt that the issues raised in class were never resolved, and I found few answers to the critical problem of education reform in the United States.
This isn't a class: it's a coalition of people all passionate about the future of education. Know that if you decide to be enrolled here, you are responsible for keeping yourself informed about the issues and actively participate in class. It makes the experience so much better if you decide to do so.
A lot of work, but very interesting, and Kay is a great professor. It helped me understand the importance of education in the U.S. at a much deeper level.
This is a great course. A lot of reading, and the papers are challenging, but if you do the work, you get a lot out of this class.
Definitely take this class should be lotteried in!! It will definitely transform your thinking:-)!
This course will challenge every single one of you opinions and ask you questions you had never even considered.  Even if you are not interested in education for a future career, this is a great entry into a topic that inevitably affects every individual living.
This class is a lot of work, but it absolutely worth taking.  I'm bummed that it's only one semester.
An extremely well-taught class, where all of the teaching staff care deeply both about you and about teaching a course in the best way possible, with great attention to feedback and improvement.Will change how you see education, and with it, society as a whole. Weekly readings may get kind of long, but they are enjoyable if you dive into the course subject.
Absolutely fantastic course. Katherine and Sarah, the head TF, are simply terrific. They are deeply inspirational. My only regret is having taken this course so late in my Harvard career (as a senior). You deal with very crucial issues: race, immigration, poverty, and an array of other real topics. I find myself continuing to banter about education reform when others bring it up quickly and then it grows into a major topic of discussion. Loved this class- one of the best I have taken in all four years, and I know I will definitely be getting involved in education in my economics coursework. I usually have at least a few critical comments for classes I have taken, but I am not sure there is anything I would really change, save for perhaps a slightly smaller class size. Thank you Kay and Sarah!
It's a lot of work and really forces you to think, but great!
YOU HAVE TO TAKE THIS COURSE. This class is one of the best I have taken at Harvard. It changed my way of thinking--I feel like I am a different person as a result of this course. If anything, this course will show you how a college course should be taught--where each student is considered an individual, where section is as enjoyable as lecture, and where the teaching staff are so dedicated to the material and their students that you cannot help but put as much into this course as you can.
The class is interesting and does a good job of letting you explore your views. However, the types of opinions represented in the class are not the full spectrum, making the class not exactly an open discussion. Also, the class is way too intense, especially for a Gen Ed. Make sure you are really interested and are ready for the work.
This is a good class. It is very time-consuming though. Do not take it with a full class load. It will push you and make you think, but it can be easily discouraging.
This is a must take class.  Professor Merseth really cares about her students and understands education issues.  She asks provocative questions and she along with the entire teaching team really help you to get to the heart of the education crisis facing our country.  A harvard must.
Absolutely take this course! This was my favorite course in my 5 semesters at Harvard.
EVERYONE AT HARVARD NEEDS TO TAKE THIS CLASS. I had never been seriously interested in education until taking this class, and now I know that whatever I do in the future must involve tackling the education dilemma in some way.
don't take if you are looking for an easy gen ed, but the course is really interesting but you are held to a high standard for work
It is possible to get a lot out of this class; it seemed obvious that many students were deeply affected by the class, but there were others who were not.  This is not an easy yet interesting gen-ed.  There is a lot of reading, and the papers are not graded easily by any measure.  If you are very passionate about education reform in America, this class may be a wonderful experience for you (although you may also find it frustrating given how little opportunity you frequently have in section and class to really hear others' and voice your own opinion).
Expands your perspective on education and how it relates to society. Inspires many to pursue possible resolves to the dilemma of education
This is a great class if you have any interest in education. If you make the most out of this class, it can be very beneficial and super engaging. It is not as easy as some typical gen-eds (there is a fair amount of reading) but the workload is super manageable and if you put in the effort, you'll do well.
This class was carefully developed and crafted by the teaching team, and it definitely showed - sections were meaningful and lectures by Prof. Merseth were compelling and relevant. Guest lectures were wonderful, and the class incorporated school visits and also required us to reflect on our own educational experiences, which I had never done before. The course forces you to think about your own stance on education, your past educational background, and your hopes for the future, and discussions are incredibly salient and will stay with you forever. It is so important that we all be educated about our educational system, and if you are at all interested lottery to take this class! The class was also unique by allowing any interested students to participate in discussions outside of class, so that Prof. Merseth is clearly devoted to enhancing all Harvard students' understanding of education. Prof. Merseth and the teaching staff are all so caring and wonderful and really want us to succeed - I have rarely had such a considerate professor who truly wanted every student to meet with her, grow, and feel comfortable. Thank you!
You will love this class! without a doubt!!!
This class is cool. The lecture material is sometimes interesting, but the readings really are the highlight. It is however, graded too harshly, and the discussion environment is too aggressive. There is also a strange focus in the assignments. You can't focus on your own interpretations, and you have to write exactly what the teaching staff wants you to. So although course readings are great, the assignments do not contribute to the experience.
This course is amazing. First, because it is intentional about teaching. I've never seen another Harvard class work so consciously to improve itself each year and throughout the semester, and it shows. Second, because the ideas are powerful and the course asks each student to engage with their own beliefs in relation to the material. If you have any interest at all in education (and I hope you do), take this course. It is an inspiration.
The class is very well done, but does not go very deeply into the issues, even the controversial ones; while I did learn a lot, seeing as I didn't know much about education beforehand, my views were not challenged nearly as much as the introduction at the beginning of the course led me to believe they would.
This is a good class for learning about education, but they treat you like babies who don't know how to learn or read. Very low-level approach.
This course will change your life. This was by far my favorite course this semester. Dr. Merseth, the teaching team, and everyone enrolled in the class provided unique perspectives on the issues discussed in class. After every lecture I always felt motivated and inspired to make a change in our education system. The readings were insightful and a pleasure to read.
Definitely take this class -- the definition of GenEd, it teaches information you need to know as an American citizen.  Everybody leaves this course with a new perspective (or many) on the public education system and with a more profound interest in the subject.  It's fun, too!
Take it! It's an amazing course. The teaching team is great and the readings, though more than those in most gen-ed classes, are really interesting. Class discussions are active and enlightening. This class will really challenge you to think about issues in the American K-12 education system. It will change your perspectives on the subject and provide new angles you have never thought of before.
This is a great class, possibly the best I have taken so far at harvard. It will literally twist your brain in knots and change the way you think. However, if you want to fully benefit from all that it offers, you need to plan on bringing a serious commitment to keeping up on the readings, assignments and participating. This is not a class that you can sleepwalk through (or that you would ever want to). It is simply too rich and too important a subject matter, with incredibly intelligent, committed teachers. Bring your A-game and you will get so much out of it!
If you are the kind of person who likes studying contemporary issues, etc. you will enjoy this class.
This is an excellent course. It definitely has a liberal bias, but the instructors also encourage different opinions and facilitate excellent discussions. I feel more informed about the current education system and inspired to get involved.
One of the best, if not THE BEST, class I've taken in four years at Harvard. Kay and the TFs care about your work and your lives and couldn't be more helpful. There was not a single day that I regretted going to lecture or section, which is more than I could say for most of my other classes. If you can get into this class, do it. You won't regret it. Might even change your life.
Came for the gen ed requirement, stayed for the life-changing experiences
This class was life-changing. It was so incredible to be taught by a team of teachers that were so effective in communicating their passion about a subject - and so successful in fostering engaging and thoughtful discussion.
I would tell future students not to get frustrated with what may seem like an unsolvable problem. The point of the class is not to find all the solutions to the problems in American education, but to gain a better understanding of how such problems arose, how they are affecting lives, and how they could possibly be solved.
this is a must take for people interested in education...the time commitment is large for a general education but worth it
I would absolutely recommend this course with the warning that the reading and expectations exceed those typical of a Gen ed.
If you know nothing about education, be prepared to have your mind blown. If you feel you have some expertise on the subject, be prepared to read a lot of interesting things, think about new topics, but also have to listen to a lot of potentially offensive lecture comments by students who have been less exposed to urban problems than you have been.
Take this course. It is very well organized and will give you a lot of important perspectives on education in America (its history and current debates). It will make you expect more of your TF's and professors in the future, and it will push you to think deeply about your own assumptions, not just about education, but about everything from race and class to opportunity, motivation, and human learning. And its a really excellent way to fulfill USW.
I feel as if many people say this about classes at Harvard, but BEST CLASS I HAVE EVER TAKEN IN MY ENTIRE LIFE. I AM NOT EXAGGERATING. THERE IS NO REASON WHY YOU SHOULD NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. Okay, seriously, I have never experienced a class at Harvard that has intellectually challenged me as much as this class. This class and the teaching staff will encourage you to think in ways you have never thought before about U.S. education. The teaching staff know HOW to teach. They get it. Sections are so fun, lectures are a blast! Course readings are decent length, but SO interesting! TAKE THIS COURSE!
Possibly one of the best Gen Ed classes offered at Harvard, though you must understand that this also makes it a difficult class. Do not expect to breeze through this class. The teaching staff and professor Merseth put a lot into making this a great course. This results in two things: 1) it is a great course; 2) the expect that equally you put a lot into being a great student in the course. There is a lot of reading (particularly given that it's a Gen Ed), and you can't get away with not doing the reading.
This course is phenomenal - I learned so much about our K-12 education system, and, while gaining an appreciation of how tough the dilemmas we face are, left feeling inspired to effect change as a result of the positivity and energy of the whole teaching team. Prof. Merseth is fantastic and takes more interest in her students than any other professor I've had. Overall, the staff puts so much effort into making this a great experience. I was frustrated in our discussions at times, but looking back I realize that the disagreements I might have had with different viewpoints that were expressed were one of the more valuable parts of this class. I was forced to both define what I actually believed and then constantly reevaluate those beliefs. If you have any interest in education, inequality, American society, or just taking a great class, TAKE THIS CLASS!
It's very much an introductory class -  not appropriate for people who have spent a lot of time thinking about these issues.
THIS IS THE BEST CLASS. If you have any interest in education, or even if you just want an engaging and life-changing way to fill a Gen Ed, this is the class for you. Class was the highlight of my week, every week. Merseth and the TFs are superb. The class, although there are over 45 students, is effectively run as a discussion, not a lecture. There is a ton of support for every assignment and the feedback is useful. There are many guest speakers that add to the rich variety of information presented in the course. This course will provide you with the information to force you to take a stand on dilemmas in education. I literally left each class with a completely altered worldview.
If you want to take it, then take it! Kay Merseth is an excellent teacher and loves to teach. Everyone gets to know you even when you think they don't and you will be challenged to fall asleep in lecture.
The best class I've taken at Harvard. You would be stupid not to take this to fulfill the GenEd. The teaching staff is fantastic and accesible. They carry their vision through the class in a way that is clear, well organized, and powerfully engaging.
Prepare to be extremely dissatisfied after classes, because (a) it was difficult to get all your ideas into the discussion, (b) someone expressed an opinion that severely bothered you, or maybe (c) you still aren't really sure what your opinion is. It's a good thing. The point of the course is to get you to deal with broad, sometime vague, and uncomfortable questions, and force to you define it and stick with a position. So make sure this is a topic that you care about! The TFs have really valuable teaching experience to speak from, and the professor is wonderful to talk to about anything. Go to her office hours.
Professor Merseth was so amazing! She is a terrific instructor and so inspiring. We had great guest lecturers and the teaching team supported us throughout the semester. This course felt like such a community and I really enjoyed each exercise we engaged in to bring in different topics. They enhanced my understanding of issues and also kept me awake every time!
This class was truly amazing and everyone should take it! Even though the class has about 50 students, it feels very small and discussion based. Professor Merseth is amazing at generating enthusiasm and really engages with all her students. There was a sense of community that she built. She also gets some amazing guest speakers to talk about various issues facing education.  The TFs were all extremely passionate and good teachers and contributed in both lectures and section. The course is neither easy or unusually hard, but all the readings and papers are extremely interesting to write, because they force you to rethink so many of your perceptions. I must have changed opinions on issues of education 100 times this semester.
Be prepared for lots of reading and writing. Take notes! They help! Start early on essays!
This was one of the best classes I've taken in my life. This is not a gen-ed to take simply to fill a requirement. It is a gen-ed to take to educate and cultivate a passion.
This class was AMAZING! If you are at all interested in pursuing a career in education, this class is a must take. Professor Merseth and the teaching fellows deeply care about each student. Additionally, all have a history in education and teaching so they all know how to teach effectively. Take it. Take it. And if you're still contemplating whether to take the course or not, take it.
This class was life changing. A really inspiring class that gets you fired up about making a positive change in the world.
This class is awesome. You have to take a class with Merseth sometime in your college career. The teachers were always so excited and each one really knows their stuff. Don't slack in this class though. Thats the quickest way to get in their bad favor. Participation is a must but definitely not a drag. Everyone in the class always has something to say. The class is very close to one another.
Take this course! You won't regret it.
a fabulous class!
TAKE THIS CLASS! So engaging, and you will learn so much.
If you are at all interested in education or education reform, TAKE THIS CLASS! It was my favorite class of the semester--really interesting and applicable! Merseth is a great professor--she's very engaging and approachable. Overall, a fantastic class--everyone loved it! Plus it counts as a Gen-Ed. At the end of the semester, Merseth had us over to her house for a class party, and we couldn't stop talking about how much we loved the course!
Throw yourself into this class 110% percent.  It will change the way you look at American education, society, politics, everything.  "If you're not outraged, you're not paying attention."
This is one of the best classes that you will ever, EVER take at Harvard.  It's personal, powerful, and important.  This is my senior year, so I do not say that lightly.  Take this if you possibly can.
One of the best courses I have taken in my four years at Harvard. Requires genuine interest and willingness to be pushed back and forth to gain a clear idea of what equity and excellence really means in today's educational system.
This was by far one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.  I would HIGHLY recommend it to anyone remotely interested in education.  Professor Merseth will get you engaged and thinking deeply about the many dilemmas in American education today.  You will emerge with a solid understanding of American educational history and current problems as well as potential solutions to those problems.  The reading are all modern, relevant, and interesting.  Every class is set up as a short lecture at the beginning and then small group activity and discussion as well as whole-class discussion.  I think I learned as much from my peers as I did from the readings!  It is an amazing experience to get to bond with 50 classmates, to get to really understand where they're coming from and what they are likely to say about each issue.  The TFs all come from different and interesting backgrounds and bring thought-provoking perspectives to the class.  Honestly, take this class, please.  Whether it is to fill your U.S. in the World requirement or just to learn more about education, you won't regret it.
Take this class!  If you are at all interested in education and want to make a difference for kids in this country, this is the class for you.  You are sure to be inspired by the books you read and the professor and TFs to help change the American education system!  It is quite a lot of reading, but very interesting reading.  You can get by without reading all of it, but you will get more out of the class if you do read everything.  Most of the work is writing the 4 papers, but they will really make you think about what you are learning.
If you are the right audience for this class, then it is wonderful.  By "right audience," I mean, if you care about the huge impact that education has on the future of the world.  There were very few times when I felt that we were wandering aimlessly, which is impressive for a humanities course.  Take it.
This class was awesome! I learned so much, Dr. Merseth was fantastic and so personable and invested in getting to know her students. Though there are a TON of readings and doing them all doesn't necessarily help you in class, it really does help during the paper-writing, especially if you are going into the class with no prior knowledge about education in America.
This was honestly the exact type of class I had hoped to take when I got to college. The coursework was interesting and extremely important to today's world, the teaching staff was incredibly supportive and approachable, the assignments were thought-provoking, guest speakers (including Dean Minow of Harvard Law School who spoke to us about Brown v. Board) supplemented class readings and made the topics of the readings feel much more personal and real-life, and Professor Merseth, through her questions during class and other methods of guiding class discussion, created a class atmosphere in which we were pushed to challenge our own beliefs and consider the beliefs of others. Even though there was a decent amount of reading, it was always worth doing in order to be able to take part in class discussions, have the chance to talk to the teaching staff about the subjects of the readings, and learn more about America's education system. For people who are even remotely interested in education in America: TAKE THIS CLASS. For people who aren't sure if they are interested, or even for people who don't think they are: TAKE THIS CLASS and I am almost certain you will become interested. This class focuses on issues that are both important in today's world and that are often either misunderstood or not thought about by most people.
Overall, a very good class. Dr. Merseth is a fascinating individual and a good lecturer. The material we studied is very applicable to the real world-- I have never had so many people outside of the college interested in any course that I have taken like this one. The workload is relatively heavy (~5 papers) but the material is interesting and the course is well-taught.
The class is definitely engaging - it's very different from any other "lecture" classes here on campus. It compels you to think on-the-spot, really take a stand, and defend your point. It's quite stimulating.
This class  is very engaging- it literally got me perplexed and angry about issues I have never thought of before. For the first time, this class did a great job.
This class is life changing.
Education is deeply important to our lives and futures, and something that needs to be addressed in the country.  This class will at least give you a way to think about it and be better informed going forward.
By far the best teaching I have ever experienced at Harvard! You will receive fantastic feedback on your writing and way of thinking about education. Lecture is extremely interactive, fun and quite different from traditional lectures with tons of slides and little to no student-teacher interaction. You will explore adventurous learning and have tons of learning experiences that will challenge your own views on education!
I loved this class!  Get to know your TF and Professor Merseth!  They are  truly dedicated to the students in the class and to the material they teach.  It provided an excellent introduction to the history of education in America, and provided the tools to formulate an educated opinion on schooling in America.
This course is a good experience. The teaching staff really cares about you, and by the end you sort of feel like a big family with the other students and the teaching staff. Note that this course is less focused on the actual practice of teaching or education (i.e. what are effective classroom management practices or good suggestions for designing a curriculum), and more on how these different aspects of education, and the culture of education in general, impact the ability of schools to deliver an excellent and equitable education. You might also say this class is more about education reform than about education itself. Recommended for anyone interested in education, but if you are interested in some specific aspects such as curriculum design or childhood development, you will want to take other classes as well.
If you are interested in education, this is a fantastic class to take as an introduction. Not only do you learn a lot about American K-12 education, but you also get a chance to experience a different style of teaching that is not present in regular Harvard courses.
The people make this course. Professor Merseth and the teaching staff are so amazing and personable and passionate about what they do. You will want them in your life.
Don't miss out on this class - it's one of the best I've taken here, particularly among Gen Eds. The teaching staff, led by Kay Merseth, is very dedicated to teaching well and making sure everyone gets attention. Even more importantly, they're interested in you as a student, and are willing to meet individually frequently for academic or nonacademic reasons. Furthermore, the public education system is one of the most important policy issues today, and this class does an excellent job of getting you to think critically about relevant issues and defend your arguments.
Professor Merseth is one of the best professors you will find - at Harvard or anywhere else. There were a few kinks in the class, but I'm sure she will iron them out. The exposure to great educational minds cannot be rivaled.
The assignments call for a very direct interpretation of the reading, so be ready to support support support. The material is very interesting; Kay is an awesome person and professor; and you really become excited about the prospect of change in the country.
Know what's expected of you for assignments. A lot of times, what's said to the big group in lecture does not correspond to what your TF is looking for. Be careful to substantiate your opinions.
This is an amazing class for many reasons: 1) the teaching is fantastic--you don't realize what you're missing until you take a class with Ed school professors, 2) you can draw on your own experience in school, 3) the class engages multiple learning styles, and 4) the readings and personal experiences of the teaching team are inspiring.
Kay and the teaching fellows are the kindest and most engaging teachers. They care to know who you are and they know that you feel stressed out and are willing to help. The class is set up in a way so that its not about lecture but about learning collaboratively. The papers are interesting to write because you really get to choose a topic that you found most interesting and write about it, there are almost no limitations. You learn to question the value of an American education and the processes going into schooling and learn to want to defend it and change it. It makes you think critically about social justice through education. It is a very chill class and the people in the class if they are willing to listen to ideas and oppose one another at times you learn a lot. I honestly think this will be the best class I've ever had in three years, because it made my freshman fall exciting.
This is an awesome class. Please consider this class, it is one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard. The professor is great and so are the teaching fellows.
This is an incredibly well-taught class, and Professor Merseth and the teaching staff are just so passionate and dedicated.
If you have any interest in education or teaching, you will probably love this class.  It was the first gen ed where I wanted to do the readings, felt comfortable speaking my true opinion in section, and felt like I was being taught in a way where I could form my own opinions about issues rather than being told what is right or wrong.  The only downside is that no section will ever live up to how great and comfortable my section for this class was.
This is a really amazing course, but not an easy A. Everything you've heard about it is true, although how wonderful it is is probably a bit exaggerated. If you have any interest in education, you should definitely take it, and even if you don't, but you want the experience of a class that is taught in a completely different manner than others at Harvard, take this. Be prepared to do a lot of work on it, and start your papers early so you have time to edit them (they're graded pretty harshly).
This class is great for anyone who is interested at all about education. It makes you a better more well-rounded person. Definitely take it!
Take this class. Seriously, you will find nothing else like it at Harvard. The depth of Prof. Merseth and her team's care for the students is really unparalleled by anything I've seen at Harvard. Plus, this class helps students to meaningfully engage with and understand one of the most pressing social issues in our country.
This course is great! The content wasn't quite as revolutionary as advertised, but the teaching team was fabulous
Honestly, I feel like this class is overrated. Some of the time you spend in lecture and section seem kind of unnecessary / a waste of time because it's the same repetition of the same information. The workload is pretty easy. I spent about 2 hours every week outside of class doing USW (outside of writing essays -- 3 during the semester). Easy way to fulfill gen ed, if you're willing to go to all the lectures and sections (mandatory)
great class, a lot of reading (a LOT) but if you just skim it you'll be fine and get to enjoy the class
A class you need to take if you get in. There is a lot of hype, which is mostly deserved. You wont find professors who care about you more than Professor Merseth, or a teaching staff more dedicated to the class. The material is awesome, and you learn alot about both education and your own personal educational experience.Take it before you graduate.
It is the best gen ed you can take at Harvard.
This is one of those must-take courses for a reason--you come out of the class with a much deeper level of understanding about our education system and how it needs to change. The discussions were engaging, the teaching staff is fantastic, and the material is super relevant no matter what you study. Definitely take it if you can!!
By now, you've probably read enough really great comments about this class. They are all merited. So stop reading the comments and go back to doing something productive. Lottery the class. If you get in, drop whatever you need to and take it. No exceptions. Just do it
Kay Merseth knows the material that she is teaching like no other. Her lectures are fast but they are extremely well organized and smooth. She facilitates discussions in a terrific manner and she really tries to get to know all the students in her class. There is a Facebook page for the class, Kay holds 1-1 meetings with all the students, Kay invited us to her house for an end of the year celebration, and the list of mechanisms implemented to create a classroom community goes on and on. She REALLY CARES.
This is a great class to get a good survey on the scope of education. Kay really cares about the class. Sometimes readings get to be a lot and this course is manageable but is probably more work than a normal gen ed. If you are someone who doesn't like to participate, don't be to nervous because it's ok to sit and listen, just understand that this course may not be as fulfilling for you. Sometimes student discussions wander but really take the time to get to know your TF and CA. If you are nervous about writing, get help from your TFs who are willing to provide extra resources. Overall really good survey course to cover: history, purpose, issues and current levers in schooling.
Dilemmas of Equity and Excellence is an amazing course that will not only make you see new facets of issues you thought you already understood, but also introduce you to a community. Lottery for it today and tomorrow and every chance you get!
The class gives you a great foundation to understand American education, but much less time is spent on finding answers and focusing on policy reforms than you would think.
The comments aren't wrong. The class is amazing. These comments will say that this class is unlike any other class you've taken at Harvard, that the teaching staff is incredibly dedicated to making the course the best it can be, and the discussions and the investment that your fellow peers put into the course make the whole experience so much more rewarding than any other class at Harvard. Being in a class where almost everyone is genuinely excited about the material and improving schools/education such that the reading actually gets done and discussed in lecture and class makes you realize how dissatisfying other classes were. Also the material itself is amazing, and you will learn so much about the institution of schools that we've all been around our whole lives but have likely not thought too critically about.
This is by far the best class you will have ever taken here at Harvard!
If you can get in, TAKE THIS CLASS. Merseth will push you to rethink your own experiences in schooling by teaching you about the history of schools in the United States as well as exploring the experiences of other students. This course will change the way you think, both about American schools and also perhaps your own career goals. Merseth and her TFs are model educators and I feel so lucky to have been able to take their course.
This class is amazing. It opens your eyes to the dilemmas facing education today, how they came about, and what people are doing to try to solve them. Totally worth taking.
I'd write a whole thing but too busy exploring my newfound passion of education #required
take it if the material interests you at all!
Lottery for this course. It is tremendously informative and amazingly well-taught. All of the praise is well-deserved. The teaching staff are all wonderful, caring, and really great at teaching, and I think that's what makes the class really special.
People say classes change you, but this class really changes you. It makes you question your preconceived ideas of your own identity, upbringing, and role within society. This is definitely one of the most fascinating and enriching classes that exists at Harvard.
Amazing class, probably one of the best USW classes! Highly recommend if you can lottery into it. Challenging, but very thought-provoking.
Incredible class. By far my favorite at Harvard. Prof. Merseth and the TFs are very knowledgeable and teach education and how teaching should be taught beautifully. They create an environment that encourages open discussion and you really bond with the people in the class, particularly in your section. The TFs are innovating themselves -- I was blown away by two of them who are building their own charter schools in NY and San Fran. The course walks you through the history of America's education system and explores questions of fairness, excellence, and equity in depth. You look at teaching methods, class, race, gender, sexuality, policies such as No Child Left Behind and Race to The Top, federal v. state v. district level reform, scalability, "no-excuses" charters, etc. You realize how varied students' educational experiences are, the beauties and drawbacks of American education, and come out with a much better understanding of the problems plaguing the system.
This course will change your life.
This class isn't easy because it causes you to question and think and you usually don't get any answers, but it is worth it.
It's probably the best way to fill your USW requirement and you should definitely take it if you're interested in education. The class is more engaging than most courses and you'll have a lot of interesting discussions.
Good class. Be careful if you're a lazy senior though- you'll have to put in work for this class! Kay is awesome though
As a graduating senior, I can say without reservations that this course is the best course I've taken here out of my 32 courses. The course has a fantastic structure (I found the second unit on schools and identities, and the third unit on reform to be the most enjoyable ones), and both section and lecture are filled with engaging activities and speakers so that you are never bored. In particular, this course does a great job at teaching you something that everyone has experienced but not everyone talks about--education--and will get you talking about it with peers in a variety of contexts. Moreover, it asks you to reflect about identity and what you really value, asking questions that even as a senior, I felt were worthwhile and something that no other class has ever asked of me. The professor and the teaching staff are also super super committed, and make themselves available to you to help on the essays (which are challenging, since you are writing in a way that you likely haven't written before about schools). I have never had a more warm and welcoming environment in which to discuss topics about which I really cared.  Without a doubt, this has been the most worthwhile academic experience I've had at college.
USW 35 was undoubtedly the most engaging, holistic academic experience I've had at Harvard. The teaching staff takes incredible pains to think through every detail of the course ranging from the readings to sections to assignments to activities during lecture. Though the lecture component of the class can be a little weak at times, I strongly encourage you to not judge the class by the first couple lectures if you don't walk away thoroughly impressed. As a senior, I can honestly say that I've never taken a class in my four years of college that challenged me and engaged me so thoroughly. If you are fortunate enough to lottery into the class, take it. I promise you won't regret it.
Be open to different ideas, willing to challenge your own ideas, and brave enough to speak up. Utilize you TFs, CAs, and Kay! They are all rooting for you and have such a plethora of knowledge.
Just an absolutely incredible class. This should be mandatory. I wish every class at Harvard were like this. The teaching staff is the best that you will experience at this school. There's an amazing dynamic in which everyone puts in so much effort because it's impossible to not care deeply about the material. The essays are hard but are not bad to write because you'll be interested and they make you think about your own life. One of the most friendly class atmospheres too. I learned SO much, and now I want to work in education policy! TAKE THIS CLASS
I had really high expectations for this class after hearing amazing things about it, but I was a bit disappointed. One of the biggest pitfalls of this class is that you're assessed on lecture participation, but with a 75 person class, it's tough to say something without feeling like you have something extremely worthwhile and important. Something that I've discussed a lot with fellow classmates is that fact that everyone had something to say about every issue, but unless called upon by Professor Merseth, we often wouldn't share it because it was exactly what a lot of other people were thinking / it had already been said. So I don't know how this class is going to function with the intimate, engaging discussion Professor Merseth wants when the class size is even bigger next semester. The readings were also pretty heavy sometimes and sometimes we wouldn't even get to discussing a lot of them in lecture or section. Overall, though, the class material was very enlightening and interesting.
Truly the best course I have taken at Harvard. Forces you to think deeply about issues in education while giving you the background to best understand the problems of American education.
This course was rewarding in how it shaped my views on education and the various debates surrounding it. Be warned, though, that this is a time-consuming course with a lot of readings and work.
This class will change how you see the world and your own life. Take it.
Amazing course. Do it.
It's definitely a good class. Try to lottery for it!! With that being said, this class is hyped up a lot so moderate your expectations. You'll be learning about really interesting and relevant material, which will change what you think you know about schools and education. This class definitely opened my eyes to a lot of different problems and viewpoints that I hadn't really considered before. But this class definitely went very general and broad when discussing topics, rather than really understanding anything well. Also, each class you work with someone next to you to discuss the readings, but it's pretty much just regurgitating the readings, which isn't super helpful. That time probably would've been better spent learning from the professor/TFs, who are all super knowledgable.
I am very glad that I took this course- I learned a ton. However, it wasn't without its flaws. I think the major one, and I feel really awful for saying this, was that the course staff cared too much, to the degree that it felt very micro-managing and very much like a high school course. In addition, the level of writing expected (in my opinion) was very simplified and I had to consciously use things like aggressive, explicit signposting in order to get a good grade on papers. There were a ton of freshmen in the course and they seemed to love it (maybe because they haven't fully acclimated to the more independent feel of most college classes) but I had trouble buying in to the whole vibe during my senior spring. THAT BEING SAID, it was kind of nice to have course staff care so much even if it was annoying at times. Be prepared for lots of conversations about feelings, but overall I learned a ton and am glad to have taken the course. Just make sure you know what you're getting yourself into, as I had only heard wholly positive reviews and wish I'd known a little bit more of the cons.
This class has a lottery for a reason: it's the best USW class there is. Definitely take it if you can.
TAKE THIS CLASS! DO IT! You will not find a better taught course with a more passionate teaching staff than in this course. I can't say enough good things about it. This course CHANGED MY LIFE. Amazing discussions, fascinating dilemmas, eye opening experiences, and real community are the things that make this, dare i say, THE BEST CLASS AT HARVARD.
TAKE IT. KEEP LOTTERYING. It is wonderful. I had my doubts and skepticism before taking this class   the Q comments seemed too almost cultish. But they are accurate. best taught class at Harvard, with an absolutely incredible teaching team and supremely important engaging subject matter.
Allow this course to challenge your perspective on what education is, who it should be for, and how it should be managed for the young people of this nation.
This class lives up to its hype. It is rare that a professor can make a 70 person classroom feel like a small seminar environment. If you are at all interested in issues of education, something that affects everyone, definitely lottery for this course. It was the class I looked forward to going to this semester, and is what I feel everyone at Harvard should take.
This course is really eye-opening in that it exposes you to the inadequacies of American education why also providing you with the knowledge to be able to go out into the world and begin to tackle these issues. There are never any right answers to any of the posed questions, but that makes the in-class discussions all the more fun. The teaching staff is wonderful; I've never received better feedback on papers than from my TF in this class. Everyone does a great job at establishing an open culture of communication and understanding in class. I loved this class!
USW35 is simply a phenomenal course. The professor is demanding of her students and you'll have to do all of the readings to keep up in class, but the result is amazing discussion both in and out of lecture and section. Sections are small and accountability is high, so be prepared to put in a lot of work--but it's totally worth it, as you'll leave with a much better understanding of the American education system and of the problems facing our society (viewed through the lens of education). Simply put, the best class I've taken at Harvard.
A bit overrated. Still, a great class to get a holistic overview of the K-12 US education system. Also, a great opportunity to have Merseth as a mentor.
Amazing course. The teaching staff and the way they teach really set the bar for what a course at Harvard should be like. I wish I could take it again.
Is you don't do anything else at your time at Harvard TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!
This class was my favorite class at Harvard.  You must take it by the time you graduate.  Kay is amazing and gets to know each and every one of you.  You truly develop as a person from this class.
This course exposes you to the world of education along with the problems and opportunities that exist in the field. The staff was absolutely incredible. Each person was dedicated to ensuring that every student benefited from the course. It was the only class at Harvard that I have never been tired in during lecture. Lectures were incredibly engaging and interesting.
You will learn a lot about the problems plaguing education
This class is GREAT. It is the one class at Harvard that I recommend everyone take. It's definitely a TON of work, but all of it asks you to reflect on your own educational experience.  The teaching staff actually cares about the students and actively seeks to form relationships with their students. Kay is also the best - by the 3rd or 4th week she already knows every student and talks to everyone before class begins!
Class is great. A lot of work on essays and a crapload of readings. Also Kay will call on anybody in class. Also if you miss high school social studies classes, this is the format. We watch youtube videos in class and have class discussions (for better or worse)
Amazing class in a fascinating subject matter. The reading is a lot but they are interesting and personally relevant to all students. Section is great because you get close to everyone there as a result of your in depth discussions. The different activities and formats of lecture and section are some of the most innovative I have been a part of.
TAKE THIS COURSE. One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Kay is an absolute gem. They make them different at the Ed School.  If you're anything like me, you'll learn quickly that your experience in K-12 differs sharply from other people's. You'll become well versed in the problems facing the education system as a whole and debate ways to solve them. You'll read some great readings, become close with your section, and look forward to class. There are few courses at Harvard that are this well thought out. Lottery until you get in. You won't regret it.
It's a lot of busy work, but worth it in the end.
Maybe my favorite class taken at Harvard so far. Merseth is so invested in her students and genuinely wants to form friendships with those she teachers. Class discussions are engaging and thought-provoking. In this class, we learned that in American education, there is no correct answer-yet through discussion you start to develop your own opinion on what the first step toward an equitable and excellent education should be
This is hands down, the most engaging, best class you can take at Harvard.
Hands down the best class I have taken in my 3 years here.  All other "teachers" at Harvard should be required to attend a seminar where Kay and the entire USW 35 teaching staff explain how they conduct and teach this course.  This is the first class I've taken here where I was engaged, look forward to going to class and section, and actually enjoyed doing the readings.  It's not an easy gen-ed, but you won't care.
Come to this class prepared to think and question your beliefs. A lot of the assumptions and beliefs that I came to this class with were completely turned on their head. While it was scary and unnerving at first, I enjoyed every minute of it. This class really pushed me to think about education in a way that I hadn't before. It gave me a brand new perspective that I am excited to apply to my life now.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. Everyone does the reading because everyone loves the class. Great TFs, awesome discussions in section/lecture. Learned a lot about myself and our country that I didn't know before. Definitely opened my eyes to the problems of our society, helped me understand them, and helped give me tools to break them down.
Best class I've ever taken, not just at Harvard...ever.
This class is one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Maybe the best one. Kay creates such a great environment from the classroom, and from the beginning, you feel like you're part of a family. Definitely don't underestimate the readings because there's a lot of them! The reading essays are standard, but the midterm and final paper are much harder essays because of the nature of the prompts. While I feel that we covered a lot of material in this class, I think the largest takeaway from the course is that these are difficult questions we grapple with. Take this class! It deserves the highest rating possible.
The best class I have taken at Harvard. The lectures feel almost like sections at times (as in, lots of opportunities to participate). Professor Merseth deeply cares about every student, and goes out of her way to meet with everyone one-on-one to get to know you better (and will chase you weeks into the semester if you have yet to do it). The lecture topics are always interesting, and the course balances history with current situation perfectly. Also, the assignments make you think and reflect about your own schooling experience. The class also allows you to visit one high school in Boston that is the complete opposite of your type of high school, so it opens your eyes to different perspectives. The course asks challenging questions, but Merseth always makes it clear that the success of the class rely on the student's ability to answer, take risks, and take a stand on beliefs.
BEST CLASS AT HARVARD. LITERALLY. Take it because 1) Education is important and related to everyone's life 2) the teaching staff is phenomenal and the best at Harvard 3) Professor Merseth is an absolute LEGEND. Don't leave Harvard without getting to know her
Everyone is going to tell you that you NEED to take this class. They're not wrong -- this class will make you a more informed citizen, and you will form opinions that you guide your thinking about many many different issues. However, I just want to suggest that the way this class is run is not for everyone. You will be asked to share your opinions with the whole class, whether you are ardent or tentative about them.
TAKE IT. It will be the best decision you make ever! If you're into education, this will be your playground. And even if you're not, Merseth will make you seriously consider what you are doing with your life and question why you're not going into teaching.
This class is a great way to fill USW...come in with an open mind, but remain critical!  This class can be frustrating, there are more questions posed than solutions, but it helps you learn to think critically.  It is graded harshly and weirdly they are very strict about extensions, even with good reasons, so be cautious about that.  It is a lot of work, but most people seem to like it.
This is a fantastic class. Professor Merseth gives awesome lectures and she really makes an effort to get to know everyone outside of class, to a far greater degree than I've seen from any other professors. I enjoyed every bit of this class - in addition to learning a great deal about American education, it helped me form my own opinions and "take a stand" on tough issues. My only caution is that the class is a lot of work - be prepared to commit a lot of time if you want to enjoy and do well in the class.
This class was the best class I've taken at Harvard. It forced me to think about things on my own, and it made me question my own beliefs on what I think is right and just in the American Education system. I also learned tons about the American ed system and I feel that I have an idea as to what can be done to better it.
This class is hands down the best class I have taken at Harvard yet. Not only will you learn more and question all of the assumptions you have ever held about education, teaching, and teachers - you will also experience one of the best-taught undergrad classes at Harvard. The culture of the class is great - Kay is personally invested in every one of her students - and all of the students are incredible resources to learn from as well. The work required to get the most out of this class is a little higher than your regular gened, but it is worth every extra reading and essay.
If you care at all about education TAKE IT!!!
Without a doubt one of the best classes I've taken. You will learn, be challenged, and reconsider your beliefs. Professor Merseth is incredible and has a neverending wealth of compassion and devotion to her teaching and for her students. This course, though fairly large, is structured in a way that will allow you to get to know the other 50 or so members of the class on a critical academic, if not sometimes, personal level.  The time in this class passes by quickly. The assignments are difficult but there is a lot of support and good conversation to help. You will also get a chance to hear from some incredible leaders in the field of education.
Lottery this class! Kay Merseth is an awesome person to know. She will inspire you to get more involved and interested in education. She is extremely caring to all her students, and you will get to know her on a personal level. This is also the only course I've taken where everyone feels like a family. You will feel a special bond with your classmates and teaching staff when you leave.
Literally anyone can get so much out of this class whether or not you're interested in education. This is just such an important part of our societal structure, and it is fascinating that we don't study it in more detail. A great class to spark these discussions that we need to be having more often.
This class was an amazing experience. Professor Merseth is not only extremely knowledgeable and passionate about this topic, but also the friendliest and most invested Professor I've had at Harvard. The subject itself is extremely engaging and applicable to all of us as students. The workload was challenging enough to make the class a priority, but never overwhelming, and I almost never felt like doing the reading or assignments was a chore. However, do be prepared to endure endless plugs to get you to go into teaching, they can be a bit incessant.
LOTTERY FOR THIS CLASS. This is the best-taught class at Harvard College, which is perhaps what you might expect, seeing as the staff is composed of people who taught (and taught well!) for a living. The readings are fantastic, you'll learn so much. I want to be best friends with Prof. Merseth, she's really cool.
LOTTERY FOR IT AND TAKE IT NO MATTER WHAT. This course makes you think in ways that every American should about our education system, which is at the center of our society. The grading is tough and you have to do your readings, but it's all worth it!!
TAKE IT. TAKE IT. TAKE IT. EVERYONE. The material covers issues that every person should know and care about and there is no better way to learn about them than in this class - USW35 redefined my vision of what a Harvard class, Harvard Professor, and Harvard TF can and should be, and as a second semester senior I can confidently say this was single-handedly the best class I took at Harvard. And while all of the content was incredible, the key aspect of this class is that readings, lectures and sections actually engaged me to think critically about my values and beliefs and really shaped the way I view the world. The class requires a lot of you but be ready to get back ten times of everything you put in. Bottom line - YOU MUST TAKE THIS CLASS.
The Best class I've ever taken!
Don't graduate from Harvard without taking this course. It is a must!
Take this class. Continue lotterying for it until you get it. Do whatever you have to to make it fit into your schedule. I promise that it will live up to its reputation and exceed your high expectations. I took this during my senior spring and was definitely skeptical of everyone who told me that this would be the best class I'd take at Harvard, that it would be life-changing, etc. All of those people were right. The material is relevant to everyone. If you're at Harvard, you got here because you were educated. The teaching staff is phenomenal. Professor Merseth is unlike any other professor I've ever had. She is more like a teacher you might've had in elementary, middle or high school in that she cares deeply about each and every one of her students and wants to know them on a personal level. The TFs are all fantastic. They are incredibly knowledgeable about this material and also care about getting to know the students. Your section will feel like a family. There are a lot of readings, but they're very interesting. The papers force you to think about and reflect on your own experiences and consider your values. Just like students have high expectations for this course, the teaching staff have high expectations for the students, but in a way that encourages your best performance. I could go on about this class for ages, but you probably are done reading this excessively long comment. Last thing though: you might think that my experience has been the exception, but it has most certainly been the rule.
It's a lot of work but it's not graded very aggressively.
AMAZING class!! Prof. Merseth says at the beginning of the semester that she wants to encourage us to "make the familiar strange again" in telling us to reflect upon our own K-12 education in America, and this class has helped me do exactly that--think about how I've gone through education, and evaluated how these various aspects (both explicit and implicit) in the educational system have helped to shape me into the person I am today. The teaching staff also tries really hard to create a warm and welcoming environment that facilitates open discussion without fear of judgement, and this effort really pays off in the frank, open discussions that we are able to have about big issues like race, identity, class, and more. Highly recommend!
Everyone including Kay Merseth needs to check their privilege bc it's so annoying to have this high and mighty complex where everyone thinks that they know the answer and as these educated Harvard affiliated people they can come into poor minority schools and just magically fix all their problems because they are soooooo informed.
This class has a large kool-aid factor, so be aware of that. However, I have never had a professor who took the time to get to know every single student in the class like Kay does. She takes her job very seriously, which certainly makes this course effective. The TFs are also great teachers and make section a more dynamic experience.
Can be tougher than expected on essays
Lived up to its reputation. This course has interesting content, reasonable assignments, and engaging lectures. Kay does a really nice job of treating everyone respectfully in a classroom of very different opinions.
Be prepared to read a lot and make sure you write your papers with full effort.
This class is so hyped up that I feel like it didn't live up to the expectations, but at the same time it is one of the better classes I've taken here, and the teaching team genuinely cares about the quality of their own teaching and of the class itself. I think if I weren't already very interested in and thinking about education reform, this class may have been "life changing" as some students describe it. As is, it expanded my views on the experience of schooling beyond my own, made me appreciate how incredibly hard it is to teach, and showed me all the overwhelming difficulties and setbacks there are in implementing reform (while still motivating it). There are a lot of readings and a lot of class/section time, but it was a worthwhile class!
This is not a class to sit back and zone out in lecture, but if you're okay with that, it has been one of the most impactful classes I've ever taken and it has been an honor to learn from Professor Merseth. I would recommend this class to just about anyone.
You simply must study with Kay; it changed the way I viewed the path I took to get admitted to the college.
TAKE THIS COURSE. Not every class you take at Harvard will have direct application to your past, current and future life. This one does. I learned so much about education and about American society as a whole. I found myself thinking about almost everything in my life during the last several months through the lenses provided by this class.  Prof Merseth is SO inspiring, and the rest of the teaching team is fabulous. This was my favorite class this semester even though it was a GenEd.
It is a great class, but be ready to work!
Take it! Even if you aren't interested in education the staff will make the experience amazing
This class makes you reflect on your own past and offers incredible insight to other people's education history.
This is a MUST take course at Harvard.  While it is not an "easy" or "get-by" Gen Ed it is definitely a class that will change the way you think forever.  Kay and the entire teaching team are extremely invested in your education and your experience.  It's slightly run like a high school class, which is nice.  You are held accountable for your contributions in discussion, but you are also encouraged to speak freely about difficult and complex issues.  I loved this class and I think everybody should take it.
Must-take. Kay is awesome. The TF's are awesome. Your mind will be blown. You will have a venue at which to discuss some of the key problems plaguing our society and how they exist and are influenced by education. This class made me want to go in to education.
This was a really interesting course that I felt deepened my own understanding of our public education system. This course really did well in providing varied perspectives on common issues. While I enjoyed the course for the most part, there were also aspects that were kind of frustrating. For one, I think it is misguided to place so much weight on participation. I understand the desire to encourage discussion but I felt unnecessarily pressured to participate just to save my grade. I didn't participate because I felt like I had something really great to say and wanted to share with the class, I participated because my grade would actually suffer if I didn't. I felt that the emphasis on participation had the potential to hurt students who are more reserved and less inclined to talk in the bigger group. I actually know of a few people who didn't enter the lottery because of the participation component.
Great, great class. Forces you to think about some difficult issues, and you might be discovering some new things about yourself. Very interesting stuff. Also education is so important and affects everyone. Plus you might learn some new public speaking skills/be inspired to change the world/just make some new friends in this class. Would say it's one of the best classes I've taken.
I lotteried for this class 6 times and I finally got in - I'm so excited and grateful that I had the chance to take it, it was totally worth it! This is the most challenging and effective Gen-Ed course I have ever taken. It related to a field I was passionate about, but helped me explore facets of the questions of education that I had previously avoided somewhat or never thought about. I think the class has really helped me be more thoughtful about how I wanted to participate in the world of education in the future, helping me think of practices with regards to teaching practice (as a future educator) or parenting choices (as a parent). Working with such a dedicated professor, unified teaching staff, and brilliant body of classmates made for a rigorous and unforgettable experience for every lecture. Take it if you can, and especially if you have an interest!
This is a must-do. Lottery every semester you can.
Take this class!
This course was really great in making me think about how I could change the American education system to address its biggest flaws. The course really made me question by own beliefs and values and push myself to take initiative to fix problems in the world around us. It's also very obvious just how much Professor Merseth and the teaching staff care about the course and the students.
I think this class is really overrated and people should only take it if they want a taste of the material covered in the class. But they should only expect a taste and nothing more.
Very good class; certainly lives up to its reputation. The course staff do an excellent job of fostering open debate. Be warned that you can't get away with participating fully without doing the readings.
This is the best class I have taken in my 4 years at Harvard. If you are reading this, you should take it. I have never had such an organized class or such a tremendous teaching team. The material is always thought-provoking. TAKE THIS CLASS!!
everyone should take this class, preferably in your beginning years so that you can realize your passion for education!
They really practice what they preach in terms of teaching style and methods. Which is fine, but it sort of makes you feel like a 4th grader at times. Eventually dreaded going to lectures because the material isn't exactly groundbreaking.
This is by far the best way to fulfill US-W.
This course is difficult. The readings are challenging and the standards for papers are very high. That being said, TAKE THIS COURSE!! I know that this class is going to have a lasting impact on me. This class has made me completely rethink issues of race and class in this country. This class has set a fire under me to think about reform in a different light. Prof Merseth and the rest of the teaching staff has such a vested interest in every student's learning and ability to succeed. Prof Merseth visits her students in the hospital and goes to their performances. She cares deeply about creating a community of learners. Lecture is completely interactive be it in a full class setting or in small groups. There's no time to be bored!
Some people like to take gen eds that they can slack off in. This isn't one of those. However, it's a lot more interesting than most gen eds, and it's definitely better taught. Some people have said this course is life changing - I think that's over-hyping it a bit. But I don't think a course has to be life-changing to be a good course, so I would still recommend it.
Kay is a great teacher, this is a very well planned, very well organized course. Expect to work hard, but don't expect any answers
It's not as life-changing as many say it is, but it's a decent class. If you're not interested in education, then I guess you're not interested in education. Not super eye-opening, but decently interesting. Assignments can be frustrating and stressful and can be extremely time-consuming.
A well-taught class, that is hyped to such an extreme level it's almost detrimental. Very interesting.
This class may be somewhat overhyped, but it is still excellent - Professor Merseth does care about getting to know students at a very individual level and to hear students' opinions - she makes an effort for students to speak about their experiences in class. Readings can be far too much (but you honestly don't need to do all of them to get a lot out of the class) and your enjoyment of the class may be very much up to how your TF is, which can be unfortunate - but overall this class challenges you to reconsider your own education and the things we take for granted in the broader context of the country's history of education, to acknowledge the current issues in the system and to look forward at how such issues can be addressed to improve this vital part of America.
This course was incredibly informative and rewarding. Unfortunately, I did not receive the writing support that I needed to get a good grade in the course. I attending writing workshops and office hours, but to no avail. I continued to get the same mediocre grade, paper after paper.
This class lives up to its reputation both as one of the most rewarding and demanding Gen Ed courses at Harvard. It is absolutely not a 4th class. Not only will you gain very little from this course if you don't do readings or keep up with the material, but you will fail miserably. That being said, the material is fascinating and this course will fundamentally change your outlook on yourself and the world. Although I remain skeptical about the cult that is USW35, I know I am a better person and student for having taken this course, and I wholeheartedly recommend it to anyone who is ready to put in the time and effort.
This class is good, lectures are interesting, Merseth is a great teacher and really cares about the students. For me though, it was not the life changing course others said it would be. A lot of the exercises in class and section are tedious and make you feel a bit like a ninth grader. I came into the class with an interest in education and left with the same interest and not much more hard knowledge. If you already have a background in/interest in education, I wouldn't consider this class worth the tedious time it takes. Rather, take a USW you can leave the semester thinking you have new knowledge and a new take on a certain topic.
This course is especially important for students from more privileged backgrounds/schools to understand the ways in which inequity is structurally perpetuated.
At many times this class felt like a cult. It's very into itself, and section can feel a lot like a sharing-time kumbaya circle. However lecture was fine as we had interesting discussions and cool guest speakers, and the school visit was a valuable experience.
This class gave me faith in the gen-ed program. Kay is absolutely wonderful and puts in the effort to get to know everyone in the class; section leaders are fantastic teachers, and the class is incredibly polished.
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard. Even if you aren't interested in education, it will challenge your preconceived ideas and likely change you aspirations for the future. Everyone should take this class.
This is one of the best classes I have taken. Obviously you should be interested in education,  but that's a pretty common interest given that all of us have experience in the field.
I would only recommend it if the student is truly interested/passionate about learning about education. Otherwise the workload is a bit too much for a GendEd
Absolutely the best way to fulfill USW. It's worth it to lottery multiple times, and you never know how much longer it will be taught, so go for it. It's worth making room in your schedule to get to be a part of this class. Professor Merseth cares about making every student feel welcome and significant in class, and the TFs are amazing with incredible stories and the ability to foster a community that is unlike anything I've experienced in any other class. Plus, this topic could not be more relevant. You will learn so much about why our education system is the way it is, and you will be given the tools to grapple with all sorts of dilemmas presented by our failing system. Most importantly, this class doesn't tell you what you should think about anything.
This course is excellent-although it is difficult and you must put in effort especially when writing the papers it is absolutely worth it.
Take this class. Its the most important, engaging and fun class I've taken in my 4 years here.
This class is definitely worth taking, but I'm not sure it lived up to all the hype you'll read about.
This is a great course. I recommend it for anyone with an interest in education or the U.S. school system or who just wants to reflect on their own experience with K-12 education. This course is probably more work than most General Education courses, but it is really rewarding if you are willing to put in the effort. The teaching staff are amazing and really make an effort to get to know you and help you succeed.
It's hard to articulate how incredible USW-35 is. It will make you think more deeply about schools, but also about your own life and identity. It exposes some of the most pressing problems in our society, but also gives students ideas for what they might be able to do to overcome those problems. Professor Merseth is amazingly passionate, caring, and inspiring, and she makes lectures interactive and engaging. Sections are also amazing - unlike some other sections, they are active, valuable, and something to look forward to. Overall, if you are remotely interested in schools or American society or people, take USW 35. It is amazing.
The course made me think a lot about my own educational experiences and made me think more deeply about educational inequalities and inequalities in general. It was really interesting to see how my perspectives changed throughout the semester. Definitely recommend! And as with all gen-eds, if you do all of the readings, you learn a great deal more!
I don't understand why this class gets as high marks as it does, and that's coming from someone genuinely interested in the subject matter. The class was fine, but it wasn't the life-changing, best-class-you'll-take-at-Harvard experience people make it out to be. The teaching staff definitely cares a lot more than in most courses you'll take, and that has a positive impact on your experience as a student. However, lecture was consistently vague and was more concerned about asking deep questions than talking about answers to them, and section was the only opportunity I felt like I had to engage with the material in a meaningful way. You'll learn a fair amount about the American education system if that's something that interests you, but for the amount of reading expected in the class (which some TFs will implement measures to make you do) on top of the papers (which the course doesn't give you a break from other work to do), I didn't find the reward worth it.
Only take this class if you are prepared to full commit to it. I took this course as an elective and and it was quite the heavy course load, but definitely worth it.
Be prepared to be triggered by some of the readings.
Phenomenal course. Absolutely take it. A crucial part of the unofficial "Woke 101" concentration course track
USW 35 is an excellent class. Professor Merseth and the entire TF team are all incredible teachers, something you surprisingly do not always see at Harvard. Depending on your background some of the material will either be shocking and eye opening or feel like a reiteration of your personal experiences. No matter your background however this course will expose you to the complexity of the American education system.
This class has had very big impacts to how I see the world. The reading can be a little much at times, but the concepts we go over in class are worth it.  Its very easy to relate to the course content and the teaching staff is amazing.
This is the best course offered at Harvard. Take it.
This is an incredible course, super interesting even if you're not intending to go into education. It really exposes you to the different controversies in education and shows all the different sides, and calls upon you to look at your own experiences in schools and compare them to what you're learning about. The only drawbacks of this course are also sometimes its strengths: it requires you to put the time in. There's a fair bit of reading and you are expected to have done them all, and there is some cold calling in lecture. But overall that also leads to really good discussions in section and lecture, so it does have a lot of value
This is a really amazing course! It encourages a lot of really meaningful discussions and forces you to reflect on your own educational experience. It's not particularly easy for a gen ed but definitely worth it- I enjoyed all the readings. Also Merseth cold calls on people in lecture, so be prepared for that.
While this class is more demanding than most gen-ed classes, it is definitely worth it. The teaching staff is amazing and the lectures and sections were probably the best ones that I have participated in at Harvard.
This class was by far the best class I've taken at Harvard, and I cannot recommend it with more enthusiasm and approval. This class opened my eyes to the power of education and the issues surrounding equitable access and good teaching across the US. I was beyond excited to attend lecture each week--Professor Merseth is a phenomenally engaging instructor--but I was even more excited to go to section each week where we would dive deep into these issues and discuss them to their full potential.  The teaching itself is beyond anything I've experienced at Harvard so far, and the support and assistance you receive in this class is unparalleled. This class certainly has changed my life and my way of thinking about the world so I cannot recommend this class enough.
It definitely requires quite a bit of thoughtfulness and commitment. I took it because I care about education, but at the end I'm mostly happy about how many different disciplines it touched on and how it taught me to think about issues.
This class will change your life, especially if you've ever taught / wanted to get into the educational sector in the future / think about education at all. Because education is so predominant in all of our lives, I think this course material by nature will engage you. Moreover, the teaching staff and the professor are WONDERFUL people who really care about students. This is quite possible the best class that I will ever take at Harvard because the curriculum is so well constructed, being both information and educational while also being inspiring and fun and entertaining. The sections are an absolute pleasure to attend because they are fun and filled with interactive activities. There are three essays and a lot of the class is based on participation. I wish that I personally had more time to devote to this class because this is one of the classes where you will get out of it as much as you put into it.
This is a great class!  The content is interesting and motivating and Professor Merseth is a great teacher.  She really cares about her students.  This class has a ton of reading but they're good reads.
This class is amazing even if you think you have no interest in education. Professor Merseth is the best professor I've had at Harvard and her lectures truly inspire you to become a leader in the world. TAKE IT.
You need to take this class before you leave Harvard. Absolutely, unequivocally, no hesitations. Professor Merseth is so invested in her students and you dig deeper into the conversations that you meant to have when you came here. If you can win the lottery, you will have truly won the lottery.
Take this class, it will likely be one of the most influential courses you take at Harvard.
This is a highly rated class year in year out, not because it is perfect in its execution or delivery of curriculum, but because Professor Merseth and its teaching staff are so absolutely committed to the students and to finding ways to improve. As far as solutions to the many problems which public education in the U.S. faces, this course will not offer any easy solutions, and it is indeed frustrating finding again and again through the semester how complicated issues really are. At the same time, the course challenges students not to be fatalistic about these issues, but rather to become part of potential solutions through critical thinking and a respect for the many viewpoints reasonable people have.
One of the best courses at Harvard. Engaging and informative.
i.	All the hype is real, but not because the class is perfect  its because they put SO much effort into getting feedback and taking it into consideration, which is ridiculously admirable and makes anything bad better. Also, the class is very gen-edy, so if you are a social sciences concentrator, it might seem like over-simplification and a bit contrived, but all well-intentioned.
Students will leave the class with a wide spectrum of opinions about USW 35; better to check the hype yourself first. Yes, Kay and the teaching staff are insanely passionate about this class and the issues presented. Yes, Kay's focus on building a community rather than teaching a course is unique and should be held as an example to other classes at Harvard. However, it becomes rapidly clear a lot of the teaching staff has a background in K-12 teaching: mini group exercises in class and an attempt to fit all 'learning styles' can feel forced or distracting at times; the class definitely felt too much like high school at points, which detracted from the level of the discussion as well. Readings form a really solid selection of nuanced perspectives on American schools; unfortunately, the class/section discussion falls miles below that level of sophistication (although readings are central to the in-class work and you will miss out if you don't do them). A tendency to encourage activism as opposed to analytic understanding made this class far less academic than I expected. Grading on the essays seems to encourage simple, linear writing rather than creative contributions. School visit was incredibly fun and rewarding. Given the importance of the topic, this class still manages to get close to reaching its very ambitious goals, although it might not be what you expected.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Professor Merseth is incredible, the subject is fascinating and incredibly important, the TF's are enthusiastic and amazing. Definitely the best class I've taken thus far at Harvard.
Every single undergraduate should take this course at some point - it is truly inspiring and has changed my perspective of so many concepts outside of the education system as well as of the system itself. It challenges you as an individual, but makes you feel the most comfortable in sharing ideas and opinions. Take this class!!!!!!
please lottery for this class if you get a chance! while you may not agree with everything presented in this course, professor Merseth creates an open space for any issue to be addressed and debated. sections are very rewarding as well! you won't regret taking this class.
This course will change the way you think about yourself, others, and the world. It will be extremely eye opening.
This class is a lot of work for a gened but teaches you important facts that you wouldn't learn anywhere else.
heavy work load and hours spent in class/section
This class shows what so many Harvard classes could be if they were taught with the passion, care, and skill that Professor Merseth brings to her teaching.
Excellent class, but important to go into it with realistic expectations.
