Interesting material but not anything that you couldn't learn just by reading a few journal articles or op eds. This class didn't give me enough for me to recommend it highly especially with the harsh grade cutoffs.
This is a fantastic course! Professor Chandra is a great lecturer and I learned a lot about healthcare and health insurance. The exams were difficult but fair, and I enjoyed how interactive the class was.
This class is very informative and cool, but do not take this if you're looking for an easy, stress-free gen ed...there are real assignments and expectations. If you're pre-med, I'd highly recommend this course, as it goes over topics that will largely affect future you but are never formally taught in other contexts. Overall, if you're interested in the topic, this is a must!
This class is great! highly recommend! Professor Chandra is amazing and I could listen to him talk forever. The exams are very fair and you learn so much. The topics covered are not only really interesting but also incredibly useful to know in general.
great class. some logistical flaws that come with teaching the class for the first time.  I'm sure those will get ironed out. Great overview of how healthcare works in the US.
This course is very interesting and well-taught, but poorly organized and they need to work on fixing the way the assign problem sets and essays.
Cool material--poorly designed course.
This is a very eye opening class and a great primer to US healthcare policy. It's not that well structured and expectations are a little vague, so be aware of that.
Again. Only for people who are interested in healthcare and are comfortable with reading many papers about studies.
This is an amazing course, especially with professor Chandra. It is a great USW that is useful for both practical life applications, and especially key for anyone interested in healthcare from the business side to the medical side. I would definitely recommend this course, but try to get Jen as your TF. She is wonderful and so sweet and very helpful. The psets are not too difficult and help reinforce key concepts and the country project is interesting as you get to learn about another country's healthcare system. The midterm and final are fair but definitely do the readings and watch the videos. Try to avoid having Toby as your TF.
SUCH A WONDERFUL CLASS! TAKE IT! Teaches you things that every american needs to know and is very fair in terms of workload and difficulty of exams!
Great class, if you are actually interested in US Healthcare, don't take otherwise. Chandra is a great lecturer, and you will get out of the class as much as you put into it.
This class is really great for premeds looking to fulfill the USW requirement and learn the basics of our health care system. You learn the essential concepts (important parts of the ACA and insurance) and also are challenged to think about the ethics of health care. Readings/videos were a few hours a week, and although they were not absolutely necessary to do, they were helpful for exams. There is 1 midterm and a final. There a few short problem sets and a group research project comparing the health care system of another country to the US. The midterm was graded harshly, and I expect the final to be too (read: not easy A), but I felt that I genuinely learned things that are really necessary to know going into med school
It's a great class if you are interested in healthcare in the US (mainly Cost and Access).  It's not super quantitative, but is a pretty chill GenEd and/or elective.  Chandra is amazing.  Definitely get to know him.
This is a great way to learn about the healthcare system.  It's straightforward and taught well.
Take this course if you are interested in healthcare policy this class provides an in-depth look at the issues that our country faces. Also, Prof. Chandra is AMAZING!
Great class! Would definitely recommend taking. Professor Chandra explains material very effectively and the class is engaging.
Great way to fulfill USW!! Chandra is a fantastic professor, and makes lecture an actual joy to attend. Problem sets are very manageable, though the midterm is tricky so you need to study for it. Overall not too much work for a gened, and I really enjoyed it!
Grading process is a bit rocky and not standardized at all. Worth taking for the sheer amount of knowledge you gain!
The GenEd system is a joke and this class is a great example of why. No rigor, just a repetitive presentation of overly generalized results from a few studies. The first half of the class is essentially the same lecture over and over again. At least it's easy, if you don't overthink the exams.
This is a wonderful and fascinating course!  It's information you should absolutely know as a citizen, even if you're not interested in economics or medicine. Professor Chandra makes the information exciting and thought provoking. Homework is minimal and interesting; exams are fair but  challenging. You will NOT regret taking this fantastic class!!
This is everything a Gen Ed should be. It's relevant, not too hard, and interesting. Lectures and assignments aren't always necessary, but the course as a whole was great.
This class is definitely one you should take if you're premed; even if you're not, it's got a lot of useful life information about health insurance, etc.
Are you interested in current debates surrounding the U.S. Healthcare System? Why is money spent not positively correlated with improved quality? Do you want to know how health insurance works? Do you want to review some fascinating studies, reviews, and documentaries in healthcare policy? Do you want to compare healthcare policy in the U.S. vs. another country? Are you premedical and interested in seeing medicine through a very different lens? If you answered yes to any of these questions, this is the course for you! Very manageable course with most focus on concepts learned in lecture and in section. Excellent readings to supplement. Lectures are engaging -- it's not a course where the professor lectures at you, it's one where the majority of material covered comes out of graphs and charts projected and in-lecture questions.
This is an absolutely thrilling gen ed. The course load is very manageable and never overbearing, not to mention that you will find yourself looking forward to doing the readings. Professor Chandra is a joy to be taught by, and brings humor and excitement to his lectures.
The course material is not substantive and the subjects are broad and vague. Workload is very low. You'll definitely get some important learning in the course through picking up broad principles, but not much beyond that.
This class is extremely interesting, and Professor Chandra is a great professor and engaging lecturer. I never got bored in lecture and always left feeling like I had learned a lot. However, since this was the first time this course was offered, they definitely need to flesh out a lot of stuff in terms of organization of the assignments, giving us prep materials or review sessions for the midterm and final, and overall fairness of the grading since sometimes it seemed overly strict. The workload is in general pretty light (an hour of two of reading/videos for each lecture), but they assigned the large bulk of the workload (problem-set-style assignments, papers, and group presentation) in the last few weeks, which I think they are planning on doing better for next year. I would still highly recommend this class since I think it is a super interesting class and has great potential and the TFs and Professor Chandra are open to criticism and willing to improve on it. Probably one of my favorite classes this freshman year. Oh, that's another thing. There's a nice range of class years, anyone from freshmen to seniors and even some from the Harvard Kennedy School.
This class was amazing. Honestly the best class I have taken so far at Harvard and as a Freshman has convinced me to get a secondary in Global Health and Health Policy. I highly recommend taking this class, you will get so much out of it.
This class is great - it made me think about healthcare in a completely different way! As a science student, I always think about the science of healthcare, but this gave me a complete picture of healthcare, in which I began to think about the economics of healthcare. The class was enriching, though-provoking and a genuine learning experience. That being said, it was the first time the class was being offered, so often I felt a bit directionless. Course requirements were not very clearly set out and the class was a bit disorganized. MIdterms/the final (less so) were also too long.
Interesting material with expert prof and not super hard class but terribly organized, not supportive, not great teaching. There are probably more fulfilling gen eds but worth taking if you are genuinely interested in the topic.
This class is one of the most applicable and interesting courses I've taken at Harvard so far. If you want a class that will educate you on topics that are relevant to your own life, and if you're interested in the state of American healthcare today, then you should definitely consider taking this class! It's so worth it!
really useful class to be an informed citizen!
Class is poorly organized
Although the professor's opinion is not one that every doctor would agree with, I believe that every pre-med student should be required to take this class simply to have a better understand of US healthcare and health insurance in comparison to the rest of the world. Professor Chandra is a great, very engaging speaker, and the class will definitely make you think critically about the way that patients and doctors use healthcare.
Great class! Professor Chandra is a great lecturer, and it feels like he's talking right to you. He cares about the subject. The articles and materials are also super relevant and interesting.
Great class for government majors and others interested in figuring out how to mold policy to ensure that the most people are healthy at a reasonable price. Professor Chandra is great and the class is not too much work.
Amazing class. I learned so much about the American health care system, and the professor is very realistic about his approach, which I really appreciated. Definitely take it you at all want to worn in health care in the us.
Take this class! The professor is extremely knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the subject matter, the field is very interesting, and I really appreciated the perspective it gave me. This class made me consider a secondary in Global Health and Health Policy. Tip: Don't purchase/rent the textbook; you barely use it and it's not worth the money.
Although some of the assigned readings may not be necessary, they help to further develop the concepts discussed in lecture and section.
Take it if you want to learn about the challenges facing the U.S. healthcare system in a low stress manner.
Lectures are fantastic--Professor Chandra gives a knowledgable, nuanced and well balanced assessment of all of the issues at hand (under no circumstances should anyone ever take Soc 165 - this is a miles better treatment of almost the same topic). The assignments are slightly unbalanced at the moment but this should improve in future offerings
Take good notes in lecture!
This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard- I'd take it even if I didn't need a usw and beyond my concentration, I've never seen such a rewarding class. Chandra is a rockstar who shares fantastic data and gives a nuanced and complex understanding of our health system. You'll emerge from the class so much better prepared to look at US policy issues today and engage in central debates. TAKE THIS CLASS!!! LOTTERY FOR IT EVERY SEMESTER TIL YOU GET IT! It's not often you find a gem like this so make it a priority to get into this class. I've never actually had fun studying for or taking a final exam but being able to fully enumerate all the things wrong with our system and feel confident in drawing upon many sources to back up why the government should use certain policies over others made both incredibly rewarding and enjoyable. DON'T MISS OUT ON THAT KIND OF LEARNING!
The lecturer is great, but the midterm and final are not.
Please consider taking this class, as it is a huge issue that is approached from almost any angle, and it reflects well on most any student with some interest in health care.
This class is very economically focused. The first unit about access and other lectures about equity and health disparities were the most interesting to me. If you are more economically and policy incline this class is a great choice. However if you're more interested in health disparities, like I am, this class may seem boring at times. After the midterm there is a group project that includes three 3-page response papers and a 15 minute presentation. It is pretty easy but just tedious. I learned a lot and, overall, am very glad I took this class!
