I thought this course was a lot of fun. I generally found all the work to be interesting, and I really felt like I walked out of lecture and section each day having learned something concrete. I enjoyed writing the final paper and exploring more about a place I had spent so much time in. I also thought there was a very strong sense of keeping the big picture in mind in the sense that each lecture was connected to the others, and I felt like there was a very deliberate course that the lectures took.
This course is really good for someone who has never taken a class and city planning and wants to learn something new.  The class is great for the historical content it delivers and making city planning relevant to everyday life and culture.  Sometimes the readings are monotonous and seem superfluous, and some of the assignments are not difficult in themselves but hard to get a grasp on in terms of what the TFs want.  Its an interesting class, but probably not the most straightforward for someone who is looking for an easy Gen Ed.
I found this course to be enjoyable through and through--the material itself was really interesting, the paper was open-ended and allowed you to focus on something you found intriguing, the sketchbooks were a welcome break from normal academic assignments, and I treated the reading as though it was for pleasure instead of for school.
This class counts for Lit B. For underclassmen it will count for US in the World. This class has cool readings.
The class is okay. Just okay. I did not jump for joy, and was not that inspired. This is about as close to urban planning 101 as you can get at Harvard College, and frankly this does not do justice to the field.
Far too much work for a Gen Ed course. Not worth the time.
Sketch book assignments are really fun.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Krieger is a great lecturer and the readings are fantastic. The drawing component is actually quite interesting once you've done it and allows you to enjoy the city more.
Parts are a bit confusing, but that's mostly a part of how different and original the course material is in comparison to your other courses.
Probably one of the most unique undergraduate courses at Harvard for people with an interest in cities and design. Great overview of the American urban ideal from Jefferson, through the industrial revolution, to the decay of the post WWII city, and international futures. Kreiger is great and funny, and the powerpoint lectures are awesome. Not too much readings, and you do not have to do them all, but if you do, they are worthwhile.
- TFs can make or break this class as the professor is interested almost exclusively in lecturing.
This class is great. The books you read are great. You learn A LOT about why the American landscape looks the way it does. It also gives you a good idea of what urban planning entails (but in no way is this a course about urban planning...). The sections are painless, but boring (especially since no one does the readings given that response papers were not assigned). The sketchbook assignments (where you are assigned places to go and draw out and write about) were awesome! I learned so much about Boston, and I'm from around here. It's also not that hard of a class, so if you're looking for an interesting elective, definitely take this class.
GREAT class. One of my favorites I have taken at Harvard. Really nice because this year for some reason it was really under-enrolled so the class size was pretty small. I learned so much and found all of the lectures to be very interesting. Would definitely recommend to anyone interested in cities.
The lectures are horrible. Professor Krieger does not know this material (or, really, anything given his thoughts on "Dickensonian" England and "Broadacres City") terribly well. The sketchbook assignments are a huge pain and the exams are not very interesting. You can find a better America-in-the-World.
course is great, entertaining lectures, though getting a good section is really important.
This was, without a doubt, the worst class I have taken in 4 years at Harvard. It was extremely disorganized, there was no connection between themes of the class and the various (and many) assignments. Also, given the amount of work they expect you to complete, it all seems just random work with no point. It has BOTH a final paper and a final exam, which is totally unacceptable. The lectures were boring, repetitive, and the slides looked like a 5-year old put a bunch of pictures through powerpoint. The professor was elitist and this was reflected in his approach to the class. Absolutely do not take this class unless you want to be frustrated for an entire semester.
I would recommend it. It's really interested, though I wished the material were presented in a more organized fashion.
I absolutely loved this course, but I was also interested in the topic from the start. I would recommend that you actually have an interest in urban planning if you are enrolling. If not it might become a hassle to go through the readings and do the assignments.
Awesome class. If you like architecture, urban design, urban planning, or Chicago, take this class.
Great course that goes over social, aesthetic, and environmental components of city-building in America.
I've never enjoyed a core class as much as this one, which entirely revolutionized the way I think about cities. The readings were interesting (with the exception of a very few dry/excessively long ones), and I was actually motivated to complete most of them. Sketchbook assignments should be scheduled ahead of time, since they can be time-consuming, but they are great reasons to escape the Harvard bubble and explore a bit. (Sometimes the assignment turned into a day excursion into Boston with friends.)
Easy and painless way to satisfy a gen ed.
There is a lot to be taken from this course if the student takes it seriously... it's a surprise that it's not more popular
The subject matter is truly fascinating and is something that every American, at the least, should be conscious of. The readings and paper are fun and interesting, the sketchbook assignments can be frustrating, but in general, this course is worth the hassle!
This class is great for students interested in architecture or urban planning.
The subject is interesting and this class does make you look at your surroundings much more critically. It was an enjoyable experience. Make sure that you are awake and alert in lectures--they go in circles sometimes.
This class was great at thinking about urban issues.  The sketching assignments don't require any artistic skill.  They are just meant to make one more aware of how the urban form is.  They allow you to think in a different way about urban issues.
It was interesting but I didn't jump from joy. I guess I might have expected a bit more applied experience but it was a typical do your readings/go to lectures format. The sketchbook assignments made this course somewhat different but I think we weren't provided that much guidance on what we were expected to do (and no feedback on the result either). Overall, the material is easy but a bit repetitive. An easy way to fulfill your USW requirement, but if you have another course that you're more interested in that also fulfills this requirement, that might be a better option.
I think this is a great class that may go unnoticed because of people taking Ec 10 for their USW requirement. If you dont want to do problem sets and are interested in what has shaped this country this is a great class to take.
This class was more about the history of cities than I thought it would be. It does not cover modern day cities or the future implications of cities. The professor went off of tangents a lot during lecture which made the lectures seem a bit unorganized and diluted.
Professor Krieger is a really amazing and funny guy, in a cute grandfather kind of way. The topics and examples are really interesting and you leave the class having approached a wide range of issues plaguing the American city, and understanding historical underpinnings. I really enjoyed all the assignments, which were mostly drawing; even if you weren't a great artist, it forced you to get creative with representing interesting features of a space. The readings were interesting; some were a bit long and boring but not many. Lisa was a great TF and made participating in section very easy and fun. Definitely one of the more interesting classes I've taken at Harvard.
The lectures are at times hard to follow but if you go along with the handout it makes it a lot easier
Fascinating reading materials and exciting assignments that will bring you into the heart of Boston with a sketchbook in hand. The lectures can be a bit dry, but the concepts are very cool and relevant to those who are interested in urban design. I liked the emphasis on personal interpretation in our assignments.
Great class that covers the history of the American city.  If you genuinely interested in the evolution and philosophy of the American city, you will love this class. Great readings as well.
This could be an interesting option for those looking to fulfill a Gen Ed. For upperclassmen looking for an elective on urban history or urban design, there are probably other courses (in the sociology, history, or VES departments) that would be a better fit and would over a bit more depth.
A lot of fun, but you have to like drawing.
Be interested in the topic.  It's a great into to what goes on at the design school, but not necessarily a course on actual design.
Make sure you get a good section leader!
This is an excellent way to fulfill the USW requirement and the class assignments involve going out and exploring Boston. The final paper is very stimulating because you get to write about your home town/city.
This class is incredible and I encourage you to do the reading for it even though many apparently scratched by without doing so.  The sketch assignments are a lot of fun even if drawing is outside of your comfort zone because they force you to go out and see the city in which we live!! More importantly, the way you see urban development will drastically change.
Take this class if you are able to engage yourself in academics. If you rely on the lecturer to bring a subject alive for you, avoid this class like the devil. This course is fascinating, but it involves a lot of self-teaching, and can easily slide into being incredibly boring.
Lectures were a bit confusing, but the topic is pretty interesting and has really gotten me thinking about urban development.
Interesting subject matter, you really get to examine the many decisions that are made in planning urban areas that we usually don't know about. These decisions can play a large role in defining how we live our lives in our surrounding spaces. The actual teaching of the subject matter, however, is a little bit disorganized and could be improved. Lecture videos and slides (though they were recorded) were not provided to undergrads taking the course. This was problematic since Prof. Krieger is not a very clear lecturer sometimes.There is a lot of reading to do every week (I personally could not keep up and gave up on it after two weeks). Sketch assignments are cool to do, though they can be frustrating at times if you are not an experience drawer. You don't need to be amazing, but having some experience (which I didn't) or a friend who draws who can offer advice (which I did) is helpful.
It provided a good survey of a lot of issues around cities and suburbs, and this was really interesting. If you have never taken a course in design or landscape, it is ideal as an introduction. It forces you to visit sites and work on sketching and synthesizing information in a way different from we are used to in most liberal arts classes.
This course is fantastic. Professor Krieger may be disorienting at times but the course materials, ideas, and visual sources teach you how to think about the relationship between physical habitat and ideas in human history. The course offers a fresh perspective and tool to think about the world. Some people may find it boring. But if you're interested in the topic, you should take it.
This is a great course if you want to better understand American development in a historical context and in relation to other trends across the globe. It is not too demanding and it is so relative and informative. You won't regret anything you learn in this course because it will be visually evident in your everyday life. You will look at cities and suburbs and where you desire to live differently and you will understand these ideas more critically. Take it if you are interested in any of this or if you are interested in sustainability and thinking critically about land use, problems, and future solutions. Lectures are entertaining with great visuals, sections and assignments are great.
Great class--especially great GenEd
Very interesting course on the history of urban design in America. Professor Krieger is always fascinating to listen to. The sketch assignments are fun and give you a new perspective on parts of Boston. Don't worry if you can't draw, I can't, and I was fine.
Until the architecture track truly gets up and running and stops being so exclusive, this class is one of the only non-super advanced architecture/ urban planning undergraduates can take. I know a lot of people took this class because it's the only one you can take, and, therefore, the class gets a little complacent. The midterm is harder than the final and the paper is pretty easy, and actually a lot of fun to write. The sketching assignments, in my opinion, are a bit of an exercise in futility as you put a lot of time and work into them but get very little back. This course definitely could be improved, but there are a lot of really interesting aspects already present in the material and powerpoints. It's a good class, not a great one.
If you don't like urban planning a lot, don't take this class. If you do like urban planning a lot, take a different class.
It's a great way to fulfill the US-World gen ed, but only if you're already interested in urbanism/architecture. If you've considered taking courses at the GSD before, then go for it, but objectively this is not the easiest way to fulfill it.
I thought this was a good way to fulfill the US-World gen ed. Lectures could be organized better but the content is interesting and the only assignments throughout the semester are sketchbook assignments, drawing different parts of Boston. Section is mandatory but pretty manageable. The only drawback with the class is that it has both a final paper and final exam.
The course covers quite a bit of material over the semester. Prof. Krieger does a great job of presenting the material and providing examples during lecture. Overall, one lecture flows well into another and the course is well organized, especially considering the breadth it covers. The sketch assignments are not bad at all and there is only one midterm, a term paper, and a final - not bad at all.
Unique class with not too big a time commitment and interesting discussions in section. Assignments aren't too bad either apart from the longer essay at the end.
If you are interested in cities, infrastructure, urban planning, or anything about the way we choose as a society to live, this is the course for you. I found this course incredibly thought provoking and as I walk down the streets of Boston, Cambridge, my hometown, or any other civic landscape, I view everything I see in a new light. The course material is relevant to every citizen in today's global society, Professor Krieger gives excellent lectures, the questions raised are very stimulating to think about, and it is serves as the embodiment of what a Gen-Ed course should be. I found the course highly rewarding and I recommend it with enthusiasm.
Don't let the sketches or final paper scare you. You'll receive lots of support and the TFs and prof are very reasonable. Be conscious of the fact that there are lots of readings. Do them! Not only are they pretty important in terms of passing the class, but they also are really interesting. So are the books.
A very chill class, but also interesting subject matter. Slightly disorganized, but the TFs are nice, and the professor is adorable. If you're interested in cities, this is a great class to fulfill US and the World.
Lectures are like story time and assignments are a great excuse to go to Boston even though it feels like a hassle. Learned a lot more about American history than I thought I would. Very nice mix of the past and present. I learned about the changing attitudes towards cities, about the development of the idea of home in America, and about ideal communities.
Professor Krieger is a great lecturer, and all of the assignments for this class are fun - a number involve sketching areas of Boston. A fun, easy, and thought-provoking gen ed.
The lectures raise interesting points, you learn a lot from readings, and the sketch assignments force you to go out and appreciate Boston. It just doesn't always feel like the three come together to form a coherent curriculum.
This is a great gen ed course. You will learn a lot about the growth of cities, the suburbs, and think a lot about your own home, and how it is organized. I actually enjoyed the readings, and learned a lot of fun facts that I tend to drop on friends and family from time to time.
This is a great class if you are interested in cities or urban planning, or if you are just interested in better understanding the environments in which you will likely spend much of your life. As an avid Sim City fan growing up, I found delving into what makes each major American city unique fascinating. I am sure you can also impress your friends with your newfound knowledge of American urban life. I enjoyed the sketch assignments, as they gave you an excuse to get off of Harvard campus and really study the urban environment.
This class is good if you want to really engage with some of the broader issues concerning American urbanization. I would caution though that if you are a person who wants lectures to be chronologically laid out, and if you are a stickler for course organization, this class may not be for you.
Not a very unified course. Compelling at first, its disparate materials end up being a hindrance to learning anything substantial.
The class gives you a pretty good overview of the major trends and influences in the development of American cities, and it definitely got me to think about cities in a different way. Lectures can be a little disorganized and hard to follow and the sketch assignments take a little longer than you would expect, but overall a pretty good class.
No prereqs necessary, which is nice. A solid US and the World, I do feel much more knowledgable on a very important topic, both how we got here and solutions. Interesting material.
It's a lot of interesting material and will make you reconsider how cities develop. Krieger is a good, well-organized lecturer. However, the sketch assignments were time-consuming without really teaching me anything. The readings, while interesting, did not actually come up in class that much.
If you are interested in urban design or planning, this is likely a great course for you! If not, you might be better off picking a more generic gen-ed.
I enjoyed this class. Each lecture is about a different city. The final paper is own your home town which was enjoyable. You have four sketch assignments but they are really easy but take a lot of time. Overall, painless way to fulfill a USW gen ed.
This is a good course, but it involves a lot of smaller assignments, a final as well as a final paper.  The requirements were not made clear in terms of what the expectations were for understanding content, and while one learns a lot from lecture I wish that they had been recorded and that there was more clarity as far as the conceptual content is concerned.
Great gened; decent amount of work.  The lectures aren't great but the material is really awesome!
Be careful before taking this class.  It's a cool subject manner and Professor Krieger is great but there is a lot of busy work, and the biweekly sketches take a ton of time.  If you are an athlete, especially, it is really hard to find the three hours needed to go to Boston and sketch.  If you aren't artistic, beware!  The sketches take time and you still don't do well on them.  The grading is kind of harsh, too.  But it is interesting and lectures are generally pretty cool.
I took this class because I was interested in learning more about how cities are designed, and I definitely did learn about this and the evolution of the American landscape and architecture, which I am glad to know more about. The class sometimes seemed a little scattershot, though, and the assignments were not very enjoyable.
There are easier USW classes out there. I would only recommend taking this class if you are actually interested in design
If you are looking to fulfill the USW gen ed and don't want to just do the standard reading and writing assignments, consider this class. The sketchbook assignments do not require you to have any drawing ability whatsoever, and they give you an excuse to explore downtown Boston.
This course fails to engage with the interesting and challenging topics around urban planning. In many ways it falls short, just providing a brief introduction to something and then going very far back in history. Professor Krieger is dry and frustrating, frequently making gaffes by saying, "We try to make housing for poor people that normal people would like," or by saying, "people like us" when referring to Caucasians. It was frustrating and shocking to hear him say things like that. There are so many interesting aspects to urban planning, and I want to be an urban planner myself, and I felt very disappointed with this class. The subject material is incredibly fascinating, but Professor Krieger made it very dull.
This class is a lot of work for a gen ed.  You'll learn a good bit about cities, but be ready to read and be ready to draw.
Really interesting class! I liked the material much more than the actual class itself but it makes you think about cities and urban/suburban environments in a totally new way.  Definitely worth taking as an intro to urban planning and development.
This is a great course, and I think it's a great example of what a good Gen Ed should be like: it really changes the way you view your surroundings. It's a bit higher on the workload than you may want from a Gen Ed, though.
On the one hand, I think this course has great potential and great promise, as American urbanism is a really important and interesting subject to be conversant in. However, this course completely failed to live up to my expectations, and for two reasons. First, while the selection of topics for this course were generally pretty good, I felt like the lectures, sections, readings, and assignments were completely disconnected from each other, and I was often wondering to myself how and why some of these assignments were even relevant. Secondly, the sketchbook assignments were literally the worst. Honestly, they have no educational value, as I don't think I happened upon any particularly thought-provoking insights from them. Also, they take up so much time, and honestly feel like such a waste of time because there really is no point to them. Be prepared for the drawing component of the class if you want to take it.
This class is not about architecture or different design styles or movements, but rather helps you think about what Americans want from their cities and living environments. The lectures are interesting and the sketch assignments are truly doable (no matter your artistic skill level). This course leaves you feeling that you understand more about the big picture of American urbanism and able to think more critically about space.
This is a fantastic Gen-Ed. The lectures are really interesting, the course pace is nice and quick and doesn't get bogged down in the more boring details. The sketch assignments get you out into Boston and are a fun creative assignment. I highly recommend taking this course, it's been one of my favorites.
i personally really enjoyed this class. it's a history class, an architecture class, and a government/policy class. there is so much to learn about how our cities are planned and it's so interesting to go from the history of cities to how that has affected the architectural style of our cities and what policies have shaped them. it's definitely a well rounded gen ed course that i would encourage everyone to take. professor krieger is one of the top people to lecture in this topic, and he does it with so much passion and charisma, it's always a pleasure to go to class to hear him speak. he definitely wants to reach out to us and get us to see the city and where we live not only as a place to live but he also wants to show us that we can also make a difference. this is honestly a great class - i only wish that i took it earlier (not as a thesising senior) so i could've devoted more time to the readings (the selection is really great).
This is a fairly interesting class; if you like to draw or are interested in architecture/urban planning, definitely take it. There's generally a good amount of reading and weekly assignments, so the class requires more work than expected.
Shop around for classes on this subject--there a number of ways to get this material, and it comes down to questions on style.
Do not take this class! Unless you need a gen-ed credit and there is no other option, I'd recommend looking elsewhere. I took this class as an elective because I was interested in the subject, but the shallow material coverage, general apathy from the teaching staff, collective month of sketch assignments, and lack of any discussion of the readings in class made this the biggest disappointment of the year.
YOU NEED TO KNOW HOW TO DRAW. THEY'RE A BIG PART OF YOUR GRADE, AND IF YOU CAN'T DRAW YOU'RE AT A BIG DISADVANTAGE. Don't believe them when they tell you otherwise.
Don't think that this class is easy. Take another meaningful USW course that will require the same amount of work but will teach you something good
I would suggest USW24 over this class unless you're super interested in the design aspect of the city. The class does cover a lot of material from the rise of fall of cities, urban planning, parks, gentrification, the Jeffersonian grid, etc. I just found the course to be dry at time...Professor Krieger tends to drone on sometimes. He's super knowledgable and his work is impressive, it's just a type of lecturing style you have to determine if it works for you. Assignments are pretty painless -- just make sure you have time in your schedule to go into Boston a few times a semester.
This course is not that much work (very minimal), but will really engage you through case studies of cities around the United States. I also really enjoyed going into Boston and sketching, which was pretty quick, but a very cool way to engage with a city that so few students actually spend time in, even though it's right next door! Take this class!
This urban history class was different from many other classes I have taken at Harvard, which I appreciated. Prof Krieger is a really caring professor and Justin is a great TF -- I learned a lot from both of them. While the sketches can be time-consuming, on balance, the experience was positive and I really appreciated having the opportunity to think about the built environment in new ways and to spend time in parts of Boston that I had not previously been to.
Take this class! If you're at all into urban design, sketching parts of Boston, and learning about how cities are planned and came into being, this is the class for you. Professor Krieger is also a legend in his field, and has very interesting lectures. Justin is an awesome TF.
Don't even do it for the light workload! You still have to pay careful attention until the midterm (which is straight memorization) and the sketches take time. I know there aren't many classes on this topic so if you find it interesting it is tempting, but I'd take the time to ask at GSD for a more legit class. If you are interested in this subject, you've already read in the news about the topics he talks about so it doesn't even increase your exposure that much. Plus teaching staff are blah. you will never meet with them outside of class or find them super inspiring.
The course's material is great; it really makes you think of the city through a different lense. The lecture can be a bit dry but overall Dr. Krieger is an interesting lecture with a ton of knowledge on the material. The readings look like a bit much, but they are very manageable.
Good coverage of a wide range of topics about how cities develop. The lecture slides are just pictures. Krieger's pretty good at talking about the material. I think it's really important to learn about these types of issues, how and why we live in the places we do, and why the urban form is what it is.
I really enjoyed this course. The lectures are interesting and section is filled with great discussion. The topics covered are really interesting, and I have learned a lot about urban design and architecture.
Not a super interesting course. The lectures are more commentary than learning concrete concepts and the assignments, while few and spread out, aren't intellectually stimulating. The sketch assignments are kind of fun. You get out of this course what you put into it, but that's mainly through the assignments. You don't learn that much about actual urban planning.
This class is more focused on history than it is on design. There is really fascinating material and most of the readings are engaging. However, the material isn't presented in a very thoughtful or organized manner.
This was my favorite class at Harvard (coming from a senior). Professor Krieger is incredible, and his lectures are great and engaging. Sure - the class might be a bit of a mess at times, with little relation between lecture and other assignments - but it's ultimately not too much work. The material is incredibly interesting. The teaching team is great. The sketching assignments are a bit strange, but different than anything you'll do at Harvard, and definitely a good experience to have. The midterm exam is not difficult, and the final paper can be about anything you care about. Overall - definitely take this!
The sketch and section components are very well done, but make sure you have a deep interest in the subject of this course or you perhaps get bored with the more complex readings and lectures.
The course gave me a working knowledge of how to think about cities. Thought its focus is on American Cities, the concepts are constantly tied to the global context. I thoroughly enjoyed basking in Professor Krieger and TF Justin's glory, both of whom are knowledgeable, accomplished, and dedicated to their students. We are required to take ~3 trips downtown for sketch assignments (T passes provided), but going downtown takes less time than you'd think.
This course is often disorganized, and lectures are rambling and not very engaging. Going into Boston to do sketches is cool but time consuming. I'd bet there are better USW Gen Eds than this one out there.
The lectures are a bit dry and often repetitive of the readings. The readings are lengthy. They will be interesting if you are engaged in the topic and have some degree of previous knowledge on urban design and therefore can understand the ideas being presented with ease.
Designing the American City is a good course to take if you have any interest in design, architecture, and sociology.  It was interesting to learn from Professor Krieger who is truly a leader in the field.  That being said, lectures were often not very engaging after a few weeks in and feedback was given only on some assignments but not all.
Lecture is SO boring and not well structured. If you like chronological approaches to history, don't take it.
This is a MUST TAKE class! Lets you explore boston and learn about the united states (and its history) without having to take a boring history class!
Very interesting overall, and one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. The info taught in the course can be used by anyone who wants to have a better understanding of why American cities are designed the way they are. It's also the perfect mix of theoretical stuff like Thomas Jefferson's grid systems, and real world application of the ideas we talk about.
Take if you are interested in the course material and want a pretty easy GenEd. only assigments are 4 sketches- do not need to know how to draw AT ALL- and 2 response papers- easy and short, and a midterm and final paper. All not bad assignments.
There's a bit of reading but definitely try to do them. You don't have to to get by, but it's much more enjoyable if you do so.
This is a great way to fulfill US in the World because the lectures are interesting, you get to go into Boston and explore the city, and the final paper is open-ended and allows you to write about any city that interests you. If you get Etien as a TF, that's a plus!
Take this class if you are at all interested in historical attitudes toward cities, urbanism, design, or architecture's relationship to its environment (or lack thereof). The readings don't contain a lot of design theory, however, so watch out if that's what you're looking for.
If you know how to sketch and want to learn about American cities, take this course! It's a relatively painless was to fulfill your USW genEd.  If you can't sketch, don't take this course....you will not do well on the sketch assignments.
Prof. Krieger is brilliant and his lectures are informative, fun, funny, and full of his personal opinions and sass. You will learn more than you ever thought possible about urban areas in the USA and their development (with occasional examples of cities abroad).Section for this class was excellent--Krieger compiles a team of A-list GSD students to run section, and everything from the sketches to our in-class debate about skyscrapers in Boston was a joy. Overall, this is a really great gen-ed course--highly recommend it!
Lecture is interesting, but section can be really boring. That might depend on which section leader you have, though. Readings aren't super important, and the sketches get really old.
This class is a painless way to fulfill the USW general education requirement. It does require adequate time to complete the increasingly more involved sketch exercises, and the 15 page paper at the end of the semester may seem a little daunting to non-humanities concentrators, but the teaching staff is great and you will definitely learn some interesting tidbits about America's most famous cities.
Great course that covers a range of topics related to American cities, starting with our Jeffersonian roots and coming up to recent events. There is bound to be a part of the course that inspires you in the lives we lead in American cities/suburbia.
Everyone should get something out of this class, with the bare minimum being a reason to go into Boston. For most people, I think this class means a lot more... Important and interesting lectures from a world expert, engaging discussions on things that affect all of us, and an opportunity to do some sketching (even if you're a horrible artist)!
great course to broaden your knowledge about the creation, development, and current nature of US cities
This course is the perfect Gen-Ed. It changed the way that I appreciate cities for the better, and made the learning process super fun. The opportunity to go into Boston and sketch was unique yet challenging, and all of the readings were relevant and interesting.
Make sure you do the readings and go to lecture. This class is really interesting and I would definitely recommend it as an excellent gen ed.
I took this course as an elective, and wasn't very satisfied. Although the teaching staff of this course is very good, the course material could at times be difficult to follow because there were a lot of moving parts in the course: incohesive readings, lectures, and sketch assignments. I found the sketch assignments frustrating - they were graded very fairly - but they consumed a lot of time and yet we never connected this exercise to the actual course material we were studying. The course material was interesting at times, but for me it was overshadowed by the organization failure of this course.
if you enjoy going to boston and taking some time to draw, you would enjoy the sketch assignment; if not, you might find the assignments to burdernsome
Great class, interesting readings/lectures, and low workload. Only thing to fear is the 15 page final paper, but to be fair there really isn't anything you have to do after the midterm besides the sketches.
This was for the most part an interesting class.  I think they could have fewer sketch assignments, which seemed tedious, but the midterm exam was fair.
Take it for the content, but the course itself runs very dull.
Most fantastic class ever. This class was so much fun. The readings are short and mostly pictures, soon manageabllllleeeeee. The assignments are actually fun and you want to go out to boston to learn more about urban design. Literally fun in class out of class, all around incredible.
This class focuses pretty heavily on architecture throughout the history of America.
The class is interesting and made me think of American cities in ways I probably never would have before. The sketches can be a lot of work and get progressively more difficult as the class goes forward. But the grading is not crazy harsh on any of the assignments, as long as you put meaningful effort into them. Lectures are interesting and the class gives you nice little fun facts that you can bring up at a dinner table conversation.
Lectures are really interesting and worth going to. There was no final exam my year and a long final paper instead, though I would've preferred a mix of both; midterm was also reasonable and graded generously. Readings can seem a little disconnected from the rest of the course but they're only necessary for section discussions.Sketch assignments are fun (in theory) and manageable overall but can be a little stressful if you're not someone who is used to/likes drawing.
It's a straightforward course with really interesting history about American urban development.  Sometimes lectures can be dry, but Prof. Krieger is a genius in his field so it's cool to be learning from him.  If you put in the effort, you will get the grade.
Very systemic intro to urban planning. Very interesting assignments.
Going to lecture is not very important to do well in the class, but it's worth it because the material is interesting.
This is a great US-World! I enjoyed how well it situated pertinent issues about housing and citybuilding around us in a historical context. The amount of work is pretty lowkey as well - there's a lot of reading, but it's not necessary to do it every week, and the sketch assignments are fun and a great way to engage with the material in reality. There's only one midterm and final paper, and two very short response papers. It's the perfect gen ed: not too much work and a chance to learn about and discuss relevant topics to the US today.
Take this class if you are at all interested in urbanism, but probably don't take it as a gen-ed. The readings are actually great, and I'm saying this as a senior who literally never did readings for any other class. There's a good variety ranging form news articles to seminal ideas in American urbanism history. Yeah, the sketches are kind of stupid and I'm not a huge design guy (or art guy), but come on, I can't really complain about having a coloring assignment as homework. Lectures are a little bit all over the place and hard to take notes on, but Krieger is interesting, and the material is all good. I do wish it was a little bit more organized, but you take the good with the bad.
This is a fun, interesting class. Beware that the sketch assignments often do take up a lot of time because you have to travel to different areas of Boston, but they are fun and usually really meaningful. I wish that more of the focus had been on more modern issues, but it's mostly historical.
This class is easy but so terrible disorganized I don't know if it was worth it. Did not take it for a grade but would be unlikely to recommend it for Gen Ed requirements since you never really know where you stand
This wasn't my first choice for USW, but I'm so, so glad that I ended up in it, as it's definitely one of my favorite courses I've taken at Harvard over the past four years! I had no experience with sketching at all, but I actually really enjoyed all of the sketching assignments.
It is very interesting. Essentially an urban planning class. The readings are a bit excessive, but well taught and structured.
The course material is interesting.  Professor Krieger is a good lecturer except at times they seemed rushed.  The section component of this course was somewhat disappointing because we received little feedback on our assignments - including sketches, which did not seem to go well with the rest of the course material.
Professor Krieger never talks about race, which is a HUGE part of American cities & why they look the way they do. I felt that section was often much more helpful. Readings are disjointed and sometimes feel irrelevant, very few people actually do them. Sketches are fun - don't be scared away! And in general, I feel like many of these things are things that people should know. Although if you are genuinely interested in planning, take another class (there are definitely better ones on the history of urban planning in the US). If you're not, make sure you're interested enough to take a class on planning/history. Lectures often give food for thought, though, and assignments are interesting.
This course is easily the most poorly taught course I encountered in four years. It's not that the content was uninteresting, it was just thoroughly unorganized. There was little sense in the relation between assignments, readings, and lectures. Lectures themselves were an non-nonsensically organized vomit of information, related in a loose theme. The experience was like going through wikipedia on these themes--superficial, unorganized, something I can do in my bed. I would not enroll again.
Amazing class. You learn to appreciate the cities around you and consider elements of their design which you would otherwise never have noticed. It helps you understand the way you fit into the urban landscape.
Kreiger is a great lecturer and teacher - he also has a very impressive background, and clearly is passionate about this course and his students. It's very easy to tune out the lectures because often they repeat the same concepts over and over again, but the more you listen, the more you get out of this class. It's a great GenEd.
