This is one of the most meaningful classes I have taken here. Some aspects can use some fine tuning, but I'm sure that will all be figured out in future iterations of the course. Professor Eck and the TFs are absolutely amazing. They are kind and caring people who will go out of their way to help you. In this class, you will explore the importance of an individual's identity and how the type of issues the arise when living in a religiously and culturally diverse landscape in which people of similar and different personal backgrounds interact. Interpersonal relations are at the heart of our communities and this is one of the few classes here that actually address the importance of those relations.
Best class you'll take at Harvard!!!
This class is thought provoking and often exciting. It equips students with essential background on American religious communities that will serve them in their professional and academic careers.
If you're looking for a class that will allow you to engage real-world issues of religious pluralism head-on, take this class.
Take this class! As a humanist, I found this class extremely helpful in understanding modern day religious America.
This class was amazing- it really pushed me to think about relevant issues and the presence of religion in everyone's life, religious or not.  It brought questions that are so important to our generation and the development of pluralism.  I would absolutely recommend this class to everyone.  I had no idea that I was interested in religion and it truly sparked a new interest and passion!  The teaching staff was excellent and made everyone excited and interested every week.
Get to know the teaching staff! They are wonderful!
Come with an open mind, leave with a full one.
This was the most interesting and amazing class I've taken at Harvard. Not only did I love the subject and the format of the class, but the teaching staff was phenomenal and I learned so much about the religious climate in America that I didn't even know existed.
If in any way you have the opportunity to take this class, DON'T pass it up! The teaching staff are committed to true learning in this class in a truly unique way, and all parties involved benefit from their utmost attention, concern, care and leadership. The cases are fascinating and surprisingly relevant in ways I didn't expect. The workload is light until the final project rolls around, and even that was one of my most proud accomplishments at school to date. SERIOUSLY, an INCREDIBLE class.
Interesting and timely material, not too much work, can be frustrating in the competitive/overachieving attitudes it gives rise to
This is one of the most interesting classes at harvard
It's a great topic and one that is very applicable to our daily lives.  There is much room for improvement but hopefully many of these issues will be solved in future iterations: much of the lectures were a rehash of the readings, biased readings, pluralism taken as a given, limited defense of opposing viewpoints.  Overall, fun class and a good environment.  There is a lot going on in our nation that we should be aware of.  Take it.
This class is relaxed, relevant to real life, and really engaging.  Even though there's not a stressful workload throughout the semester, keeping on top of reading the case studies will help tremendously with the final project.  This class gives you an opportunity to explore!!
This is a great class if you are interested in religious diversity in the United States. However, it is not for everyone. There is a certain level of "burn-out" that comes with discussing so much intolerance for many people.
You should start early on the paper. Cases take a long time to write, as do research papers. Also, speak as much as possible in class. It's a good way to develop one's own ideas.
One of my best classes at Harvard and a wonderful way to fulfill the GenEd for Culture and Belief.  I am so glad that I got into the course! I've learned a lot about the world's religions and how leaders (in all sectors, not just religious leaders) can encourage pluralism.
I absolutely adored this class- this class completely defines for me what it means to study at Harvard. Being in this class challenged my usual ways of reading, thinking, and arguing a point and every day I felt so lucky to be able to learn from so many other insightful, intelligent people. The workload was minimal for the critical thinking skills I got out of the class. In addition to that type of learning, this course really opened my eyes to the perspective of faith-based communities in conflicts between "church" and "state," to put it simplistically. I absolutely recommend this course to anyone and everyone. I am so grateful to have been able to take part.
Take this class. It is the best thing at this school. Dont miss a lecture, not that you'll want to bc it's that interesting.
This is a great class. You don't learn a lot about religion itself, but you learn about how religions interact with each other. The issues covered are extremely relevant in the United States, and everyone should have a basic understand of these conflicts. Professor Eck is a great teacher and the final case study is actually really fun.
Read the case studies, or else class will be super boring and unfulfilling. But if you actually read the stuff, it will be great!
Excellent course, and generally very manageable. Just keep in mind that the case study while extremely gratifying will take a LOT more of your time than you think--but totally worth it!
This course has changed the way I view problems that emerge in a more diverse society. I feel better able to discuss issues that arise in multicultural America and have gained an appreciation for the progress made by small communities towards active engagement rather than coexistence with increasing diversity.
It's the best take it no matter what your religions affiliation (or none at all)!
it's fun and easy. a gen-ed that is easy that you actually learn something from! that never happens! take advantage of it. the tfs are super chill and awesome, and professor eck is awesome.
This course was constantly engaging and we grappled with serious questions relevant not only to modern American but also to our individual lives. The usage of case studies makes this course unique and is a fantastic way of learning. Additionally, the final project component was a wonderful way to synthesize all we had learned throughout the semester in a creative and meaningful way. Highly recommend!
It was one of my favorite classes at Harvard.
This class was the one I was most vested in all term. Not only was it thrilling to take part in a class that dealt with religious pluralism, something I've always been interested in, but it was also thrilling to see fifty of my classmates similarly vested in it. It has done us all some good.
Interesting class with very engaging professor, but it needs a more structured and nuanced curriculum.
The course is pretty easy, but really interesting. Much more time is spent thinking about the case studies than actually doing the reading.
A great class on a topic rarely discussed -- uses the case study method to discuss issues facing minority religious communities in America/the West. Class is fairly painless, and discussions are very interesting -- you have to be willing to speak up in class though, as participation is a large part of your grade. Also, if having 50% of your grade be the final paper makes you uncomfortable, this may not be the best class for you. But overall, Diana and the teaching staff are wonderful, and really encouraging thought-provoking discussions about matters that are incredibly relevant to today's changing society. Take a look through previous syllabi and see if it would be something you would be interested in! Great class overall, painless way to fulfill USW!
Great class. Professor Eck is an absolute rockstar and pushes you to engage with the material in a unique setting. The issues are very relevant to our country and our lives. I have never taken a case-study class and this was a phenomenal first for me.
Better than the other USW courses out there, but is that saying much? You decide.
Only if you need a Gen Ed.
The material is fascinating, all case studies, and the discussions can be great -- but they can also get deadlocked, especially in lecture, where people feel the need to say something brilliant rather than just a thought.
This class was refreshingly different from any other class I have taken at Harvard and I learned an incredibly amount about the subtle ways that religion influences our daily lives and interactions.
Diana Eck is AMAZING. Take this course. Interesting cases, discussions, and great staff too.
Professor Eck was a wonderful instructor. She facilitated the class discussion very well and her knowledge on all aspects of religious studies was astounding. I also really loved working on the final case study. Definitely recommend this course to gain a broad background on religious studies!
This class is simply excellent. The teaching staff are wonderful and Diana Eck is an amazing professor who is truly dedicated to pluralism. She is a wonderful lecturer, and every class was engaging. This was by far the most interesting class I took this semester, and I would highly recommend everyone take it!
The discussion is what makes this class worthwhile. Both in lecture and in section, it gives everyone a chance to contribute and steers the conversation in very thoughtful and surprising directions. Only take this class if you're prepared to engage in the material, contribute in class, and work hard to make the final case study project a unique experience.
A thoughtful class. More time than many other gen eds might require, but it was great to get to know some cohorts of Harvard's student body that I wouldn't have crossed paths with otherwise.
This class is legendary for a reason. It will certainly be by application because so many people want to get it. Diana Eck is rightfully the Queen of Harvard, and this course, like all of hers, shows why. The employment of a case study method makes this class so interesting; instead of lectures, you have daily debates with your classmates, and very complex ones in which no one really knows what side they're on. I recommend it most highly.
This is a fantastic class to take, especially if you feel that you haven't had a space to talk about religious discrimination or interfaith issues during your time at Harvard.  The case-study based approach is fantastic, and Professor Eck asks very engaging questions.  There are students in this class from all backgrounds, and so you get to hear a lot of novel thought.
Although this class typically gets great reviews, I would be careful unless you have a specific interest in religious pluralism (like a religion concentrator).  The case studies are very interesting, but there is more to think about/juggle than your typical Gen Ed.  The lecture is also supposed to be a discussion but is typically led by few rather than a real group discussion which can make the 10am lectures hard to be excited about.
Good course--light workload, interesting material that you're never really tested on anyway, and few assessments (they do mean /short/ for the two short papers, and the final paper, despite being 15-20 pages, is a case study so it's not too painful). Don't expect to see too many controversial opinions from your classmates or Prof. Eck, though--there's definitely a bleeding heart liberal atmosphere (and I say that as a liberal) and sometimes you get tired of looking at things from the same angle.
This is a cool idea for a class, and the issues that you touch on are most likely not issues you've come into a lot of contact with if you're like me and came from a fairly homogeneous hometown. There's really not that much work week-to-week, either, so it's a nice low-workload gen-ed/elective; Diana Eck is also awesome as a human, so it's great to take a class with her. I do wish we had heard more from her during the class in the form of lectures, or at least that she had asked more difficult questions; a lot of the first hour of every week was spent basically doing a reading quiz of that week's case. The cases also tend to get somewhat repetitive, and the class as a whole leans very very liberal (like most of Harvard) so discussions could get kind of boring because people were basically just agreeing with each other. You *can* write the case study in 2 days but you probably shouldn't.
The research paper or case study is a lot of work at the end of the course, so make sure you're not taking an otherwise overwhelming schedule because it's easy for this to sneak up on you.  But otherwise, this class is fantastic.  It truly changes the way you think and exposes you to a lot of Harvard's diversity--TAKE IT AT SOME POINT.
This class offers a nice break from heavy lecture classes. If you're interested in the class take it. I wouldn't say it was life changing but it was a great class and the format was something I had never experienced before. I did a lot of thinking about things I would not necessarily research and consider if it weren't for the class.
Though this course has been taught for many years with a committed teaching staff and good reviews, I found that class discussions and readings in USW 32 were less than engaging. Religious pluralism and diversity are important topics that deserve nuanced consideration. Nonetheless, I often left lectures feeling like I'd learned very little about the religion being discussed for the week and without broader lessons about the intersection of religion and the civic sphere. A fine survey course for those looking to fulfill the Gen Ed requirement but I'd recommend that those seeking a deeper intellectual experience look elsewhere.
This course is one of best Gen-Ed's that I've encountered at Harvard. Although it's definitely trick to apply and get into the course, I definitely recommend trying, because this course will change the way that you think about both American and Religion. The readings and cases for this course are super interesting, and overall the workload is not too bad (just two short papers and one long one). Professor Eck is brilliant at leading the discussions and also super accessible. Definitely recommended!
This course is a great way to learn about religious pluralism. The case study method is also very exciting since it allows you to hear the thoughts and perspectives of your classmates. That being said this course will be more enjoyable for those who are comfortable with pulbic speaking. The teaching staff is amazing and Prof. Eck is an amazing lecturer. My approach to understanding religious and cultural issues is now more refined. I think this one of the best GenEd courses at Harvard.
There are a couple of great things about this course: 1) the material is fantastic. Each class you read a case-study about one specific issue in America. It can be long at times but it is so fun and accessible that it makes you WANT to read the whole thing. Just think you get to read a story book for each class with a protagonist, plot and conclusion. 2) It is not very time-consuming. Just 2 short reflections and a final paper. 3) Diana Eck is great at facilitating discussion.
Great course!
this class was great in the beginning but in the end lectures became a nearly non-sensical performance of cultural relativism as contradicting points of views were not brought into dialogue. Rather they were called "interesting" and then we went on to discuss the specifics of the case more. you'll learn a lot about different religions in this class but the discussions don't really elucidate the moral dilemmas of pluralism
This class is extremely interesting and teaches you a lot without requiring huge amounts of work. It's taught with the case study method, which means that the things we talk about are real situations that everyone can discuss and contribute to in class. The cases are the only things you really need to read each week and are max 15 pages which is great and really manageable; the only other assignments are two 3-4page papers (again, not much at all) and a 15-20 page final paper. I took the course while finishing my thesis and was able to feel that I still engaged with the material and learned a lot while not having to dedicate lots of time that I needed to write my thesis. Professor Eck is great and the material is provocative, so overall a great course that I highly recommend.
It was a lot more work than I thought it would be.  The weekly blog posts + section leading + two papers + 20 page final paper ended up being a lot.  Definitely interesting but not a walk in the park gen ed if that is what you are looking for.
This class has very interesting material and the class discussion are engaging. However, after taking the class I have reservations about it...The lecture discussion experience was sometimes way too structured by Professor Eck. She asks people to respond to very specific questions or scenarios, rather than just saying what they feel. There is practically no work in this class on the average week, which is very chill.
I really enjoyed this class, mainly because of the case study method. Sometimes classes can get a little predictable, as many people take the same stance on an issue, but Diana is AWESOME, and the teaching fellow stuff were also really great.
This is a great class to take if you are interested in the religious history of the United States. The workload is fair but not overwhelming, and Professor Eck is an outstanding lecturer.
A good way to fulfill your CB gen ed. Don't take this class if you don't like to speak up during class.
Make sure to do the readings and take good notes so that you can participate in class. Also, get started on your final project fairly early so you can be done in time.
This course was interesting, but not life-changing. I'm glad I took it as a Gen Ed because it was very manageable while also being clearly relevant to the world around me, but I wish we got more lectures from the brilliant Diana Eck instead of other Harvard students shaping every discussion (when it was very clearly often the same people talking over and over again without any really pertinent knowledge or background concerning what they were saying).
Don't think that just because everyone else loves this class that it's perfect for you. Prof Eck is great, however, expect a large focus on case studies and a huge focus on fairly high-stakes in-class discussion.
The class readings and sections were extremely informative and made me think and evaluate many aspects of my life and our culture that are often taken for granted. However, the class is built such that it attracts mostly very liberal minded students and thus discussions are often narrow in scope and not very critical, an aspect that I found frustrating at times.
Great class. Best General Education class I've ever had at Harvard in my four years.
Great class! Take it if you get in! It is much more work than the average gen Ed but totally worth it !
The class is amazing. Diane Eck is a goddess. Religion is complicated.
Great and generates tons of discussion with friend. Your assumptions will be continually challenged.
Awesome class. Take it if you can.
This is a fantastic opportunity to engage with the question of religious pluralism at the grassroots, community level.
Good class. Can be graded somewhat arbitrarily, so talk to your TF a lot about exactly what they want from you.  Just remember to talk a lot in class.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard! I learned so much, and the ability to engage with so many different students around such an important topic was incredible!
This course is undoubtedly one of the best courses I have ever taken. Professor Eck is truly a fantastic course leader, and she inspires you to truly engage in the study of the religious diversity of America. I learned how to think about not only religious issues/conflicts, but also decision-making, leadership, interfaith discussions, and more. The case-based discussion format is also especially unique, and I gained a lot from it. Overall, this course makes you more interested in religion and the changing religious landscape of America.
The brilliant in-class facilitation (that got students to know, challenge, and build off each other), case study format (that exposed students to a wide variety of pluralism/religious-based controversies today), and the dynamic sections (that enabled students to prepare and lead lessons for their peers) made this class extraordinary. This is one of the most valuable courses I have taken at Harvard.
This is a fantastic course. Diana Eck allows for some great conversation on various topics germane to religion. Just take care to be timely with the final project; that is, do not leave off the research until the end, and you will be fine!
This is a must take course. Not only are you being taught by the lovely Professor Diana Eck, but you have an amazing teaching staff and 50 unique and diverse peers who will challenge you and your ways of thinking about religion int he States. Be prepared to speak in class and section and also do the readings (they're fascinating anyhow and are painless). Also have fun with the final assignment - that's your time to influence others and also present an unbiased recount of a religious issue that you've stumbled upon.
This is by far the most influential class I could possible take. Not only were my ideas and views challenged in class, but I found that I took what I learned and now daily apply it to the outside world. Religious pluralism is an essential part to our society, and this course forces students to recognize that.
This may end up being the best class I will ever take at Harvard. If you have any interest in religious pluralism or the landscape of religious intolerance in the United States, take this class. If you don't, take this class. You will not regret it.
This is a great class! I thought the topics we discussed were incredibly interesting and it made me think more critically about pluralism in the US. It's not incredibly difficult in terms of work load. And we get plenty of feedback on our projects and if we need help with the essays or anything the TF's are more than willing to meet with us.
This is a great way to fulfill your US/World requirement. Professor Eck is a great lecturer, knowledgeable, and approachable. Section really gets you involved. And of course, what you learn about the people living around you is eye-opening.
The course is a great exploration of the various religious conflicts which constantly flare up both in the foreground and background of American culture.
Class participation is key!
Fantastic course.  Diana does a great job presenting the different viewpoints and crafting a class that will generate a positive case discussion.  Get ready to be disgusted at some practices of the majority, be repulsed by some of the demands of the minority, and marvel at how America holds itself together as a religiously pluralistic society in the face of this conflict.  A true tour-de-force of modern American civic issues.
Professor Eck and the TFs are great and the cases are very interesting. The discussions can begin to feel a bit repetitive towards the end and there are very few times, if any, where you actually discuss solutions to the issues being discussed. Overall, it is a good course to take if you are into discussing religious conflict but not necessarily the best course if you are looking to learn more about world religions in general or religious theory.
This class lives up to the hype and is especially enjoyable because you tackle important issues but don't have to suffer from immense quantities of weekly reading.
This course is a pain-free way to get through the culture and belief requirement but don't expect to be truly challenged. Most of the argument and discussions are pretty basic and there is little focus on creating arguments or actually learning from the readings. The best part of the class is getting to explore different communities in the U.S and discussion with a diverse group of classmates.
A very thought-provoking class that will challenge you to find your opinion on matters of religion, and help you develop them in light of current events.
This class is really, really cool. Professor Eck is awesome, and I enjoyed the discussion component very much. Take this class! You'll learn so much about the religious landscape in the US and what religious plurality really means.
I highly recommend this course. Students must be dedicated to being both physically and mentally present at every class and section, they must do all the assigned reading, and they must be willing to put a lot of thought and effort into their assignments (two short essays, a case study, and leadership of one section). But if they are willing to put work into all these things, students will have a very rewarding experience. It is the GenEd I have taken that has most enriched my understanding of the modern world outside of my area of study, and I feel it has been a definite asset to my education overall. Rarely have I been in a GenEd class where I have learned so much from my classmates, but Professor Eck assembled an amazing group of interesting and articulate students with very differing perspectives and experiences.
This is one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard. If you get in, take it! I had so much fun reading each case and it's worth your time to do any outside research you can each week. Start on your case study early - it's so rewarding and can be a lot of fun if you give yourself enough time. Participate in the discussion as much as possible.
The course was great! It got a bit repetitive toward the end, but discussions were interesting and case study based approach was cool. There is very little work throughout the semester, but the final case study takes a lot of work/time, so make sure to start early! Doing the case study was one of my favorite parts of the course though, so it was definitely worth the work.
This is a great course if you're at all interested in issues of religious pluralism or conflict in the United States. Professor Eck is excellent, as is the teaching staff. The class discussions are great, though they do tend to get a bit repetitive as the semester wears on.
This class is incredible. The material is so interesting and applicable to our everyday lives. I'm glad I got to take it as a junior rather than a freshman or sophomore because I've experienced more religious tensions in different arenas than I would have had I taken it earlier. The workload is pretty chill, and everyone engages with the material and treats it with respect. It's been an honor to be a part of the class.
I found myself surprised that I selected "moderate" difficulty for this class. Work-wise, the class is pretty great most weeks. You are presented an interesting case study. Reading it takes about 20 minutes, then you are good to go for the week! However, what makes this class great is also what made me select "moderate" instead of "very easy". Application is by lottery, meaning that the group of students and grad students you end up with are really intelligent and articulate.This has its pluses--section is awesome, and so are the 90-minute discussions that comprise maybe 95% of the class. The downside is that the essays and final projects are graded against some of the greatest students at Harvard I've found. That isn't to say that this class isn't "A-able"--it just means that you really need to work on your essays. And that is why I chose "moderate".Other note: This class is essentially a 50 person seminar, which means you generally get to speak twice, three times if you are lucky if you hold your hand in the air for 90 minutes. This is generally o.k.-- means you can enjoy the comfortable chairs and speeches of your peers and not worry about "not speaking up enough". But woe be the day when the sensitive issues strike a chord in you (it is rare, but it happens). Then the 50-person seminar format is infuriating. Discussions revolve around the same themes each week, but that generally isn't that big of an issue. tl;dr: Great class. Great professor, students, discussions. Workload is manageable--the curve is a little steeper than average for humanities classes.  But if you get in, go for it.
This class is a wonderful way to fulfill the US&World requirement if you can get in. Though Professor Eck definitely has favorites and chooses those students to speak time and again in each class period, the class structure as a whole is very informative and enlightening. All of the case studies were very interesting and the final project-writing our own case study-was an incredibly experience. I would definitely recommend that future students start the case study as early as possible to schedule interviews. Attending essentially every single lecture and section is basically a requirement, so make sure that your schedule allows for it.
This course is fantastic. It's fascinating, informative, and very engaging.
Three things: first, this class is more diverse than any I've ever taken at Harvard, and this makes for great discussions. Second, the class becomes extraordinarily repetitive after the first half of the course. The discussions became somewhat stale by the end. Third, the attractiveness of the average student in this class was far higher than than in other classes I have taken here. That's a plus.
Wonderful course! Professor Eck (aside from being a fellow Montanan) is the reason I am at Harvard. I came here for her. She handles the topic of religious pluralism with empathy, analysis, and nuance. She poses questions that will spur lively discussion over our society's most pressing issues. Most importantly she fosters a true sense of community in her courses. We become a sort of "USW 32 Family" when we are done. This course, even if you are not interested in religion, is an excellent choice to fulfill the United States & World/Culture & Belief requirement  as its topic will, no matter who you are, touch your life in some way. This course will prepare you to be a leader in confronting issues involving religion that touch our communities.
USW32 is definitely a wonderful General Education class to take- not only is the workload extremely manageable, but the discussions are lively and intellectually stimulating. While the final case study project may seem daunting, it is actually an enjoyable experience, especially interviewing various individuals. Diana Eck is also a fantastic professor and someone whom you want to get to know while at Harvard.
If you are interested at all in the state of religious pluralism in the US, you must take this class! It is one of my best at Harvard. Professor Eck cares immensely both about her students and the course. The case study format is refreshing; even if you aren't that fluent in public speaking, the TFs, professor, and students create a very comfortable atmosphere for discussion. The final case study project is really fun to write as well. Get Brendan as your TF - he's the best!
This class is the SHIZ NIT.
If you do the readings and put in some time and effot into the case study writeup, this will be the most amazing gened course. You will find yourself thinking hard to figure out your solution to many of the case studies discussed in class. Think about the cases in advance and don't be afraid to speak up in class.
Really interesting material and really interesting students; Professor Eck and the TF's are wonderful resources. The more you put into reading and pondering the case studies + all the extra material, the more you get out of the course.
This was a very engaging, informative way to start thinking about issues of religious pluralism. The case study format of the class facilitated fruitful discussions. It was challenging to think through a unique, defendable perspective on each case, which was necessary to contribute to discussion. That initial challenge became much easier as the course progressed, though, and we all developed a stronger vocabulary to discuss pluralism. The assignments were relatively stress-free. The two papers were very manageable, though seemed to be graded pretty arbitrarily. The final case study was a huge undertaking but so, so rewarding. The writing style is very different from anything I have encountered before at Harvard. It was a great feeling to do real research, relevant to an issue involving real people, many of whom I spoke to on the phone. Sections were informative, and it was a good experience to interact with classmates as they taught about each week's case study. Again, the grading for this component of the class (the section leadership) seemed really arbitrary, though very forgiving. Professor Eck was great in lecture, sometimes. Other times, she seemed to favor particular students in class, barely allowing others to contribute. Although she was generally great about providing an even-handed perspective, it was also very clear what her opinions were, based on how much/how little she allowed certain students to speak. The class (50 students) seemed a little bit large for her teaching style. Overall, a very positive experience though. Light work load for high learning value.
This is an absolutely amazing course!  Professor Eck is a great professor and is very knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the course material.  The course raises a lot of fascinating and applicable questions about religious diversity in America, and the class discussions are always engaging.  The workload is very manageable and if you find the material even remotely interesting the course will not seem like a chore at all.  Easily my favorite course this semester!
Diana Eck and Brendan are amazing (I don't know that much about Kristen but I bet the same is true)...they are dedicated to students, well-informed, and do an excellent job of facilitating discussion
Take this course if you can get in, easily the best course I've taken at Harvard.
I highly recommend this class to all those looking to fulfill their culture and beliefs requirement. Professor Eck is an amazing lecturer and the TFs are great. The cases you study in the course are really interesting and you will walk from each class having learned something new. The workload is minimal, but be sure to get started on your final paper earlier than later. Trust me, take this course. You won't regret it.
Professor Eck is great and the course provides a different type of reading from most classes. The discussion gets a little repetitive though.
The comments from last year said this as well, but I didn't fully appreciate them until too late - start working on your case study EARLY in the semester. It's a lot of work and it gets very very stressful if you realize the week before it's due that you haven't even contacted people for interviews.
This course brings together a diverse group of students with a diverse array of opinions. In this course you get to examine extremely interesting cases dealing with religion in America and then discuss them in section and in lecture. I think this course is unique in that sense, as lecture is a time when the professor and students can bring forth ideas to discuss.
This course was so much better than I ever could've hoped for it to be.  Professor Eck offers SO much knowledge and the reading were extremely interesting.  The TFs were also very, very helpful.  I had Brendan, and he was available to offer advice about papers and our final project on several occasions.  Even though the final project, your own case study, requires a lot of time and research, I learned so much from doing it and really loved the process.  Take up the teaching staff's advice of starting it early!  If you have the opportunity, take this class.
The final project is very long. Start it early. Also, be aware that the class is almost entirely liberal and conservative views, while tolerated, are not very much accepted. A conservative will be called on less, allowed to talk for shorter periods of time, and be dumbfounded at some of the conclusions in the class. It's a decent class-- interesting material and not a bad way to get the pesky Culture and Belief out of the way. It's not a home-run though.
Really great and relaxed course.  Professor Eck and the TFs are great.  they guide conversation without dominating it.  There is not much reading, but make sure you read the case studies so that you are prepared to talk in class and section.
If you prefer religion from a more theological standpoint, this class may not be your cup of tea. But if you prefer religion from the sociological standpoint and in terms of settling disputes, then you will love this class. Start working on the case studies early. The only hard thing about this class is the case study. The papers are easy, and the readings are compelling.Please do the readings, because sometimes Diana will call on you.
While this is clearly a crucial course to any student seeking a career in government, public service, or aspiring to any position of leadership at a local, national or international level, it is also a crucial course to anyone interested in developing a nuanced understanding of some of the major social and political challenges an increasingly religiously diverse America faces today.
This class is extremely fun and incredibly engaging. I had a wonderful time taking it and would definitely say that it has been the BEST class I've taken at Harvard so far. Diana Eck is an amazing teacher and she really gets everybody interested in the material. Make sure that you don't fall behind on deadlines for the final project--it creeps up on you and it's a huge undertaking! It is so rewarding if you decide to devote a lot of time to the final case study and really makes taking the class worthwhile.
It is interesting, but be prepared to participate a lot in class. The final project is also a lot of work.
Excellent for all aspiring community leaders and decision makers. This class helped me better develop my critical thinking skills and my public speaking skills. Classroom discussion is always enlightening.
This is a really fantastic class. The teaching is really great. This class forces to you critically think about tricky, complicated situations and then share your views in class. As such, you must be at least somewhat comfortable speaking up in front of 50 people in class. I think this is the only class I've ever taken where I knew everyone's name in my section and pretty much everyone's name in the larger class within just a few weeks, which illustrates how discussion-based the class is. The final project is a really cool experience because you get to interview people to write your own case. I think I'll remember more from this class than I will from most others I've taken in college.
Fun class and can be pretty useful since you're learning about a very relevant and major part of American society--religion. Case method is also fun and helps you get better at public thinking and critical thinking. Be prepared to see a lot of liberal views. Also final project can be difficult so be sure to get started on it early in lining up people to interview.
Good class. Not exactly what I was expecting. The first few classes were great and discussions really interesting. However, throughout the semester I felt like our discussions got a little repetitive.  If you're looking to learn more about different religions, that's not really what this class is. But it is really interesting if you want to learn more about the conflicts that arise in the legal and civic sphere surrounding religion.
Diana Eck is pretty awesome, and the stuff I learned in the class made me a more aware and responsible citizen. Still, it can get a little repetitive towards the end.
The discussions in this class were generally interesting, although at times they seemed to drag on and revolve around similar themes week after week. However, Professor Eck and Brendan do a great job of developing enthusiasm and interest throughout.
Diana Eck is an allstar and Brendan was an excellent TF. Few sections makes us relfect on how we learn and how we think, and Brendan's section probed just those questions.
Case studies are a wonderful way to learn and this subject especially opens your eyes and instigates thoughts outside of your own circle
This class does fulfill either Culture and Belief or US and the World (and would qualify well for either) but should be taken as an elective because it is such a good course. The case study format is engaging and helps students become invested and articulate. Diana Eck is a FANTASTIC professor, and we know that professors make or break the class. This course touches on ideas of religion without focusing on the small religious details, but rather how all religions, ideas, backgrounds interact in daily current events and conflicts. In this way, the class is very realistic and helps you think about the world and be a better citizen.
This is a great gen-ed. It gives you an opportunity to think about very important questions, and the case-study format means that you think about them in a very practical, down-to-earth way.  Of all of my gen-eds, this is the one that I think I am most likely to use in everyday life. That being said, the case study is a really big undertaking.  Even though they are not graded, take the partial deadlines seriously.  If you do not have a topic in mind, meet with a TF or Professor Eck early to make sure that you get going early in the term.
It's a good class but becomes boring and tiresome very quickly. Don't take it unless you are interested in discussing basically the same issues of the rights of minority religions over and over again (an important and interesting topic, but perhaps not interesting enough to sustain over a semester).
This course is absolutely fantastic. Take it if you get the chance!!
This course gives an interesting overview to religion in America and the many issues religious diversity poses.  However by the end of the semester it gets a little old as everyone in the class is generally a liberal Harvard student so we have the same opinions.   It was interesting but not life changing.
This course is so unique and not replicable! Diana Eck is a pro not only at religious studies but also at fostering productive, empathetic dialogue. The case studies are interesting and applicable to everyone's life, and the class is selected such that it is very diverse and there are so many things to learn from peers. The final assignment of writing a case study is also super cool and interesting.
I highly recommend this course - it pushed me to reexamine all of my beliefs, I was never bored during class or section, the readings are short and engaging. Overall, it is a very reasonable amount of work for a phenomenal and unique academic experience.
Dont take this course if you are not really interested in the material.
Take this class! Professor Eck is amazing and discussing the cases with her and other students is a lot of fun.  I learned a lot about religion in the United States and just about conflict resolution in general.  I think this course made me a better person, and I would recommend it to everyone!
Take this course if you lottery in! This is the best US and the World class I can think of, and the work you do in this class feels meaningful and relevant. Professor Eck is such an amazing scholar and a wonderful lecturer and discussion leader.
This class is one of the best I have ever taken at Harvard. The reading and supplementary materials are not too onerous, so people actually do all of them and then you can have great discussions. But the lighter workload doesn't mean you only touch the surface of issues. This class challenged me on religious diversity and fomented critical thinking of religious America.
This course is on a very interesting topic, making for animated and fascinating class discussion, both in lecture and section. The workload is extremely manageable.
Take this class!! It is amazing and thought provoking and a very manageable work load.
This is a low stress course that engages in a ton of really interesting and relevant issues in contemporary America. I learned about different religions, pluralism, and even myself! I took this as an elective second semester senior year and it was a perfect choice.
If you get in to the class, take it. Diana Eck is a really special professor who cares about her students and is very passionate about the subject. The workload is not bad, the case study is actually fun to write, and the discussions are great.
i loved this class. i learned a lot about perspectives that other people have regarding interactions between people of different faiths or different cultural backgrounds. Diana is a spectacular professor, the section discussions were some of the best i've had the fortune of participating in, and the final case study project takes a lot of work but is definitely an exciting project unlike anything i've written before. i thoroughly enjoyed it.
TAKE THIS CLASS--it is by far the best course I've taken a Harvard. The way the class is structured is phenomenal, in that it forces you not only to do the readings, but also to have solid opinions on contemporary and important issues surrounding religious pluralism in the United States. Also, you'll constantly be surrounded by the brilliant opinions of Professor Eck, the TFs, and also your fellow Harvard students. Because the course is application-based, the teaching staff does a wonderful job of selecting a group of students who offer diverse perspectives on the issues at hand. Although the final project is seemingly daunting, it is manageable and quite fun to interview people directly involved in a hot-button contemporary issue surrounding religion in the United States.
You can go through this course and treat it like just another Gen Ed, but it would be a waste of one of the most important and interesting courses at Harvard. You discuss issues that are rarely discussed and become a much more informed individual about religious issues very relevant today. If you expect to interact in any sort of diverse environment, which most Harvard students do, you must take this course. You won't regret it at all.
This class is really interesting! I think it is better served for underclassmen, however. The cases are fun to read and discuss, but there is lots of discussion and very little lecture from Professor Eck, which is a bit disappointing. Writing the final case study is really enjoyable and not too much work either.
This course is incredible. Truly changed my perspective and my understanding of religion in America, and what religious pluralism really means. I don't think I will ever walk around and talk about religion the same way again. It also made me understand the concept of tolerance a lot better. The final project was so rewarding, and such a fun process.
This class is a unique class that I would highly recommend taking. Professor Eck is an amazing facilitator and teacher, the case studies are great (and not a lot of reading), and the class workload is light. The best part of the class is the people you are surrounded by, who bring multiple perspectives and interests and share them in class. At Harvard, you learn the most from your classmates, and this is a class that allows you to do that.
DIANA IS LOVEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEELYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY. TAKE THIS CLASS. YOU WON'T REGRET IT! THIS IS BY FAR THE BEST CLASS I HAVE TAKEN AT HARVARD AND WITH 6 SEMESTERS UNDER MY BELT, I AM NOT MAKING THIS UP. WORK LOAD COMPLETELY MANAGEABLE. STAFF IS TERRIFIC. ISSUES DISCUSSED COULD NOT BE MORE RELEVANT
Every Lowellian should take advantage of the opportunity to see the brilliant Diana Eck in action!
Diana Eck is wonderful, the class is interesting and not that hard. But mostly, take this class for Professor Eck.
Great senior spring class because it gets you to appreciate the diversity of your peers and acknowledge the world that you will soon be entering!
This was the only USW that I was interested in so it was the only way for me to get rid of that Gen Ed, but to be honest, being someone with a lot of exposure to religion, I really didn't learn anything new in this class. But there is barely any work required so no complaints.
This was a great course to take, dealing with a very important issue in modern America: how to facilitate pluralism in a divided nation. The workload for this course was usually light. Lectures provided interesting discussions. Sections provided an opportunity for students to lead, which was fun and I think useful. Lectures did not provide much information on the religions we dealt with, which I think would have been helpful. Also, in lecture, I felt that sometimes the same voices were being heard over and over, while some people would raise their hands and never get called on.
Diana Eck is wonderful, and truly cares about making the course material engaging, challenging and provocative all throughout the semester. The cases can get somewhat repetitive, but lecture discussion is always interesting and fun.
