USW 38 is an excellent course that gives you a great overview of a key issue in American and world history, and a good grounding in key themes in those broader subject areas. The teaching is also excellent.
This is a manageable course, with interesting content. If it seems like the kind of thing you're interested in, and you need to satisfy USW, go for it. I doubt you'll regret taking it.
This class is demanding, especially for a gen ed, but it is very well organized and you will undoubtedly learn a lot about U.S. foreign policy and the U.S.'s place in the world over the course of the 20th and into the 21st century.
The course is more concerned with the big picture than historical details.
In terms of content, this course was great. I learned so many things about American history that I had never formulated real opinions on. This was particularly true when we submitted our last paper about whether the US should enter Syria. Studying American identity through our various occupations has given me a new understanding of nationalism and America's place in the global community.BUT as a class that I was being graded in, this course was largely disappointing. there was not enough structure. While I understand the motive for not have one textbook as a narrative for the entire course, this makes it EXTREMELY difficult to target study for the final exam. Instead, there are upwards of 60 sources that ranged between 2 pages and 200 pages, and students had to choose which names and dates are relevant to the course, which was mostly just frustrating. The assignments were interesting and seemingly doable, but the grading felt arbitrary and I feel they required a deep familiarity with historical writing. Overall, I recommend this course to anyone who is looking to learn more about the topic, but save yourself the stress and take it pass/fail.
This is a somewhat interesting class. The first part of the course, about early 20th century imperialism, and the final part, about Iraq and Afghanistan, are very interesting. A middle section of the course about post-WWII occupations in Korea and Germany is kind of boring. Overall, the readings can get boring (and to write the essays and take the exam, you do have to do most of them at some point); but you take away valuable knowledge about the history of American interventions.
While the material is actually interesting, they way the class is conducted (with absurd amounts of reading a week, poor comments on essays, and lectures with two word slides while the professor speaks for 25 minutes about a topic you can't discern whether or not it's important) is not worth it. Save the headaches and google "American imperialism in the 20th century" instead.
This course should be required for anyone who seeks to be an active participant in US public life, politically or personally. It is not a light GenEd, but it is incredibly rewarding and will certainly teach you things you didn't know about American history. In the process, it will change at least some aspect of your thinking about our current political climate and role in the world.
The assignments are confusing. Ask clarifying questions in order to figure out what the expectations are. Also, only take the class if you have a genuine interest in history. It is a pure history class and not a gen ed for people who need to fulfill a requirement but are not interested in history.
It's requires work, for sure, but is worth it if you are interested.
Readings are tough to get through but if it's an area you're interested in, the class is absolutely worth taking.
Unless the course structure is changed, the class, in its current form, is very disappointing. The middle half of the course lumps Germany, Japan, and Korea together, jumping back and forth between the three occupations for a confusing mess. Almost no time is spent on Vietnam and Iraq/Afghanistan which most undergrads are probably most excited to learn more about.
Unless this course does an overhaul of the amount of work that it requires, it is not very worthwhile. It is interesting and fun to get a background on US foreign policy, but I would not really consider this class a gen ed; it is more an actual history class.
It's a great class that helps us understand the history behind controversial nation-building endeavors. As we continue to debate American foreign policy, I think this class is extremely beneficial in providing a historical framework by which we can apply history to the decision-making process. Well done!
While the material was interesting, the course is not well taught, at least by Manela. The assignments are confusing. You are given 200 pages of reading  a week that is all new material from what is covered in the lectures (there is little to no overlap) and expected to know the readings for three essay assignments and a final exam.
-If you ever want to understand why so much of the world resents America, whether founded or unfounded, this is the course to take.
If you do not read the weekly material you will easily fall behind and it will be hard to catch up because it is a lot of reading. That being said, great class. Interesting lectures and engaging essay topics.
Despite a necessary and interesting slice of United States history, the lectures for this class are slow and boring. It is extremely difficult to glean true learning from this class.
Excellent and interesting lectures, but the course does involve a fair amount of reading in order to participate in lecture and section discussions.
Take this course if you're really interested in US interventions/reconstruction abroad. If not, and you just need Gen Ed credit, you will learn a lot if you pay attention, but it will be rather dry. Stay on top of the readings.
This a great course. Gordon and Manela are both great lecturers in their own ways. The books we read were interesting (especially Dower) and the material as whole was engaging. Lydia, Yukako, and Subo were all great TFs as well.
You can get a lot out of this class, but be prepared to do ALL the readings and extra research, and really focus during your section. The lectures are really slow, dry, and boring. The professors have great things to say, they just say them in very un-interesting ways. GET SUBO AS A TF IF YOU CAN. He is amazing.
This course is not a big time commitment, essays were graded a bit hard for a gen ed and sometimes there was not much guidance on assignments/test. very independent-work based.
Don't take this class unless its significantly improved in the future. While the subject matter is interesting and something I think everyone should know about, this class really fails in its execution. Lectures are poorly organized, you skip over large areas of relevant history (aka you talk about Korea after WWII, but not the Korean War), and the class assumes you already know US history (even though it's a gen ed). A lot of the class and readings are a historian's wet dream because you spend time thinking about theories from and critiquing other historians instead of actually learning the facts surrounding what happened. The assignments are deplorable and ask you to "write an email/letter" and then the grading critiques you for not making it enough of a history essay. This class is clearly confused about what its expectations are and what it wants to teach. If you're looking for a USW, look somewhere else.
If you are really passionate about the subject matter, then it could be interesting. However, it is not very engaging and hard to stay interested.
This is a fascinating course, but it can be slow at times and requires you to take a little bit of extra effort to understand the full context of the cases discussed. Some of the lectures can be a little slow as well, although the incorporation of film and especially cartoons and propaganda elements from the eras under discussion is helpful. If you have an interest in the subject matter, the class definitely delves into the intricacies of American nation-building efforts, but as a Gen-Ed it is perhaps more challenging than most.
This was an absolutely fantastic course. Professor Manela's lectures were incredible. This course shaped the way I think about American foreign policy.
Interesting class. If you know American history pretty well already it may be less interesting. The readings were very long and sometimes unnecessary. Go to every lecture and section to learn the material best and understand which parts of the readings are most important.
This was a very interesting course. A solid background in United States history is really helpful.
This course is fascinating especially in the present context of Iraq and Afghanistan. You will actually want to write the essays which aren't too bad. Nation building will continue to be a topic in our lifetimes and I feel like the course prepared me to have a discussion about how one can develop democracies and a modern economy (whereas before this course I could only give vague opinions about whether or not the US should have involved itself in certain interventions).
This is an interesting look at the US and international history, an approach that you don't really encounter until the college level. While it can be difficult at times to synthesize all the material you are learning because the case studies can be a bit disparate, lectures are engaging and help you put all the pieces together. The material was interesting and it is refreshing to think about how the US escapades abroad came to be, and what actually happens when a nation committed to democracy occupies another in the name of freedom.
Take this class if you want to learn about America's effect on the countries it has invaded, and where improvements can be made.
Interesting class, but not as enjoyable as you might think. Gordon's lectures are brutal to get through. Manela's are pretty solid though. The reading list isn't great, the essay topics are restrictive and annoying. This class has the makings to be great - just needs a little polishing.
Very interesting class that compared different nation-building/occupation projects. It was especially interesting because it provided perspectives into today's nation-building projects abroad.
Interesting subject matter, taught be able professors with a great interest in the course. Perhaps predictably, draws students who have radically anti-American mindsets and who might cause cerebral hemorrhaging. Comments such as "America has no right to interfere with other countries, even when they commit genocide," were not uncommon in section. From a teaching perspective however, a very good course, that not only deals with the subject matter (American Nation-building/Imperialism), but also very important aspects of American history often overlooked.
It is helpful to be well-versed in US history!
There's not much to say about this course, it's a relatively unchallenging class with an earnest teaching staff and a certain sadness to the nearly-empty lectures in the basement of CGIS. I enjoyed the readings and writing the papers, but I don't think  I ever thought critically or got incredibly excited about the material. There's nothing *wrong* with this class, but it probably won't be the highlight of your semester.
A relatively interesting gened, but too much reading assigned. Doing all of them isn't really necessary as forming study groups or just doing a couple for each week and going to lecture should be fine. Gave me a new perspective on how US nation building has developed over the years.
This course is a interesting and in-depth look at an aspect of American foreign policy that is frequently cited but little understood. The coverage of different occupations is uneven and skews towards the expertise of the two professors (as can be expected). Overall, this is a great class.Definitely do the readings each week as they are critical for the section discussions which I found to be the best part of the course. I suppose you could get away without doing to many of the readings, but really, the point of the course is to read primary and secondary sources, discuss them, and draw well formed conclusions on the interventions. If you don't do the readings and just spout ideological opinions on US foreign policy, you've missed the point of the course.
It is an ok class that surveys some important events in US diplomatic history. On a whole, I am quite dissatisfied since the class is very one-sided (only US perspectives, sources, documents) and the assignments are arbitrarily difficult for a Gen-Ed. I'd much more recommend Manela's real history course on the same topic, history 1465.
Professor Gordon does not seem as animated and enthusiastic as Professor Manela, so half the course seemed to drag.
Take this class if you just want the american perspective, otherwise, don't.
This class successfully cobbles together a cohesive narrative of American occupation from the Civil War to the present.  Take it if you're interested in the subject matter.
This is a class about US imperial ventures abroad that entirely omits: a) any perspectives on the moral aspects or psychological consequences of imperialism, particularly when evaluating the "effectiveness" of US policy; b) any secondary sources (and almost no primary sources) from non-US perspectives, ie the point of view of the inhabitants of the nations the US was supposedly building. This dooms the whole undertaking of the class from the start. In fact, it renders the class downright dangerous, since it really is dangerous to learn only a one-sided view of history (and have it presented as factual.) So, yes: in this class, you will learn what US policy goals were and how generals & politicians went about attempting to achieve them, but you won't actually learn the results of these policies- though the professors will tell you that X or Y was effective or ineffective - because that's not possible with the sources presented. Don't take this class.
Interesting essay prompts--not strictly analytical
This has been one of the best Gen.Ed classes I've taken here at Harvard. As a math/pset person I have been dreading the US&W Gen.Ed, putting it off until senior year. In a way, I'm glad I did because this is the first time the class is offered (it doesn't feel like it though; the class is so well-run). I've learned a lot and despite my grade, I don't regret it at all.Difficulty wise, this class requires quite a bit of reading, which you have to do unless you don't plan to go to the mandatory discussion-driven sections. However, the readings are well-selected and interesting. Perhaps longer than your average gen-ed class but manageable.Moreover, I highly recommend you go to class. The professors are not just telling you what happened but they also have their own theories on history that make lecture worthwhile. The TFs are not the most lenient graders (my humble opinion as a number person), but the essays usually have interesting prompts that make you think as opposed to simply regurgitating your readings.
This class is great. Great lecturers and TFs (at least mine was). Material is interesting and it definitely connects to what is currently going on in the world.
Take this class. It is so interesting and I really hope it comes back next year!!
An interesting course that's certainly among the better USW options, especially given the sweep of the topic and the reasonable reading load. Assignments (mostly essays) could occasionally be rather strange. The political views of the course staff could also seep into the course more than seemed necessary.
It's great. Even if you have no interest in US history, this course will make you interested and teach you a lot.
This is a really great class - I took it as an elective but it would be a great option for a Gen Ed as well. Go to lecture - they're interesting and you need to attend them to stay on top of the material. I wasn't the biggest fan of the paper prompts and some of the readings, but all the work is manageable. I decided to take this class because despite taking many US history classes, I had never taken one focused specifically on US occupations from the late 1800s to today. I was really satisfied with the class and all that I learned. The professors are good lecturers and the TFs are awesome.
This class is an excellent way to fulfill the US in the World requirement as it takes on a critical perspective and develops understanding in the ways the US has taken on occupations over the last century. It encourages some really interesting debates and will change your opinions.
Make sure your workload in other classes isn't that bad.  (Protip: USW 32 looks like more work but it doesn't have a final.  Take that one instead.)
The information in this course is excellent--but be prepared to be treated like high school students, took themselves very seriously, and lots of work just to appease a TF it seemed. Besides the unenjoyable context though, I learned alot.
Very interesting subject and well-taught class. Professor Manela is a very interesting lecturer, and is full of interesting historical facts. Lastly the workload is quite fair: the readings are manageable (though they got a little longer in the Germany/Japan section) and the essay assignments are fairly short.
Really interesting history class with definite contemporary significance. A part of US history few people ever learn about.
It's a great class no matter your background.
This is a very fair course.  It neither demonizes nor excuses the United States' role internationally over the past century.
This was a fantastic course and definitely one of the best I have taken at Harvard (especially for a Gen Ed). The teaching staff was great - they were passionate about the material and committed to the students. If you are interested in history, and even if you are not, this is a great class to take. It gives you the opportunity to examine American foreign policy from a unique, critical perspective and provides you with a much better understanding of our recent actions in Iraq and Afghanistan.
As a new course this semester, the class surprisingly pleased me by the presence of a strong central thesis around which the readings, lectures, and sections discussions were based.  This was my first real experience of this kind of a course structure and for those unfamiliar with it, I would strongly recommend it to anyone.  Even though I took this class as a Gen Ed, I felt that I gained a lot from it by being flexible to the course's structure and by diving in depth into those areas where I was more interested.  The lectures were fascinating and enjoyable, the assignments were engaging, and the TFs were down-to-earth, combative, and incredible. Don't sleep through this class, not because you can't, but because you would be missing out.
