Even though this was the first iteration of this course, I highly recommend it because the teaching staff is passionate about what they're teaching! Also, it's really awesome that you can learn about yourself in the process.
This course was a phenomenal look at the topic of ancestry. While there were a few kinks since it was the first time the course has run, the class was engaging and there was a lot that was so interesting to learn about. The assignments are generally interesting and help to expand upon the class's themes. BUT Take this course for Maya - she is the most amazing lecturer that I have had so far at Harvard. She cares so much and knows about so much. She is really just wonderful to learn from!
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! It's AMAZING. There's not much work and you'll learn so much if you dedicate yourself to it.
Ancestry is a terrific, low-workload course that is also really interesting. Professor Jasanoff is a terrific lecturer, and the assignments are all very personal and unique. It is unlike almost every other course I have taken at Harvard.
This class was genuinely fun, which is so rare for classes. Even though it was taught in a lecture style, Professor Maya made it feel like just one big section with everyone being able to talk and share stories but also deeply consider the topics we were learning about.
Shallow discussions, I did not learn much in this course. Shop it and see if it got better, but I would not take it again. It is full of people obsessed with genealogy and finding their ancestors. Also, watch out for the pricey books and course pack.
This was a great course where you are able to reflect on your ancestry and identity.
This course should be required of every student. I ABSOLUTELY LOVED THIS CLASS TO DEATH. Maya is an AMAZING professor and lecturer and keeps the class engaging and interesting. I found the material we learned to not only be intriguing, but also relevant to everyday life. I would reference this class at least once a week to my friends, and managed to convince almost all of them to take it based off of what I would say about this class. The projects are super cool, the essays aren't too long or boring, and much of the material requires you to engage with your own ancestry and link it to others'. Despite being a new course this semester, I loved it. The ONLY downside were the weekly journal entries, which I found rather annoying. They were definitely manageable, just annoying.
TAKE THIS CLASS WHILE YOU'RE AT HARVARD TRUST ME
Such a fantastic course for anyone interested in ancestry. Really teaches you about just how different yet similar we all are to each other and gets you thinking about the importance of our heritage. Professor Jasonoff is talented and passionate about the material and the projects/assignments are very fun and manageable!
Enjoyable class and the work load is not overbearing.
THIS CLASS WAS SO FUN! IT WAS VERY INTERESTING AND TAUGHT THE MATERIAL IN AN INNOVATIVE WAY! GOOD AND FAIR GRADING!
This course was a really interesting, alternative way to satisfy the USW requirement! It tries to incorporate a lot of different approaches to ancestry, both in topic (anthropology, law, psych, genetics) and in media (readings, video, art assignments). It was also gave me time to sit down and actually research my family and ancestry!  I learned for the first time that Harvard gives students free access to the Ancestry.com archives, and definitely made use of it.
This course was incredibly interesting. If you are interested in learning about how you should learn about your family history this is an excellent class to take! There are a lot of little assignments so if that is how you like to work then this class is great.
Take it! No exams and the assignments are actually enjoyable because you focus on your ancestry.
This class is very fun, has a very light workload, and Professor Jasanoff is the best! If you're at all into ancestry/ your own family tree, definitely take this class. You'll get to explore your own family's story in most of the assignments.
very interesting conversations on ancestry impacts so many different fields.
This is your chance to look into your family history with extensive resources and mentors at your fingertips.  I've always been interested about my family history, but without the class would not have made the time to look into it.
Can be very hand-wavey. The assignments are sporadic and not totally clear or interesting.
It's not too easy, but not particularly challenging either. You will get as much from this class as you put in, so I definitely recommend paying attention in lectures even if your understanding of lectures doesn't necessarily affect your grade. The workload is very manageable.
Gem.
Ancestry is a fun class with lots of creative projects. Prof. Jasanoff is a great lecturer, with lectures that are always fun and enjoyable. This class will require very few hours and is a good way to knock out a gen ed. Sometimes the in-class assignments feel forced, but given that it is the first iteration of the class, I presume that a lot of those kinks will be sorted out in the coming semesters. All in all, it is a decent class, where you can get quite a bit out even by putting in minimal amounts of work.
I had really high hopes for this class. I think it has the potential to be a great class, but because it was the first year there were a few kinks that needed to be worked out. I felt like there was too much busy work that I dreaded each week (ie weekly journal entries) and some of the lectures took cool topics and made them dull. As a science person, I also felt like there was way too much reading but for humanities people I am sure it's reasonable.
Very interesting class
This class is a GEM. I loved literally everything about it except for one small thing, which were the prompts for the assignments: they were a little too broad so I sometimes felt like I didn't know what I was supposed to do for a given assignment. Besides that, though, I can't recommend this course enough. Prof. Jasanoff's lectures were insightful and interesting, and the material itself was fascinating to me as someone who didn't know much about ancestry before. It explores not just what ancestry means for a given person and their personal identity, but how ancestry interacts with society and the world at large, and overall I just found it really great. Assignments consisted of weekly journal entries, small papers, podcast recordings and even getting to make our own family trees! It was a fun, not very stressful, interesting and valuable way to fulfill my US and the World gen ed requirement and I really hope they bring it back so that more students can take it.
Very interesting class to take and reflect on one's background. Would definitely recommend if personal ancestry/family history and its larger implications is something that interests you.
Great course! Do the readings, you will learn so much! Professor Jasanoff is a fantastic lecturer, one of the best at Harvard. Great history class for non-history concentrators too
This course will change your life and the way you think about the place you occupy in the world. Jasanoff is an incredible thinker drawing from a range of disciplines to pose urgent and challenging questions about the ways we define ourselves by our familial pasts, national histories, and biological data. Take this course.
This is a great course to take if one is interested in studying their heritage.
Take it. If you need a USW this is the one you need to take. If you already have a USW take this anyway. You learn so much and have so many epiphany moments. No exams, a few small projects/essays throughout the semester and a fun final project. Professor Jasanoff is so genuine and wise. All of the TF's were amazing. Just take it guys. Don't pass this one up.
It was an interesting course, but started getting very repetitive.
The course will likely be changing as this was the first time it was taught.
This class helped me realize that there are so many more ways of thinking about ancestry and its role in shaping societies, cultures, and people. There are no exams, which I think actually helped me think deeply about the issues discussed in class without the stress of having to regurgitate information. The assignments are diverse (we did an oral history project and one in which we had to reimagine a "traditional" version of a family tree), and overall the class was one of the most interesting ones I've taken at Harvard.
THIS COURSE IS AWESOME. Very low workload, super interesting material, super fun assignments. There are lots of creative assignments instead of just your usual essay. As long as you stay engaged and put some effort in, you'll do well in the course. The professor is awesome and so are the TFs. Really great gen ed
such a unique class!
This class was okay. It was the first year it was being taught, but I will give it credit for being fairly organized for its first run. Some of the assignments were a bit ambiguous, but I really appreciated the fact that there were no exams. Also some weeks the reading was kind of absurd. They expected us to read a 350 page book in a week, but only 1 person in my section read it.
Ancestry is a really interesting class.  You learn a lot, and since there are no exams, Prof. Jasanoff teaches in a relaxed manner.  The weekly journal entries can feel a bit tedious at times, but they genuinely help you reflect on the great readings and lectures.  That being said, the workload really kicks in at the end, with most of your grade coming from the last few weeks, and that can be pretty stressful. Still, this class felt like something everyone should take.
Ancestry is a very interesting and engaging course that gets you to think about your own life in a different light. Readings are interesting enough and not unreasonably heavy, and I found the assignments to be fun and relevant (many had a creative component). Hardeep was also a wonderful TF.
This class is so brutally not fun and redundant. I dreaded going to class every week and honestly would have rather taken a more interesting course with more work.
This is a great course and the material is really interesting. The assignments are pretty different than other classes at Harvard and it is easy to be creative through them.
