This course is really interesting, and makes you think critically about American culture and concepts of citizenship.  It makes you think in very interesting ways about what it means to be American (assuming that you are).  It's also pretty easy.  If you go to lectures, you're all set.
I would like to tell future students that this course is absolutely crucial to understanding the complex history and ideology behind things that seem "innocuous" or "innocent." For instance, one would never consider the concepts of identity, citizenship and authority embodied in makeover television shows, but this course forces us to confront those issues and others like it.
Great course- very broad introduction into the historical workings of exclusion, belonging, and identity.
This class is so much fun, it literally makes you want to rush over from your previous class. You learn amazing things in a way that you wouldn't have thought of before!
Sex and the Citizen is a class that everyone should take.
It's an interesting an easy course that fulfills a gen ed requirement where the other courses didn't seem nearly as appealing. As long as you go to lecture and participate in section, you'll do fine.
Take It! Such an easy way to fulfill the U.S and the world Gen Ed, and generally a great way to study citizenship within the united states. So great.
Caroline Light is absolutely incredible, so passionate, and it is a pleasure to take her class. Claire Houston is also the best TF you could hope for. She was amazing. The both made the class fun, relatable and easy to learn.
If you are interested in history and haven't taken a course in WGS this is a great course to take.
SUCH A GOOD CLASS. The readings are really interesting and lectures are too. Best way to get your Hist A/ USWORLD requirement met. If you haven't taken a WGS class, this is the best way to try it. You won't regret it!
Professor Light is a great professor, but this course in its current incarnation is a little too broad. While it does address some interesting and pertinent problems with gender and race (though mostly race) and citizenship, it gets a little too scattered and out of chronological order to stay focused.
This is a great class to take if you are interested in any form of inequality that has existed within the United States. Professor Light gives an incredibly extensive overview of US history through the lens of groups of citizenry who are often left out. The class discusses race, gender, sexuality, and class in a manner that intertwines the issues to (partially) explain the roots of many sociological problems within the country. The texts are fascinating and well written. Moreover, the class isn't very difficult. We only had a few actual assignments over the semester and they weren't very demanding. Great USW class!
This class is a great overview of US History from a sociological/WGS perspective. There's not a lot of assignments, the readings are really interesting, and Professor Light is amazingly friendly.
It's all common sense... Just memorize a few all-topic-encompassing facts for the exams
It is an easy gen ed that is really, really interesting. Really worth your time.
This class is amazing; I would definitely recommend taking it.  Professor Light is a phenomenal instructor, and she really works to get to know her students and to create a comfortable classroom atmosphere.  Also, she challenges you to look at history and its relation to the moder day in new and exciting ways.
A painless gen-ed class, with a good professor. Lectures are surprisingly easy to stay awake in, even for a hard-core science concentrator. Work load is extremely reasonable, with one essay and one digital project. Exams are also very reasonable, with no surprises. Though the material jumps around quite a bit, and it's sometimes hard to tie it all together, the painlessness of the class makes it a good choice for those simply trying to get their gen ed requirement out of the way.
This class is great.  Take it.
Take this class!!!! It was my favorite class all year long, and I am not a WGS major. This course delves into topics that will engage everyone, regardless of background. Professor Light is a phenomenal lecturer and the lectures are truly enjoyable and interesting. This course will make you question aspects of society and history that you might not have previously thought about. Even if you've fulfilled a USW requirement, you should consider taking this course!
Don't be so quick to conform with the majority of opinion.  Section sucked when everybody was agreeing on a topic that has been controversial for many years.  It felt like everybody was just taking the course books and Prof. Light's every word at face value and not being skeptical at this new and improved "history."  She teaches you to be critical of all things that present themselves as history, but doesn't openly encourage students to dissect her argument and measure its validity.Also, make sure you do all the readings.  Certain terms will appear on the exams and the instructors do expect you to spit them out on demand.  For example, on the midterm I wrote that a certain man (David Croly) wrote a pamphlet (about miscegenation) and said that it was endorsed by the Republican Party and even sent it to Abraham Lincoln to sign.  Although I thought I was being thorough, I got points taken off because I didn't say 1) the pamphlet was written anonymously, 2) that he wrote it during the Civil War, 3) that he didn't really expect Lincoln to endorse it.
This class is not difficult and a fun way to fulfill the US in the World Gen Ed requirement. The assignments are a pleasure to finish and the exams are extremely fair. This course will also change the way you view television and other aspects of your ordinary life.
This was a great class for someone who had never taken a course on gender/sexuality/etc.  Professor Light is wonderful - she is a dynamic and engaging lecturer, and she's so funny and approachable.  The course name "Sex and the Citizen" is misleading, because the course is largely focused on race, sexuality, and other forms of identity in addition to gender. I would absolutely recommend this class.
This is a really fun and interesting course. It's worth taking if you need the GenEd credit and even if you don't.
Amazing class! The workload isn't too heavy and the material is fascinating. Assignments aren't too difficult and are really fun and engaging.
This is a fantastic course. By far one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. The lectures are very interesting and engaging. Professor Lights is one of the best lecturers I've ever heard. The subject matter is extremely interesting and currently is still every relevant. It's an awesome, easy course that fulfills a Gen-Ed requirement
Great lecturer, Raquel is also a great TF. Really easy and fun gen ed, but it's catered to students who are Americans. If you didn't grow up here, expect some struggling with little help.
This is a really fun course that links two concepts that are not intuitively linked.  At times I felt like the course had no direction but towards the end everything starts to come together and you finally realized how all of what you have learned links together and the overall idea that sex has influenced US citizenship laws and American ideology.
It is a class heavily based on popular culture. It will give you some good ideas to think about but if you want to know more about them you should study on your own as the theoretical preparation was to minimum. Thus, in the end of semester you're not sure what exactly you've learned from it. So take the class if you want an easy class that does not take much of your time, but if you want to really gain from your limited number of courses take something else.
This is by far the best gen ed I have taken here, and maybe even one of the best courses. Caroline Light is an incredible professor - she is so passionate and her lectures are a lot of fun. The readings are fascinating and not too heavy, with a good mix of books, journal articles, and media articles (e.g. NY Times). This class will change your view of the world and particularly this country!
It is a lovely introduction to WGS and a new way of historical thought!
great course! really interesting and light work. you never learn about race and culture in the US and how they've changed socially, so this course was great
Definitely worth trying out if you've ever considered taking a class in the WGS department.
The material in the first part of the class wasn't that interesting, but the second part of the class gets better.  Professor Light is a really good teacher.
Sex and the Citizen is a really interesting, fun and relatively painless class that fulfills several requirements. Professor Light is a great lecturer and the readings are interesting and often not very long.
If you need an interesting gen ed course that is engaging and very interesting take this course
This is a very easy course with, at times, interesting readings, but you really only learn in the first week, then it's repetition.
It's a great course!  You learn a lot, from history to contemporary.  The assignments are fun, not too much reading.  Professor and TFs are supportive.
It's great; take it!
This class will change the way you think.  Take this class!!
The midterm is tricky if you don't like writing quickly.
Because I took this class, I'm better able to appreciate my own citizenship and I better understand how the American experience is not the same for all races, classes, genders, etc. I enjoyed it.
Caroline Light is one of the best lecturers at this school.
It's an amazing class where I feel like I learned something interesting. It's like taking a survey course on American history with an emphasis on injustices on various groups of people.
Easy, fun class!
Take this class it's fun
As far as Gen Ed classes are concerned, this one is very interesting and the workload is completely reasonable. However, I do not feel as though I grew intellectually as a result of this class.
This class is awesome, Prof. Light is a great lecturer and the workload is manageable. The assignments are fun to do, especially the media project.
Great senior spring class - interesting material and important to do the reading, but workload is not high at all and the projects are interesting. When the midterm and final come around, go through all your notes and put together a study guide with all the key terms and then memorize them.  Claire Houston was a great TF!
This was my favorite class of the semester. It's essentially a U.S. history class through the lens of groups that have been consistently marginalized (women, people of color, queers, immigrants). It was very interesting to see how exclusions from the past still affect our everyday lives.
The material was not very interesting. But overall, the subject matter is good to know and makes you think about issues that you wouldn't otherwise spend time on.
USW 26 is the best USW Gen-Ed out there. The lectures are INCREDIBLE, and Professor Light is engaging, brilliant, and always available to help. The readings are not so voluminous that you can't handle them, and there are only two big assignments that you will actually have fun doing! I cannot recommend this class highly enough. Take it! It will help you engage with history in a totally new way, and will get you very interested in WGS.
Can be quite boring at times, but the professors and TFs are great.
Take this class! Caroline Light is awesome! Ask for Christine!
An interesting course looking at citizenship, gender, and race. Everyone should probably take this or something like it to be informed.
Implicate yourself in history!
It's a great class about a very interesting topic that has a very manageable workload.
This is the best way to fulfill Historical Study A or US in the World. It is fun and a light workload.
I would 110% recommend this course. The work is challenging, but extremely manageable and interesting, especially because it is so relevant in our society today. The fact that the essays and readings are so doable made me actually want to do them. In other courses here at Harvard, I often find that some classes assign volumes of reading that are literally impossible to have done or actually get anything out of. The readings from Sex and the Citizen, on the other hand, are the perfect amount and you actually learn because you aren't just skipping pages for the sake of getting through all of it. From the perspective of a science concentrator, I can say that I definitely found this to be my favorite course this semester. In addition, the course material is interesting, but Professor Light is a fantastic lecturer. She solicits participation from her students and is very interactive. I've posted many things on the iSite forum and she responds to nearly everything.
This is a very painless class if you simply want to fulfill this gen ed requirement, but it's might be difficult to figure out what you actually learned at the end of it.  The topic is much too broad and sometimes, the lectures stray from the theme of the class.  Although it does cover issues of gender and immigration, which is really quite fascinating.  The professor and TFs are also great people.
Definitely don't take this class if you've ever thought about gender in any deep way before.
An easy and interesting way to get your US & W Gen Ed done.
Professor Light and the teaching fellows are amazing! This course is not terribly difficult, but still requires that you think critically about race/gender/etc and its role throughout history and modern society. The workload is  not heavy either. Overall, a great class.
It was a fun, not difficult, and nice course.
Do take it if you need to fill your US-WORLD requirement. Professor Light is wonderful, and should you not be fascinated by the class, you will at least find it very pleasant. Particularly good if, like me, you are a foreigner trying to navigate politely through the peculiarities of American culture. Ever made a joke that unexpectedly plunged all your friends into an awkward silence? Take this course and you'll understand why!
I really loved this class. The information is presented in an interesting fashion, and it makes you think in a new way.
Really great way to fill USW, Study of the Past, and get a pretty solid intro to Women, Gender, and Sexuality studies. If you've always wanted to take a WGS course, choose this one. Light's lectures are fast-paced and interesting and the assignments are all super fun and creative.
If you are a science person, it might be a boring class. Yest it's easy.
Fun, low stress class. I do CS, but I found I really enjoyed talking about feminism etc., SMASH patriarchy!
This class is very interesting and painless. It will change how you think. Assignments are easy and interesting. Great Pass/Fail option, or to fill a GenEd.
The topics and lectures of this course are very interesting (ranging from Pocahontas to immigration policies to makeover reality TV) and have definitely made me look at aspects of US history and current portrayals of race and gender in our culture with a new, more critical perspective. The course focuses mostly on race, with a secondary emphasis on gender and sexuality. The only frustrating facet of the course was that there were multiple readings each week, many of which were quite dense, and lecture and section discussions often did not even mention some of the readings. Overall, though, Professor Light is very engaging and knowledgeable, and the course is interesting!
This class will open all kinds of new perspectives on race, gender, American history, and citizenship / social belonging. I took AP U.S. History in high school and grew up in the States and even taking this course with that background I felt as though I was completely re-learning American history through a totally different lens.
professor light is wonderful, so it pains me to criticize this class, but i never want anyone to be trapped in my position again of having to take this course. i consider myself to be pretty liberal, and i was stunned at how slanted this course perspective is - violations of immigration law are dismissed as "natural, just like how birds naturally migrate too"; society is criticized for valuing families; "there are more whites than blacks on welfare" is trotted out constantly as proof that the "black welfare queen" is a myth, without acknowledging that percentage-wise, blacks are overrepresented on welfare.also, it's an extremely repetitive course that a) spends forever talking about "silences" and b) only gives you credit if you parrot back the language on the syllabus (hint: +10 for naturalized, +20 for narrative, +1000 for silences). if you're only capable of memorizing and reciting three words, this class is for you. if you want to use the rest of your brain, take something else.
This course was fantastic.  Professor Light is a great lecturer and the course material is fascinating.  Definitely an important part of history to study.
This class is a gem because you learn a lot without having to work too hard. Do some of the readings. Skim the rest. Professor Light is a great lecturer and super nice.
This class is pretty easy, but not that interesting despite such interesting material. The lectures are not engaging and it seems we were always about to talk about something but never fully did.
it is an easy class, cool information, but not really fruitful to further my intellect.
So its not that hard week by week, but the midterm and final are not as easy as you would think. Sometimes lectures seemed a bit repetitive. Also, you should make sure to not go over the page limit. They are weirdly sticklers for dumb things like that.
This class is easy and hard simultaneously. The concepts are easy; the readings are straightforward, if dull; the essays are markedly harshly though so watch out. It's an easy way to fulfil USW. I would take it again.
This is a really interesting and not overly difficult course that's definitely worth checking out. I think you have to drink the kool aid to some extent, but it's a good kool aid (feminism, racial justice, etc.). I learned a good deal, had really interesting discussions in section, and came to understand America and its history in a more complicated and richer light. Also, Caroline is SO kind and approachable and wonderful, take a course with her even if it's not this one.
Take. This. Class. Exams are easy, not too much work, and Prof Light and the teaching staff are phenomenal.
Readings can be very dry, and often don't tie in to the lectures or the assignments very well. Lectures were decent and the course was easy, though. It often felt like we only interacted with the material at a very superficial level.
That the class tried to police facebook usage in lecture and then chose the groups for the final video project was ridiculous, and is one of the may reasons why it fell short of expectations. It seemed like little to no effort was put into the lecture slides (and sometimes the lectures themselves), the readins were more often than not pointless, and exams seemed more about being verbose than correct.
If the people in your section are intelligent and really care about the issues at hand, this class can be an incredible experience. I had the fortune of being in an extremely diverse section, led by a great TF, where the students were concerned with more than just their participation grade.To many people, the sort of things you learn in class can seem obvious. Yes. Many of us know that oppression has always existed in the history of the United States. Yes, many of us know that the winners and the people in power write history, so we have to very carefully analyze how that history comes about.Where the value of this class comes into play is helping you gain the background necessary to realize that modern day issues, and future issues, have, and always will have strong parallels to the past. This gives you incredible power in combating and analyzing modern day arguments on a variety of issues -- LGBT rights, feminism, etc.If you want to maximize what you get out of this class, then don't go for the traditional arguments that every one else will put forth. The assignments can be a bit restrictive at time, but try to put your own interesting spin on things and you'll learn much more than you otherwise would.
The title and description are very misleading. This is a historical survey mainly about race, not a investigation of current issues related to sexuality and citizenship.
Only take this if you can deal with dense mathematical readings and regular problem sets with statistical analysis questions.
The course material is very repetitive and kind of generalize able. Interesting class overall, though. Not too much work, although my section leader was really adamant about doing the readings.
The class is not too difficult, but some of the themes tend to get a little repetitive.
This course is fairly straightforward and not difficult, but it is not terribly intellectually stimulating or satisfying.
This class was apparently stellar when there were only 50 people in it. It's grown infinitely and they've got some real kinks to work out.
Professor Light is fantastic and a great lecturer. The materials for the course seem a bit scattered, but overall I enjoyed the class and the themes discussed.
This class isn't too difficult. You need to stay on top of readings and devote the necessary time to the class.
This course will make you see United States history in a whole new light!
There's nothing particularly great about this class. Lectures aren't very inspiring, and section doesn't really shed any great light on the topics. The readings are pretty boring.
A relatively easy gen-ed, with interesting course material but it gets a little repetitive.
This class was really interesting and a lot of fun. I think it's a great way to consider history, and I highly recommend it to people who don't really like history (like me) because it takes what can be boring facts and turns them into something really interesting.
Go to professor lights office hours and email your TFs outlines on our papers. You will get a better grade.
There are a lot of readings for this course, but many of them are very interesting and not tedious. However, there are also those that are not written in an interesting manner, and those are more difficult to power through, but they are very important for the course. The more of your readings you do, the easier the course will be. The exams aren't particularly difficult, just a lot of work for 50 minutes.
This class is fantastic! Professor Light is really engaging, and the material is very interesting. It's a great way to get your US-W requirement out of the way. The assignments are few and in between. As long as you study for your midterm and final, and do your readings before your section, you will be just fine. Claire Houston is also the best TF, try to get into her section! All the TFs are energetic and genuinely interested in the course material.
such a practical class and teaching staff is awesome
On a very high level, the questions this course grapples with are interesting and relevant to contemporary society.  However, the way this course presents the material is absolutely terrible.  Lectures are impossible to stay engaged in, as the professor reads paper-length sentences to slides that bear no resemblance to what is being said.  Readings bear tangential relevance to the lectures, and the assessments are  painful in that they make you study everything and panic, until you realize that as long as you say certain catch phrases in your essay and regurgitate the key themes, you'll do well. There is a lot more reading than you would expect, and the final project, while it seems easy now, is very burdensome as it occurs after the final exam and during reading period when you'd much rather be doing something else (trust me).
This is a good class. I would definitely take it to fulfill the US-W gened - it's easy and interesting and you learn a lot.
The concepts of this class are not hard to grab- you basically learn the same themes over and over again. Not a heavy work load. Midterms and finals are fair.
This is a truly excellent USW gen ed option. It does feel like a gen ed, but I really enjoyed it and learned a ton. Professor Light is AMAZING. She is a fantastic lecturer, and so brilliant, and she just totally gets it (about diversity; about identity; about the world). Go to her office hours. This class is not difficult; a few small assignments, and a fair bit of weekly reading (not a crazy amount, but not super light) that is actually quite interesting, and often skimable if you don't find it interesting.
I took this course thinking that it would be an easy Gen Ed, but I got SO much more out of it. The workload is perfect (readings can be a little bit heavy, but manageable), and I actually found myself enjoying going to section. This class is so important in terms of the material that you learn, and it's not just a history class... it's about citizenship, ethics, and ideas that are still being debated today. If you're looking for an interesting class, I would highly recommend it.
It's not a lot of work and it's very interesting
The course is decently interesting and informative but also very repetitive and the subject matter feels overdone and overused.
I would definitely tell students to be prepared for a bunch of lectures that are not all that helpful. Section discussions are interesting, but the assignments are a drag. If you like using buzzwords to substitute for content, go for it!
great course, not too much work
Pretty easy class that is actually interesting
I think that if you enjoy learning about gender and sexuality in a very directional manner, then you will really enjoy this class. For me, however, I felt that the underlying theme was very negative and so for me, it wasn't a class that I would recommend. With that being said, Professor Light is a very enthusiastic professor and the workload is definitely bearable if you're looking for a gen ed to take.
If you have some WGS background, go for it.  If not, be wary.  I didnt know until late in the semester that this actually used to be a WGS class... and it was not a welcome surprise.  In such disciplines (just like other humanities gen eds), the teaching staff expects you to be able to engage with the material the same way they are used to doing in grad school, which makes for unreasonable expectations at the beginning of the class and can be very frustrating.  Once I figured out how to work things a bit, though, I did find some of the material very interesting.  There's not a heavy workload, and if you put some effort in and study in a group, you'll probably be fine.  Tests were annoying because of the many IDs and the repetitiveness of the material, but they aren't actually that bad to take. Overall, I would recommend the class as long as you know what you're getting into.  The selection of USW classes out there is not that great.
Professor Light's lectures are hard to follow and go in circles. The amount of reading was ridiculous and the assignments were all graded very harshly. Seems like a very easy class but it's quite as easy as it seems.
This class has been one of the most amazing classes I've ever taken at Harvard-amazing lectures, great assignments, and a fantastic teaching staff to match! I especially enjoyed the final digital film project it was honestly the most fun I've ever had in a class at Harvard! Assignments are also graded easily which is a plus. The material is fascinating and will expand your way of thinking immensely. If you need an easy USW gen-ed and want a class that will change and challenge your way of thinking then take this class!
This is an awesome US and the World class. It's pretty easy and really interesting. If you have never taken a WGS class, it would be a good introduction to the concentration, and if you are interested in WGS, then it would be a great course to take.
This course is basically a history class that focused on race, gender, and sexuality in the U.S. If you keep up with the readings and pay attention in lecture, it is not challenging at all. The material that we covered was really interesting, and Professor Light is a wonderful teacher. I wouldn't say that it is the best class I've ever taken at Harvard, but for a Gen. Ed. it was quite interesting and I felt that I learned some important things about the history of the United States. If you study for the midterm and final they are not particularly challenging, and the other assignments were different than your average response paper which I enjoyed. Tsione was a great TF.
This class provides an interesting look at race, gender, sex, and citizenship from a historical perspective. The class does have its weaknesses though. Ideas presented in lecture are extremely vague and hard to pin down. Tests and other assignments aren't extremely different, but grading is completely subjective. You could do all the readings and write a solid essay and still lose points depending on who grades your assigment.
be wary of arbitrary grading
Very painless Gen Ed, great way to rethink American history through a gender/racial lens.
Amazing and engaging lectures from an astute Professor. Teaches you the US history you should have learned in America. Helped me to shape my political views, decide on my future career and find my self.
This class isn't an easy A class; there's a fair amount of reading and you do have to do it and try hard to get an A. The subject matter is very interesting but fairly repetitive. I would only take it to fulfill a gen-ed if you're legitimately interested in it, otherwise find something else to satisfy the requirement instead.
Very easy class. Claire's a FANTASTIC TF.
Take a real class instead
I took this class because the Q score was great, but then I realized the class format and grading changed because the professor didn't want this to be "an easy gen ed." The lectures are winding, the grading subjective, some of the readings are longer than my concentration tutorial's (and some don't even connect to the class!) and the expectations are not clear. Don't take this class. If I could have a choice, I would've dropped it.
Not bad, but make sure you like the topic
The hidden history of the U.S. will surprise you.
I was essentially forced into taking this class as a senior, with very few US-WORLD options available. The high Q score this class had received made me think it would be good, despite it not seeming particularly strong in shopping period. I should have bailed early. This class was the easily the weakest Gen Ed I took. The course themes were a complete muddle, and the sections were the worst part of the week, every time.
Take this class!!! Just do it!! Everything that you thought you knew will completely change. It makes you more aware of past discriminations, which help you not to repeat them in the future.
It was actually horrible. The assignments were so contrived. Section is horrendous (although apparently it varies by TF). The final project has virtually nothing to do with the entirety of the rest of the course. Anyone I knew in the course was dissatisfied with it.
Great class but a fair amount of reading. Grading will highly depend on your TF.
The first week or two might make it seem like the readings are super short, but they definitely get longer to the point where my reading group was a lifesaver (nowhere near gov 20 status, but still). But they're not usually dense, so they're definitely easy to keep up with, and the material is just really interesting.
This class is really interesting, but there are a lot of readings and it does take more time than some gen eds. The final projects are fun, but they are created in groups chosen by the teaching staff, not in groups chosen by the students.
This class is why we go to college. We come to grow as a person, and this class will do just that. I was someone who was very ambivalent about current events and issues, but this class provided me the confidence to make decisions for myself as a person.
Not too difficult, but you can get a lot out of it.
it's a good class to learn about the "darker" aspects of history (ie, hidden exploitations, etc.) It can get pretty repetitive, and the grading is pretty opaque.
The lectures are really good and very interesting, but the grading is ridiculous. Expectations for assignments are not made clear, and the feedback you receive is too vague to be helpful. Also, things that are mentioned briefly in lecture are suddenly part of your midterm. If you take this class, you need to be able to take notes very quickly. The lectures are interesting, but I don't think they make up for the inconsistency with the essays and tests.
It has a lot of gen ed "busy work" - two papers, midterm, final, final project, and too much reading to actually be feasibly done. However, the course concepts are essential to understanding the United States today, and everyone should be exposed to the themes of gender, sexuality, race and belonging that the course covers.
Caroline Light is wonderful! The material is also really interesting and made me think about what it means to be a citizen (of any country!). It was also a nice refresher on American history for me. The readings were sometimes long but you don't really have to do the long ones because the readings weren't even discussed that extensively in section.
The material you learn in this class is very interesting and the teaching staff is very invested in the students who take the course. However, it's difficult to know what it expected from us in our assignments because the teaching staff is very critical in grading your work. Therefore, it often seems that the grade you get on your work does not reflect the effort you put in to the assignment.
I would say this class is an interesting and engaging way to fulfill a Gen Ed and provides some useful frameworks for thinking about the American state that would be helpful in other areas of US history.
I expected this course to be an easy and fairly interesting way to meet USW. I ended up very impressed by all the concrete factual information taught in this course - it is not just a lot of theoretical hand-waving, and you are guaranteed to be shocked at least a few times by what's gone on right under your feet at Harvard and in the United States!
This course is a pretty easy gen ed.  The midterm and final are not difficult, and the writing assignments are manageable.  There can be a lot of reading assigned each week, but oftentimes it is possible to miss readings and not fall behind.  If you read the texts that are mainly discussed in lecture, then you will do fine.  However, all of the readings are interesting and useful, so even the less-necessary material is engaging.  The last video project was surprisingly fun.  My group and I did a documentary rather than a parody, which turned out to be less work and more entertaining than we expected.
Very interesting, relatively painless Gen-ed, and a great intro to WGS-based classes.
It turned out to be a little bit more harshly graded than I expected.
This is probably one of the least painful ways to fulfill US&W. No a lot of work.
The material in this class is really fascinating and pretty unforgettable, but some of the readings are tedious and unnecessary, and some of the assignments are a little vague.
The professor is engaging and gives great lectures; the workload is reasonable and the readings - here's the big twist - are actually pretty interesting, more often than not.
The material in this class was extremely interesting. I would've absolutely recommend it. Caroline Light is a great lecturer and you could tell she was very passionate about what she was teaching. The things we learned made me question norms I had taken as accepted about citizenship and belonging in the US.
This is not a difficult course; however, I did not have a very good experience with it.  Though it was a new and interesting way to look at US history, I found the recurring themes in lecture to be very repetitive and the analysis did not go much further than what you learn in the first week of class.
Professor Light is an amazing lecturer. She is also incredibly available during office hours. Definitely recommend this course with enthusiasm.
This class has a lot of potential, but it does end up being somewhat repetitive, for better or worse. The topic is interesting and Caroline Light is a very good lecturer. I imagine this is WGS-lite, so if queer history / Howard Zinn-ianism aren't your cup of tea, avoid it
If this class can get its act together by next year, it's one I would definitely recommend. However, the class' arrangement is quite messy, and will confuse those that are not already familiar with issues of class, race, gender, and citizenship.
The material is very interesting, Prof Light is an excellent lecturer. The readings are also very engaging and enjoyable. It's a great way to get your USW gen-ed done, and doesn't require too much work.
It is more work than is advertised because you are assessed quite regularly and you have to do a final project as well as a final. There are quite a few readings although you can get away with not doing them. Be aware also that the course title has very little to do with the course- its mostly about race inequality with some sexuality/ gender discussions.
Terrible. There's barely any work and I thought that would make it a good choice for a gen-ed, but the material was completely lacking in any academic merit. You simply won't learn anything.
This class is easy and interesting. It does get repetitive but overall it is a good GenEd.
For a US & the World this class is essentially painless. The first few weeks are interesting but then the lectures tend to get repetitive after that. You are required to attend and participate in section, but you can survive by only doing about half the readings. The midterms are straightforward and the two essays aren't too bad. Overall, not very enjoyable but probably worth it if you need an easy Gen Ed.
This is a gen ed that takes itself to seriously. If you love history and are willing to put in the effort, you will thoroughly enjoy this course and learn some pretty interesting things regarding racism, gender roles, etc. However, if you are just looking to fill your USW requirement without too much stress, you should probably look elsewhere. The reading was way too much for my personal taste (fyi. science concentrator). With that being said, essays are relatively easy and there are no other graded assignments.
This course got much bigger this year, and will probably continue to do so in the future.  Overall, a painless way to get a gen/ed out of the way.  Lectures sometimes felt disorganized, but really enjoyed section discussion.
This is an awesome course; it's pretty stress-free and the material is so interesting. Take it if you need to fulfill a gen-ed!
This is a phenomenal class that will have you thinking deeply after lecture. Section feels more like a FUP discussion group. I certainly got a lot out of the class.
The assignments are short, the midterms and exams are predictable if you study well and know the bigger topics of the course.
This class explores some really interesting themes, but it is not always perfectly structured.
This class is a painless way to fulfill a gened, from which you will actually learn a great deal. Amazing teaching staff.
Take this class!
Attend lectures, go to section, do some of the readings (mainly the secondary sources), and do your weekly blog posts. Make sure you can add to section discussion and make sure you like the team you are working with for in the digital project.
The idea is fun to take it and run with, but the lecture is brutal.
I think this course was great, but the lectures can sometimes be overwhelming by the sheer amount/breadth of material covered.
Interesting US history course, especially for foreigners. Good for the USW gen ed.
This class was amazing. Professor Light is a great lecturer and always willing to talk to students. Don't be daunted by the number of assignments. They increase your understanding, but aren't exceedingly difficult.
The class is manageable, and not that difficult content-wise.  You don't have to do the readings, and the class material tends to be redundant so you can get the gist just by attending every other lecture.  Makes it easier if you're passionate about this kind of stuff, but even if you're not, a harmless way to get the Gen Ed done.
The course is relatively easy. The materials and instruction are very liberal and have a strong victimization flavor to them. While they teach you to question history, they also fail to teach you to question the words and thoughts they are feeding you.
This is definitely one of those courses that you get out of it what you put into it. The topic is extremely relevant and eye-opening, but you have to be able to do the reading each week (which really is not a lot) and spend time on assignments, etc. It is a good course, and it is a straightforward course.
While this class is not a walk in the park by any means (in fact, 2 essays, a midterm, a final project, and final exam make it one of the more work-heavy gen. ed classes), it is totally worth the effort. The grading is quite harsh and can even seem unfairly so at times, but there is tons of opportunity for feedback along the way and if you put in the effort you can get a good grade and learn a lot along the way. I would say that's the coolest thing about the class. Leave behind any preconceived notions of what a women and gender studies class is going to be like, and don't be turned off by the frequent use of over-intellectual language. If you open yourself up to this class and let yourself learn everything it has to teach you, you will be a better person for it; both academically and in every day life. It connects to the real/modern world very well and you'll honestly find yourself looking at everything from advertisements, to slang words we use, to the way people act in new and interesting ways. It's tough, but definitely worth it.
This class is a great USW class and a great experience. The reading is very manageable and interesting, the project is pretty fun, and lectures are engaging. Definitely take this class and get exposed to a lot of new ways of thinking
This class was pretty interesting but at times demanded a lot, so be interested in the material. The midterm and final were comprehensive but fair.
It's important to question everything, and this class provides a fascinating medium through which everything you thought you knew about civics - and even the entire discipline of history - is questioned.
The course overall is interesting and well taught. A good way to fulfill the U.S. in the World GenEd requirement. The teaching staff is very caring, which adds to the class a great deal.
This is an invigorating and interesting course, if you are willing to devote the time to completing all of the readings and really focusing on your work.
This course is very broad.
The class has interesting material but the readings are way too much and the grading is very arbitrary. They tell you one thing about an assignment then take points off for doing what they told you. The lectures are interesting but don't connect the course themes in a logical manner, they're very random and jumping back and forth between topics. The teaching staff is really nice but the course could use some restructuring.
Make sure you have enough time to invest in this class! While the readings aren't too intensive, missing even a week of readings really puts you behind (plus, they're interesting). My schedule was relatively busy so I couldn't put as much time as I would have liked into this class, and it's really a shame since the class material is so interesting and really gives you a new lens for evaluating history and current events. Definitely would recommend this class, but make sure you invest a good amount of time into this class to get the best experience!
This is a terrible course, in that you won't learn anything. You will probably do quite well -- painless way to fill a GenEd -- but intellectually you will regret it. The curriculum as a whole is unorganized, lecture is terrible, the no-lap policy combined with the fact that lectures aren't videotaped leads to gibberish notes, and the readings are unclear and/or irrelevant.
The content is incredibly interesting and lecture is amazing. Some of the assigned readings were interesting, but for the most part, readings tended to be dense, copious, and pretty repetitive. Assignments are interesting but graded pretty harshly. All in all, a good course if you're willing to put in the work and slog through the more difficult readings.
The course is easy and covers a lot of interesting material, but takes itself too seriously. You are primarily graded on memorization and the ability to repeat the exact ideas covered in class rather than your own analytical skills or argument. The grading in general seemed quite arbitrary and out of the blue - no rubrics, you simply get a number with a few minor comments. The lectures were repetitive and disorganized: one interesting lecture with new stuff, followed by two weeks of repetition, another interesting lecture...
I would tell future students that are much better ways to fulfill the US and the World requirement. I would encourage them to take AFAM10 which I have only heard positive things about. The criteria for the grading in this class is unclear
It has caused me to look at the world completely differently.
It's a lot of reading but it's interesting
This class is very biased, very disorganized, and at times downright confusing and boring. It was without a doubt my least favorite class at Harvard and I would not recommend it to anyone.
Everyone should take this class, if only to learn how to think about history and normalized knowledge critically. The material is amazing, but what is even better is that the course teaches you a new way of thinking. There's a fair amount of reading, but it is so good and well-chosen. And lectures and sections are phenomenal.
The teachers are all fabulous and the subject matter is very interesting, but it gets a little repetitive and is a lot of work.
It's great! Take this course!
This class is amazing in that it completely changes the way you think about US history and present day understandings of race and gender. For people whose main experience with US history was APUS in high school, this presents a wholly different perspective on belonging and minority groups. One of my hesitations was that it would focus mostly on gender and not very much on race, but it felt pretty evenly split between them (and also includes a lot of material on immigration and sexuality). I love that there's a constant conversation in the course material between the past and the present and central concepts of the course structure how you interpret past events. My only minor issue was that I did not get as much out of lecture as I could have - I would recommend making a serious effort to go to all of the lectures and pay attention (which can be tough because it meets at 10 AM and sometimes the lectures are not exciting in tone, but definitely exciting in material).
