No, you don't need to go to lectures, but you should because they are interesting
Ivan and Laurel are AMAZING lecturers. The lectures are so interesting and you really learn a lot about Harvard's history.
Many people may take this class because it seems easy, but the assignments are actually kind of hard and require effort... not the perfect senior spring course, in my opinion, unless you take it Pass/Fail
This course brings an interesting perspective to how we study history, lets you interact with an incredible range of objects, and is very little work.
It is really easy, and the assignments are great.
Take it if you are interested in museums.
Interactions with the collections were really fun, but it can take some effort to have the lectures all make sense.
It is not that difficult but it doesn't feel very organized
A really fun and easy Gen Ed.
You may think that the name of this class is silly, but it belies the truly serious and fascinating subjects that we breached in lecture and section. The objects that this university holds tell many fascinating stories, and you can discover your own if you take this class!
This class is a very unique one, and will give you a chance to enjoy the merits of being at a school like Harvard. The class gives you a chance to see many obscure items that might otherwise be lost in Harvard's vast collections.
It is a fun class!
I'm unsure why this is a US in the World gen ed. Your TF makes a HUGE difference.
Don't ever go to lecture or do the readings because you don't have to know anything about the course to do well on the essays or assignments.
There's a very low time commitment, but unless you make an effort to take something meaningful out of the course, that time is wasted.  Assignments do require critical thinking.
It was disappointing. The first few lectures didn't seem to be representative of the rest of the course: it's more about using objects as gateways to historical study than it is about objects themselves, or museums, or the like. You'll be given many examples of using objects to make historical arguments, but you'll never exactly be taught how to go about making those kinds of arguments yourself.
This course isn't as easy as I thought. The essays are hard and graded toughly. Yes, you can get a B without trying, but it is really really hard to get an A. I also feel like I would rather have taken a core requirement more related to what I was interested in because I don't think I'll ever use the informationI learned again
This is a great class! The coursework is manageable, and you learn what resources Harvard has to offer.
Great class
This class is easy, and you get to view Harvard's museum collections. It is a good way to force yourself to go to museums that you never would have otherwise - they are all very interesting. The professors are enthusiastic and the TFs are wonderful. The papers are graded somewhat harshly though.
Be ready to visit exhibits on campus
YOU SHOULD ABSOLUTELY TAKE THIS CLASS. I learned so much about Harvard history and it was very surprising to see how much of this class's material is still relevant/influencing our Harvard experience today. And the more work you put into this class (readings especially), the more you'll get out of it.
Need to be able to write pretty abstract papers.
Take it! It will get you out exploring the museums on campus, the assignments are very reasonable, and you have a ton of freedom for the final project.
I really really enjoyed this class. It was certainly interesting material that you wouldn't normally think about, but it really made me look at objects and the world in a different way. You get exposed to so much in Harvard's collections that you normally wouldn't know about and its great to use these collections in such an integrative way. I also learned some pretty interesting things about Harvard's history through the objects. The final project is really flexible - you can basically do anything you want, which is really fun.
easy, but not as exciting as I had hoped
Take it you learn a ton with not too much work.
This is a really fun course that doesn't require too much work (outside of the extensive readings, which are sometimes better to just skim), and it really engages you in the subject matter and reveals a lot about Harvard's history.  Just make sure you can get to the exhibits while they're open!
If you've always wanted an excuse to go visit Harvard's museums, here's your chance. Between all the assignments and lectures, you get to know Harvard's collections quite well and maybe a little more than you bargained for. The two professors are awesome lecturers and people and section assignments (including a scavenger hunt) are often fun.
This class teaches you about many of the places/institutions at Harvard that have been an integral part of its history.  You get to see the different museums and libraries and spend a lot of time working with objects in the Tangible Things exhibit. The course gave me a new appreciation for how exhibits are set up and encouraged me to think more critically about objects. Final project was a lot of fun!
Even  if you aren't a humanities person, the class is still very interesting! (that isnt all that common)
You should only take it because it's easy and has a light workload. I thought it would be interesting as well, but didn't find it too appealing. It's not academically stimulating, and you might find yourself wasting a class.
Not as good as it sounds, but pretty interesting.
The class is kind of pointless, but it's nice to be able to go and see the cool objects that Harvard has in its collections that you might otherwise never go and see.
This class was great. I really enjoyed it. The lectures are very interesting and always surprise you. The professors are so sweet and nice. The class really does change the way you think about and see things. It also gets you to go out and explore Harvard, you'd be amazed how much there is here!
Stress-free, extremely fun class where you get to discover an entirely different side of Harvard
Take this course.  You will either love it or love it.  Really.
This is an interesting class taught by amazing professors and amazing TF's!
If you're on the brink, TAKE THIS COURSE. You will not regret it. Tangible Things frees your mind, and I mean this in all honesty. Just attend one of Prof. Ulrich and Prof. Gaskell's lectures and you'll know what I am talking about. Harvard is lucky to have two professors that care so much about the interests of their students AND who are willing to give you the intellectual freedom to explore what you want to within Harvard's collections. This is the best class I have taken at Harvard, hands down. Get in that lecture hall.
Take this class! Take the time to do the assignments properly, fully, and your Harvard experience will be all the better for it; this class perhaps more than anything else enhances your appreciation of Harvard's endless academic resources.
A unique interactive course. Take it!!!
It's a great class to take if you have any interest in museums.  It covers a really diverse range of topics so, if there's ever a lecture you aren't interested in, just wait until the next one.
fun to discover things and the scavenger hunt was great.
Take it!! It's easy, fascinating and fun. Honestly, what more could you want out of an elective/gen ed?
AWESOME CLASS. Actually the best class I've taken at Harvard.  Although you don't need to go to the lectures, you will end up going to every single one because they are so incredibly interesting.  They split the lectures up between both professors so you never get bored, and you can really see how much the subject matter means to them.  I would never have visited half the collections Harvard has had it not beed for this class.  Definitely take this class-great for senior spring.
This class was amazing. Not only do you get to spend time in Harvard's museums but it teaches new ways to think and approach the world through the perspective of an object. It's super easy, and the papers are also really easy, you can pretty much explore whatever you want. It's a great class because it exposes you to lots of subjects and you can choose whatever you want to write on. Plus, the professors are phenomenal! Laurel and Ivan are really big deals and really great, and anyone would be lucky to take a class of theirs. Put them together--magic. And try to get Jeremy as your TF. He is the bomb.
Tangibly speaking, I cannot object to taking this course. It is grrrrrrreat. Just make sure you describe the objects correctly, especially the colors. THE COLORS!
Great class for Seniors to take as it makes you really visit and appreciate Harvard's museums and collections which a good majority of us have failed to utilise during out time here. Lectures are weak, but seek out a good TF (Gloria was just fabulous) to help make your experience better. The class may seem a little fluffy at times, but just look past that and enjoy the exposure to Harvard history the class gives you.
I've taken the first version of courses before, and this one was by far the best polished.  If you have any interest in the history of Harvard and the campus around you, take this course.
Fun class, light courseload, but you learn a lot. Additionally, the class takes fun field trips.
I really enjoyed this course. I'm a very tactile person, so I really got a lot out of the object-based lectures. At times the lectures can get boring, and it's difficult to tell what's important and what's not, so I ended up not taking notes and mostly just listening.
Prepare for lack of organization, but it will be a very enjoyable class if you enjoy the idiosyncrasies of history!
This course opened my eyes to the wealth of Harvard's resources. So much history courses beneath our feet, and if you look close enough at any object within Harvard's collections you'll see an intricate history which hasn't always given everyone their due.
i would recommend the course because it was easy and gives you the opportunity to look at Harvard's museums and resources.  However, I think the themes of the course and the course itself was a waste.
Great course.  Forces you to check out Harvard's museums.  Gives you a new way to look at history (object centered).
There is a lot of busy work and at times the course is disjointed but as an elective it was fairly interesting and easy.
Don't freak out if it seems very vague and up in the air and all over the place. Just enjoy it! Have fun! It's okay to have fun in a Harvard class. Trust me-- it is. Take advantage of the unusual assignments and be creative. If creativity and thinking outside the box is not your thing, then don't take this class, because it will drive you insane. But otherwise, definitely take it!
This course is like whipped cream: its light, its fluffy, is sweet, but has very little substance. It is extremely well organized and has a great faculty and staff, but intellectual gratification is not a priority.
The class was actually pretty boring, and the trips to the museums took longer than expected. No one goes to lecture, and even when you do go, it is difficult to pay attention the whole time because the lectures seem fragmented and I often don't know what the point of the day's teaching is.
This class is an excellent option for anyone thinking about pursuing the humanities at Harvard. It's non-traditional in the sense that you don't have a text or a chronology that you follow. Rather, you have the opportunity to interact directly with the objects you are studying. It's a social history approach, so, by the end of the semester, you are well-informed about the full picture of Harvard's history.
Really amazing! The exhibit let us see the history we learned about. The class was interesting and I saw Harvard in a new light. Sometimes, certain lectures didn't seem to have a point. The class was easy, though. Really worth it!
The class is really cool because you get to explore Harvard's collections. However, the lectures were entirely useless and the lecturers. The section was ok, but also unnecessary.Instead, I'd like to see the class become a more interactive one, where the lecturers bring in more objects, do more case studies, describe why they are any bit useful to have around.You'll get to see a lot of cool things and hear some really cool stories about Harvard's history, which is what I really enjoyed with this class.I wish the lecturers actually spent some time on the science at Harvard. Rather, they wasted a lot of time on women's history at Harvard, which, while important, is not the most interesting thing here.
Interesting combinations of objects
this class is what you make of it. you can choose to do nothing, and you will get nothing out of it. OR you can choose to actually try to understand what they are thinking and it will revolutionize the way you look at the world and the way you think.
sweet class, although without the main exhibit, it will be a struggle to make it cohesive.  lectures are optional, minimal work is required, but it does require you to think.
Not worth your time.
This is the worst class at Harvard. The Professors are not interesting and they do not make any intellectual comments in the class. There was an entire lecture about chips including chips samples and there was an entire section about a toothbrush!!  This class is the least intellectually satisfying class at Harvard.
Fun and easy way to complete a gen ed. Also, great as an elective!
Interesting concept of a course, easy gen-ed (no midterms or final, just 2 papers and a final project). Could be structured better, but forced me to go see Harvard's museums which was really amazing.
Lectures were not as engaging as I had hoped. Assignments were few and relatively easy.
This class is a great introduction to Harvard's vast collection of objects and to become intimate with a substantial minority of those objects through class assignments and activities.
It's an awesome class. Extremely easy and actually really fun cuz it lets you do creative projects. One of the most fun gen-eds at Harvard I'm guessing.
Grading is highly arbitrary but the course itself is manageable. A good relationship with your TF is helpful.
Take this class. It's easy and lets you see a lot of Harvard's weird and interesting objects.
Different than many other Harvard courses.
Take this if you have an interest in Harvard history, but definitely take it if you have an interest in (museum) curation.
This is a great course -- take it!
The class is unique, not difficult, and has few requirements, but in the end, you won't feel like you learned much because the lectures seem very haphazard.
take it if you want a very easy class to learn a little history and do any work
This class will introduce you to a completely new kind of close reading.  This is the most thoughtfully designed course I have ever taken at Harvard.
This was a truly unique and fascinating class that I would recommend to anyone. The teaching is exceptional and their knowledge about Harvard's collections is often astounding. I am a science person but this predominantly history and object based course was perhaps my favourite of the semester.
I suspect that this course will become more organized in future years, but as it stands now, don't take this class if you expect anything more of it than a partially interesting lecture series on a random collection of subjects. If you want to really think deeply about history, take another course.
This course should be called "Tangential Things;" the lectures were like story time and I'm not sure what we were meant to take away from them. However, that said, this is one of the least painful ways to fulfill the barren US in the World requirement. And if you play along then you're likely to receive a good grade.
The professors are excellent and their interest and enthusiasm for the class and the topics are never in question.  Unfortunately, the sections and assignments do not match up to the greatness of the lecturers and themes.  However, requiring students to go to museums is fun and a nice alternative to usual sections assignments.  Be sure they have improved the section and assignment formats and then be sure to take the course.  It really is fun.
This class is so easy.
Take this course and actually take it seriously. Do the readings, go to lecture and don't check your gmail. It's very easy, but you'll learn so much about Harvard. You also get the chance to learn in new ways- to write reflective papers, to work with tangible things, to think about education in new ways. TFs are great, professors are amazing. You'll have a lot of fun.
This is an amazing class!  It gives you a chance to learn about Harvard's history and the many collections of stuff here on campus.  I get to touch a poem by Emily Dickinson and a 4th century Bible.  These are opportunities you only can have at a place like Harvard and you should take advantage of them.
This class covers very simple concepts, but its assignments will take some time to complete well.
This course should actually be titled, "How Women Have Been Oppressed at Harvard Throughout History." Professor Ulrich basically uses the class to pitch her feminist ideals. More than half of the readings where from a book she wrote that is specifically about women's history at Harvard. Nonetheless, this class was interesting enough because of the variety of history topics presented during lectures. It has a very slim amount of outside work, and the final project is pretty fun and only mildly time-consuming.
This is a great course to take as a senior. I learned SO much and had fun doing it, at times it didn't even feel like school, because I was so engaged! I loved it! There is so much flexibility that you can really pursue what you are interested in and have tons of resources at hand.
could be an easy elective, but not much real substance
THE BEST CLASS EVER honestly amazing
Unless it is changed, it is somewhat of a facade of a class. A women's studies propaganda masquerading as object history.
Do not take the class because you think its easy because you are in for a surprise then.
Its a very fun, very unstressful class with some interesting topics of discussion. The readings can be a bit difficult to follow so be prepared to spend some time with the material if you want to do well.
This class is awesome! It has great instructors who are passionate about their respective fields and does a great job of introducing the students to all of Harvard's fabulous collections.
A class with little outside work. The material is very interesting.
This is a fun class! The professors are both charming and passionate about Tangible Things! Take it if you're interested in history, especially Harvard history.
It's an easy way to fulfill a GenEd requirement. Lectures and sections wasted time reiterating themes that are not complicated. Instructors were not well informed about the subject matter and made many, many unforgivable mistakes.
Easy class with lots of flexibility.
It was a great way to explore the fascinating objects and artworks that Harvard has collected over the past centuries. I loved having a reason to go to the Sackler and the Peabody!
This course was excellent.  The material was very interesting, and lectures and section was fun to listen to and participate in.  The course was very informative and gave me a large amount of knowledge about history and Harvard's collections.
I cannot recommend this class more. The lectures may seem a little pointless, but the museum visits, readings, sections, and assignments make up for completely. This class was absolutely fun and never a pain.
I suppose the class is very easy, but at the same time, it's very hard to feel motivated to do any of the work.  The lectures I found rather useless (and after you decide it's not useful to go to lecture, they start taking attendance without telling anyone).
This class is fascinating.  I learned so much about Harvard's collections and enjoyed all of the excursions.  I found myself talking to my friends about what I learned in Tangible Things over meals and bringing them to see the exhibitions that fascinate me during our free time.  An experience that was both inspiring and informative.
It's condescendingly easy, does not stimulate critical thought, and arbitrarily graded. You have to go to lecture, but you don't have to do any of the reading.
The statement that what you get out of a course is commensurate with what you put in was never more true than for this class. Which makes it a jewel of a class. If you want to slack off and get a requirement out of the way, take it. If you want to take away a whole new way of looking at the world and are willing to take the class seriously, take it. If you have been hearing that this class is a joke, you should know that that sentiment is common among many students who did not take it very seriously and didn't engage in the material as much as the course deserves. Through this course, you get to explore the Harvard Museums you would perhaps never otherwise step into. You learn about Harvard's history--who's included in it and who's left out. You will gain an appreciation for the objects in those museums, the societies they came from, how those objects ended up at Harvard, how they are presented and how that presentation makes you look at them a certain way. I will never visit a museum the same way again after taking this class. To top it all off, the course staff is amazing, kind, and caring. They are very forgiving and help you understand the material to go beyond the surface learning. And the cherry on top is that you won't have midterms or a final! That means the class treats the students like adults and expects them to take away from it what they want to. The papers you will be writing and the section assignments can actually be fun if you choose to engage on a level the course staff wants you to engage at. In sum, take the class and take it seriously. You might have found a treasure in it.
Having taken this course, I'm still not entirely sure what its purpose is. It's really unique and cool that you get to look at and use Harvard's own collections as a point of analysis, but the connection between material week to week often feels like little more than the fact of the Harvard connection. Having said this, individual weeks are often enjoyable. The assignments are very easy and you do not need to do the reading in order to understand the course. The artistic project for the final is a nice way to respond tangibly and creatively to the course.
I think this gen ed is a great option for humanities and non-humanities students alike.
This class is fantastic! Professor Ulrich is amazing-- I really enjoyed listening to her lectures, and she's really dedicated to interacting with the students. The grading isn't too bad, and you get to go on expeditions to all of Harvard's incredible collections and museums. Not a ton of work; just weekly section assignments (which aren't hard), two short papers, and a final project. Lots of flexibility with the project. Take this course-- you will enjoy it!
Not time intensive, and a good review of harvard history.
Great visits to various museums, some harder work for a genEd.
Take it. Get to know Harvard through its collections. Sections are often expeditions into specific collections of your choosing. The papers are short, and the final project is fun! And, Professor Ulrich is wonderful.
It's super fun most weeks, and the weeks it's not you still learn something. It made me appreciate how much thought has gone into designing museums.
Make the final project your opportunity to get permission to study an object that really interests you. Even if it is hard to obtain access to, use all the help you can get.
This is a good class, great way to meet US in the world.  It gives you a chance to visit a lot of the museums on campus for class, which I really enjoyed and it isn't difficult.  Sometimes lectures can feel a tad pointless though.  The expeditions are amazing!
This class is a great excuse to do some National Treasure level exploring within the Harvard collections. To be honest, Harvard has a ton of cool stuff. That being said, the course can feel a little patronizing at times, both in the seeming randomness of lecture topics and the babysitting tendencies of attendance/assignment policies.
You get out what you put in. go to the museums and check out all of the amazing things. talk with your tf about your interests. you don't have to go to lecture but should do the readings and participate in section because it will be more fun.
Easy gen-ed. Can be a bit confusing at first if you are used to writing research papers, because the writing in this class is nothing like that style of writing. You learn quite a bit about Harvard's history in this class, and I am happy I took it right before I graduate.
This class is so fun! Light work, very entertaining lectures, committed teaching staff. Laurel Ulrich is a delight. The class changes the way you think about things in your everyday surroundings, and gives great background on early America and its relationship to the founding of Harvard.
This was probably my favorite course at Harvard. Interesting material, cool objects and people.
Awesome, definitely take it, especially seniors to get exposure to all the Harvard museums before you graduate.
This is a very good course.  Not a lot of work at all and alot of really interesting material about Harvard's history.  It is a great opportunity to get outside and check out all of the wonderful museums and things that Harvard has in its many collections.  Take it.
This course will remind you of the way you used to love school back in fourth grade, enjoying field trips and learning a little bit about many different subjects. Although lectures are can feel like a chore (you're never really tested on the material, and the topics are pretty random), they're all fun and interesting, so just embrace how disconnected they seem. Professor Ulrich is a fascinating person, and our TFs were outstanding. This course is a great gen ed, not too much work or stress, but you will learn a lot about Harvard's collections and history, the modern museum, and material science.
One of the best things about this course is how it introduces you to the Harvard museum system. Harvard has so many fascinating collections of objects that many students hardly even realize are here. Also, the class raises a lot of interesting topics in Harvard's history that lead to great discussions, while also connecting these topics to broader historical themes. One of the drawbacks of this course is that is not well structured. While each individual lecture was interesting, it took my a while to figure out how the lectures and readings were organized; the connective tissue of the course was not very clear. But overall I really enjoyed the class and would definitely recommend it!
The course is really interesting, but the grading is absolutely ridiculous...I may just be butthurt, but everyone I talked to in the class said they felt the same way. It's a gen ed, but we are all expected to write like English or Hist&Lit majors. I was really upset, because I actually got interested in the whole of museums and objects, but the grading totally made me feel bad about it.
I think this is a great, relaxing and enjoyable gen ed! You will go to many of the Harvard museums that you otherwise might not visit before graduating, and that in itself is reason enough to take this course! The readings and assignments are engaging, interactive and very manageable.
This course was truly a gem. The teaching staff was phenomenal, the readings were interesting and easy, classes were enjoyable, and the requirements were painless. Take it.
This class is easy and fun. The class held one or two rounds of expeditions, which students could choose from. This was a lot of fun and I got to see the Houghton printing press and take a tour of Houghton because of them (I even got to see the book bound in human skin!). We also learned about museums, object-based learning, and the history of many social issues at Harvard and beyond. However, the class does have its downsides. Prof. Ulrich has a tendency to cut students off after they've made a single point but not their main point. If she asks you a question, the best approach is to reply with brevity, or you won't have a chance to finish what you were saying. Also, the lectures occasionally get a little repetitive. Although each lecture focuses on a different object, different person, or different topic, the overall message of object-based learning gets hammered in a little too much. Overall, this class was a fun and easy way to fulfill the USW Gen. Ed requirement, and those attempting a five class schedule may consider this as potential fifth class.
If you are looking for a Gen Ed, this is the one you want to take. Interesting material, different approach as a course, and overall great experience.
Interesting class that allows you to explore many of Harvard's fascinating collections. Can get repetitive at times.
This class is amazing! Professor Ulrich is the most engaging lecturer I've ever had at Harvard, and this class's approach to the material is great. Put in the effort in this class - you won't be disappointed!
This is a class that doesn't require too much work (as long as you participate in everything) but the lectures are hit or miss. Some interesting content about the history of museums, and the history of Harvard and Radcliffe but some lectures have little content. Overall, I was unsatisfied with the course because it felt all over the place and not very informative.
This class provided an exceptional opportunity to explore the museums and collections at Harvard University in an exciting and instructive way.
Take this course. It allows you to go to all the Harvard museums, something every student should do before they graduate. Definitely gives you a deeper appreciation for the University.
This class has fairly boring lectures, but overall its not too hard. Easy assignments and fun outside of class visiting museums
ABSOLUTELY AMAZING.  Taught me a totally different way of looking at the world - probably in that regard it was one of the most useful classes I've ever taken at Harvard.  Allow yourself to really delve into it and you won't be disappointed.  Final projects are an opportunity to do something neat; let yourself be absorbed by the possibility.
This is the best gen ed I've taken at Harvard. Also a painless way to meet the USW requirement. It's very interesting and requires little work. You also get to see some really cool stuff in museum collections and storage, which is awesome.
This class is extremely interesting and can be a lot of fun, but you have to be ready to also be engaged; this isn't a class for someone who's taking it as a joke.
absolutely brutal lectures - so boring - so much work - not very easy
If you guys are looking for the easiest/least time-consuming USW gened, this is it. Section assignments were super easy, and readings weren't really required for anything. I think most people didn't read them.
This class is a great way to learn new techniques about critical thinking without being weighed down by unnecessary readings or assignments.  All of the assignments are very reasonable. The lectures are interesting, and sections are also fun.
This class is very good. It is an easy and an interesting gen-ed, something that is rare at Harvard. If you want to enjoy the class and get something out of it, do the readings (they are very easy and short, but super interesting), go to lecture and relax, and have fun with your weekly assignments. This is one of the few courses that allows you to be really creative and to push the boundaries of academia without being punished for it.
The beginning of the class was a bit fluffy, but it got more interesting after we got into object lessons and began to make larger connections between objects and what they represent about society.  It was difficult at first to know what was expected of us in our weekly assignments, but after we got into more rigorous methods of observation the class became much more engaging.  You will learn a lot of interesting facts about Harvard's history, as well as that of the US in general.
Good format that reveals the collections at Harvard.
There is a lot of emphasis on Harvard's collections, but in unexpected ways. It does touch upon museums but it is not totally centralized on them.
You learn alot about Harvard history and why we keep objects. But the museum aspect of it still remains confusing. And you have to go to the exhibits for section assignments on your own. Which is troublesome if you have an early section in the week and then the exhibits are closed on the weekends. But its a really fun class.
Great course that gives you a reason to explore all of Harvard's museums and other treasures. Gives you a greater appreciation for where we all go to school. Assignments are doable. Responses every week take time but are usually thought-provoking and not too bad.
No matter how easy you think this class will be, it is not worth your time. The lectures were painful to sit through, and I feel like I didn't learn a thing all semester. This course could benefit from some serious restructuring.
A great way to dive into object-based thinking, and, to boot, object-thinking at Harvard! Learn a lot about Harvard's history, parts of which you won't believe you weren't aware of.
If you're interested in learning about Harvard history and american history through objects, this is a great class! It is not that hard and you really get to know the WEALTH of resources at Harvard! You get to visit museums that you would've never known existed! You'll see Harvard in a new light.
This course illustrated to me how little attention I pay to the wonderful objects and exhibits that surround me on a daily basis while at Harvard.  It opened my eyes to all I've been missing and challenged me to look at things more closely and in a different way.  If it's offered again, I would definitely recommend it.
This class is not as interesting as it could be. Site visits and assignments are great and the work load is light, but the section/lecture components are disorganized and not so interesting. That being said, I did find out a lot more about Harvard's history and resources thanks to this class.
While the material is very interesting and the lectures were taught well, the experience is highly variable dependent on the teaching fellow for the class. I think that this is a decent USW requirement but certainly not the best. A lot more work than I expected.
The premise of the class seems kind of kooky, and certainly it's not difficult to do well, but if you're vaguely interested in museums or the history of Harvard, this class is really rewarding. Sections were really interesting, and the final project was a great experience.
This course was a lot of fun. I loved walking around looking at objects, learning more about them, close looking at them, and forming opinions around objects. Tangible things truly provide a lot of insight into the past, and present, and the future.
Amazing. I learned so much and really learned to view things from a completely different perspective. The professors and TFs were all so enthusiastic and accessible, and their passion was contagious. Absolutely one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
If you want a class that is really interactive with a manageable work load, take it.
It's super easy, but very boring as well.
This is a good way to fulfil a Gen Ed. The section assignments do take some time and thought, and the papers can take a while, but overall this class is pretty painless.
Great class! Take it if you are interested in museums, objects, and/or Harvard's history.
There is more work than it seems, but it is not necessarily challenging.
The stories are interesting, and some of the reading is great, but lectures are sometimes slow-moving.
This class will allow you to learn and explore Harvard's museums. It will also give you a unique perspective on objects around campus.
At first, this class was fun and informative. Lectures were interesting and work outside of class was not too difficult. Eventually, though, lectures became a bit more dry and section felt repetitive. That being said, this course brought me into many of Harvard's exhibits I otherwise may never have seen.
It is much more difficult if you don't understand artistic things.
What you put in is what you get out. Very interesting material, opened up a new way of seeing things for me. Go to lecture, you won't regret it if you keep an interest and an open mind. I honestly learned so much from this course about objects, and art, and art history, harvard history etc. Loved it!
I loved Tangible Things, simply put. Prof. Ulrich rocks, and I learned an incredible amount about Harvard's past, while visiting museums and collections that I would otherwise never have known about. Lectures are actually very interesting, once you realize that the happy medium between taking furious notes and being on Facebook all the class is just sitting there and listening. At that point, you'll start to enjoy class, and it will feel like you're going to a Ted talk about Harvard history every day.
It's easy and fun. Lectures can be disorganized, and the class gets repetitive toward the middle, but it's awesome to get a chance to go to a lot of different Harvard museums.
This is one of the easiest classes you'll find at Harvard.
Take this class. It is a great way to be exposed to Harvard's vast collections and to go behind the scenes of world class museums. Professor Ulrich is one of the best Professors I have had at Harvard and she is really passionate about the material. This is a great class to challenge the way you think about learning, to get a chance to interact with objects from Harvard's collections, and to provide a narrative of a history many people never think about but one that has really shaped our society's conception of knowledge. The work load is light but the material is very thought-provoking. The combination makes for a very enjoyable and manageable experience.
This course gets you into campus spaces that might otherwise go unexplored, and hence, just do it. Pick this one. It also gives you creative outlets left and right.
This class is harder then what people generally think. There is a lot of busy work and the paper topics are quite ambiguous. I would recommend this class as a general education requirement fulfiller however, would not recommend taking it as an elective.
Really cool class about the history of Harvard and how it fits into the U.S. as well as the world.  Taught me the significance of examining everyday objects around Harvard's campus as well as objects in my own life.  We are a very tactile society obsessed with objects, or tangible things.  This class examines why and how we imbue objects with greater meaning.
This course is lots of fun and relevant to life at Harvard. It, like many G-eds does not require a ton of time.
Make sure you don't get Carla as a TF. Her grading is a lot different from the rest of the TFs, and her overcompensation for the fact that the class was viewed as "easy" in the past is manifested through her grading. The course itself was very interesting, the materials were intriguing and the prompts were though provoking. If I had had another TF, it would have been one of my favorite courses I've taken thus far.
In terms of assignments, the course was easy; if you put in a little bit of effort and completed the tasks well, you were fine for a grade. Lectures were not the greatest (they got repetitive, and the material didn't always seem to have a clear point); Professor Ulrich likes to ask really basic questions that everyone finds to obvious that no one wants to answer, making it kind of awkward. The papers were easy, though, so it's a no-stress way to get USW credit.
This is technically a history course - but it is such a flexible course that even if you dislike history generally, you will find enough interesting material in this course to keep you entertained.
No.
great class to complete gen ed. 2 papers and a final project. there are section assignments you get a check minus, check, or check plus on. sometimes there is random attendance taken in class. the fun part was seeing different aspects of harvard i had never known of before.
Far and away the best class I've taken at Harvard. John Bell is an incredible section leader. TAKE THIS CLASS.
Tangible things is a wonderful course.  The lectures are interesting and Professor Ulrich is a legend.  Did you know she is the source of the "well behaved women seldom make history" quote?  Amazing.  The Harvard collections are very extensive and interesting.  Come with an open mind and ready to challenge categorization and learn a lot about Harvard and its history and collections.
This is a pretty painless class to satisfy the gen ed requirement for USW. The lectures can seem a bit scattered at times and some of the things that they ask you to do in class and for the section assignments can seem a bit like busy work, but the overall idea of the class is pretty cool. The larger assignments allow you to explore some aspects of Harvard history that you otherwise may not have explored and makes you more aware of the history in your surroundings. There is a lot of freedom in these assignments, so take advantage of that!
Lectures are kind of patronizing, but if you're ok with feeling like a middle schooler, some of the assignments aren't half bad, and are pretty easy.
This class has a low workload and is pretty interesting. You learn about some Harvard history and history of Harvard collections, which is more relevant and engaging than it may seem. You can also focus on whatever objects/subjects interest you most for the papers and project, so the few bigger assignments aren't stressful or frustrating and can be satisfying to do. For me, this was the ideal gen ed--easy and enjoyable. Also try to get Cara as a TF, she's awesome and very laid back and realistic about the course and the expectations.
Assignments are super fun - you get to find interesting objects, sketch them, and write papers about them. This course also makes you visit Harvard museums and check out awesome exhibitions. Light workload, awesome teaching fellows - this is a great class!
Probably one of the best class I've taken at Harvard. It's a fun class! Some people get whiny about the assignments but I'd take it over your average pset/response paper any day. Gives you a new way of looking at the school.
This class got boring, very fast.  There were some good (aha!) moments, but in general the class was not what I expected and I was disappointed. There might be other more fulfilling ways to satisfy the USW Gen. Ed.
Not a course about Harvard collections in world history as the description claims. This class was more focused on objected-centered epistemology (the acquisition of knowledge through the close examination of objects). The course was therefore a little misleading but interesting nonetheless.
The course readings help to prepare you for the assignments.
Fun class, give you opportunity to seize the initiative yourself and do some campus exploring
I don't feel like I gained much from this course.
Easy class, but not a joke.  The class is graded harshly, and there is a lot of busy work. Just, the subject matter is very easy and straight forward.
Way more work than the course is worth.
"Well behave women seldom make history" - Professor Laurel UlrichShe's a married mormon and she's pretty cool and animated. You get out what you put in, but the teaching staff make sure you put in a baseline amount of effort by taking attendance at lectures (probably more than half of the time), and challenging you with questions during lecture and section
This course was one of the easiest I've taken at Harvard. The topics covered were pretty basic and the assignments were not difficult. It was an overall positive experience because I loved learning about and visiting all of Harvard's museums and collections - it was so fascinating, hands-on, and engaging.
This class is a great way to fulfill USW if you aren't really interested in USW. It's much more of a history type of class. This class is fairly easy but you still learn a lot.
