Professor Johnson is fiery, passionate, and unforgettable. He really makes this class worth taking. That aside, the material is fascinating and really forces you to look at American history from a different perspective. The final exam is 50% of your grade which flat out stinks, but the exam itself really isn't as bad as you think.
Awesome professor, awesome TA, fascinating course material.
This isn't the "easy gen ed" course for you if you just want to get USW out of the way without any hard work. There's a lot of learn and a lot to engage with, but there's a lot of support, so as long as you stay up to date with readings, it'll be more than manageable and worth it.
Enjoyed the class, Johnson is a great lecturer, if you're really interested in American history but aren't sure about whether you can fit the course in your schedule I would say the knowledge can be just as easily picked up from readings.
I took this course despite having fulfilled a gen ed because I'm interested and wanted to work with Walter Johnson. It was great for this purpose, but would have been really challenging as a gen ed I think.
Great class. Historical-material approach to US history.
Really great course on 19th century US history that focuses on how racial dynamics / other cultural dynamics led to the nation being spatially and economically organized the way it was / still is. Prof Johnson's lectures are great. The reading sometimes doesn't line up directly with the week's lectures but it's all good reading. The final exam is 50% of the grade so at least some of all the readings all semester, but it's also not a terribly hard exam so don't let it deter you.
Will change the way you think about American history. Professor Johnson is the man--gifted and a riot to spend time with. Lectures are immensely entertaining and thought-provoking. Work is limited, and intellectual bang for your buck is limitless.
Prof. Walter is an awesome lecturer. However, there is A LOT of reading in this course and you need to stay on top of things. Great course overall, though.
This course is a phenomenal history course in showing a before unseen perspective of American history in the 19th century.
This course is great! Super interesting and though the lectures sometimes seemed jumbled, the pace is great and the material is some of the richest I've experienced at Harvard.
American history as it should be taught. Professor Johnson is hilarious and a wonderful lecturer. All TFs are incredible and helped people tease out how to make more critical statements about the documents and subjects we were studying.
Walter Johnson is probably becoming the most important scholar of 19th-century US history, and that is a pretty good reason in itself to take the course.  The course will challenge you to think about a number of themes which are difficult in the intellectual labor they require to unpack and difficult because they are a window into the unimaginable suffering of African Americans and Native Americans at the hands of white people in the 19th-century United States--suffering whose consequences are all too real today.  These challenges are ones you should confront if you haven't already.  Having said that, though, sometimes the course seemed to become just a race to see who could offer the most polemical critique of white supremacy, without very much deep analysis or subtlety.  Walter Johnson is an expert at figuring out the intellectual history of white supremacy, but it can sometimes be hard for less experienced people to do that with nuance.  Also, it can be very difficult to chart a coherent narrative between the lectures.  Undoubtedly this is partly intentional on Johnson's part, but I also know that this is not the most organized teaching staff I've ever encountered.Finally, the course is very thorough in its treatment of the antebellum period, but at the expense of the Civil War and the Reconstruction era.  If you are looking for a class about the Civil War itself, this is not the class.  But if you do want a cutting edge interpretation of antebellum America, and if you want to be challenged by difficult primary sources, this course may be a good option for you.  Just beware that it is not an "easy gen-ed."
Until the section/reading component of this course is restructured, and the professor makes a verbal commitment to actually spend more than 35 minutes of his lecture time on lecturing, I would steer clear of this class. Too bad, because the professor's arguments and this time period are fascinating.
Professor Johnson's lectures are absolutely fantastic. He is so engaging and presents an interesting argument about the 19th Century. However, it is also a difficult and frustrating class that requires a lot of work. It is not like a typical GenEd. I would have appreciated more feedback on papers and a greater ability to meet with the TFs to talk about expectations for them. It was very frustrating because the rubric and description of what was expected in our papers was completely out of date -- my TF even said that is was an accurate rubric.
Good course, though there was very little coherence to it
Johnson makes very original and convincing arguments about studying the past with a particular focus on the ways it may be reimagined through the lens of time and space specifically. Section discussion may seem a bit disorganized at times, but if you close read at least some of the readings in great detail, you will have insightful contributions to move the discussion forward in a productive fashion.
Phenomenal lectures, lots of reading, slightly unfocused.
Johnson gives fantastic lectures and is always sure to emphasize the major themes of the course in the context of his material and the section readings. To do well in section, you're not likely to get away with skimming the readings, since discussion is pretty vigorous and sections relatively small.
Professor Johnson is a hugely entertaining lecturer who will really give you insights into historical events you would not have considered before. However, be warned if you are international student like I am - despite being a Gen Ed, the course does seem to presume a basic knowledge of American History. I'd still recommend this class, but you really have to be prepared to put in extra work looking up events your American peers have learnt about in high school, and spend a few lectures being confused as strange triple-barreled names are thrown at you in quick succession. (I didn't even figure John Adams and John Quincy Adams were two different people until after Spring Break.)
The final is ridiculously worth 50% of grade, so be aware of that going in. The other option is a project, but this was the first year and it wasn't so clear.
A great US in the World class. Professor Johnson is a leading scholar in his field and is a very interesting lecturer. The teaching staff is also wonderful.
While this class is interesting, it is an immense amount of work, and the lectures contain a formidable amount of information. The readings are also difficult, and can be frustrating as they seem to not fit into the trajectory established during lectures.
This is a fabulous class, whether you have a strong history background or not. Professor Johnson's lectures are entertaining in their own right, and he presents the material in a fascinating and challenging way.
Take it.
Take it! You will understand American history and how we got to where we are today so much better.
This class is a fair amount of work, but really interesting and a great class. I highly recommend it- just don't go into it thinking of it as an easy class or as a gen-ed.
Brilliant and captivating lectures on a fascinating time in history!
It is a great class because lecture is enjoyable and sections are well organized.
really incredible course, prof. johnson presents a vision of history that is simultaneously radical and completely reasonable. this course challenges you to rethink the past, and can engage people at a very advanced level if you engage deeply with the material and talk with the TFs
This is an incredible class that changes the way you think about American history and historical analysis. Sometimes it was hard to follow what was going on and the assignments were not always clear.
This is a hard class for a gen-ed, and involves a lot of reading. You can get a lot out of it, but the essay system and huge final lend themselves to cramming.
This class is great! Even if you don't know anything about this time period or have a particular interest in the subject material, you will find yourself fascinated by the material. Professor Johnson is an awesome (and hilarious) lecturer. Plus, the readings are really interesting for the most part. This is a fairly painless way to fulfill a gen ed requirement, and you'll find that you can't help being interested in the class!
Grading is just too subjective.
Lots of reading, studying for the final took a lot of time and effort -- but it was worth it. Prof. Johnson is one of the most eloquent and entertaining lecturers at Harvard. This was one lecture I NEVER fell asleep in, and consistently looked forward to attending every day.
Professor Johnson is awesome, and lectures are fantastic for this class.  Very interesting material.  There is a fair amount of work, but you can choose when to write your papers, which helps a lot in terms of balancing out your schedule.
The lectures are fantastic; the readings and section can be good or bad. Lots of reading for a Gen Ed class, in my opinion.
The lectures are amazing--really. They are also hi-larious. Professor Johnson is very passionate about this material and it shows. However, before you start studying for the final, it can be hard to see how the many sub-topics covered in class hang together. The primary source documents can also be pretty dry, and their relevance to class isn't always readily obvious.
Walter Johnson is incredible and I learned things about the 19th century that I never knew before. I have such a more thorough understanding of that time period now. It teaches you things that all of your highschool courses have left out about the period.
Think carefully before taking this course.  It involved, in my opinion, an unfortunate combination of a lack of sophistication and a demanding work-load.  Lectures seemed to have an ideological agenda, and they often felt repetitive, constantly and simplistically trying to convince students of the evils of nineteenth-century US institutions .If you shop this course, on the first day of class, Professor Johnson will lay out his theses, and they initially will across across as extremely nuanced and interesting.  After the first two lectures, I too felt convinced that Professor Johnson would prove his theses and give really interesting lectures, so I eagerly signed up for the course.  But as the weeks go by, you may find that the lectures actually provide little actual nuance and not much of interest.  If you took AP US history in high school, you may find this course to be a downgrade.Although US-W 28 was, in my opinion, unsophisticated, it also provided a very substantial workload.  In addition to a final exam, there are three papers over the course of the term, and grading standards are pretty tough, especially considering this is a Gen-Ed.  Also, you will be given pre-section assignments every week; basically just busywork, and they probably won't occupy more than about half an hour of your time per week, but just be warned that these assignments exist, even though they are not advertised at the beginning.  In addition, weekly readings are often voluminous and difficult.  They are all primary sources, making them difficult to comprehend and often unhelpful.   All this having been said, I got the sense that many or most of my colleagues really enjoyed this course, so it is possible that you will as well.  I would just advise taking these factors into consideration before making your decision, and also realizing that the first lecture or two may not give you the most realistic impression of what the course will look like as a whole.
Professor Johnson is an amazing lecturer, and the course material is really interesting. This is definitely a great choice for the USW requirement
Make sure you do the reading or you will not be able to participate in section.
The class was pretty disorganized.  There was often a gap between weekly readings and lectures, making it hard to figure out how everything fit together.  Section was not much help in this process either.  That said, Professor Johnson does have some interesting views on antebellum America that run counter to what we often hear, so if you're interested in that take the class.
I had no background in US history prior to this class, but it introduced me to a whole range of perspectives and knowledge. The lectures were amazing, and the readings are interesting, although the amount of reading at times can be overwhelming. That being said, it is a class that requires you to really work and think, and you should take it if you are ready to commit the time needed.
Take this class!! Johnson is the most dynamic lecturer I've had for any class at Harvard: he speaks with incredible force, passion, and conviction. While he does have a particular axe to grind about American history, he's completely open about that from day one, and it helps that he really knows his stuff and is able to actually back up his axe-grinding. Lecture (which is awesome) can sometimes seem divorced from the readings (which are all primary sources, and awesome), but section does a fantastic job of drawing them together and clarifying the connections between them, as well as explicating particularly difficult readings.
It is challenging but well worth it. Prof. Johnson makes you think about history in ways you would never imagine. He's awesome. His lectures were incredible. And he's just generally a total boss. One of my favorite professors I've had at Harvard. I really enjoyed learning from him.
Amazing course -- Professor Johnson is a mesmerizing and energetic lecturer. The readings are really interesting, and the course material in general is fascinating. One of my favorite courses at Harvard.
Prof. Johnson's lectures are incredibly engaging. This course offers a whole new take on Civil War/antebellum history. Take it even if you're a non-concentrator.
Take this class.  Professor Johnson is the best lecturer I have encountered at Harvard.  You will learn more useful information about 19th century history than you could ever imagine, from a strongly opinionated and dynamic perspective.
This is a very interesting and well taught course. Professor Johnson's lectures are always entertaining.
If you don't take this course, you don't count. Professor Johnson's lectures are completely fascinating. He has a flair for the dramatic and also a great sense of humor. The course progresses thematically, not chronologically, and lecture topics range from the mechanics of the cotton economy, to the intellectual history of African colonization, to the ecological and sensory architecture of a slave plantation, to the U.S.-Mexico War. There is an emphasis on reading American history as international history, in terms of the multicultural/multilingual/multiracial makeup of the United States and also United States imperial expansion out into the world. This course shirks conventional accounts of American history, and focuses on the visions of particular historical agents. It examines what the United States could have looked like, or what some groups wanted the United States to look like, even if those plans didn't come to fruition. You will write three papers on primary source documents throughout the semester and at your own pace. This structure is a burden for some who would rather have specific assigned due dates, but really this setup allows you to write about documents that truly interest you. There is also the opportunity to write a fourth optional paper and your three highest paper grades will count towards your final grade.
This course requires a lot of work and attention to all the readings, but the lectures, material, and section discussions out of it are great.
Really good lectures; slightly too much work for a Gen Ed.
Professor Johnson is a brilliant lecturer.  Even if you happen to disagree with some of his arguments or opinions, you will certainly be inspired to look at nineteenth-century American history in new ways.  Although the readings are sometimes a bit much, it's definitely worth getting at least a basic understanding of each author's arguments and how they relate to the other readings and themes of the course.  It will of course help you on the essays and the exam, but it will also make the course much more meaningful and interesting.
WJ is a boss. Take the class and experience his awesome command of 19th century history. The class will reteach you everything you learned in high school. It's not demanding, but you get a lot out of it.
