This class has the potential to get a 5 in the q guides but the assignments, midterm, sections, and grades made everything really painful and very frustrating.  The lectures were amazing but everything else was subpar.
Professor Greene made this class very engaging and exciting for students.  The video component, however, is rough around the edges- they take up way more time than I had initially expected, and they are graded pretty harshly.  This class is fun to get involved in, but exams are somewhat frustrating and detail oriented.
If you're interested in medicine, this class provides a unique historical perspective on a ton of issues surrounding the profession. So interesting that I didn't mind doing the work at all.
listening to Jeremy Green's lectures are the best part of the class, but he is leaving.... :(
a fun, interesting way to fulfill US in the world especially if you are interested in medicine and how it evolved over time
content is great but not the best class ever
You spend an annoying amount of time working on imovies.
It was a great course! Overall I learned a lot. This course takes a lot of time though. The assignments are time consuming and there are many readings.
I thought the material in this course had the potential to be really interesting, but I did not like the way this class was taught at all. I had a hard time following Professor Greene's lecture style, and I thought the multimedia projects were unhelpful and extremely time consuming. I was never sure what I was supposed to get out of each lecture, and there are way too many readings to be able to do all of them.
Be prepared to do lots of reading and spend quite a bit of time preparing multimedia projects. It's best if you have some prior experience making these sorts of projects. You'll get better at them, of course, but regardless - it takes a long time to prepare a deceptively "simple" 2 minute multimedia project. Overall, the course was interesting, but time consuming.
The topic is interesting, but the reading load is often unrealistically heavy
ONE OF MY FAVORITE CLASSES AT HARVARD! I took this class as an elective senior spring and LOVED LOVED LOVED it. Professor Jeremy Greene is outstanding in this course (although he is leaving). His lectures were amazing and got a round of applause every time. The material was presented in such an interesting way. The video projects were time consuming but kind of fun to make and review in section. The readings were relevant and also interesting.
The material in this class is really, really interesting, especially for future medical workers. That being said, only take this class if you don't care about organization, your grades, or connecting with the teaching staff. Everything is very arbitrary.
Th lectures are boring, and you might finish the year without having learned much.
This course was excellent. Engaging and intriguing lectures by one of the best lecturers I've had yet, as well as interesting readings. The multimedia assignments can be hard, though, so make sure to start early and talk to your section leader about how to do them correctly.
If they get rid of the multimedia projects, definitely take it, if they don't, then it's a bit of a waste of time.
Jeremy Greene knows everything and it was an awesome class!
This was not really a fun course to satisfy gen-ed requirement. The workload was more than I expected, because the iMovies took a long time to put together. Still, it is a really good introduction to the way the History of Science department encourages thinking.
Prof. Greene is amazingly eloquent and intelligent. Take the class for the privilege of hearing his lectures. Take your time with the iMovies, too, if they leave those in the course. And keep up with the readings! You'll have to reference them explicitly in the exam
Be prepared to have reading responses be equivalent to mini-projects throughout the semester.
This course is a decent way to fulfill the USW requirement, especially if you are a pre-med or interested in the biomedical sciences, public health, etc. The weekly courseload is not overwhelming and, truth be told, you can definitely do well in the class without doing all of the readings. The material is generally interesting although depending on what topics you gravitate toward or not, you might find some topics dreadfully boring (for me, virgin soil epidemics) and others very engaging (changes in medical education or the changing architecture of hospital or the definition of psychiatric health). Professor Greene is a pretty happy and enthusiastic lecturer though, which tends to help. One important warning: the iMovie assignments may or may not be your cup of tea. I personally would've preferred response papers. I don't think there's enough time in 2min to say anything meaningful about a week's-worth of readings much the less to address all aspects of the assigned prompt, so for the most part the iMovies felt like a waste of time.
Great material and professor, but VERY time consuming. Lengthy readings and regular iMovies assigned.
You need a lot of time to do this class well. The video projects are time consuming (although fun to do) and there is a very non-trivial amount of reading. Preparing for the midterm and final was also very time consuming, so make sure you have time for this class, even though it is very good.
The material presented in this course is very interesting. However, the amount of reading that one has to do for the class is excessive and the amount of work is a lot for a gen-Ed course. 2 papers, a midterm and a final make this course take up a lot of time. So, while it is an interesting course, if know that other courses will be time-intensive I would be cautious in selecting this class.
This course is pretty interesting and you learn a lot about interactions between medicine and society, and you can view American history through a medically-based perspective.
Great course about the history of medicine in America - be wary of the midterm
Be ready to engage deeply with this absolutely fascinating and crucial material. Ask questions about the reading, track down professors who have written the texts assigned, and question your own role as an agent and citizen navigating and engaging with personal, local, and global health.
This is a great course if you really do want to learn about medicine in the United States and its development. Do be privy of the fact that it does require time and effort (you do have to do all of the readings and assignments/attend all lectures since you are assessed on this material in examination). However, this class is worthit.
Loved the application of science and history together. It was a fairly standard class in terms of readings, papers, and exams, but the questions raised and discussed were thought-provoking and insightful. I learned so much about the history of medicine and its connection to society, and can now apply what I have learned to modern and future medicine.
This was a very well-structured class with interesting lectures and fair assignments. I learned a lot about how medicine has changed in the US from colonial times to today.
Take this if you are pre-med or at all interested in health care! Dr. Jones is an incredible teacher who provides you with a unique outlook on the evolution of medicine in America. Such a great course!!!
This is an excellent course choice for anyone interested in the history of medical science or global health. Prof. Jones' work focuses on psychiatry, and he tried to incorporate this perspective whenever possible. He was a very engaging lecturer who accompanied each class meeting with extensive (and entertaining) slides that were quite helpful when reviewing for exams.  Consequently, the midterm and final were quite fair.  The two papers were fairly enjoyable and allowed for greater focus on self-selected areas of interest.  Be sure to keep up with the readings in order to fully immerse yourself in this great overview of colonial to current American medicine.
Lectures are great but there is sooo much reading. Definitely not your average gen-ed in terms of difficulty. And it is NOT scaled, which does not make sense to me. If the class is made too difficult, why should everyone suffer when students have no control over class difficulty?
When I first considered this course I was interested in the material, but worried the number of assignments (2 papers, midterm, and final) would be too much for me to handle with a full course load of chemistry and physics classes. These worries turned out to be entirely unfounded. Yes, the assignments are somewhat numerous, but they are entirely manageable. The papers especially made me grow as a writer, and the teaching staff is extremely supportive. Submissions of proposals and outlines throughout the writing process ensures that students stay on track.With regards to the overall course, I thought the material was interesting and useful. Lectures were engaging and readings are mostly good. Students who are willing to put a consistent amount of moderate effort into the course will be rewarded. Although I am a science concentrator, I am certain that the skills and informations I have learned in this class will be valuable to me as I pursue my interests in medicine and healthcare. Finally, because of the supportive nature of this class I would highly recommend this course to freshman seeking to complete their first Gen Ed.
Take this class!!! I was really dreading getting my USW gen ed, and I begrudgingly signed up for this class despite the fact that I've never liked history. I loved it. Prof. Jones is a really interesting lecturer, and the material was so much more applicable and fascinating than I had anticipated. It was one of those classes where I would want to tell people what I'd learned. I went in thinking I hated history/history classes, and now wish I'd taken more at Harvard because this class was phenomenal.
This is a great course that ties together the concepts of how medicine ha changed but also why it has changed.  The class also does a great job looking towards the future and what problems we will have in public health and medicine in the future.
This course is quite interesting and you will likely learn a great deal. I enjoyed it, particularly because I already have an interest in the topic. Lectures were enjoyable - Professor Jones is an engaging lecturer and does a good job encouraging participation. I also enjoyed the paper assignments. The parts of the class that I found could use some work were the readings and the exams. Some of the readings were quite interesting and I enjoyed them, however I found that others were a bit boring or too long and would have preferred if we were assigned more distinct passages or more pointed readings. Finally, I thought we could have been better prepared for what to expect from the exams and they could have been more fairly graded.
If you enjoy history of science classes or are interested in American medical developments,this class is great.  I wish it had given a greater global perspective but it was still very interesting.  Prof. Jones really cares about everyone and tries to help in every way.  This class was not easy however with good load of reading every week,2 essays, midterm and final.  I learnt a lot but be prepared going into the class that it is not simple.
Although this class required a bit more work on my part that I anticipated (mostly because I was new to historical analysis), I thoroughly enjoyed lecture, section, and the readings. It was a great course if you are in any way interested in medicine, public health, and/or how our healthcare system has developed into what it is today because this is basically a history of medicine in America course.
I think this class is worth taking simply because of Prof. Jones. He is an amazing professor and I'm very glad to have been able to take one of courses.
This is one of the best Gen-Eds I've ever taken. No, I'm not going to claim that this class will leave you thirsting to switch your concentration to History of Science. But yes, if you want a Gen-Ed that is reasonable, interesting, fun, relevant, and has an awesome course staff, then take USW13. Lectures and sections are great. Exams are pretty reasonable for the most part. Not an "easy A", but if you work hard, you'll get a good grade. Can't recommend this class enough!
The class is generally low pressure, other than the two essays and midterm+final required during the semester. I personally found the essay component rather enjoyable, and if you are interested in medicine definitely consider this course because it does a good job of giving students perspective on how our current medical system has come to be this way.
I gave this course a five because it is a good course. But the readings are way too much and the papers require a lot of work. You won't get away with last minute work.
I thought this class was really well taught and interesting, and it was a large deviation from what the course used to be like apparently.  The lectures were really interesting, and I learned a lot about what medicine used to be like in the US.  There are only two assignments aside from the midterm and final, and both are papers that are very interesting to write if you find a topic you're interested in.  Lastly, I think this course is really good for students interested in either medical school or pursuing careers in scientific research because it provides a social history of medicine that many scientists may not be aware of.  I found this to be really eye opening and give me a much larger appreciation for medicine.
A strong selection to fulfill US and the World Gen Ed requirement and History of Science. David Jones is a genius when it comes to the change over time and getting you to your next class on time.
The course provides a great survey of the history of medicine in the U.S. and how the medical profession changed over time. The readings from some weeks are quite heavy. Start on the paper assignments early and ask for feedbacks and advice. Professor Jones and the TFs hope that everyone can do well in the class, so make an effort to go to their office hours and seek help.
Professor Jones is great. You're learning about the history of medicine, but expect a healthy dose of difficult ethical questions. Jones made us think critically about what medicine means in relation to society and ethics. I felt that I not only learned about history, but I gained an important perspective on how to approach history. This is a great gen ed. The mid terms and finals were not easy, but they were fair. Same for the papers. Outside of that, the course had readings, but if you could manage those, the weekly work was minimal.
Take this class!! It is so interesting and awesome. And try not to fall behind on the readings. And talk to Dr. Jones.
Take it, expand your knowledge, fall in love with history and medicine all at once.
The material is very interesting but the tests are difficult and writing intensive.
Great class! A lot of reading, but great class!
Professor Jones is wonderful
The class is extremely interesting, making it worthwhile, but the final and midterm are a lot of work for a short period of exam time.
Jones is a good lecturer, readings are interesting (although sometimes the load is a little aggressive for a gen ed). The papers ask for direct engagement with primary sources, important skill for anyone interested in the history of science. Midterm and final were fair but cover a lot of material and therefore require a good deal of studying
keep up with readings; study hard for exams
Jones has a great lecturing style and the readings are really interesting, if you're at all interested in health this class will be very pleasant and engaging and not too much work, as long as you don't hate to write.
The grades were not always distributed fairly and the exams were not too representative of any work that was done in class.
