This is a highly demanding class, and I wouldn't recommend taking it for the purpose of satisfying GenEd for US in the world - I am sure there are easier way to do it. However, if you are into gender related movements in 20th century at all, and have a fair knowledge of American history in this period (with the emphasis on civil rights movement), I highly recommend it - Prof. Cott is a great lecturer and extremely knowledgable about the subject!
This is a good class! It is pretty easygoing throughout the semester and very interesting. Professor Cott is fascinating and the readings are enjoyable. Be prepared for the final exam though--the class doesn't prepare you as much for the analysis needed on the final. It was a little too easy in that it didn't call for really deep analysis, more of just like msuings, and so when you get to the final and have to write three historical essays plus analysis it becomes difficult.
Very very interesting. But only take if you are willing to read a ton.
The material in this course is extremely interesting and makes studying for the final exam less daunting. The readings are also enjoyable to do. The TFs are hard graders though so your overall average might not be as high if they don't like your papers, regardless of whether you did all the readings.
Great lecturer Nancy Cott is worth taking the course for, but the TFs have little to do with actually getting the material. The exam will be fair but the papers will take you by surprise because of the unnecessarily harsh grading.
a lot of reading that often needed to be alluded to more in lecture.
This class is not very much work, but you get a lot out of it. You read a lot of material and learn a lot about the history of gender in the US. I'm reminded of things we discussed in class on a weekly basis in my own life.
Great way to meet the US-W requirement; for history concentrators, you can also do a 2 in way and meet your Western History req!  Professor Cott gives very stimulating lectures, and the topic is fascinating.
Enjoyable, engaging lectures. Some very enjoyable and thought-provoking readings. A reasonably low workload. Great feedback and assistance on assignments and essays.
There is a TON of reading. SO much reading. Lectures are kind of boring in that they're so obvious, and you can tell what the gender roles are going to be like with a good knowledge of AP US History. Don't take it if you don't want to read 100+ pages every week.
I really loved the course material, readings, and section but thought the grading was difficult for people who are not familiar with history courses.
This is a subject everyone should know and understand, and Professor Cott is the best person to learn it from.
I really enjoyed this course--I have no background with gender history, but everything we learned was simply fascinating. If you have any interest in gender roles, the institution of marriage, and how these things have all changed in the last century, this is truly a great class. Also, taking a history course was a nice balance compared to a bunch of pset courses.
Great lectures from Nancy Cott, but the course lacked a sense of overarching connection.  Moreover, my sections were truly dull.  No one seemed particularly passionate about the material.
Professor Cott is fantastic.  She is a wealth of knowledge and a legend.  That said, I sometimes felt she was wasted in this course.  Lectures were often very elementary.  Though the readings were usually good, the quality of discussion depended a lot on the section leader.  If you are interested, make sure you ask a lot of questions and go to Cott's office hours, or else you might not learn much in this class.
It's sooooooo interesting. It's definitely one of my favorite courses by far!  I felt like I discovered something new every week!
This is one of the best gen-eds you can find. It's a hard class, but Nancy Cott is amazing and really makes this class great. There's a lot of reading, but it's interesting.
This class is great and really interesting. I learned about a lot of parts of American history from a gender perspective I hadn't before. There are a lot of readings but they're (mostly) really good. There aren't too many big assignments (just two papers) but response papers each week for section.
It is a great introduction and overview of gender constructs and 20th century American history. Interesting and relevant. My TF was amazing and sections were my favorite part. Most students in the class are history or gender studies majors, but that just makes the sections that much more engaging because the other students care about the material.
This class is life changing.  It opened my eyes to so many things that I took for granted in our world pertaining to gender that are not even remotely close to being ordained in humanity, but very new inventions.  It is not a joke class, but it isn't hard enough to prohibit you from taking it, because it's so necessary to understand these ideas to live in our world and have our debates.  Do it!
There's a lot of reading. Most of it is interesting and worth taking a look, but some weeks it was burdensome.
This class was demanding and complex for a gen ed class, but Professor Cott's  knowledge and perspective are interesting and valuable. The structure of the course and abilities of the TFs help further catalyze learning.
great class, interesting take on american history-- but more like 6 hours of work per week than 3. Readings took about 4 hours/week when done thoroughly (which they were expected to have been) and a response paper every week on top of that.
It's a lot of reading and as a non women and genders studies concentration, section felt a bit overwhelming. overall the course was very interesting and the readings were interesting, at least the ones I could fit in. This course requires a lot of reading
The grading is uncharacteristically hard for a General Education requirement. I would avoid it unless you are willing to go above and beyond to get a decent grade.
The readings are very good.  Lecture didn't seem critical to go to.  It was a fine class.
This class is a great overview of women's history and history in general, without being pro-feminist or shoving an opinion on to you. The workload is quite light and the lectures and TFs are great.
Definitely a worthwhile class if you're interested in the history of gender in America. It has somewhat more reading than most gen-eds, but it goes really fast because the materials are so interesting. Professor Cott is an articulate and engaging lecturer, and certain specific lectures are really fantastic. The papers are short, forgiving, and don't require outside research, so as a gen-ed, the class is a good combination of pain-free and intellectually stimulating. Section could be a little bland, but it was pain-free as well. Definitely take it if the material interests you; even though parts of the class are probably a bit redundant for people who took a good American history class in high school, there's still a lot of material that will challenge your assumptions about the history of gender in America.
This class is great and really broadens your understanding of gender in the 20th century. However there are tons of readings.
This course is a great way to be introduced to Gender History. Professor Cott's lectures are thoroughly interesting but the one negative is that there isn't much of a chance for class discussion. She did try to incorporate it many times but she just wants to say so much on the topic which is not necessarily a bad thing. I can only think of two to three readings that were honestly boring this whole semester out of the forty something we had. It was also great that the readings were scanned online, so you didn't have to buy any books. One thing that was not as enjoyable but not torturous was the screening of "Best Years of Our Lives". The rest of the clips she showed during class were all really interesting and funny.
This course was interesting, but it had many drawbacks. There were only two papers due for this class, which were graded very harshly and it was very difficult to gage what they actually wanted in them. The questions for the papers seemed straightforward, but then when you got them back they were looking for a more pointed view and specific angle to go at the paper which was not inherently in the question. I think that the class could have been structured better with assignments and sections.
This is a great class, and Professor Cott is extremely knowledgeable about the field and gives interesting lectures. There can be a heavy reading load, and it helps to identify the more important readings and focus on those. Other than reading, the workload is average: weekly responses and two longer papers, which are graded a bit steeply. Section focuses almost entirely on the readings, so it is important to stay on top of them, but the themes are interesting, and Professor Cott consolidates them seamlessly in her lectures. Definitely recommend, as a Gen Ed but also as a class to just broaden your understanding of gender relations in US history!
