make sure you're actually interesting in food history and american history, otherwise, could be pretty boring.  however, if you do like the topic / are ambivalent about it, then you'll likely enjoy the excellent lectures and the painless workload
This class is super interesting, different from any other course, well organized, and the faculty and readings are great. Take it!
I really would not recommend this course.  Although the professor was great and the material was interesting, section was so painful and the assignments too difficult (and graded WAY too harshly, esp. for a core) that the course is just not worth it.
I think in a few years with some serious revision the class will be great, but at the moment it is very young.
the course is interesting but requires a lot of self motivation to go to lecture and do the work. There are probably other classes out there that are more worthwhile
This course is a wonderful course in the General Education program that explores the topic of food in an engaging way. While the focus is on food, the modes of thinking that it interfaces with and the topics that are tangential to the main issue of food are very stimulating and allows students to understand the underlying social, economic, historical, and even environmental issues that provide the undercurrent of American living.
The course was really interesting if you are interested in food, however the lectures were really boring and the readings definitely better than the lectures.
First year classes have a lot of glitches - if this topic interests you and if, based on whatever you can gauge, the class has responded to this year's feedback and improved, you might want to consider it.
It's barely about culinary history. The professor dwells on technology which was unexpected and terribly boring. This class is like ordering risotto and getting gruel.
It's relatively painless and interesting
hard but definitely worth it
The class requires some reading but it is interesting and fun to learn.
Not much work at all, but it is surprisingly difficult to write decent papers about the history of food.
This class is fairly painless because it has no exams. However, that also means that if you are bad at writing papers, you will be very frustrated about the grade you get. Also, there is a fair amount of reading, that may or may not be a disadvantage depending on how fast you read. This class also offers you random facts which you can whip up on a first date - e.g. Pepsi is named after pepsin and was originally marketed as improving digestion - though success is not guaranteed.
A little bit broad, but has a fairly interesting smattering of information. At times, hard to see importance of topic in practical life, however.
It is a very interesting class, but a little more challenging then what I originally thought it was going to be.
its a good class, but do try on the papers. use your TFs.
Your grades may depend largely on your section TF
It's an interesting course that covers a lot of history with respect to food. You'll learn a lot about food in America and how it got to where it is today.
This class is on such a fascinating topic and counts as Core or Gen Ed. The lectures are very interesting, the readings relative, and the assignments fair. Take it!
The courseload is not that difficult, and it is a very interesting approach to learning American history.
fun class that applies to real life!
This is a great way to fulfill a history core for those with very little history background. It's an interesting and painless core.
If you find the topic interesting - food in a *historical context* - this course is very valuable, engaging, and admittedly fun. If you think history is tedious or boring, this class might feel like the greatest weight on your shoulders.
Painless way to fulfill US in the World Gen Ed requirement.
The class is interesting and pretty easy.  The material is engaging and makes you interact with what you consume very differently.
This course is fairly easy with interesting lectures, but you don't come out knowing much more than when you started!
The course has a very light workload. It drags at times. There was an entire book about sugar. Just sugar. Gets a little tedious in the middle. Overall, an easy was to fulfill USW. Would recommend during a tough semester.
The professor is a good lecturer and the course was fairly straight forward.
you'll be surprised how much you learn
The workload is light and this course is an interesting and easy way to fulfill a GenEd requirement.
Low workload, interesting lectures--and it's about food!
this course was interesting for the most part but it was a lot more difficult than i expected. there was no curve and the papers were challenging. the professors and section leaders were very helpful, but this course was a lot of work.
It's an interesting history course and probably a good way to fill requirements, not necessarily one of the top courses I've taken.
This class is easy and interesting, although the section component is kind of piecemealed. Some of the essay prompts are odd and not linked with other readings
do the weekly posting and contribute to discussion in section. meet with TF about papers while writing.
Awesome class! Professor Chaplin is a great lecturer.
the lectures are as boring as all get-out.
it's really interesting once you move beyond the first couple weeks
My response is a bit biaxed since I'm a foodie but...I would say that the material is really interesting and very relevant!  Professor Joyce Chaplin is a wonderful lecturer.  She's engaging, witty, kind, available, organized, and knoweldgeable.  The class demands a sustainable amount of work and preparation but is not overly stressful.  The assignments are interesting and creative.  Some of the readings are really good (I even read one of the books for leisure prior to taking this course). Sections also allow for interesting discussion!
It is easy to fall behind on the readings and lose focus
one of the best classes ive ever taken- i loved going to lecture and i was really interested in the material
This class is great to take as an elective or as a Gen-Ed course. It has interesting subject matter, readings, and assignments. The ability to create your own final paper topic was great.
Go to lecture.
A great way to satisfy the Gen Ed requirement.
It's great, but if you've already had two years of AP US History, you won't learn much new.
It is a course with great instructors!
This is a great class to take if you're a History/Hist and Lit concentrator, or if you need a US and the World Gen Ed class.  It's not super work heavy, but the work that is assigned in addition to the weekly blog posts is creative and thought-provoking.  Lectures are interesting and well prepared-- just try to get a good TF to make section bearable.  The course material was generally really fun to read and included a pretty diverse array of reading, videos, etc.  Overall, very enjoyable and I learned a lot.
It was easy for a core requirement.  Some of the topics were interesting, but there is only so much you can take about food.
Some of the readings are pretty boring, but the primary sources (the "raw") are interesting to read. It's kind of cool to see how depictions of normality have changed over time.
The workload is light, but harshly graded for a Gen Ed. or a core. They don't seem to understand this isn't really a concentration course for anyone taking it, and we are taking this for enjoyment rather than a deeper historical understanding.
Choose your section wisely.
This class was an awesome elective: fun lectures and easy assignments (and readings aren't totally necessary...)  You are definitely missing out if you skip lecture because Professor Chaplin is an awesome lecturer and even brings food samples to class!
Understand that this class is an AMERICAN HISTORY class at it's core. It is about food, but if you think it's just about FOOD, then you'll be disappointed. If you go in with the right perspective, you'll be much happier.
Very easy class.  But not the most interesting course available.
Way too much reading, graded like a graduate school class. The most painful and least enjoyable class I've taken at Harvard.
If you want to learn about food this is the course to take.
With the lax reading enforcement and high volume of material, section sucks because only the fools do all the reading.
Really interesting lectures particularly if you have a love of food. Coursework is pretty easy and the workload is light. Some of the readings are great while others are a little on the boring side, but not everything needs to be read super thoroughly since there aren't any tests.
This course is misleading and is not for the 'foodie.'
Go to lectures, even if they are in Yenching. Blogposts, though they seem tedious, help you keep up with the reading and ensure you aren't doing loads of work each time a paper comes along. You'll learn a lot of interesting things about American history through the lens of food.
not too much work, not a bad way to get rid of a requirement, and the subject matter can be very interesting but it's probably not going to be your favorite or most stimulating class.
It's a cool class where you learn American history through a different lens.  The lectures were full of quality information but I could've done w/ more enthusiasm and less severity to keep me from getting distracted and working on e-mail.
grade deflation on essays
Really interesting material, though I hoped it would have focussed more on the current food system in america.
Boring and poorly chosen section readings.
The lectures in this class seem interesting but the sections make this class unbearable.
The lecture and Prof. are great, but the section and readings were very dull.  This was one of my easy classes, yet I did the worst.
Very interesting material! Fun and painless way to fulfill a gen ed or core requirement!
Very easy to get away with doing little work; however, this makes for a rather unrewarding experience
The grading of the papers was really inconsistent.
The lectures are somewhat disconnected and feel unimportant compared to the emphasis that is placed on the readings.  Overall, you don't get a feeling of "the United States in the World" but rather a cluster of events, some of which happened in the United States.  I would no recommend this class, as there doesn't seem to be a central narrative and it simple tries to do too much.
It is not a difficult class and is an incredibly interesting subject.
Great class. Light workload and interesting stuff you can relate to with what you do in everyday situations.
I would say it is a very easy going class that brings a lot of history to the way food has shaped our society. I think a lot of people take food for granted and it is a great way to see how influential it actually is.
It was an interesting class, but I got less into it throughout the semester. You have to want to talk about food and women's roles to get the full value of the class.
I would rather not have any responses published for this course and my feedback for the course can be found in the other sections of the evaluation.
It's really interesting and light on work. However, I didn't leave it feeling like I had learned a great deal.
Painless core.  Learning about food is awesome.  If you don't like history, it's probably a good course for you, especially since the course mainly focuses on the 20th century so you won't feel like you're learning useless facts about the 18th century.  However, the course doesn't even focus on memorizing facts.  It's more like you just have to be able to make good arguments in order to do well in this class.
If you're looking for a 4th class, but don't want to do any work, this is a perfect class. It is an absolute joke. There is no point to go to lectures, all the notes are posted online. Section doesn't correspond with the lectures. The readings are summarized in lectures so there is almost on point in doing those either.
If you're willing to deal with terrible TFs, frequently unfulfilling readings, a regurgitation of most US history you've ever learned from the point of view of corn manufacturers, frustrating prompts, and slow-moving sections all for the sake of decent lectures and some free snacks -- then go right ahead and take this class.
Though USW 19 has a strong lecture component and fascination subject matter, assignments are unclear and grading is arbitrarily harsh and varies from TF to TF.  Furthermore, please understand that "take home final" actually means 6-7 page paper during reading period, when you have a lot of other things to do; this will not be made clear IN CLASS until April.  In the end, I was able to temporarily bend my writing style to the esoteric requirements of the course, but if you don't have a flexible writing style and considerable writing skill, I would advise you to run from this course and eat a nice American lunch instead.  RUN!
This was a great, laid-back course on a very fascinating, important, and personal topic. The assignments were a fresh approach and the course benefits from its open-minded professor and tf's, who allow students to study and write about the topic from their own individual perspectives. This is definitely not a "cookie cutter" gened course, and I would recommend it in a heartbeat.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS! YOU WILL THINK IT'LL BE FUN AND INTERESTING: IT WILL BE BORING AND PAINFUL!
This was a great course, very interesting for a GenEd.
It is a good class. Just make sure to keep up on your readings.
This class is awesome.  Take it if you need to fulfill a USW.
I am definitely not a history person, but this class was a good way to fulfill a history requirement. The lectures are really interesting and not too dense. Sometimes she brings in samples! You don't absolutely have to do all the readings every week, but I would recommend it because it makes section much easier.
This is a great course with a legendary teaching staff and rewarding material. However, beware, it's no easy A for a US history gen-ed - while the workload isn't heavy, you'll still have to work for your grade. Overall though, definitely a worthwhile course, you'll take a lot from it.
Chaplin is an INCREDIBLE lecturer, but this class is not an easy A.
If you like learning about food and history, this provides a pretty good overview of American food. There are a few weeks when the reading load is a bit heavy, but overall the course load is pretty good. The grading can be a bit tough at times.
This is the perfect US in the World course for foodies! Expect to learn about history, power, and capitalism through the ultimate commodity (food). The workload is manageable, with only 3 short writing assignments, a brief midterm, and a final exam or paper. The readings are heavy but you can get by without completing all of them provided that you're attentive in lecture.
Interesting lectures and readings!  The professor brings food to class!  What's not to like?
a harmless gen ed.
Great lectures, reasonable assignments - and I actually learned US History, something I thought would NEVER happen.
An effective and stimulating look at American history through the overlooked lens food as commodity, as material and cultural object.  Prof. Chaplin gives great tasty, clear, and entertaining lectures (a rare combo).  Readings are varied and always interesting.
This class offers a fun overview of how food relates to American history, both as an agent of change and as a manifestation of larger trends. Prof. Chaplin is a great lecturer (and cook!) and ensures that each lecture is more than just a list of fun facts about food, but rather a lesson about how food has been shaped by some larger force in history. The readings are all fairly interesting, and the paper assignments offer room to get creative with food history.
boring gen-ed, not as interesting as it sounds. but if you need an easy class, definitely take this one!
The lecture component of the course was really interesting and enjoyable. Wouldn't recommend this class because of the section.
If you are looking for a fun course and love food, this course is for you.  Professor Chaplin is extremely knowledgeable and presents American food in a different light.  5 stars!
I always talk about this class with my friends. The material is interesting, and I wanted to share what I had learned! Also, the samples are fun.
This class takes the interesting topic of food and situates it within a historical and academic context. I highly recommend taking this class if the topic suits you, as it will present an enriching academic opportunity to interact with the subject matter.
I learned a lot in this class through really interesting historical documents, great lectures, and fun projects. Not too hard.
Go to lectures and take good notes! This would help with studying for the midterm and final exam, as there aren't any curveballs on the material being tested. If you ever have any questions about the assignments and how to frame something, email or meet with the TF. He's really helpful in steering you in the right direction.
This class was just bad. The lectures were interesting, but there was far too much reading, section was unbelievable painful, and they graded way too hard. It had potential, but was a terrible class.
This class is amazingly fun and interesting. The things that you learn in this class will echo throughout your daily life... take the class.
Definitely a good class to take pass/fail. If I wasn't taking it pass fail I would have thought it was kind of hard. Section was kind of intense and there is a lot of reading, but lectures are cool and the assignments arent too bad.
Why did people rate this lowly last year .-. It was really fun for me!
This is a truly unique course offering! It was amazing to learn about the history of the world through the lens of food. The material covered is fascinating. Professor Chaplin is very knowledgable. My section was also a highlight. Be aware that that this course is no walk in the park. It is imperative that you do the readings. The essays and exams are a challenge. The assignments will take up a substantial amount of your free time.This class is difficult yet rewarding. I looked forward to lecture every week.
If you're interested in food history, this course is for you. The lectures are engaging and the material (including the readings) is fascinating
Only take if you have a strong interest in American history
This class is pretty work-heavy, but it's not bad for a Gen Ed. The subject matter is interesting (obviously some units are better than others--I wasn't a huge fan of learning about corn for a couple weeks...), but there's a good deal of wiggle room to focus on what you want. I'd definitely recommend doing a final project over the exam. It's much more fun.
If you read actively, keep up with the course, and consult your TF about your papers, you will succeed in this course. The readings were more interesting than I thought they would be and Joyce is in a league of her own as far as lecturing goes. She's probably the best lecturer I've listened to hear at Harvard so far.
I never liked history growing up and I am still not a history enthusiast to this day (STEM concentrator). However, at the end of this class, I felt extremely satisfied with the knowledge and understanding I gained about American food and culture. I recommend this class to basically anybody. It is not only a relatively light workload, but the layout of the class is one of the best I've encountered.
The class content is interesting, it is just a lot of reading and you actually need to read to do decently on the exams.
Great class with weekly food samples, hilarious professor, and really interesting history and cultural analysis on food.
Don't take this class unless you have a background in history and want to take a difficult gen ed class. Prof. Chaplin is a great lecturer so go to lectures! Section is very disconnected from lecture because we don't talk about the readings at all in lecture. In addition, grading for essays is harsh especially because the TF's do not tell us what they are expecting until after they've graded. Food samples are often a hit or miss, but are a nice touch.
This gen-ed is very engaging--who doesn't want to learn about food? But it is also more work than the average gen-ed, meaning that whenever you get an assignment expect to work hard in order to get an A.
If you have a genuine interest in food history this is an amazing class! Professor Chaplin and the TF staff have done an amazing job of maximizing return on time spent on readings. Readings take 1-4 hours per week out of class and are always relevant to the lecture material that week. You will get much more out of each week's lecture if you have all of the readings done before Monday's lecture. Professor Chaplin also brings a food item relevant to the week's lecture material once per week, which is a wonderful treat!
This is a great course! The teaching staff are wonderful, and their enthusiasm for the content is clear -- Professor Chaplin's lectures are very clear and informative, and Luke was a fantastic TF!
This course was awesome - great introduction to a very interesting topic.
a wonderful, wonderful class - not an easy Gen Ed, but one that will change the way you think about food and American identity.
This is a great gen ed and you'll learn a lot!
This course is a really fun way to take care of USW. Even if you have already done so, you should take it anyway!
Truly one of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard. If you need an SPU (or even if not), you absolutely won't regret taking it.
It's amazing! The course is interesting and engaging the entire way through. I found myself looking forward to lecture every Tuesday and Thursday.
Interesting course with a great professor. The papers were graded sometimes a little rough especially if you don't have experience writing history papers.
Really interesting course with not too much of a workload. Readings were fun!
This is a super fair gen ed. It has a reasonable workload, teaches you comprehensively, and is well-organized enough that it's like, not frustrating at all.
The grading is hard, so don't take this class if you think you can make an easy A without working for it. I worked supremely hard, and yet I still don't have an A in the class. Also, my TF clearly had a preference for certain students in the class (and I was not one of these students), and so whenever I said anything he just nodded and moved onto someone else. And he never encouraged other students, who never spoke up, to actually speak up, even though he knew that section participation counts for 20%. But the midterm is straightforward. The papers, however, are not, since they seem to want a certain something out of the papers that they never make clear nor do they give out model papers for help.
This class is not hard and the material is interesting.  There are papers, but not too long.  You do have to do the readings every week which does take time. Chaplain is a great professor.
This class was awesome! The lectures were always really interesting and there was food every week! There can be a lot of readings for some weeks, but as long as you understand the main points of the readings you will be fine!
This is a great gened class to take! It's not a gem because there is a lot of reading and a few assignments, but the material is really fascinating so it's definitely worthwhile.  Also the professor and teaching staff are all very kind, helpful, and engaged so it makes the experience really great!
Unless you're passionate about learning about the production of grain, don't take this class. During shopping week, the material seemed so interesting, and I was very excited to take the course. However, the shopping week material was definitely not representative of the entire semester's material. The teaching was great, but the grading was unclear.
This class is absolutely amazing! If you enjoy learning about food and sociology, this is the class for you.
This class is incredible. Professor Chaplin is clearly brilliant; she knows this material through and through, and knows how to get it across in a way that is remarkably clear, and builds a compelling arc over the course of the semester. If you have even a passing interest in food, take this class. Even if you've fulfilled USW, take this class.
Really fantastic material, and Professor Chaplin is an exceptional lecturer. The assessments (midterm, three papers) are all very manageable and fairly graded. Take this class, especially if you need a USW!
Great course!
It's a pretty easy class to fulfill the USW requirement. Not a lot of reading and other than some of the secondary sources, most of it can be skimmed quickly. The food samples are cool, Prof. Chaplin is a good lecturer, and none of the assignments are very demanding.
Do the readings!
This is a gem for a GenEd and I cannot recommend it enough. Prof Chaplin is so knowledgable and the topic is so interesting that it cannot be missed. There is a lot of reading but the course is overall very manageable. If you have ever felt that history is boring or disconnected from your life, this is a great way to enjoy you US-World GenEd without feeling that way.
Wonderful, interesting GenEd, robust blend of subjects and lenses used to look at the history of food production & consumption in the US from pre-European settlement through the present. Chaplin is an excellent lecturer. DO TAKE if you have some interest in history, anthropology, popular culture, histories of marginalization in the US, and/or economics (esp. if you like a little Marx in your cereal - I don't, really, but loved the course anyway). The course is run like a slick machine, the workload is gentle, but for me where it really shined was in the second half - the fascinating history of consumerism & how American 'cuisine' changed with American society during the 20th century. Readings are very interesting, often exciting. You really get a sense of the full scope of US history through a perspective you might not otherwise considercouldn't have picked a better gen ed to end my harv career
This class was very insightful and was interesting to learn about. However, the assignments were very random and not well explained.
dont take it
Good class to take P/F, but not as interesting and/or easy as it may seem.  Be prepared to do your work and the readings every week.
Interesting material, but grading is harsh. Low workload and probably one of the more painless ways to fulfill USW if you haven't taken ec10.
Very arbitrary grading and teaching staff's complete unwillingness to help students who have never had prior experience with history classes ruins the course's interesting subject matter. It is extremely difficult to get help or specific instructions from TFs. Definitely not what I expected going into the course, and I was very unpleasantly surprised.
This was the best Gen Ed I took at Harvard. Professor Chaplin makes the material interesting and accessible and I learned a lot from the assignments and readings. There are also food samples which is an added bonus!
Very, very easy and painless way to fulfill USW.
Take this course, or another with Professor Chaplin! She is a fantastic lecturer -- compelling, funny, and attentive to narratives/perspectives in history which are too often left out. Great readings, interesting topics, and you'll leave thinking more about what and how you eat, and why that is.
This is an excellent gen-ed to take. I'm not really a history person, but looking at history through the lens of food is really interesting, and Prof. Chaplin is a great lecturer.
This class is pretty great. It is definitely not easy--don't go in expecting you can slide by without doing the readings because you will be completely lost/look stupid in section. Professor Chaplin is amazing and her lectures are great.
This is a pretty great class if you can get into it (there was a lottery this year). Subject material is super interesting (it's fooooooood), food tastings in class are pretty awesome, and the workload isn't too bad. Assignments: 2-page paper, a 4-page paper, and then a Wiki page group project which was fairly easy. Exams: A midterm and a final (which you can replace with an independent final project). Professor Chaplin does a good job of keeping class engaging and cracking jokes and stuff, but her tone is a bit monotone so if you're tired and not trying to focus, you might zone out. I would recommend that you take this class if you're looking for a chillish class, but it's definitely not an easy class. My only complaint is that the grading on the assignments was really nit-picky and unfair--I got points taken off for things that weren't even clarified in the prompt. But overall, good class.
It's a good class with interesting lectures and food samples but the essays and exams are harder than expected.
This class is the definition of "worthwhile" and "no regrets."
The staff is very enthusiastic and informative about how food influenced the creation of American identity and cultural norms. Indeed, food is also provided to aid in understanding subject material.
If you are interested in the material then this is a great course. Lectures are great and really interesting. But actually do the reading or you will feel behing.
Looks like a cool course, but don't take if looking for light workload class.
do the readings for section and be actively attentive in class because it's very interesting
Great class! Lots of readings, but truly interesting material. Relatively painless USW, would recommend without reservations.
The reading workload is a little high, but Professor Chaplin is a very engaging speaker and lecturer. Samples in class are nice, but the course is not an easy-breezy elective.
Great class, interesting and pretty easy
Great class. Definitely take it if you can. Readings are a bit heavy, but assignments are relatively short and this was one of my favorite classes so far because lecture was so enjoyable.
Reasonably minimal but fun workload, overall a solid way to get the USW requirement out of the way
I really disliked this class. The syllabus claims that in class you will learn how to correctly write a history paper. I still don't know how to write a history paper, even after asking my tf for help multiple times... (he would say things like, yeah it's just like a regular paper, just pick a thesis and use lots of quotes to back it up, but he'd neglect to mention that doing things like evaluating potential biases in sources is a huge part of writing a history paper). If you do take this class, be prepared to take on subjects like the history of corn in colonial America and the history of banana diseases. Trust me, it's even less interesting than the name implies.
Fun topic. Prof. Chaplin's a great lecturer. (The food samples are ok.) The three papers aren't too long or bad. I enjoyed the class.
Pretty easy but not the best/most rewarding USW you could take (personal favorite is History of American Democracy). Have to do the readings/feel pretty good about them + the lectures to do well on the midterm and final.
You're going to love it.
Pretty laid back- some weeks have a lot of reading and much of it is worth doing (in terms of interest) although not always necessary.  I was encouraged by teaching staff to read some material in depth while skimming over others.
If you love food, take this course. The lectures are fascinating, and you really learn a lot. Sections are a bit disjointed.
Looking at history through a food lens is really interesting.  I think it's important to know that it's still a course on historical analysis through a lens.  When I enrolled, I thought that there was going to be a greater focus on some of the foods.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. It is graded so unfairly. The TFs are horrible and unaware of class information. The professor is disconnected from this course. It is absolutely awful. You'll think that you're different because you put a lot of work into classes so you'll succeed here. False. I spent more time on this than some of my concentration requirements, and still did poorly. It's an awful, awful class.
