USW36 is quite an enjoyable class.  You have the opportunity to hear from the perspective of some of the best that HBS has to offer, ranging from Mihir and David to a plethora of guest lecturers (some more engaging than others).  David in particular is quite a gem - he cares a lot about his students, and his passion for the class is evident every time he walks into the room and shouts "Good Afternoon!".  It's a shame that the class is based around a discussion format, as I personally would have loved to hear more from their perspective beyond the few minutes I had to speak with them after class.  The case studies covered quite a wide variety of industries and scenarios - I personally was more inclined to the tech-focused ones, while some were a bit less engaging.  Assignments were relatively straightforward - there is no real "wrong" way to answer them, so long as you can provide a relatively logical argument backed by some concepts gained from the reading (hint: financial statements are your friend).  Final project is also a great opportunity to work with a real life company on a real world problem, such as helping a company enter a new market and conducting the necessary market research beforehand.  One tip in hindsight is that the biggest name might not always be the best pick; working with a smaller company may provide more opportunities to have a real impact on that company's growth, while in the case of a big company your project might not ever see the light of day.  Grading is relatively fair, although I would have loved to see the feedback for the project.  One thing I will warn future students about is the participation grade - from what I've heard, they grade primarily on the quantity of comments rather than the quality.  This can be a bit frustrating, especially when you have something to say and just by bad luck the lecturer happens to pick someone else with a very similar point.  Overall a solid class - I had intended to take it senior year, but by some stroke of luck actually succeeded in lotterying this year and decided to take the class, a decision I am quite happy I made in hindsight.
Can get a bit repetitive and requires good preparation for the classes. Might be quite time consuming at times, esp. as cold calls are frequent
One of the best gen ed courses I have taken. It was really a huge growing experience to sit through a completely different style of course, where discussion was driven by students and learning was truely collaborative. Additionally, it was refreshing to learn how to quantify decisions (even those that seem qualitative) in a business context.
Great survey of the business school!
This class is one of a kind. It give you the opportunity to experience how Harvard Business School operates, how professionals in the area think about business, and where you can fit in business. It is not as much about entrepreneurship as the name suggests, but it still gives you a lot of good experience. One of the best parts in the group project that connects you with a real business, take advantage of that!
LOTTERY FOR THIS CLASS AND TAKE IT IF YOU GET IT!
I quite liked this class, but I do have a few reservations. I'll start with the positives, of which there are many. The course materials are absolutely great. You study two cases a week and then discuss them in class. Nearly every case I studied was simultaneously informative and entertaining. I rarely felt out of my depth reading them (even with little econ background), as they were presented clearly and simply. The balance sheets were occasionally overwhelming (you'll often find yourself think, how much time should I be spending trying to understand these numbers?), but the professors do a swell job of helping you get a grasp of some of the more knotty topics. Speaking of professors, they are perhaps the highlight of the course. The main course heads are wonderful, but the real surprise is that the guest lectures were almost categorically brilliant. Just take my word for it--the people who talk you through the cases are insightful, engaging, and frequently funny! It was truly a joy to experience such a wide array of talented teachers.I also liked hearing my peers' viewpoints and being able to voice my own. That said, trying to get your opinion heard in a class of 96 people, all of whom are clamoring to get their say in just 90 minutes of class time, was often quite frustrating. Your shoulder muscles had better be in top form because you will spend a good half the class with your hand raised, intensely yelling telepathically at the lecturer to please, please give you sweet relief. Yeah, the class is discussion-based. But accept that you're mostly going to be listening--not actively discussing--the whole time, and you might go the whole period without getting to talk once. If you can manage to talk twice in a class, you should feel really accomplished. There was this one day when I talked a whopping three times--now that was thrilling. But really, if you want a class where you get to engage and talk frequently, this is not that class. You'll mostly be trying to get your word in for participation, and then you'll take back seat the rest of class.Another gripe I had was a perception of some pretty arbitrary grading, along with very little feedback. The major papers in this course are hard. There's no way around it; you're going to feel like a toddler attempting calculus when you start the social investment assignment (that is, if you're coming in with 0 economic knowledge like I did). So I'd recommend talking through each paper with some friends in the course--that really helped me crystallize some ideas. Anyway, I put a whole lot of work into the assignments, and the feedback amounted to, like, two hastily-written sentences and a letter grade. When I probed the TF who evaluated my first paper further, I was really unsatisfied with the response. I really wish the feedback had been more detailed or at least displayed some underlying rubric; as it stands, it truly felt like they gave each assignment a quick once over, picked out a couple memorable things, and then slapped a grade on it. If you're like me and want a lot of feedback--especially on things you don't know a lot about--you're going to be disappointed in this course. Especially if you think you got shafted. Tough cookies: you're not going to get much of a justification, and you're just going to have to accept it. In summary, this course is a pretty great introduction to entrepreneurship. I learned quite a lot, and the learning was generally a lot of fun. The teaching was uniformly phenomenal, and I legitimately enjoyed most classes. Plus, aside from the papers (and there are only two big ones), the workload was light. However, the participation element of the class was often quite frustrating, and I found the grading/feedback process to be opaque and unsatisfying. I absolutely recommend this class, but do keep those hangups in mind because they are real and will annoy you.
This is the best class I have taken in Harvard because it facilitates many things that are unique for the college: working in teams, studying entrepreneurship, participating in a case study method (HBS style), working with an actual company to solve a particular issue, putting you in the field.  I wish many more classes in Harvard were like this!!This is a class that, though not too difficult in terms of workload, keeps you on your toes. You need to go to class prepared, or else you will not get the most out of the case we read. The visiting HBS professors, along with Mihir and David, are very well prepared to take the discussion in a unique direction. In the majority of classes, you come out "wow'ed" with the material, with the perspective the professor gave, or even with a comment somebody made. You have the flexibility to choose which group project you want, in a variety of startups, funds, and entrepreneurial organizations. The projects are very engaging! In my case, I was able to contact entrepreneurs throughout Latin America, an even meet with one in person. The professors are great, very supportive, get you to think. I very much recommend meeting with Mihir and David in person, and going after class with questions.
Best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Nothing else comes close.
Do the readings; be okay with open-ended prompts
Easily my favorite class at Harvard. Professors Ager and Desai are two of the most brilliant professors at HBS, and all of the guest lecturers are phenomenal. Cases are all really engaging and interesting, and assignments were thought-provoking and educational. Loved this course, MUST take before graduation.
Definitely take this for your USW requirement. If you are at all interested in going into consulting or business school, this class will help you. Our final project was essentially consulting for a small company, and gave me a ton of great experience. The final project is by far the best part of this class, and I really enjoyed working with a real company with a team of other students. The readings are interesting and relatively painless (1 hour max), and the conversations are pretty interesting though it can be tough to get a word in sometimes. This class is very manageable, and I would highly recommend you take it.
Best class I've ever taken.  I learned more valuable information/skills in a semester in this class than the first 3 years of my college career
This is a very solid USW. The lectures are very interesting, even for someone who does not plan to go into business. The only thing I would warn is that the major commitment for this course is the group project. If you do not work well in groups, you should not take this class.
This is one of the best courses at Harvard, and it's telling that it takes place at the Business School. You will have to engage with the cases covered; it is virtually impossible to just skate by. And when you leave, you will do so with a greater appreciation for not only what it takes to lead a company, but for how you can grow as a person as well. This may sound flowery, but take this course, and I can assure you that you will not regret it.
Great class and not too much work. Your choice of final project is decisive though.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard! Despite a focus on entrepreneurship, which is "practical," this course felt more interdisciplinary and liberal arts-y than most of the classes I've taken here. It was more work than I anticipated though.
It's amazing and unlike anything else the college offers.
What a great course! Not very difficult and supremely interesting. Anyone interested in business should definitely take this if you're lucky enough to get in through the lottery!
This class is amazing in most respects. The class is/was taught in a great room at the Business school, and the grandeur of the room made the class so much more exciting. The professors put in a tremendous amount of effort into the course, and it really shows. Mihir and David are excellent, and they are really committed to the students. They plan excellent lectures and activities, and they bring in great guest lecturers. However, grading in this course seems rather arbitrary, and it was not clear how to get an A on the assignments. The two papers you write are very time-consuming. However, overall the class is very light on workload. One thing I will say is that I am not sure if I learned a lot, or nothing at all. I am leaning towards the latter. I think there is a good reason Harvard does not offer a business major: the field does not have the academic rigor that other departments have. However, your experience will vary, and I highly recommend that anyone take this class. It's really cool.
Best class ever, hands down everyone should take it.
This course provides the unique ability to learn about entrepreneurship and business through the HBS case method.  You also get to work with start-ups.  The exposure to various guest professors is also incredibly useful.
Inspiring. Applicable to any field.
Read all of the cases and, even on the first class, contribute to class discussion. You will get more out of the course this way.
Believe the hype, its awesome
It's not that easy, it's not that hard.
I did not care for this class (took it for a gen ed) but know others who liked it. I think it's important to be very enthusiastic about the class conversation, the group-project, and the idea of working in Silicon Valley and saying 'disrupt' a lot. I'm not against pre-professional courses--but rather than teaching a specific professional skill, this course seemed to teach students the professional value of blowing hot air. This class was also well-run, taught by committed professors and TFs, and probably perfect for some students. Like Mihir said at the beginning, just be prepared to buy in to the pedagogy.
There are very few courses like this at Harvard. The business cases are fascinating and the professors are inspirational.
Your experience in the class can be dependent on the business you are assigned to work with - ours was a startup that was very engaging and we learned a lot about how companies like them approach problems. However I did hear that others had less multifaceted assignments that resulted in not quite as intriguing projects.
I have mixed feelings about USW-36. On the one hand, the course features the most amazing lecturers I have had at Harvard; almost every lecture is delivered by a different HBS professor, handpicked for their ability to engage the audience. The readings (case studies) are also unlike any of the ones I have done for other classes, and really kept the class diverse and interesting. On the flip side, this class seems like it was designed as a series of cool business talks rather than an actual, assessable class. The instructions for the assignments were vague at best (and interpreted differently by each TF). We did not have any graded assignments until mid-November, and had to turn in the two main assignments within two weeks of one another without receiving feedback in between. The group project also seemed hard to assess, seeing as each group did completely different work depending on which company they were assigned to. I don't know how participation was assessed either (and this was never fully explained), seeing as there is no section and there were 100 people in lecture trying to contribute (which sometimes felt a bit like a giant section, depending on the lecturer). If the course can work on these aspects, I truly think it can be one of the best courses at Harvard. Until then, I would probably recommend it as a cool and applicable Gen Ed, but probably not as an elective.
Seriously one of the best courses offered at Harvard. Cases are interesting and the guest speakers are all professionals, so it makes class seem like a show sometimes.
Not many assignments, the papers were graded quite harshly in my opinion. Participation is key. Professors and visiting professors are great. Don't expect to get much out of the final project. Kind of disappointing there.
BEST CLASS! Literally not bored for one second during that class: I was always engaged and so was everyone else. You must take this class!
This is without a doubt the best class I have taken at Harvard!  You learn so much, and the case method is a great way to learn!  I got to learn about specific businesses - some like Apple or Zipcar that I had heard of before, and some that were totally new!  The instructors are all amazing at facilitating class discussion. TAKE THIS COURSE!
Take this course if you get the opportunity!
The case method is fantastic, and I strongly encourage you to participate in class to get the most out of it. But don't just say something to say something (and get points), try to find something new, interesting to add to the conversation. Think outside of the box and challenge yourself. I think this course is a fantastic way to get almost anyone to think outside of their comfort zone for a bit and it covers so many different ideas that it is bound to teach you something new (and useful for the rest of your life). The cases are very enjoyable to read, and once you get comfortable participating the classes are a blast. Professor Ager and Desai are also fantastic and have organized the class well.
This class is great. The professors are amazing, and the discussion are fantastic.
Take this class!  At first, I was very confused during the finance section, but after the first few weeks, everything cleared up and I thoroughly enjoyed the class.  The guest professors were all incredible, and its pretty easy to get an A if you put in a decent amount of work.
TAKE. THIS. CLASS.
This class is fantastic and genuinely life-changing. Professors Ager and Desai are utterly inspiring, and their teaching style combined with their meaningful assignments (especially the final project where you can work with companies from Goldman Sachs to biotech startups) will absolutely challenge you and grow you as a person.
This is an amazing class! Definitely take it.
The case study method was fantastic and a great way to learn.  Don't expect to learn very much about entrepreneurship or innovation, but it was very interesting getting the opportunity to learn from business school professors.
Great class! Mihir and David are fantastic, and you'll learn a lot pretty painlessly!
This class is awesome. You're rarely bored because each lecture is so different from the previous one, and so interactive. Assignments are really interesting, and challenging in the best way possible (writing up the case is a different type of skill, but it's not graded too harshly). The only thing is, don't take this class if you're really shy about speaking up, because that is definitely necessary for getting the full experience. Also don't be intimidated by the people who talk all the time, because eventually you'll see that they are really just blowing a lot of smoke. Definitely take this if you get lotteried in!
Best class I have ever taken at Harvard. The assignments can be a little bit open ended but otherwise an incredible class.
A great class to learn about business, investment, social entrepreneurship and innovation in different industries and countries. Speak early on. The best part about this class are the discussions. . The portion on personal development makes this course a life class in addition to a business course, many lessons I'll carry with me going forward in life. The final project can be time consuming towards the end of the semester, but its a great way to learn about and work with a business in your field of interest.
Take this course! This course is extremely useful for all sorts of future ventures. It is very well-taught and a good introduction to the business school case method if you are interested in pursuing that path. Even if you are not that into finance or entrepreneurship, I still encourage you to take the class and to gain a deeper understanding about decision-making, finance, and the history of entrepreneurship.
This class is amazing. You have to take it! I wish I had taken it as a sophomore. My favorite class at Harvard by far!
I highly recommend this course!! Take it if you can (and keep entering the lottery if you can't!)
prepare for class!
You should absolutely take this class if you have any remote interest in entrepreneurship. I wouldn't say it necessarily changed my academic trajectory but it taught me many skills that are essential in the professional world, no matter what field.
TAKE IT!!! Best class i have taken at Harvard. Introduces you to the world of business, entrepreneurship in a very practical way. Though the professors explicitly say this course in not an into to an MBA, I reckon it is. TAKE IT.
The case method is a fantastic way to learn - you will find yourself excited to go to class (and yes, even to prepare). Highly recommend for anyone interested in entrepreneurship or even business. Grading can feel a bit arbitrary (which can be stressful given how few assignments there are) but overall it's a very painless course that I really enjoyed taking.
This class is fantastic, it'll help teach you a lot about entrepreneurship and the discussion format and professors are just awesome.
TAKE THIS CLASS EVEN IF YOU HAVE FULFILLED THE GEN ED. If you have any interest in entrepreneurship, you need to take this class. You will learn an insane amount. The business school case studies are terrific and a really engaging way to learn. The professors are incredible and outstanding--over the course of the semester you will be taught by 12+ of the top HBS professors. This class may also be the most practical class you take at Harvard. You'll do the same stuff that CEOs in training will in the executive education program, like a climbing Everest simulation. CEOs will come in to talk. TAKE THIS CLASS.
This class was great.  It gives you basically a sampling of a bunch of different HBS professors, all of whom were outstanding.  The lectures were really the highlight.  I learned to think in a much more business-like / profit-oriented way than I used to.

Be careful what you choose for your final project.  I ended up with a very early-stage startup, which made it pretty tough to figure out what to do.  An established business may be a better call.
Literally everything about this course was amazing. The case studies were incredibly engaging. The professors were some of the most inspiring and accomplished people I have ever met. And the final project was my favorite academic project of my life. This class has changed what I want to do with my life.
I loved this class! Every class was so dynamic and interesting, guest lecturers kept it alive and class participation ( which is an important part of the class) was enthusiastic and consistent. Keep up with course readings to be able to understand and contribute the most in each session. Thank you to the wonderful HBS staff for a great experience. Inspiring and I would love to take this class again!
Take this class, but try to take another USW as well.  This course is a great introduction to entrepreneurial concepts and practices, but I don't feel like I learned much about the US as a whole, or the world for that matter.
For anyone with any interest in business whatsoever, this is the best class you'll be lucky enough to take at Harvard. Every lesson, like riding a unicorn, is its own unique magical experience that you'll tell your grandchildren one day. Half of the lectures end up being guest HBS professors coming and cramming in the best parts of their respective courses into your tiny unenlightened brain. The work load is ridiculously light - two classes a week with about 30 min to an hour of prep for each. Simultaneously the things you learn in this class are practical and invaluable in the world of consulting and business. Essentially, TAKE THIS CLASS.
Pretty good class, but you must enjoy the case method of teaching.
This is an incredible class and a rare opportunity to learn a great deal about the basics of business and entrepreneurship. A must-take for anyone interested in business.
dont overestimate the time it will take to complete the final project
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. It is one of the only classes I feel actually taught me tangible skills and ways of thinking about real world business problems and opportunities. The case study method provided an effective and really quite amazing way to learn about particular areas within business and entrepreneurship, and I can honestly say that as a senior, I feel more prepared to go out into the world and start something of my own after taking this class.
Hands down the best and my favorite class at Harvard. Case studies were relevant, professors were awesome. I actually did the work for this class - assignments and readings. It's totally doable. Each 10-12 page case study takes maybe 30 mins to 1.5 mins depending on how you slow you read and how much you effort you put into breaking the study down. Close and fast reading takes 45 mins max. That basic minimum per class will help you learn so much. It's a class worth taking. It will push you intellectually, realistically, and creatively.
Absolutely brilliant class. There's a reason why so many people lottery to get in.
This course is one of the best and most practical courses at Harvard. You'll learn more about entrepreneurship than ever before. The professors (Professors Ager and Desai) are both amazing and truly invested in the course. All of the guest lecturers who come in always keep us excited!
This is an excellent class that I encourage you to take. We read a case each class which covered a broad range of topics, from balance sheets to leadership to social entrepreneurship. Assignments pushed us to think critically and to put ourselves in the shoes of entrepreneurs, CEOs, grant-makers, and other powerful decision makers. The instructors and guest lecturers were all fabulous, and the teaching staff was very invested in the students.
Assignments are kind of random and not well explained, but every class is a ton of fun and the professors make it worth the effort.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard!
Totally worth your time, even as an elective. The professors are amazing.
This class is one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Professor Ager and Professor Desai foster a welcoming environment in class, even if you're not comfortable participating in discussion. The final project was probably the most rewarding part of the class, and it made me realize just how much this case study course has taught me.
Amazing class! Definitely lottery and take the class if you can! learning from case studies is incredibly effective and such a fun way to learn. Also, we get to work with a real client for a final project which is a really fun and great learning experience. I'm a senior, and I probably learned the most from this course in all 7 semesters.
This class is an exciting change of pace for undergrads. The teaching format is almost exclusively case discussions. Don't be afraid to be cold called.
This class has changed my idea of what I want to do with life. The professors and guest lecturers are all passionate and engaging. This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. If you're on the fence about this class, take it. It is useful to anyone, no matter what you study.
Teaches you about some of the common pathways for entrepreneurs through case studies. You'll learn how businesses come to be, how they get financed and how they scale. Very useful for anyone considering entrepreneurship. Best of all, the lectures are extremely engaging. But you have to talk in class a lot and you might get cold-called. If you get stage fright, try sitting in the front so you can't really see anyone else!

Overall, this was a great class. The professors will press you on you responses, but you'll learn a lot from them as well as your more experienced peers. A wonderful course-- I wish it could accommodate more students!

The biggest takeaway for me was to use preexisting resources as much as possible when creating a business!
The best class I have ever taken at Harvard. Take advantage of the incredible professors that are brought in. Invite them to dinner, invite professor Ager to dinner, and have a wild wild semester.
TAKE THIS COURSE! It is the best course I have taken at Harvard. The professors are engaging and all the students are engaged too.
This class taught me so much and indirectly got me working with a really cool startup. It was the launching pad I needed to get into the startup and business scene on campus. Take it if you can. It is not super hard and every class i extremely engaging.
This class is amazing! This is a must-take class because it's something you can only take at Harvard. How often can you take a business school style class at HBS taught by actual HBS professors? The course covers seemingly every dimension of entrepreneurship, from strategy to venture capital to human capital management to self-awareness. The final project is also such a great learning experience -- although the experience depends on your project group, it can really be fulfilling and high-impact, since you're working on an actual business question for a company.
wonderfully perspective altering class!
This is one of the best courses taught at Harvard.  You will be able to experience the case study method and learn from top business professors.  The material was interesting, the class was engaging and you will learn skills that are actually helpful for your future and career.
This class taught me how businesses like Ryan Air and Zipcar work, which is super exciting. It also gave me an intro into finance. Take this course, even if you are not set on entrepreneurship (and are okay speaking in class discussions, because you need to participate at every class)!
This course conveys crucial knowledge in order to manage a business in today's world.
The participation requirement really kills the course. It could be very rewarding if people weren't trying to get their participation points and raising their hands for less than insightful comments. The TFs are not very helpful so it's mainly an independent course.
I became more aware of process of entrepreneurship in America, as well as the moral decisions one must take in any leadership situation, especially those when one is heading an entrepreneurial venture. It encouraged innovation, and allowed me to view things with a lens that was able to adapt better to a changing world. It inculcated in me an ability to think quick on my feet. HIGHLY RECOMMEND
Take this class. Whether you have your own startup or have no plans of starting one, USW 36 will be the one class you have to take at Harvard. It's the best Gen-Ed class I've ever taken, and probably one of the best I ever will take. David and Mihir are amazing, and the guest professors they bring are leaders in their field. Nowhere else will you get this kind of opportunity unless you go to HBS! Just make sure to read the case and prepare, and you will have no regrets.
I thought the course was quite good as a whole. However, it is unfortunate that a TF is always keeping a running tally of how many times each individual has spoken. This led to a number of vocal individuals speaking extremely often with comments of absolutely 0 substance. There were some fantastic cases (case of unidentified industries) and some silly cases (google project oxygen). As a whole the class was interesting. The class is a gen ed so don't expect this to be a course on how to found your own company.
This class affords a very unique experience to undergraduates, as it's taught in HBS case study style. It really asks you to think critically about businesses and looking at them in ways you didn't before. If you're interested in entrepreneurship or business at all, I think it's a great class to take!
One of the coolest and best classes offered to Harvard undergrads - you would be a fool not to lottery for this.
The lecture/discussion/material in this course was extremely stimulating. However, because there was no feedback provided and a seemingly arbitrary method of grading, I became completely jaded by this course. If the teachers could figure out a way to grade us, instead of placing us in "participation" groups which are complete BS, this course would have been good.
This class provides an excellent overview to many, many subjects and themes in the business world.
This class was amazing. I looked forward to going to lecture every week, hearing from amazing professors, and working on generally incredible case studies. You work on a final project with some amazing companies and organizations, and I really enjoyed preparing for class every week. I left the course feeling really confident in my knowledge of entrepreneurship and business, which is a huge success in my mind.
You'll learn a whole lot, but be ready to put in some work, especially towards the end of the semester.
This is a great and very unique class. Take it if you're interested in business or, in particular, entrepreneurship. The class is taught in the case method, which fosters excellent class discussion. The projects are sponsored by great companies and are very rewarding since you get to work with real companies on meaningful project related to their success. The course is a bit of a heavy lift and does take up a lot of time, but it's definitely worth it.
best class ive taken at this place. ill give it to you straight: highly arbitrary marking, all star profs (absolute bosses), rewarding final project, minimal work levels (0-4 hours), surrounded by great people (although insecure people putting up their hands to say stupid stuff is unnerving), material is outstanding, lecturers brought in are great, atmosphere is unique and leaves a lasting impression. Phenomenal course that i'll probably miss. Definitely take if you can get in.
This is intellectually uninteresting.Skip it, wait for the real MBA, this is not worth it. The grading is arbitrary and not well structured. The different lecturers are good, but since you are graded on participation and participation depends on being "called on", to have varying lecturers only results in those with favorable seats receiving attention.
Amazingly fun course.  Read the cases, discuss with friends before class, and don't be afraid to speak up in class.  The final project is super fun too!  Definitely take this class!
This class has the potential to be Harvard's greatest undergraduate class.  The lectures are the best that you'll ever experience at Harvard.  The case studies you read are fascinating and engaging.  The class discussions can be absolutely motivating, inspiring, and gripping.  I frequently left the class with great ideas and ready to start a new venture.  The format of the course and the overall experience will be unlike anything you have experienced at Harvard.  And it is actually applicable to real life, unlike most of the Harvard experience!  So refreshing.  Unfortunately be ready for logistical frustrations that really sour the experience.
The material you cover in this class is fascinating. But I quickly got frustrated with the "over-eager" mentality of other students who would talk just for the sake of it, and we often didn't engage with the material on a serious enough level. Also, try to pick a project group you know well, since it's a huge chunk of your grade and if you have different work ethics/standards, it can be tough.
US&W36 is an intellectually stimulating class which teaches you practical skills and entrepreneurial concepts.
start raising your hand early. don't be intimidated that other students know more than you -- half the time, they don't.
Great class! I would recommend it to anyone who is interested in business or is thinking about it! All the professors are amazing. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard
Its a phenomenal course. Very different from anything else you will take at Harvard. If you're considering business school, entrepreneurship or VC, definitely take it.
For real insight into how companies are built, this course offers a variety of perspectives: from the non-profit to the social for-profit endeavor, this course gives you a foundation to imagine, debate, and think about the things that impact you daily.
I wouldn't recommend this class unless they change the lecture and grading.
This class is an amazing way to learn more about businesses, innovation, and entrepreneurship. It's challenging and you have to keep up with the work, but it's incredibly rewarding. I've learned so much about the entrepreneurship space and every class leaves me inspired!
Don't be scared to participate.  It's a great class to learn more about entrepreneurs and the different challenges they face.
Some of the classes/cases were very interesting.  However, I would strongly caution students interested in this.  Students are often cold called and have to answer difficult, sometimes unfair questions in front of 90 of their peers and intimidating professors.  Because participation counts as 50% of our grade (and we are ranked), students are very competitive about trying to speak.  The professors are not sympathetic to college students' needs.  The final project was a pain.  While the cases are interesting, you don't learn a ton.  There's a lot of extra annoying work.  In total, think very hard about taking it even if you think it sounds perfect like I did!
This is a GREAT and unique class at Harvard. The professors you will meet are best of the best and they have a lot of insights beyond the academic materials offered at the college, namely how to apply your skills to the real world.
AMAZING Class.
This class is completely unique. While there were several organizational and logistical problems with the class (as it was being offered for the first time by two business school professors who had never taught undergraduates before), it turned out to be an amazing experience. You will delve into several cases (one per class) and get a glimpse of what HBS is really like. Joe and Mihir are two of the most baller professors around and their lectures are fascinating. That said, there were some huge disconnects from class to class and not every speaker was as good as them. This class is also super easy (no tests, quizzes) only one final project, in class participation and 2 short reaction notes per week. If interested in entrepreneurship and/or business school, this is a painless way to fulfill the US in the World gened.
Take it.  I am so proud to be the first year of alumni.  I had a wonderful time, both for the case studies and the group project, which is now my Facebook profile pic.
Make sure that you're willing to push into the conversation being held.
you are lucky if you get to be in this class. great material, taught me so much. excellent project component (I got lucky with a great group and great project). also, if things are a bit disorganized, run with it. you're entrepreneurial.
Best class i've taken at harvard this far! Final project requires a lot of work though -- make sure to start early.
This was my favorite class thus far at Harvard. It is an awesome course and there is a goldmine of knowledge to get out of it.
it's stressful and a lot of work if you prepare for each case study, but it's important to learn how to participate and contribute effectively
This course was an important experience for me because it made me realize how in the business world there is no science behind anything, there is no right way of doing things, there is no path one should follow when dealing with a certain situation. This business class was the biggest wishy-washy course I've ever taken at Harvard, and it made me realize how funny it is that anyone can talk about business as if there was something to be talked about. It all came down to a bunch of elaborated commonsensical concepts, nothing more. If you wanna see why business is no intellectual enterprise, and why no one should really waste his time going to Business School, then take this class.
Take this course if you're at all interested in learning about how to use organizations to make a difference in the world, whether through the private or public sectors. The case lectures are what made the course and despite certain critical deficiencies that the professors are aware of and thinking of how to remedy for future years (e..g minimal to no feedback, reaction notes for each lecture that didn't contribute to the class at all), I still give the class my highest recommendation. Really, the cases are that good. You're getting the people who authored these cases, talked to the person profiled in the case, coming to lecture you. Many of these people have repeatedly won teaching awards at HBS, where the average teaching quality is already measures higher than in FAS.
Unless the grading structure, in particular the participation component, changes significantly, I would be very aware of the fact that you will be hearing more from your peers than from the professors. Also the final project, while great to have the opportunity to actually work in the real world with a company, was difficult to pull together because of the complications that arise when one has to work with a group.
This is an amazing opportunity to take a class in a business-school format and to work with a real social enterprise and take your learning outside the classroom. Do it.
Even though the professors say it's "not a mini-MBA," it certainly felt like one to me, and I gained exposure to a variety of business topics. I also gained valuable career guidance. And the case study method is super fun - just don't take the class if you're not willing/able to speak up and join in the discussion!
Poorly organized and nearly impossible to track your progress in. Nearly every participant is "that annoying kid in section."
This is a fast-paced but amazing class - unlike any other class you will take as an undergraduate. You will learn about very relevant, real-world issues, and the class will definitely challenge your critical thinking and also push you beyond the traditional bounds of an undergraduate class. It is an exciting and well-taught class. One of the best I've taken at Harvard.
Be prepared to put a lot of work into the cases. I never did, and I think it really hurt me. Also, researching the guest lecturers before class can give some really useful perspective. Overall, the daily work outside of class is very small--with the exception of the project. But the lectures are incredibly useful and really some of the more interesting I've had at Harvard. With regards to the project, be prepared to put in a lot of consistent work over the course of a month. It was by far one of the best opportunities I've had through a class here, but the stakes are high and it's definitely easy to lose track of your progress and fall behind.
Great experience learning practical business materials with enthusiasm-generating professors.
Using participation as a key component of grading led to arbitrariness and did not accurately assess effort as everyone aggressively tried to get a word in.  Course materials and project were terrific, though
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. I learned so much each week and really enjoyed the case method in the class. I was so impressed with how much Professors Lassiter and Desai really cared about this course and the students.
extremely interesting and very enjoyable
material is awesome but grading seems arbitrary. make sure you make a good impression at the very beginning.
The case studies are great. The professors are engaging, and the material is pretty eye-opening. Discussion format is actually extremely effective. Only drawbacks are a lack of organization (first year of offering, after all), which meant that the final project was crammed into a VERY hectic last month. Grading was very confusing, which I suppose was only that worrisome for a sophomore or junior.
This was the first class I have taken at Harvard that you had to actually prepare for ~2 hours before every class. The case method can be interesting, but the class itself lacks any common thread. If you aren't 100% confident that you can speak every class, be prepared to get a not-so-good grade.
You will learn so much about business, HBS professors, the HBS classroom, and entrepreneurship. This course is for anyone with even the smallest amount of desire or interest in starting your own business. Unlike other classes, you will actually learn in the classroom. The readings are extremely applicable, the Case Readings are enjoyable, and it is the only class that I have read 100% of the assigned readings for (just the HBS cases.)
Please take this class if you want to have a taste of the b-school format and learn about entrepreneurship and innovation. The only downside is that grading is very arbitrary and uninformative with participation 50% of the grade but you have no idea of how you are doing. In addition, too much attention was focussed on the case studies rather than the bigger theories that underlie the point of each one.
the grading is ambiguous so if you're likely to be nervous about your grade it might not be the best for you. but otherwise, an amazing class so if you don't care about grades, don't miss out!
be prepared to put in time and work for both case study preparation as well as the project, but if you have the time, definitely take it. a look at the HBS world
Only course where undergrads can get exposure to the real business world. every lecture is taught by a top-notch HBS professor, don't miss out.
This class is fantastic. It teaches you how to put yourself in the shoes of the key decision maker in whatever business venture and forces you to begin to appreciate the complex environment within which they make decisions.
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard. The professors are fantastic. Don't be afraid to participate in class discussions and take advantage of all the lecturers who come in to speak. Also, be very proactive with the class project if you want to get the most out of it.
I don't want to be an i-banker or consultant; I'm interested in social issues. I was never super into business, but my advice: take this class. It opens your mind to what it takes to successfully effect change, work in teams, build upon great ideas, etc. No business internship or extracurricular background? Me neither. If you just come in with an open mind and willingness to put yourself out there and discuss case studies in front of 90 people, you'll be fine. It helps a lot to talk about the case studies in small groups of classmates before the actual class so you learn from your peers and bounce your ideas off of each other before you present them to the entire class. You get more out of the class that way. It's intimidating and terrifying at first, but if you just get yourself to talk at least once a class, you build confidence. The people who waited forever to talk just built up their fear of talking so much that later, when everybody else had gotten more comfortable with talking thru practice, they were still remaining silent.Apply for a final project you're genuinely interested in. I did, even though others seemed more legit (White House, Gates Foundation, etc)--and I got so much out of it and established a great relationship with my corporate sponsor that positioned me to get involved in social-issue-oriented start-ups and for internships I actually care about later.This class is refreshing and allows you to study practical and applicable things. Definitely my favorite class of the semester, and I had an amazing and really fun bunch of classes this semester (including SLS20 with Gilbert). This course changed my life (corny as it is). It's taught me so many lessons about what it takes to bring an idea of yours and put it into action, gave me the credibility to get two startups to want me to join their team, and I definitely have the confidence to start my own entrepreneurship very soon.
The material and teachers are fantastic, but until they fix the grading system, I would not suggest this class to a friend.
While it was quite work intensive, this is the most rewarding class I have taken at Harvard. We learned about a variety of innovative and entrepreneurial ventures and many of the skills from this class are very practical and applicable to the real world. The case system creates a unique dynamic amongst the class and the project is really fun because you are working with a real company. Take this class if you get in!
This was a great course to take a look at the case study method that the business school uses and also a great way to better understand entrepreneurship in the US. The course had no section component to it, which made it difficult for the staff to assess our real participation in the class. Because our grade so heavily depended on participation, I don't know if it was graded fairly. However, I highly recommend it if it's offered again. The final project lets you get involved with a real business/startup and get some experience doing some real work in the real world.
Grading is completely arbitrary. The business school way of teaching through case studies seem extremely attractive at first. Do not be fooled by this. It works well in HBS because MBA students actually have experience and contribute relevant comments to the discussion. Because participation is a relatively big portion of the overall grade, college students have incentive to raise their hands and say whatever pops up first in their heads. The discussion is constantly dominated by people who don't actually say anything. The head professors ask for feedback on the progress of the course but often respond in a very condescending way and is defensive of their way of teaching, even though it is fairly obvious that their way of teaching is not effective for college students, as mentioned before. The class is extremely disorganized. The syllabus changes multiple times and assignments are sometimes posted a day before class. Note that this review reflects the first time that this class is run. They might change the course next year.
Please do more of these classes !!!
Really excellent class.  I learned more from each week's case study than I do in most semesters.  An amazing opportunity to work with business school professors.  Excellent preparation for the entrepreneurial world, or just business in general.  The professors were awesome - they didn't take any BS, and guided discussions in great directions.  Learned a lot from classmates, though it would sometimes take a while to get useful comments out of the class. There were guest professors almost every lecture, which was really interesting for exposure to many aspects of the university.  A pioneering course that represents all the great things that Harvard has to offer!  Don't miss your chance to take it.
Take this class
This is the type of course you never forget. The students around you will surely be leaders in innovation, and the cases studied and discussed will provide a basis for later courses and applications.
An interesting class, but not very transparent about grading. Project can be a lot of work, so start early.
Awesome Awesome Awesome. This class is so different from normal undergraduate classes. The professors are amazing and the case studies are interesting. Grading is not very transparent, but otherwise, great class.
Awesome class. You learn much about business and entrepreneurship. It's an amazing chance to see HBS professors in action.
SUCH A GOOD COURSE. Interesting cases and themes, extremely engaging, fascinating class discussions (that are productive and directed by great professors).  The project presents an opportunity to apply knowledge to a meaningful outside issue - and get outside the academic bubble.
Don't get freaked out by the class participation component. Quality matters, not quantity
