Skocpol and Waters are Gods amongst men. Take it just for them.
Professor Skocpol will make you work hard. Do not take this course if you are trying to take an easy gen-ed. This class will force you to think about American politics in new and unique ways, but it does take a lot of time and thought. The paper policy memo assignments force you to think creatively, which definitely makes you learn a lot. The final was hard as was the grading sometimes...but overall I would say it was worth it.
The class involves a lot of reading and writing and has a steep learning curve, but you will learn a great deal about current American society and policy. Professors Skocpol and Waters are both fantastic scholars and good lecturers, and they will take you through insightful discussions of current American social issues and public policy. You will learn to think critically about why American society is the way it is and what factors are at play in how policies are formed. The answers will surprise you, and you will become a much more informed citizen.
The final exam is killer (3x1500 word essays in 5 days).
It's a great class, with fantastic professors. Does have a lot of reading, but it is manageable. For a Gen Ed assignments are surprisingly intellectually stimulating, as there is a lot less busy work than I've encountered in most other such classes. Be aware that the final take-home exam will take up a huge chunk of your reading period. Make sure you have notes (with page numbers) on all, or at least most, of the readings prior to the start of reading week.
If you are interested in the interactions between government and society then this is the class for you!
This is a great introduction to all the issues in American society today, and youi actually learn information here that CNN and Fox don't talk about, but it is very general, and there is a lot of reading. Its worth taking, but prepare yourself for some work.
Great course, covers very applicable material. The papers come up fast, but are reasonable. Not easy, but very interesting.
It's an excellent introduction to social and political issues.
Amazing class if you're interested in taking a public policy course.  It's very challenging, and expectations aren't always as clear as they could be, but the quality of the professors and reading list more than make up for it.  A really engaging and interesting subject.
Reading is a little heavy
You must absolutely love the subject.
Very interesting, timely information. The essays are a pain as the prompts are somewhat all over the place, and the take-home final was basically just 3 more 6-page essays to be written in 4 days. The material is great though, and I am very glad to have taken this course. Lots of information about really pertinent subjects in depth.
This course will help you read the newspapers on domestic issues with greater scrutiny and understanding.  It supplements the American history many of us learned in high school by informing students about what has happened over the last 50 years in American history.
A lot of reading, but you learn quite a bit
It is an interesting course that provides an overview of a variety of contemporary topics, but the class definitely has a liberal bias and we don't explore the topics too in-depth.
This class definitely made me feel like a better informed citizen.  I will be more confident in how I vote and evaluate public debate from now on, and I feel like I am better prepared to consume newspaper articles and other information about public policy and politics.  There is a lot of reading for this course, but it is relevant and interesting.  The final take-home assignment was very time consuming, so if it's the same, plan your reading period accordingly.
It's a lot of work for a Gen Ed, especially if you aren't concentrating in Government or Economics. However, I learned a lot and am glad I challenged myself to take it.
Great government course on US social policy taught by two rockstar professors. I found that I learned a great deal more about issues I had previously thought I understood. I would definitely classify this class as "very liberal", so just keep that in mind.
I genuinely believe this is the worst class at Harvard. I took this class thinking I could kill a Gen Ed by taking a class with a world-famous professor, and my experience could not have been farther from that land of unicorns and rainbows.  Every topic was boring and unnecessarily drawn out. Papers were painful to write and prompted no original thought whatsoever. Lectures were mind-numbingly dull, and the professors' collective lack of command of PowerPoint made them all the more unbearable. Don't get suckered into this class like I did. Avoid it at all costs if you don't want to be incensed by its very existence.
Professor Skocpol is cold and unapproachable. She is actually one of the least interested professors in her students I've had at my time at Harvard. That said, Professor Waters and the TFs were great.
While certain aspects of this course were very interesting, it is graded rather harshly and the essays are not as involved as they could be.
USW 31 is a very interesting class for those interested in public policy. Waters and Skocpol reveal some very inconvenient and often disconcerting facts about inequality in the United States. The class will challenge you to think about policy in a way you haven't before.
there is a TON of reading. don't expect to take this course and skim a few things. you really have to read, and read everything,  if you want to do well
This is a great class for both people who do not know anything about public policy, and for those who do and want to learn more about it from great professors. It really makes the news more interesting because you actually understand what is happening in the US.
It's a really interesting course, especially because it is all so relevant. But be prepared for quite a bit of reading and extremely harsh grading.
There are a lot of readings but they are really interesting and worth doing.
The course provides a good overview of social, immigration, and education policy that any knowledgeable citizen would benefit from have an understanding of. The only problem is that assignments and assessments are not particularly rewarding in the course.
This is a FANTASTIC intro to many very, very important social issues. Definitely one of the most relevant and substantively interesting classes I have taken at Harvard: essentially a primer on ever major domestic issue facing the U.S. today. It's not by any means an *easy* Gen-Ed but I think it's well worth your effort and will leave you feeling gratified for having done a little bit more reading or writing than you might have otherwise.
this class was really interesting. there is a ton of reading that you most likely will not be able to do every week, but you can get the ideas from lecture and section. the professors were very good and i recommend this course
General knowledge about social policy and society in the US. Information that every student should know!
The subject matter is very interesting. A good class for Harvard undergrads to be exposed to.
The course is extremely interesting and helpful, but there is A LOT of material and an outrageous amount of reading.  If you're a senior, definitely takes this Pass/Fail, otherwise you will drown.
Very cool class, though it has a left-wing slant.
If you want a good introduction to American Society and how it works with Public Policy, TAKE THIS COURSE. It's a lot of READING, but the readings are GOOD. There's definitely a pronounced democratic bent, but it's a terrific course, regardless of political views. You won't develop a personal relationship with the professors, but if you take the initiative, I'm sure you could.
American Society and Public Policy is a great class to take if you are interested in learning broadly and specifically about the three major themes of the class--social inequality, immigration and education--all of which are hot button issues. The class takes both an historic and contemporary view of all three topics.
The professors are very smart and knowledgeable experts in their fields. I found the lectures very interesting in general. There was too much reading, though. The class gave me a better understanding of issues that are relevant now and will be for years to come. It also taught me a lot about how public policy is developed and how it influences society.
really illuminating, cool class
This class will give you a good introduction to a select number of US social policy topics, with a focus on trends in inequality. The weaknesses of the class are that the amount of reading seems disproportionate to its effectiveness, expectations for grading are not always communicated clearly, and you will get minimal interaction with the professors unless you make a very concerted effort.
This is the best class I have taken here, thus far. I can honestly say that I learned SO MUCH over the course of the semester, and this has even affected my choice of concentration. This class is a great overview of major issues in American society, taught by amazing professors.
A great way to familiarize yourself with topics such as immigration, Medicare/Medicaid/Social Security, higher education, and inequality in the US- even for someone who knows next to nothing about these policies coming in!
You learn a lot about major and important current American issues, such as immigration, health care, inequality, higher education - you learn about things that I believe are really important for every one to know, simply to live in the US. A lot of reading, though.
I loved this class, I greatly recommend it. However, be ready for only a basic overview on each of the subjects, not an in-depth look at the problems.
Lot of reading, but the content is interesting and the papers are fairly easy and interesting
Prof. Waters and Prof. Skocpol are both brilliant; they are the reasons to take this course.
This class was very interesting. As a foreign student, I learned a lot about America's society and politics. I found the material fascinating, but I did not find it a light class (perhaps because I am a science person).
I would not recommend taking this class unless you simply must take a public policy class.  This is a gen ed but the tough grading curve, large amounts of reading, and unexciting section do not add up to a hugely meaningful experience.  I do think I have a better understanding of large trends/ issues in US public policy.
This class covers pretty interesting material with an obvious and (probably) justified slant to Democrat/progressive perspectives and solutions.  Be aware of a few things though: income inequality is a huge section of the class and reappears throughout the class, grading is very difficult for a general education class (it's more like a higher-level Government class in its approach to grading), reading is a whole lot for a general education class, and section can be very underwhelming for a class full of divisive issues. Although there's no other class at Harvard that offers the wealth of topics like this class, it's probably better just to take those in-depth classes that cover a portion of this class's material.
This course was extremely thought provoking and I would recommend it to anyone looking to learn some of the facts behind the main policy debates today.
This course could be taught entirely in lecture or entirely in the reading on the syllabus, as the two sets of information are rarely connected. Lecture provides a brief survey course that could probably be condensed into a month of class, and the reading is dreary and much to in depth . Section does a poor job of making either lectures or the reading relevant.
This class teaches you how to be a productive, informed citizen of the US. You will walk away with a better understanding of the US government, and our country compared to the world.
It's a good course, Waters and Skocpol are great and know their stuff. It might be frustrating and slow at times for people who know the subject matter really well and be prepared for Harvard students at their worst in your sections.
I absolutely loved this class. All the subject matter is relevant and interesting, and the coursework is very manageable.
The class was really interesting and provided a great overview to inequality in America. In fact, the class should be called "Inequality in America" as all of the policies we looked at focused on their current role in exacerbating inequality in America since the 1970s
really interesting class, a little more work than a standard gen ed, but you learn a lot if you put the time in to doing most of the readings and showing up to lecture
If you've taken sociology courses before this course has a lot of crossover and not necessarily in a way that illuminates your understanding of the topics. Rather I felt I was not being taught new ways of looking at these issues but being told what the issues were and forced to come up with solutions that seemed insincere.
This class has been one of the most eye-opening classes I've taken: you learn the many, many ways that America has failed this generation and what has led up to that. Readings are long but mostly interesting, and lectures can be presented in a somewhat dry manner, but the subject matter makes up for it. The class was harder than I expected, for a Gen Ed, but definitely rewarding.
This class is a good introduction to the mechanisms of public policy and the major issues today. The assignments were fun and section discussions were interesting. However, the coverage of these issues is heavily biased. Don't expect both sides of an issue to be covered, especially in lecture. It's still an interesting class; just don't forget to always question what Professors Skocpol and Waters are presenting.
The course is, straightforwardly, what you would expect it to be. It offers, from an admittedly far left viewpoint, an exploration of policies relating to immigration, higher education, income inequality, and healthcare (the class spends about two weeks on each topic). The professors are very liberal and opinionated, so you may only be getting one side of the picture, but Waters and Skocpol are very knowledgable and offer compelling arguments critiquing current policies. It's not an easy GenEd, but at the same time it isn't a ton of work either.
A moderately difficult class on relevant and important material taught by all-stars with a great reading list. Worst case, you'll cruise through it and pick up enough information to become a better informed citizen. Thing is, the best case isn't that much better than that, because the course is extremely expansive in subject matter, which sacrifices detail and thematic clarity. Still, much better way to get your US in the World than Ec 10.
I liked this class overall, because it was my first exposure to these topics.  For other gov/sociology experienced students, this class could be a bit repetitive.  Also, make sure you want to do a bit of reading and writing, because some weeks the reading is pretty intense.  Lastly, especially for Professor Skocpol's lectures in particular, it can sometimes be a bit one-sided, so if you lean right politically, this could be a tough class to express your opinion (though in section, TF's were really supportive).
It's a great class and you'll learn a ton about issues facing American politics and society. It's an especially interesting class if you're at all interested in inequality and the workload is very reasonable.
Great to know about these inequalities that plague our country and how we might go about fixing them.  There's a fair share of liberal bias/BS that inundates the class at times, but as long as students are able to think critically and form their own intelligent opinions it is still a great class.
The class isn't perfect, but I genuinely learned a lot about US social policy by the end of it. If that's what you want to get out of the class, then it's a great option.
Not a huge fan of the essay topics, but there were only 2 papers which was good. This class taught me that I don't think thinking about public policy unless it's about why certain existing public policies only benefit the wealthy. If you take this class, you will learn a lot about how everything is stacked for the top .01% which is pretty interesting. But I generally did not enjoy writing essays for this class because I'm fairly politically apathetic. I took this class as a sociology requirement, not realizing that it also double counts for government, which meant that politics made up 50% of class materials.
This class is a very low time commitment, but does not do a good job at explaining the creation and implementation of policy from anything but a extreme liberal viewpoint. The assignments and readings are all based off extreme liberal ideology. The papers must be argued from this viewpoint as well. The class is great if you want to learn about policy from this standpoint, but I advise taking this class with caution.
The assignments are very broad and the teaching staff expects you to confront major issues with countless moving parts in relatively short assignments.
Overall a very good class.  It is very informative about some of the major dilemmas facing our nation.  Some weeks there is quite a bit of reading but overall it is not too bad and you can get by with just skimming some of it if you pay attention in lecture.
This was an overall solid course. It had a steady but not overwhelming workload and gave interesting insight of how our policies are affecting different groups differently and to look at the direction the United States is heading in.
I would say that it is an excellent course if you have no previous knowledge regarding US public policy and are looking to fill that gap. It is effective in its ability to cover a many very important aspects of it in great detail. It requires time in order to do the weekly readings as I found these readings essential to gaining a good understanding of the material.
you don't need any background in government to do well in this class, although it certainly helps if you have studied american policy to some extent. this class is a bit more quantitatively-oriented than some gov classes (a ton of the lecture slides are just charts and graphs), but you also don't need statistics to do well.
Take it just heads up for very hard grading on the papers
This class is awesome. You learn about issues facing american society, and the political components of these issues, all with historical or comparative context.
This is an awesome course if you're interested in getting involved in politics or if you just want to gain a greater understanding of current events. Professor Skocpol and Professor Waters are super knowledgeable and work hard to involve students in the discussion during lectures, and Tom is one of the greatest TFs you'll have at Harvard. The assignments are manageable and pretty interesting because they let you explore topics that you find most appealing, and the readings aren't overly time-consuming (and the course is a lot more enjoyable and you'll learn a lot more if you actually do the readings). Definitely recommend this to anybody needing a USW or a credit for the GHHP secondary, or if you're just interested in learning more about public policy!
Skocpol's lectures are extremely dry, but Mary Waters's are more engaging. Margot is great and even though I wasn't in his section, Tom seems great, too. 

As for the course material, it's honestly just a survey of topics that appear in modern politics. Okay gen-ed. Definitely among the least exciting courses I've taken at Harvard, but I suppose it's an okay way to do your USW. That would be the keyword, I guess: okay.
The material of this course is really interesting! You should really read the material and try to participate as much as possible to get the most out of this class.
Good survey course of recent public policy. Those who come in with a strong background in the class' policy areas dominate the class. The assignments were not too challenging, but the midterm drew on very specific information that just takes memorizing, but we weren't given a heads up for. Make sure you do the readings if they keep up with section reading quizzes. Very liberal lectures and skewed descriptions of public policies.
A very oversimplified view of public policy. We got tons of information that was scattered and failed to point to a general picture. The professors are not effective lecturers, and I found myself getting very bored, both with them and the readings.
Get Tom as your TF! He's the best. Class is an interesting survey of important American issues but there is a strong liberal bias in lecture and the readings chosen.
A lot of reading that is necessary only for midterm. Interesting material that is worth learning about to be a well-informed citizen. Essays graded moderately hard. Not an easy A Gen Ed by any means.
This class provides a great overview of issues that are currently at the center of much political and social debate.  I now have a much better historical and factual understanding of the evolution of issues such as immigration and healthcare.  The workload is fairly light and very interesting/relevant to issues that are important to understand to be an informed american citizen.
I was surprised by how much I loved this class! I had never taken a class on domestic policy before and am SO glad that I did. I feel like now I am a much more educated citizen, and I can actually participate intelligently in conversations about major social issues facing the US. I expected that the course would have a significant liberal bias, and it could have used some more balanced readings in my opinion, but I still learned so much---the professors and TFs are incredible.
This class is an utter and complete failure. These two people just love to hear the sound of their own voices. They stand at the head of class and spew off all sorts of crap that is unfounded and utterly stupid. Somehow they will find a way to blame societies problems on the middle class and people who try to help themselves.
This is a great class to fill the USW requirement. I really liked the emphasis this class placed on data.
It is a really interesting gen-ed but definitely not a gimme course. You definitely have to put in the work to do the readings.
I strongly recommend this course if you have an interest in domestic policy.
This course was one of the best I have taken at Harvard in that it taught me so much about the America that we are living in today and the issues that we are facing in politics.  It not only teaches you about the issues, but you discuss potential solutions to these complicated problems.  I think this makes you a better member of the US democracy when you can make education choices in elections and in discussions with other people.
Although the material is easy, I found the grading to be subpar.
This class was challenging for a gen ed, but I think that was in large part because of the teaching fellows. The class content and lectures are really interesting and relevant to current events. The class helped me to better understand politics, policy and current trends in the US. There was a lot of reading at times, but it was doable.
This class presents a useful one-sided view of American policy.  Ideally, it could be able to better balance both sides of the political spectrum. It would be better if the final was a traditional 3 hour final.
The class does a great job of teaching students about the role of the government, and a wide variety of topics are discussed.  The fact that there is a Sociology professor as well as a Government professor allows students to learn from different perspectives.  Definitely an interesting course.
This class has good professors with excellent teaching skills. The lectures use lots of statistics to arrive at sociological conclusions. I love the subject matter and it was a great chance to challenge your peers about their political and social beliefs about the US and how the country is changing.
This is a great class to get a good picture of major social issues going on in American Politics. It made the election debates and conversations more relevant and easy to understand.  There is a lot of reading, but it can be mostly be skimmed except when it comes time for the papers. The take-home final is a lot of work, but can be done in a week if you've gone to lectures and generally kept up with the course.   This is really an interesting course that makes you a better educated citizen and provides great dinner table conversation about politics that you now actually know what you're talking about.
The readings very very intriguing, though the amount one has to do might be sometimes a little bit counterproductive. Sections usually fairly interesting and informative. Information-wise, You can get a lot out of this course. BUT - very significant issues with grading/assignment policies and the approach of the teaching staff to students, particularly that of Professor Skocpol. The prompts of the papers are all over the place, instructions very ambiguous. Midterm - strangely, professors won't give You the actual midterm back unless You specifically ask for it - instead, they just give You a numerical score and a letter grade. When You ask for it, it takes an awful amount of time to get it back, and even when You do, there are very few comments (some sections did not contain any marking at all), and the TFs are unable or unwilling to explain the very few comments that they wrote down. Finally, though, I need to comment on the attitude of professor Skocpol. During that one meeting I had with her, I was treated with utter disrespect - she was very rude (pointing finger in my face) and condescending - apparently just because I felt confused about some of the course policies and sought explanations. She is unwilling to discuss any of her policies in the course - for they are absolutely 'fair' ('after all, I am the professor, and You are the student, so..'). Her academic credentials are undisputed; it is very surprising, though, that she is not able to engage in a polite and reasonable dialogue with a student. As a professor - extremely extremely poor; interactions with her greatly soured my overall experience with the course.
do the readings. they're interesting and worth it. or divide them up with buddies and get them to take notes
If you are a policy wonk, the class probably won't satisfy you, but if you just want to be a more informed citizen, you won't be disappointed.
This is a great class. The Professors, TF's and students are all on a course to find out the answers to these questions together. Participation is always encouraged, and everything is extremely well presented.
This class is good for an overview of current events and some basic information about what's going on in US policy. Doing all the readings will make you more well-informed, as lecture often offers only broad topic coverage.
It's a manageable class but you must do all your readings, come to every lecture, and take notes.
Form a reading group, but definitely try and at least skim everything.  It's an awesome class!
This course was great and its about a very important topic.
This class is a great primer to many topics of contemporary debate in public policy: inequality, immigration, healthcare, education, etc. As a Gen Ed, you don't get a particularly deep view of these topics, so be prepared for that if you have background already in them. The course is also very liberal in its argument and presentation with not as much consideration as there could be for opposing viewpoints.
Easy way to fulfill gen ed.
Interesting topics but not always the most engaging class.
It's a truly fascinating course of information - potentially necessary knowledge for all Americans who wish to be properly informed. It's sometimes hard to know what information you're supposed to be retaining, though.
Great class. Definitely convinced me to go out of my comfort zone and do a secondary in Government. I'm one of those types who generally dreads section and having to participate, but I found myself quite naturally participating a lot during section just because the material was so interesting. The lectures are fairly good, not out of this world amazing, but I think just the subject material/readings were so fascinating that this class was great for me personally. So definitely make sure you're interested in policy, etc. before you enroll.
This class really teaches you about the issues, is not too easy but is not too difficult, and is a valuable not too painful experience to complete the USW requirement.
Whatever you do, for the love of, do not take this class. You will find yourself curled up in a ball in a dark and damp corner, crying over the misleading nature of this class that was supposed to be about immigration and education and became a class riddled with graphs and lines and ec and things you were never informed to expect. The professors speak in tongues, the TFs are, for the most part, unhelpful and the feedback you will receive will make you wish you had gone to community college. When it comes to grading, your TFs will take their two years over you to the highest pedestal and place them there, while grading you on what you could have written, instead of what you have written. You will regret taking this class despite the big names of the profs. and in the end it will not help to further your critical thinking, just give you stress-related thyroid problems.
While this class had interesting material, some of it became repetitive or was somewhat boring.  The final exam is a nuisance, and it's important to keep up with the excessive amount of reading in order to make sure that you can take the exam well without scrambling during reading period.
Its a class that covers a lot of social issues and inequalities often overlooked at Harvard and one of the few courses that asked me to come up with solutions to problems, rather than just analyze them from an academic standpoint.
This class will teach you about U.S. society! It will teach you sociological paradigms and societal trends and trajectories. Take it to be informed about current events and the social fabric that surrounds us.
If you're really interested in hearing Theda Skocpol and Mary Waters talk for two hours a week, then this is the class for you.  But beware, you will have to slog through an excessive reading list and tepid section discussions in order to have the privilege of hearing their wisdom/encyclopedic knowledge.
This class may be extremely redundant if you have taken any sociology or government classes dealing with inequalities
