There are a lot of readings, but not that many assignments.
It's a fascinating course that makes you think critically about the future of race in America.
Do the readings! They are interesting and worthwhile even if they may seem like a lot. Also, take section seriously. A good class to take if you are willing to explore some of the complex fabric of inequity that contribute to American society today
The readings are interesting sometimes, but often the material is redundant and very basic. Professor Hochschild is very accessible and really knows a lot about what she is teaching, but the lectures are a bit dry.
Professor Hochschild is a well known and respected professor. She's amazing to learn from and does a good job presenting the material. If you do a good job keeping up with the material, you should do well
The reading is a lot.
This course was new and they were working through the logistics for a while, but it turned out to be an awesome class. I learned a lot about perception and the role that discrimination/racism play in our society (and how that is potentially changing).
It was a much bigger time commitment than expected, and the readings weren't interesting.
This is a very unique class since it examines how both the racial and ethnic order in America have changed in recent years. Most of the material is really engaging and fairly contemporary. I would suggest staying on top of the readings; it will definitely help when preparing for the final.
Watch out for the tf, Colin and Daniel were good (and probably more effective sans the attitude.)
There is an unreasonable amount of reading, the material starts to seem very repetitive. Professor Hochschild is a very good lecturer though.
This was the most ridiculously difficult GenEd class. I went into the class thinking it would be easy, and I could not have been more wrong. To it's title: "Is the American Racial Order Being Transformed?" I responded, "Short answer: yes, because any social state is by nature constantly in flux." Apparently the answer is, "We don't really know, but we have a lot of evidence on both sides: read 500 pages every week."The writing assignments were so vague, and the TFs are very strict in their grading, when they don't begin by offering any particular rubric. Also, this class works on a lower-than-usual average, so students in general will get lower grades in this class for the same level of work. That's stupid. This was absolutely the most difficult class that I have taken in my time at Harvard - harder than CS50, intro Chinese, LS1, Math 55... and somehow it is not nearly as satisfying.
There was way too much reading. They grade the assignments fairly harshly considering the course material. Lectures are very abstract and you often walk out of there wondering if you've learned anything new.
the subject material sounds absolutely fascinating, and some of the readings really are interesting. lectures, however, do not relate to the readings much. unfortunately, readings are a lot more interesting than lecture. there was a lot of material that was covered extremely superficially. not much of what we discussed was something that I felt like I didn't already somewhat know.
You'll learn a lot but this class is a ton of work.  Especially if Shauna is your TF.
The subject matter is interesting, as is the discussion it leads to, but the course only really raised more questions than answers.
the class is interesting if you are interested in race and politics. There is a lot of reading so try to get a good TF to help you cover all of it. The few assignments with heavy emphasis on the last month or so gives too little feedback about how are you doing in the class and in the end you may be badly surprized
I really liked the material in this course, and the teaching was good. The problem was with the assignments. There was far too much reading. The biggest problem of all was the final group project. There is no way to equitably divide up the work, so someone will always end up doing more than everyone else. The final group paper caused me so much stress, and it was honestly one of the hardest assignments I've had in college because of how difficult it is to work with a group.
The lectures are not very interesting and it is difficult to find stable footing in the class because there are no theories or explicit definitions that support it.
While the content is interesting, the course is a bit disorganized and assignments aren't useful.
This wasn't a bad class, I just expected more interesting questions to be raised. Maybe my background in African/African American Studies made me jaded, I just felt that none of the conclusions of this course were surprising.
I frequently talk about issues raised in this class outside of class!
Make sure you get a good TF.
The topics are interesting but it's not executed in a great way. I can't really pinpoint what, exactly, I learned, because it all mixed together.
If you want a fluffy race class, take Skip Gates' class. You'll listen to rap music. If you want to take a serious course take this one.
This is a good course. It would be a good intro to issues of race. It doesn't explore the goverment and political aspects as well as I would have liked.
This course is a fascinating way to meet a GenEd requirement.  Assuming they work out the kinks, I have no doubt that this course will only get better in the future.
If you are looking for an easy class with little requirements, this class is not it.  It is a demanding class.
Do all of the readings on time. You will get lost if you are too far behind. However, for the intense science people, this is a good class for a gen ed.
This is the worse course I have taken at Harvard. There was limited work but I didn't gain anything from taking it.
Great class! For someone who was never particularly interested in racial issues before, this course captivated my interest and was enjoyable, informative, and relevant. Professor Hochschild is a great lecturer, and the readings inspire you to look at American society from a new perspective.
good class
I personally did not enjoy this class and I hope it improves the next time it is offered.
I would only recommend this course if you find the topic interesting, and if so make sure to look at the syllabus and see that the amount of reading has been reduced before deciding to take the class.
Awesome course with cool material
A great course!
It's up to students how much time they want to spend.  Reading each week can be upwards of 400 pages (we went through 12 books, a coursepack, and a page long list of online readings over the course of the semester), but students will have to decide how necessary doing the readings are, as there is no midterm and the final is a take home exam.
I loved this class. I took it as a freshman, and it was intimidating at first having a section where there were 4 freshmen and everyone else was a junior or senior. But the upperclassmen were ultimately great resources and really enhanced my understanding of the concepts during discussion. You will find an opinion in this class, and so it is easy to participate. Since I got to pick my midterm paper topic, I was enthusiastic about writing it, and although my grade wasn't great, I learned a ton from it. Jennifer Hochschild is so accessible via email, and it is apparent she cares about the class a lot.
Very interesting look into race - be prepared to ask a lot of questions, make hypotheses, but unfortunately few answers
This subject material couldn't be more important and pertinent to the future and this course facilitates fantastic and necessary discussion on the racial order
Its a lot of work - its interesting, but don't take it lightly.
It is an interesting general education course which gives an informative history of race in the US.
This is a really interesting exploration of America's past and current racial paradigms. Little work, too.
Interesting class, engaging, and well worth taking!
Material is extremely interesting, and the staff are passionate about teaching it.
This was honestly the worst academic experience I have ever had. I used to be interested in issues of race, but this class made me second guess writing a thesis on the topic. There was about 3 times as much reading as there should have been, the lectures were boring, and the 3 assignments were confusing and way too unfocused and unguided. I understand that Gen Ed is trying to be experimental, but this class was confusing. I came away with more questions, and not in the good way that I'm sure they intended. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. There are much more interesting and relevant classes about race to take at Harvard.
Make a study group to split up the readings/create summaries! Also, speak up in section.
Assignments are poor, lectures are not very engaging and slightly redundant
An interesting overview of the issue of race in the United States. Some parts may seem repetitive or obvious but section is fun and thought-provoking and the course will definitely raise at least some questions and aspects of the issue you hadn't considered before.
You may want to have a passion in a specific issue on race relations in order to succeed in this course.
Do not take this class unless you have a background in social science writing.  The TF's will notice and really hurt your grade for it.
Never ever take this class. I did not learn anything over the course of the semester. The lectures were pointless, the readings were interesting but irrelevant. TFs were not that helpful, they just graded harshly. It was the biggest waste of my time, and my semester has been tainted by this course.
underwhelming.
This is an excellent course. It really shaped my understanding of America's past and future. The readings are interesting but very long. The course is well structure, which facilitates the understanding of course concepts.
Its really easy graded workload but unless your really interested in the subject I felt like my expectations for it were not met at all.
The topics in this class are very interesting and have made me think differently about certain issues, but I think that the teaching staff did not do a good job of teaching it like a Gen Ed. Instead, I got the impression that they believed everybody was as passionate about the subject as they were. This class had a monumental amount of reading so I would recommend making a study group to split up the readings.
this class sounds good and interesting but it is not. you learn nothing and its link to the overall topic is tenuous at best. it is the worst class i have ever taken and colin brown is the TF from hell. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS!
USW15 deals with an interesting contemporary issue. However, the amount of reading students are expected to complete is substantial (I would argue to the point of being unrealistic), and leads to a lack of deep learning about any given topic. On the basis of fellow classmates that had experiences with more than one section leader, your section leader can play an important role in determining your enjoyment of the course.
If the course structure does not change and if it is not made clear how grading works, don;t take it. Otherwise, it is VERY interesting!
This was a very interesting class with a relatively light workload. I'm glad I took it to fulfill one of my Gen Ed requirements. One of the reasons I chose this class out of several options was because the articles posted on the course website were topics I found intriguing and probably would have read in my spare time anyway.
Take this class if you are really interested in a political point of view. As a humanities oriented person this wasn't the most enjoyable course for me.
Be prepared to spend A LOT of money on books that you may only use for one assignment.
The course material is interesting and Professor Hochschild is great, but the lectures aren't worth it after awhile and the assignments frustrating.
This class is not a good class.  There is not a lot work through the class but at the end there is a group paper and a take home final.  The group paper was not a good experience.  The group had 5 people but we were limited to a 10 page paper.  So it was impossible to divide the work evenly.
This class was NOT what I thought it would be. I was often frustrated with the unorganized nature of things and also it essentially ignores whole racial groups in the US (indigenous peoples for example). Writing the group paper is miserable and 25% of your grade will be based on it.
This class is great for anyone interested in race and/or politics. Many of the topics are very recent and focused on new phenomena, so it is an exciting course. While it is a gened, don't take it if you're just looking for an easy way to fulfill a requirement - this class is best if you put an adequate effort into it.
Take this course if you want an extremely thorough overview of demographic change in the United States. I would definitely recommend this course if you are at all interested on issues of race, immigration, and how the two intersect with politics and culture in the US. It's a reading-intensive course, so be prepared to commit the time if you want to do well. This course is part history, part social science, part political science, and all awesome GenEd.
Fair course. What you put into it is what you get back.
Whoever takes this class needs to have a genuine interest in the course material, or else the amount of course reading will become unbearable. With that being said, this class is extremely thought provoking and worthwhile for those students who are interested in learning more about the American racial order. The topics discussed in class will make you see racial issues in a different light and/or examine racial issues more closely. Also, it is nice to receive both "Study of the Past" and "US and the World 15" General education credit at the the same time from this class.
Very little work, but they give lower grades than a Gen-Ed class should.
