As long as you keep going to lecture and stay engaged there, there should be absolutely zero problems.
You can do well in this class but you have to work very hard and make use of all the resources. I can tell you that as someone who didn't and regrets it.
PS2 is one of the worst staffed courses at Harvard and the teaching method of just doing a bunch of practice problems is unhelpful. You'll probably have to take it but anticipate being annoyed and having your time wasted for most of the semester. Also anticipate being treated like a child with constant surveys to tell the course how much you like it.
Great way to get pre-med physics done. Professors are awesome teachers and very understanding and helpful people. Go to office hours if you have any issues.
Get a good group to p-set with and you're be fine. The material is really not overwhelming and the resources to help you learn outside of lecture are great! Midterms aren't super tough but the final comes out of nowhere. Labs are great because they're straightforward, not every week, and they don't waste your time. Overall probably the least painful pre-med course I've taken.
There's a lot of homework. Enthusiastically get help from instructors to clarify anything you are unclear on because the course material by itself will be inadequate to fully prepare for the exams
I would only recommend this class to pre-meds because of its pre-med vibe.
It's a quick and easy way to get through the pre-med physics requirement.
Most people take this class to fulfill the premed requirement, but it is actually an enjoyable course! If you go into it with a positive mind, it is much more interesting than if you do it because you feel like you have to.
This is a relatively straight-forward introductory physics class. It can have a lot of busy work at times, but if you do all the work, you will learn the material well.
Simple but interesting physics class for if you're not a math maniac
This class is a great introductory physics class if you do not have much previous physics experience, but if you have already taken college level physics, then it can be pretty easy and boring.
I liked the first half of this class better than the second half.
This course will push you to fully understand physics principles, but if you put in the time, it is very manageable and worth it.
Pretty easy and straightforward if you've taken AP Physics.
only take it if you must.
PS2 is a good class; Logan and Louis try really hard to make the course as clear and as student-friendly as possible.
Awesome introduction to physics for the life sciences! Taught really really well and you learn the material if you do what you're supposed to (go to class and do homework).
I loved PS2! Really the best way to fulfill a physics requirement if 1) you didn't like physics in high school 2) you're more interested in the life sciences than physics or 3) you're looking for a fun and straightforward class. The workload is manageable, and the teaching staff is great.
This course is aight.  If you're thinking about taking it, you probably have to.  It's not a bad decision, and not THAT hard.  Just make sure that you do all the homework by yourself.
As someone who hasn't always enjoyed physics and dreaded taking a physics class, this class made the experience as painless as possible--it was cool to see all the connections to real life examples.
This is a great way to learn physics for biologically relevant situations - it does so in an engaging way with a fairly manageable workload, and great instructors.
DO NOT SLACK OFF AFTER THE FIRST MIDTERM.  THE SECOND MIDTERM AND FINAL ARE NOT JOKES
I am looking forward to getting  my physics requirement out of the way and never looking back.
take this class if you need to. not the best physics class (not better than my high school non-AP physics class) but fulfills a requirement and can balance your course load. people just come from such different backgrounds (ap physics, honors, never took physics???) that they have to accommodate.
This is a good class! The teaching staff is really supportive and they make the course easy to digest.
It's a premed requirement. It's not fun, but the professors are awesome and there are plenty of resources for you to do well. Also, TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OFFICE HOURS.
This class is a lot about plugging and chugging equations. They're very good at making sure you know how to apply equations.
It's a fine way to get through your mechanics requirement. Don't take if you're not premed
It is a great way to get introduced to Physics but it requires heavy time investment.
If you have taken physics before you will do fine in this class, but if you haven't take AP 50 or PS 12.  The lecturers are really helpful, but keep in mind it is a Pre-Med class so you are already at a disadvantage, if a lot of others around you already know whats going on.
I would say that this class provides a great physics background, but you really have to put in a lot of time to do problems. The second midterm was especially challenging.
Prepare so much for the second test and the final exam.
Painless way to get the physics req. out of the way.
You will spend 3 hours in lecture every week wondering why you wasted so much time sitting around doing nothing of use, be prepared to derive equations in class only to encounter problems you never learned how to do in psets and exams. Watching missed lectures took me about 45 minutes, too much unproductive time in lecture. The class starts out easy but cranks up the difficulty as the concepts become more complex. You will learn physics though, that is this class' saving grace. Lab component is painless. Quality of TFs is extremely variable.
First half of the course is very chill--everyone did so well on the midterm. Second midterm hits you SO HARD. Second half of the course was pretty challenging--mainly because it's a lot of new material. Highly recommend this to anyone who needs to take physics before taking the MCAT. If you actually want to learn some physics, take this class. If you want to get an A easily and perhaps not learn that much physics, take AP50. I heard however, the instructors of PS2 are really generous with grades. If they see much improvement in your progress,  they may even bump you up.
If you're premed, you're probably going to take this class. It's manageable if you go to office hours, try hard on each pset each week, and keep up with the material. If you leave it to before exams, you won't do well. It's a lot of material and it moves very quickly, but the teachers (Louis and Logan) are very nice and available to help.
Such a frustrating class.
PS2 is a fantastic class. Both Logan and Louis are extremely dedicated to their teaching. They both explain the material very well and students know what they are expected to know and be able to do. The activities are designed thoughtfully to maximize student learning in class. Web videos are super helpful. The homework is sufficiently challenging to help students hone their problem solving skills. So grateful to have had such a great teaching team. It is a very rewarding course.
Fun class.
I thoroughly enjoyed this class, and was very surprised because I hated physics in high school. This class, however, was taught very well. Professors and TFs were patient and helpful. Material was usually taught in a straightforward manner, and all assignments were purposeful. A class that was very "fair" in all aspects (grading, exams, etc.)
very doable!
I would tell future students that this course escalates in difficulty but the topics all come together at the end. Keeping up with the second half of the semester is very important for doing well in this course. The grades are not the focus of the class, which is really appreciated.
Don't take it if your actually interested in physics.
As a pre-med requirement for physics, this is a very fair physics class where you actually learn material that you will need to know for the MCATs. You do have to work hard, but what you put into this class is what you get out of it--go to office hours, do all of your homework, go to section. There are times when the material gets very difficult, but office hours were a great resource for helping me through the toughest parts of this class. Louis is a great professor and he really cares about his students and their understanding. If you took AP physics in high school, that helps a ton, even though this class is taught as if you have no physics background. Labs are short and great and you get to wear flip flops!
Very nicely organized class and straightforward. If you go to lecture and do all the assignments and problems they provide, you'll do a fine job! Incredible lecturers and materials offered to help you apply concepts you learned
This class was extremely rewarding in terms of how much you learn. It will also prepare you well for the MCAT. The problem sets are difficult and quite long, but there are plenty of opportunities to get help. Louis in particular was great about making time for extra office hours. There are two midterms and one final, and they were all fair. Lab was generally every other week and didn't last more than 2 hours.
The class is good if you are taking it for Pre-Med. It's not too overbearing and the course finds ways to relate the physics that you learn in class to the the medical world.
Make sure you go to review session before the exams, both Logan's and Louis'.
It was an okay course. Some of the assignments (especially the online component) felt tedious. Additionally, lecture felt like a very inefficient use of time because they have you do problems in class with groups and most of us were just sitting there doing nothing. Only take this class if you have to (i.e. concentration or pre-med requirement), would not recommend it otherwise.
PS2 is a great course, a solid physics class that actually teaches you things about the world. The teachers want you to succeed.
Logan is great and his part of the course is easy to keep up with. Louis' part is much harder and he is not as effective as a teacher so you must really stay on track.
It is entirely possible to complete all of the homeworks without having actually understood the material... if that is the case, however, it quickly becomes apparent after the second midterm and the final.
Good, straightforward physics class to knock off concentration or premed requirements. No tricks in this class, except for the final exam which was a little difficult, so try to go into the final with a good grade.
As long as you stay on top of your work, you'll do well.
Tough physics course, but taught very well.
Its a standard, large lecture class, but it does a good job with teaching physics and there are plenty of resources if you find it difficult.
Take AP 50 instead. The lectures here focused on deriving formulas. If you like that, you will like this. But if you want to understand it conceptually, you will have to do that on your own (unless you have Suzanne as a TF)
this course is not worth the amount of time i put into it. i feel that the principles we learned were not that applicable though some of the units had cool examples
Not too difficult, labs are super fun, and they hold your hand most of the way.
PS2 is a great course for many life science concentrations to satisfy a mechanics and fluids requirement. Logan and Louis are super involved in the course and are there to ensure that every student succeeds. The course is not curved, so you do not need to worry about competing against classmates, which relieves a bit of stress. However, the A/A- cutoff was not clearly stated, so many students are still antsy. Written homeworks aren't very useful, but Sapling is super useful in preparation for exams. Exams are pretty fair. The second test this year caught students off guard, but in hind sight was very fair. The final was also very fair. Lab isn't a huge time commitment - there are 6 labs and they tend to end within 2 hours rather than 3 hours, which is great for flexible scheduling.
This is a great class to take if you want to complete your physics requirement! It is completely low-stress since p-sets are graded for participation and the online saplings are graded very very generously. The professors are really great; you can tell they really care about students and love teaching!
Be prepared to work hard to do well in this course. A strong background in physics is not necessary but it will make things easier. The course is difficult but manageable, and there are a lot of opportunities to get help. The teaching staff is very helpful and wants you to succeed. The exams get progressively more difficult, so be sure not to slack.
I'll be the first to say I hated physics before coming to college. But this course is very manageable and extremely well taught. They really care about you learning the material. They don't try to trick you with useless things, they try to forward your understanding. I've never been to lectures that were more effective at teaching and not just presenting information.
I took this because of the pre-med requirement, but it's not as bad as you might think it is. You'll have to dedicate hours to understand the material, but there are sources of support. At least for me, this was definitely not as bad as orgo.
This course is pretty good. You'll get the most out of it if you put as much into it as you can--come to lectures, ask questions, and engage in the material.
If you are taking this for a pre-med requirement, you really have no choice... but it's not a bad course, it's pretty reasonable, the lectures can just be frustrating sometimes.
I can only speak to the class experience with some AP Physics background. If you're decent at math and know some physics, you'll find this course pretty easy. The labs and sections are chill, and the professors are really good at applying physics to relevant life examples with demonstrations and the like. Lecture also does a nice job of deriving the equations. If you need a physics class for premed requirements, this is a very reasonable and fairly simple class to accomplish it with.
Stay on top of material and you'll do well!
The GOOD: This class was decent. Louis and Logan seem like they truly care about your learning experience. They enjoy talking about the material and that is always nice to have from a teacher. The efforts of the professors and the TFs of the class are pretty good for a premed class and the material is interesting.The BAD: The difficulty of the exams seemed to vary somewhat and it could sometimes be tough to know how to prepare for the exams. The online and offline homework can take quite a bit of time to complete, and the difficulty of the last few online problems can be quite frustrating. AP50 is certainly an easier course, but I dont know if you will learn as much as you will in PS2. Definitely better than orgo.
PS2 provides a very useful part of your education. It reviews mechanics and then dives into fluid dynamics, which are hugely important for the operations of biological systems, esp. cells and their components. The course is difficult and will require you to work hard to understand many, many ideas, including some reasonably subtle or unintuitive concepts. Overall, as an elective, I recommend this course with the reservation that students must be prepared to dedicate enough time on the course. A review of basic mechanics is very very useful. A light review of calculus would be nice.
This course makes physics very accessible for the lay person. The material is just hard enough to challenge some like myself who got a 5 on AP Physics C, but not so difficult that people who have no physics experience can't keep up.
Outside preparation is necessary. This course expects you to learn most of the course material on your own because there are very little help resources. TFs are not willing to help you and explain even non pset questions. Additionally everybody in the class has AP physics experience and the class assumes this based on its teaching style.
This class really tries to make the content as painless as possible. Lectures aren't super helpful but psets and sapling are relatively helpful for learning the content
90% of this class is literally AP physics B, which means if you have that background, you probably won't learn much from this class. There are also a bunch of annoying participation point quizzes during lecture, which means you'd have to waste your time going to lecture instead of doing something more productive. Lectures were just derivations of random formulas that you could have read up on your own. While the homework was graded by completion, the problems themselves weren't very useful. Additionally, we were forced to turn in additional online assignments through the sapling website. Saping is HORRIBLE! The format and layout of the website made it really easy to make mistakes and turn in the wrong answers. The questions also felt like plug and chug questions (find formula, plug numbers). I did more unit conversions than actual learning. Overall, if you want to learn how to convert units and plug numbers into equations with a bunch of premeds, take this class.
The latter half of the course ramps up in difficulty, so be prepared for that. Otherwise, it's a pretty straightforward course to get through, but the exams can definitely have challenging questions. Unfortunately there aren't many practice problems in the course, but most people generally find them challenging.
PS2 is overall a great introductory physics class that's also relevant to biology! It's very helpful to do the sapling problems (although they can take up a good chunk of time) and to keep up with all the practice problems they give you! The lecture format is very interesting, and make sure you actually do the problems during the breakout sessions!
It's a great class; the material isn't so hard.
Pretty straightforward and well-taught. Teaches you a bunch of material, generally painless.
This is a fairly straightforward class with supportive teaching staff.  All of the resources are in place for you to succeed.  I really enjoyed Logan and Louis as instructors because they had a lot of enthusiasm! The TF's are very patient and supportive as well.
Louis and Logan are among the most articulate lecturer's I've had. This course is great!
The professors are fantastic! They're both really open to questions and explain things well. Overall this class is okay, just try not to underestimate it. Do the homework assignments and make sure you understand them, even if they're graded on completion, because the same types of problems come up on exams. Definitely go to section, or at least do the section problems. I've seen section-like problems (or problems taken directly from the section handout) on all of our exams. Keep up with the class because it moves along pretty quickly.
I get that no one takes this course because they actually like physics, but don't pass up the opportunity to work with amazingly dedicated professors like Logan and Louis. Harvard doesn't have many gems like them who work hard to make this as enjoyable an experience as possible.
Do not take it. Switch your major, drop pre-med, transfer schools, whatever, just do not take this class.
PS2 was a moderately challenging course for me, because I took physics a long time ago in high school. I liked how the course is based on real-world examples, many of them drawn from biology. There are lots of practice problems (Sapling can be quite useful). Make sure to prepare a lot for the second exam, it's quite a lot harder than the second one because there is more information. Make sure you know how to simplify problems and when to assume certain things about the systems you're dealing with. For the final exam, make sure to take advantage of the practice finals, offline homework, section, and review session problems. If you use all the practice materials made available to you, you can do well! You should also make sure you know how to do problems without relying on the answer key.
If you pay attention in class, you will have a firm grasp of the content. Assignments are very fair and the course really wants you to succeed in every sense. Fantastic course for people with no or little background in physics. I highly suggest taking this course.
It was good, but the exams were very different than the problem sets, with the questions being a lot harder. The exams were hard.
Good if you want to learn physics! The class works well for people like me, who had never taken physics before. The class is full of pre-meds, but the class isn't taught as pre-med-y as it could be. It's good.
I'm a fan.
It's a solidly taught course. Material cannot be too exciting in nature, but both Logan and Louis try to make it sound as exciting as possible...and they sometimes succeed. TFs are very nice overall, and teaching staff as a whole was very willing to help students, so be sure to seek for help.
You will getting nothing out of lecture. It is pointless and leaves you with notes that are problem specific so good luck trying to apply that in a variety of different contexts on the homework. I really hated this class.
This course is a great way to fulfill one semester of the physics premed requirement. Logan and Louie really want you to learn what you need to know to be successful for the MCAT, etc.
If you want to take a class to really help you understand physics as someone who's not a physicist, then this is your class
This is definitely a class that will require effort but it is very fair.
This is an awesome physics course!! The professors are one-of-a-kind, and they definitely make the lectures enjoyable. The demos are super neat. Though the sections are optional, they are very helpful for reviewing equations and practice problems. The midterms are very fair tests of the material, and there is a group exam portion that will give your grade a boost! The final is challenging, but you get to make sheet(s) of notes for every exam. Very applicable to daily life, I highly recommend it!
I don't have a passion for physics, but appreciate it and sometimes even find it fun. This class was the most painless, engaging way to possibly do pre-med physics. The teaching staff is great- supportive and thoughtful- and the material is interesting and satisfying but not too demanding. The every-other-week lab schedule is so much better than weekly and barely feels like an extra commitment. If you have to take physics just one semester of physics for a concentration requirement or are looking for a way to just do introductory physics, choose this class.
Be prepared to work.
This course material is sufficient for the MCAT however the group learning style is not effective as a means for consolidation of material.
This is your best chance at actually learning physics!  Louis and Logan are exceptional teachers.
PS2 is a difficult class with a lot of pre-meds in it. However, the professors try really hard to make it a welcoming and fun learning environment. The demonstrations in class are cool and I think this is a great option to really learn physics if you aren't a physics concentrator.
It's a good way to take care of the physics requirement for premeds. It's not like the life sciences courses, which is nice, and they try to find examples that are interesting.
Course is a good way to fulfill physics requirement for biology/pre-med students.  The real-life applications presented here are particularly useful.
This class is very enjoyable, not terribly demanding, has great resources for extra help, and definitely a great way to fulfill a basic physics requirement for medical school.
Getting a tutor is not necessarily helpful.
Get a good section leader!
Only take it if you have to for premed requirements.
I would recommend this course as a good, rigorous introduction to Physics. For my purposes there was too much emphasis on Biology/microscopic applications, so I might dissuade a student from taking this course if they wanted a more traditional approach to Newtonian mechanics.
It's definitely not that bad if you go to help room, or find a study group.
Easier than Physics 11a.
I really enjoyed this class and found the professors and lectures fun and interesting.  The problem sets and section problems/review sessions were also extremely useful.
This is a good class if you are looking for an interesting way to understand Physics.
It's easier than you expect, there's not much math so don't be scared off.
Utilize the help room hours, they helped a lot with problem sets.
This is a cool class. Take it instead of Physics 11a.
Relatively low stress compared to higher level physics courses.  Very well organized.
I would only recommend this class for pre-med requirements.
It will get better in the next few years, so even though the scores might not be great now, I'm sure the class will improve.
I love the material, and I think the applications to biology made it really interesting. The assignments were fair, the help room was great, and the labs were actually fun.
Help sessions are there for a reason. Go!
This is a good way to fulfill the physics premed requirement.  Lectures (besides Franklin's) were interesting and related physics to medical stuff.  Problem sets and section were helpful.
It's better than a core...
Make sure you are comfortable with the textbook they use before you sign up for the course, particularly if you can get your hands on a solution pack.  Also, be aware that a lot of the topics are not typical for intro physics classes (i.e. fluids).
for pre-meds
an okay way to fulfill a physics requirement
Work hard.
I would tell students that this is the easiest way to understand basic physics and also get many applications to the real world. I would say that if you are not a physics major and plan to take physics for pre-med this is the course to take.
Know physics beforehand.
Do lots and lots of practice problems and go to you TFs with questions!!
This course is an interesting and painless way to fill a premed and concentration requirement.
If you need to take a Physics class, this provides you with everything it should have.
If you need an intro level physics class, this was fine.  If you don't, why the hell would you take one?
Devote a lot of time to thoroughly learn the material.
This a good way to fulfill your pre-med physics requirement.
If you need it for pre-med physics requirement then take it.
If you have to take a physics for your concentration, there's no way to get around this course.  It is one of those super competitive premed courses with a scary curve, and a lot of the people who take it are so good at it that you're screwed from the start.  Anyway, if you have to take it, it isn't horrible, but if you don't have to take it, skip the pain.
This class is a pretty good introduction to physics, but be prepared for a good amount of work.
A great course to take if you are looking to fulfill your physics requirement, especially for non-physicists.
It's a good class- very enjoyable. The drawback is how competitive everyone is, and how well people did on exams.
The class is a pretty good class for pre-med students who are looking to  fulfill their physics requirement.  It is not an extremely easy class however it is very well organized and there are plenty of ways to ensure that you do well in the class (i.e. labs, psets, section grades, quizzes, etc.).  Also I found a lot of the TF's and professors were very willing to help if you have questions or concerns.  So if this continues for the next year and you are looking to this class for fulfilling a pre-med or non-physics concentration science requirement, I would recommend taking the class (not for a core though).
Only take it if you have to.
I hated this class.  It has been the worst class I've taken ever.
Take advantage of professors and teaching fellows' office hours
it doesn't feel like watered-down physics for pre-meds, not incredibly difficult, professors are very fun and interesting, tons of resources to help you out if you start getting into trouble with the material, grading seems to be fair so far (haven't had the final yet), go for it
This is the perfect course if you loved physics in high school but are intimidated by college-physic math.
It's better than high school physics...
Be sure you already know Physics before taking this "introductory" Physics course.
if you don't like physics, this course might change your mind!
I wouldn't recommend this class as an elective. But I would say it's a pretty good class for being a required one.
It will be useful for anything involving biophysics, but it is in some places poorly taught and unclear. However, the professors and the TFs were extremely dedicated to the course- I think it will improve.
The course is well taught but be prepared to invest a lot of time into the work.
If you're confused about a subject...don't put off learning it until the night before the exam.
concepts covered are really interesting, but some of the crazy pre-meds can ruin the potentially more fun atmosphere with their spazzing out.
As physics classes go, this is the best one I've taken. I'm not a physics person, but the class was very well-taught and the applications to biology, which is my primary interest, made it seem worthwhile.
This is a great class if you need physics for pre-med but aren't entirely enthusiastic or comfortable with the subject.Also, this class is GREAT to take at the same time as Life Sciences 2 (Human Physiology). The two classes overlap and complement each other very well, and I found that taking both at the same time really improved my experience in each.
It's not very fun, but I suppose it's an easy way to finish a pre-med requirement.
I'd consider just taking Physics 11a if you like Math and remember it.  These intro, interdisciplinary courses are a great idea in theory, and I'm sure they will be fantastic later, but sometimes it's not worth being a guinea pig now if you just want to know some science.
You have no choice. You take it because you have to. Suck it up.
Sounded better than Physics 11a...
I would recommend this class to fulfill a physics requirement for a concentration or pre-med.  The integrative subject material - relating physics to biology - is interesting too.
The class is pretty easy, but it if you like math or physics at all take a different physics
This is a well-taught science class compared to the others that I have taken at Harvard.  It is clear that the professors care about teaching.
I would only take this class if it was a requirement.
It is a really good course to introduce people to physics who have never had it before, but I would not recommend it to anyone who is not interested in biology.
PS2 provides an adequate introduction to topics of physics in biology, but the course is run rather like a corporation with a general anonymity of all students. I didn't feel like anyone cared whether I learned the material or not. On the other hand, chem17, which had about the same number of students, was so much more enjoyable because of more intimate section settings and larger number of OH.
Pretty good considering its a class full of psycho uptight pre-meds.
take it if you need it for your concentration or for pre-med reqs
very easy way to learn about physics; painless and fun.
It's unintimidating and I liked the communal feel of lectures - that even as big as the class is, lecturers took individual questions and involved students.  However, it's not very intellectually stimulating, so if you really want to learn physics, you should take 11a or higher
It's a pretty good physics class for a pre-med requirement.  It's not overly difficult and Logan and Howard Stone are really great lecturers.  There is also ample help provided.
The one thing about this class is that other students taking physics tend to not take you seriously. I knew I didn't have the background for any other physics class, but having taking PS@ and loved it, I don't really know if there are any other physics classes I could continue up with after PS3.
Good if you have the physics background. Fair midterms. Sapling is fine. Offline HW is annoying. Final was UNFAIR.
brutal. avoid if possible
This class is the best physics class to take as a pre-med student!  The written psets are graded on completion which is nice, and sapling is helpful for forcing yourself to practice problems, though some of them can be a little difficult.  Definitely make sure to study a lot for exams because they are generally pretty difficult (especially the concept based multiple choice questions).  Logan is a wonderful lecturer and so is David, though lectures can get boring and difficult to pay attention to, especially since lectures are an hour and a half.
If this is a concentration/pre-med requirement, then take it! It's reasonable to keep up with and there is good support available. If you've done AP Physics in high school the mechanics portion will be easy but a lot of the second portion of the course is new. Lab can be annoying but you won't have to spend time on it outside of 3 hrs/wk
This is a really hard class
Make sure to go to all of the sections as I think section is probably the most useful part of this course. I think its really important to find the teaching staff that can explain concepts clearly. I found that lecture confused me more than anything and didn't explain concepts clearly at all. Also there are a ton of mathematical assumptions made in derivations in class which also confuse students.
If you don't have to take it, don't. I didn't really like it.
Very challenging. Stay up on the materials and do all the practice problems!
not incredibly well taught--needed a tutor to actually understand things. also since the psets aren't graded, i wasn't forced to learn the material really well weekly which made the exams harder. its a necessary evil for pre-meds, but it's doable
The course is a lot of work and if you aren't a strong science student you will struggle. Try to get a tutor, go to the help room and start your psets early - they take an insane amount of time.
Don't really take this course unless you have to. As a bio concentrator who wanted exposure to physics, I thought this would be a good way to do so since I had no prior physics knowledge. If you're thinking of doing the same, try to find an alternative course before you do so. Prepare yourself for long hours on psets, long labs, and exams whose style of questions aren't like those on psets.
Section is really helpful and you should go. As painless a way to fulfill the physics requirement as possible, though pre-meds really are the worst...
Really the only pre-med physics class that will show you the utility of physics in medicine. Because of that, I recommend it for pre-meds. At the same time, if you have any real physics background, you will likely be unbelievably bored with the pace and redundancy of this course. I guess if it's either this of Physics 15a/16, go with this but you probably won't actually enjoy it.
The material isn't bad - it's all doable, just don't get behind. Also, be weary of lab, don't  schedule it before section or you'll probably never go to section (it always...ALWAYS runs over).
This class is definitely manageable. Just make sure you understand what's going on yourself if you are doing problem sets as a group!
This is a good overview of first semester physics. Lots of work, but still manageable and taught at a good pace. Don't worry about the textbooks, but find some people to work on the problem set with.
Way to fulfill requirement for pre-med
This is a good option for premed physics. You don't need to have taken calculus at Harvard if you took it in high school, and you don't need much of a physics background either. Be prepared to work hard though, and don't fall behind!
A necessary evil
This is not an introductory level physics course. Most students took AP Physics in high school and therefore had exposure to all of the material then, allowing them to do better.
PS2 is a well-organized pre-med course.  The lecturers (David and Logan) were enthusiastic and clear.  (There are some cool demos in lecture!)  The psets have two components, which can be tedious but as I prepared for the final exam I definitely appreciated the sheer volume of problems I had worked through during the course of the semester.
As far as pre-med classes go, PS2 is a really good class that is well run, isn't overwhelming, and is, importantly, pretty straightforward and forthcoming about what to expect on assignments/exams. Section is optional, the teaching staff is eager to help, and you don't get the feeling that they're always trying to squeeze you for points, which is nice. The 9:30 start time and online/offline combo psets may annoy you, but you can often get to lecture a bit late and still hit the concept question, and you'll appreciate the extra practice the Sapling portal provides. Overall, I would probably recommend PS2 over other physics courses, especially for pre-meds, and you'll enjoy this class much more than you'd expect to enjoy a pre-med requirement.
I would never take this class if it wasn't a requirement. That said, they do a decent job of teaching some rather dry and difficult material. It could be better, but it isn't miserable as some other pre med experiences.
Do not take this unless absolutely necessary, which if you are a lifesci concentrator or pre-med is unfortunately the case...if you are more math oriented, take a higher level physics course. It will be more worth your time and you will definitely learn more.
If you have to take a physics class this is a pretty good option, however lots of the questions you are given will be incredibly ambiguous in conveying what they actually want.
Understand the concepts, and be able to apply them to questions that seem rather open-ended.
I would tell them to study  study study
The structure of the course is kind of a mess. Most of lecture is spent deriving equations instead of teaching you how to complete problems. They want you to understand where the equations come from, which is a good thought, but it practice makes the course both dull and unnecessarily difficult. In theory you would learn how to do problems in section but it is only an hour and you go over 4 easy problems max and then are expected to do the long homework assignments. The help rooms are...helpful, but the course sets you up so that you are dependent on them in order to do the homework. Labs are very long and mostly tedious. I did everything I could to do well in this class but came away frustrated and with a mediocre understanding of physics. also, lol "biological applications"
You really need to be self-motivated to do well in this course. Lectures are dense and not particularly engaging, but if you're taking notes they are a good resource for homework problems. The online homework is deceptively challenging, so make sure you leave yourself enough time to complete it each week. Worst part of the course is the lab component - they're lengthy, repetitive and rarely enhance your understanding of the course material.
This class is a necessary evil for premeds and the teaching staff do make a valiant effort to make it interesting to pre-med students. However, the double psets due every week, the excruciating lectures, and impossible final exam make this class unbearable. Just grin and bear it, its the worst of the premed classes but after the year you never have to think about physics again.
Very easy class, especially if you took any moderate level of physics in high school.  Typical tedious pre-med requirement.
If Logan taught the whole course, I think it would've been a much more manageable experience. He was great at deconstructing difficult physics topics into applicable and easy to understand topics. But, Morin taught the second half of the course and it was impossible to learn anything during class. Morin is an excellent teacher for upper level physics, but he was not suitable for PS2, which is unfortunate.
I mean you have to take it so my recommendation doesn't matter but it's a very time consuming course, and it's Hard. You think you know the information but then come the exam, you do not perform as well.
Requirement. Study really hard for first exam
This is a good physics class to take if you do not know the basics and want to learn enough to be a life sciences concentrator.
If you're pre-med, this is the lesser of all the evils. However, look into AP-50. It is a new physics course.
It's pre-med physics. You probably have to take it so just do it. It wasn't that spectacular and at many times they jump from concept to unrelated concept so fast you have no idea what's going on but the professors are pretty nice. Lab was definitely a waste of time and you'll probably hate every minute but every physics class is going to have a lab.
It's painful but there are few alternatives. Sapling was the only good part of this course, and as always, try to do s many practice problems as possible to do well on exams. Good luck, fellow pre-meds.
If you've taken any sort of physics in high school, this class will be a breeze. Annoying and full of pre-meds, of course, but mostly harmless. If you haven't taken physics, it will be much tougher, and you'll be trying to catch up to those of us who have.
Try to get the online problems done during TF office hours on Friday. This way, you can avoid staying up all night on Monday (psets due at 9am on Tuesday) trying to figure out the problems. Sapling can help you get over your fear of rejection. It sure helped me.
If you can help it, don't take this class. While very structured and may appear easy, it will take up your time and by the end, you will not have really learned anything of substance.
The lecture component of this class is excellent, but the sapling homework does not test conceptual understanding but rather whether or not you can figure out the little tricks the website is trying to use to deceive you.
Overall, it was pretty painless. Sometimes the expectations were a bit unclear, which was frustrating, but overall it served the purpose of being a premed physics class that I didn't hate.  If you're not super into physics (like me) and just need to get a requirement out of the way, I'd definitely recommend it! Workload is not low, but manageable. You don't have to memorize all the formulas either, since you can bring cheat sheets into the exams.
only take if you have too... not that I didn't like physics but didn't leave me feeling confident about what I had learned...passionate teachers but teaching style didn't cement things for me!
This is a basic pre-med class. Somewhat superficial as far as physics goes.
The course is competitive but well-organized.
I would recommend this class if you have never taken a physics course before, or if you are pre-med. It is not pleasant, but not terrible.
This is in my top two of the most frustrating classes of my entire undergraduate career (the other being Chem 27). The teaching staff is not helpful--none of the TFs hold office hours. There was also an extreme shortage of tutors at the BSC for physics when I took it, so getting help outside of the course was almost impossible as well. I know most people taking this course are doing so because they have to for premed requirements, but if it is possible at all, I'd recommend you find a different course in the Physics department to fulfill the requirement. Do it. This course is NOT worth the frustration that you'll go through for it.
If you're a premed you have to take this class. Sorry dude. The teachers are dull and the class is thoroughly disinteresting, but if you can stay on pace and not leave yourself to cram for the final, it is very fair and the exams are not too stressful. Just do your work and you'll be fine. Slackers beware.
I would not recommend this class unless you need it for a pre med or other requirement especially if you have little background in calculus and physics. There is little continuity between the HW problems and what you see on exams so it is difficult to prepare adequately. The first exam is much easier so make sure to do well on it. It is easy to fall behind so make sure you keep up with everything and it will make the midterms and final much less painful.
PS2 is the best way to fulfill your physics pre-med requirement
Logan is a good professor and adds a lot to a course most people are only taking because they have to.  The problem sets are a confusing, vague, random nightmare and didn't help me prepare for the exams or learn anything at all.  Don't buy the textbook its way to expensive and completely useless.
Harder than I thought.
Great way to fill a requirement, but be sure to actually go to class. I made the mistake of thinking it was optional.
This class is not too difficult content-wise, but it does require a lot of work outside class. The homework component is very time-consuming, but is very helpful for exam practice. The midterm exams are fair, but the final exam was very difficult. I would definitely recommend going to section since that is where I gained most of my understanding of the material.
The psets are way too long and the material is taught poorly - good luck
Review concepts regularly, so that you know how to approach the problems
Go to office hours for the homework. Otherwise you'll get behind.
Practice problems are key. Morin is terrible, Logan is great.
Go to office hours and understand the sapling, weekly lessons earlier rather than later
You should only take this course if you need for a pre-med requirement or if you are generally interested in physics.  Definitely get a tutor if you feel that you are struggling, something I didn't do but should have done.  Keep up with the material, and go over every lecture after you have it.  Review the material every week like you are studying for a midterm, this way, when the exams actually come around, you will be more than prepared.
A light workload and if you've taken high school physics the first two thirds of the course will be a breeze. Not the most stimulating material, but not bad given that you're likely taking it for a pre-med requirement.
This course is poorly taught.  You will have to teach yourself a lot of the material, which is really frustrating.
Be prepared to put in the work!
Frankly a dreadful experience
It's hard. The teacher to student ratio is poor. The exams could be really tricky. I didn't enjoy it. Though, I enjoyed the emphasis on learning concepts.
Only take this if you need to. They don't teach how to solve problems, instead only focusing on the background concepts.
Go to section. Meet with Logan, if you can. The online pset is most useful. Work hard for the first two midterms--the final will probably not help your grade at the end. Keep up. No need for book.
If you have taken high school physics and don't have too busy of a semester, take a more difficult physics class. I got a 5 on AP Physics AB and didn't learn much new material in PS2. Be prepared for long lectures, lots of derivations, and frustrating Sapling problems.
This class is generally perceived as more difficult than it actually is. As long as you stay on top of your work, Psets shouldn't take longer than 3 or 4 hours a week. Some of the written psets ask you to do way more mathematically involved problems than you'll need to know, so those psets are generally longer. I found this class to be somewhat frustrating because a lot of the difficulty seems really contrived. The class is challenging enough for some people who have no physics background, but they'll deliberately make the problems tougher for those who understand the concepts. In all, this class was a good class. The homework and exams are challenging, but doable. My one complaint is that the labs are too long. Several of the labs went over the 3 hours limit for no real reason. Anyone who had another commitment directly following lab was faced with the decision of handing in the lab unfinished or missing their other commitment.
Sapling problems are often difficult and confusing -- sometimes with little relation to the material it covers...
Make sure to go to section, it helps clarify the topics that often seem super difficult in lecture. Also help sessions! Make sure to keep up with hw because if you leave it to last minute you won't have time for questions!
Logan is a fantastic teacher, Morin is hard to understand and writes illegibly, take advantage of the sapling to study for the test but realize you'll have to understand the material through and through to do well on the test, make sure you have a very comprehensive cheat sheet for the tests and know when to use which formulas
I hated physics in high school, but loved this class.
This class is very time consuming, and can be extremely hard at times. If you took AP Physics in high school, you might be fine. If you didn't, good luck.
This class is a good approach to physics.  It is mangle, educational and fun.
Practice exams are the only thing that will help you on actual midterms and finals. While re-doing homework problems and Sapling problems is great for a basic understanding of the formulas, they are completely separate from what will be asked of you on exams. Going over section problems can help.
If you are interested in physics, and understood physics well in high school, then don't take this.  The material here is more or less the same level of difficulty as AP physics C.  So if you want to progress in physics, don't take this class.  A lot of vague generalizations are made.  Not that rigorous.
As long as you go to office hours each week to do the problem sets, and make sure you understand things while you go along instead of waiting until right before the exam, this class is very manageable and you don't need to spend too much time preparing for the exams.
The professors, Logan and David, and the TFs are all people who seem to want the best for their students. They are very nice, good personalities, knowledgable, and very helpful. The course however, was rather challenging for me. Get a tutor from the start and go to as much as the Help Rooms as possible. Even if you understand lecture and section, the homeworks require much more knowledge and you will need to ask many questions and it takes a lot of time. Sapling can be very, very tedious and it is not also always clear what the question is asking or at least one question is very, very hard.
A lot of class time is spent on derivations that aren't required to know and don't really help in the understanding of concepts, but the class really isn't difficult and if you put some time into it you really start to gain a cool grasp of how physics is intimately linked with biological systems.
Conceptual direction is great. Professors fail to provide adequate guidance on problem solving. Must reach out. Stay on top of it so that exams aren't a problem.
This class wastes time with Sapling problem solving and the support system for the homework is scarce. Honestly if you can don't take this class, do an alternative like Physics 11 or AP50.
I am a person who does not really like physics, so my review could be a bit biased. However, this class really did not help me like physics anymore. Although Morin and McCarty try really hard to get you to understand the material, I felt that the way they presented it was not too helpful - the lectures were filled with derivations and not too many useful problem-solving skills.
I mean you have to take it anyways so it doesn't really matter. They try really hard to make it apply to bio but lets be real, we're not using this in med school. Go to office hours, do your psets. To succeed in this class, DONT rely on plugging in equations and formulas. That will get you a C in the course and on the midterms. You really have to know more about setting up problems and concepts the behind a problem. Once you know that, its easy to apply the formulas.
Difficult class but necessary to take for pre meds
I think this is the most enjoyable way to take college-level physics. Professors are aware that they are teaching a class full of pre-meds, and course material is catered to the life sciences. Lab section is usually fun, lecture never feels too long, and problem sets are useful but not a huge time commitment.
It was a very, very difficult course- to the point of frustration. Don't take it unless you have to.
It is necessary for pre-med students, but do not expect it to help your GPA
Do many practice problems. Even if you understand the material conceptually, if you can't do problems, you won't do well
It was hard for someone like me who hadn't taken physics before, but go to office hours and ask lots of questions and you'll do ok.
It's not that bad for a pre-med class. Logan is a great lecturer and does his best to make it interesting. David tries but is less successful. I would recommend starting the homework early. Otherwise it is a pretty straightforward course.
This is a standard pre-med course, so I'm not going to tell you not to take it. However, it's a lot of work. The lectures go through just the most basic concepts, so you really need to do a lot of practice problems to be able to do well on exams. If you did not take AP physics in high school, you will likely be behind. Get a tutor in the beginning of the semester to avoid falling behind.
Logan is great. Morin is nice, but pretty hard to understand. Unfortunately, this class has been one of the least enjoyable for me during my time at Harvard. It is extremely boring, and the number of hours of homework each week easily goes into double digits. Lab is pointless--we hardly learned anything and almost never got out on time. You probably need this class for premed, so just try to enjoy it. It's only one semester (hopefully PS3 is better).
Well run class. If you are the type of person who learns from doing problem, then you will be all set in this class. there are so many problems that are optional that you can spend all week doing them to learn the concepts.
Not a great course in the sense that the material is not taught very well.
Good intro to physics if you haven't had a lot of physics experience. They try as best they can to make it relevant to the life sciences. The homework was a huge task every week, and as someone who never started until the weekend, I was always up late trying to finish. The tests were also pretty difficult. But if you give the effort, I'm sure you could do well.
This course has interesting material, but make sure that you know yourself as a learner and set aside enough time to genuinely master the concepts.
Take another intro physics course if possible.
PS2 is a decent option for an introduction to mechanics, especially if physics is something you do not plan to pursue later in life. Some of the problem set questions are a bit tedious with estimation and far-fetched application to biological situations, but overall you still do learn the necessary mechanics concepts. In addition, laboratory is extremely boring and tedious- you will probably dread going to it every week, but at least there is not a lab every week, and you can celebrate when you are done!
Sometimes a pain, especially lab weeks, but definitely not as bad as I expected a pre-med heavy physics course to be. Extremely helpful and insightful to take concurrently with LS2! There's actually quite a bit of overlap, which was really interesting.
This class is definitely not easy, but has plenty of resources to help students understand what they need to be learning. There are plenty of office hours, and help room is a good way to get together with other students and work through the homework, with TF help when needed. Logan's lectures were great and super energetic, making the material more bearable.
This class is not what it seems. It has a lot of work and the questions/examples and course in general is not as related to biology as it claims to be. The labs are horrible, they take so long and do not teach you much. The lectures can be interesting but the second half of the course is just derivations of equations with hardly any explanation into what they mean.
Lab will make you want to slit your wrists, but barring that, take PS2. If you need to do pre-med physics, or basic physics at all, take PS2. Logan and David make physics very unintimidating and manageable. The problem sets and exams are the definition of fair and reasonable, and section is usually pretty rewarding, especially with David Bracher.
The class is mandatory for premedical education, and I thought that it was quite well taught. I was particularly impressed with the teaching on the part of both professors and the TFs. Although the class was difficult, I felt that if you worked hard and used the materials that were provided, you could do well.
The class wasn't too difficult if you can learn on your own. The professors spend most of the class deriving the equations from basic physical concepts and mathematical proofs, and it's up to the students to learn how to apply these equations on the homework.
This class is difficult and the homework every week takes hours and found it difficult to apply the concepts later. The exams aren't terrible but make sure you do a lot of practice problems. Work with others on assignments and go to office hours. The teaching staff is very helpful. Logan was a great teacher and so was Morrin, except that he often spoke very quietly and wrote very small.
good, straight-forward class. nothing really special about it, but gets the job done
Take a physics alternative if you can.
Everybody who takes this class is taking it for a requirement, so as far as required physics classes go, they do a good job with it. It's well-structured and the assignments are a little annoying but fair.
If you don't have significant physics background, you're kind of screwed. All I can say is go to office hours. But even then, expect to get inconsistent answers. You'll basically realize you either know it or you don't.
This class is hard if you don't have a strong physics background but still perfectly manageable if you attend lecture and section.  Section in particular is very helpful in learning how to take the material you cover during lecture translateable to actual problems.  The lab component is not too bad, time-wise, and the problem sets are fine if you go to Help Room.  All around, a well-organized intro physics course.
I'm not convinced that this class was a better choice than AP 50.
I can honestly say this is one of the worst courses I have taken at Harvard. Lectures are boring and useless. So much time is wasted in lecture on things that aren't important and not enough time is devoted to solving high-level problems. Problem sets and exams are extremely difficult and tricky. Lab is a huge waste of time and does not contribute anything to the course. This class made me hate physics.
Obviously this class is taken most likely as a requirement. Be aware that the  administration of the course is not the best. There definitely is an effort to tie physics to biological and medical applications, but I felt like no matter how much time I put into offline homework AND sapling homework, I still never succeeded on exams. Make sure you are prepared for concept questions because those end up having a significant impact on your score.
This class is less intensive as other other physics classes but you will still need to work hard
If you're taking PS2, you're a premed who has no other choice. My advice is to ALWAYS go to section. Some of the exam questions on the final were from material that had only been covered in section. There are resources to help with homework etc, but generally you're going to be miserable along with everyone else who is being forced to study something they have no interest in and that they think has no real significance in their future career (no matter how hard the course tries to convince you that it is relevant to premeds!)
I would caution students about this class overall. Logan is a terrific lecturer. David was very spotty. Lecture was often distracting with most of class about derivations that weren't especially useful or enlightening. Lab was terrible--poorly organized, TFs who were confused themselves about material and how to run the exercises. I found getting one-on-one help somewhat difficult. Section was ok and problems during section were very helpful in recapping what was covered in lecture and preparing for the pset. Psets were overall ok as well, but the offline segment occasionally contained things that seemed irrelevant and so dependent on making "the correct assumptions" that this was very frustrating. On the whole, it is a fine way to fulfill the pre-med requirement for physics, but not going to draw you in and probably be something you just kind of drag along doing.
Well it's physics. be sure to do many problems
PS2 was not an enjoyable class for many students. The psets took an inordinate amount of time, especially for people who haven't taken physics before. The midterms were reasonable, but the final was actually ridiculous. It did not seem representative of the course at all. I left the course feeling that I hadn't actually learned that much physics, which is a huge disappointment. Morin tried really hard as a lecturer, but his lectures were simply not as effective as McCarty's, which made the last half of the course more difficult to understand. If you are a premed looking to complete the physics requirement, I recommend AP 50 instead. It is more hands on and there are no exams, so less stressful.
Although premeds often see PS2 as just another class in the premed requirements, it's actually a very insightful course. It is rare to be in a class that teaches you the fundamentals of mechanics while always keeping the course practically relevant.
Most likely if you are taking this course you are premed. And the professor do a wonderful job trying to make the material interesting and relevant to premeds and non-hard physics people. Regardless, it is extremely hard. But if you're trying to go to med school, I'm not sure if there's another option for you.
Best option for premed physics fulfillment if you 1) lack a strong or any physics background and/or 2)would like to use minimal calculus. The models/physical situations are simplified which helped me build my physics foundation, which was lacking.
It's a difficult class, obviously, being a pre-med class but they do a good job with organization- much better than LS1b. But it still takes up a lot of time so don't take too many hard classes with this one. And get a tutor asap before they all run out.
Do plenty of practice problems to beat the open response questions on the exam, but keep in mind that the concepts learned in lecture can appear on the open response. That caught me off guard. Also, try to collect a list of formulas throughout the semester for easy reference. This will save you plenty of time.
Chances if you are taking this, it is because you have to. Accept your fate.
This class doesn't go into anything in depth, so it can be frustrating at times, but it is a relatively painless way to finish the physics requirement.
A pretty good course--about as good as you can expect when most of the students are just there to fulfill a requirement.  Logan McCarty is great but there are still some administrative kinks to work out.
I am not a math or physics person, but I like PS2. The teaching staff works hard to make the material relevant and interesting. Assignments are challenging, but there is a lot of help available. Logan is a fantastic lecturer. Exams are also tough, but very fair. In the end, this is one of the best pre-med classes I've taken.
Logan is a great professor and the material is very interesting. I recommend this course to anyone who likes to see physics applied to biology.
Only take if you are premed. Physics is not my cup of tea so I hated this class. But for people who have more experience with the subject, it probably won't be too bad. This was a horrible introduction to physics for me personally.
Practice problems are the most useful way to study. All the deriving done on each equation was a waste of time. Section is also not very helpful at all.
PS2 is an alright class. I like that they tried to make Physics as applicable as possible (by using biological/medical problems and examples). However, lecture can be extremely boring. However, lab was great and my TF Harry was awesome!!!
This class is so much better than any of the other intro physics options (if you're not going to be a physics concentrator).  It is a large premed class, but definitely don't let that deter you from taking it.  I had friends in 11a, AP50, and 15a and it sounds like I by far had the best experience.  If you don't LOVE math or want to spend a ridiculous amount of hours in a lab building things that often go over class time, then you should DEFINITELY take this class over the other physics options.  Also Logan McCarty is adorable and is a fantastic lecturer.
Very survivable, not necessarily enjoyable
Very good course for students looking to complete their physics requirement for pre-med. Also useful when taken in conjunction with LS2.
Great
Logan is a solid lecturer and definitely very much cares about this class. Sapling and p-sets can be a bit tedious and stressful however overall I gained a solid understanding of newtonian and statistical mechanics
pretty good class. Labs kinda suck and take the entire three hours.  problem sets have an online portion (annoying but helpful) and an offline portion (sometimes conceptually difficult).  lots of interesting demonstrations in class. it picks up a bit after the first midterm.  there ARE concept questions (which are like clicker questions that you have to attend lecture for).
take it over physics 11 if you can. I had friends in the latter who went through hell and back in that class. Lectures are great, Logan's great and actually cares about the class, very well structured.
This is a textbook course. Interesting lectures, fair homeworks, and challenging exams.
PS2 is great material that has good lectures but just about everything else mars the course. The labs feel disjointed from the lectures, there is no communication between lab and regular teaching staff. They actually taught us contradictory methods to perform error propagation which is embarrassing. If you put the time in you should generally do well and as a pre-med at Harvard this is probably your best choice for mechanical physics, I really just hope the head teaching staff hear loud and clear that they need to organize things better.
quintessential premed class. makes its strengths (cool medical examples) but also dictates its weaknesses (everyone seems to just be resigned, both students and teaching staff - though really its not their fault when most of the student body seems to be concerned only with their grades and not actually learning the material)
If are taking a physics class to fulfill a concentration requirement, I would definitely look at this class as it is a relatively painless way to fill the requirement. I am glad I decided to take it over 11a. There is a lot of support for students and the psets/tests are doable.
in a world where 11a (now 12a) is unpredictable, and 15a is just too hard, this is a good alternative, though on the easier side
Quite interesting and one of the more manageable pre-med classes
If you stay on top of the material, this course is manageable.
Take it if you need it
do the sapling practice problems! they are very helpful
Not at all a painful course, and the practice problems do a very good job of preparing you for the exams.
PS2 is not super difficult (way way easier than chem 17/27) but you have to learn to work within the course. Do a lot of problems before exams and put as much as you can on your cribsheet. PUT PROBLEM SOLUTIONS ON YOUR CRIB SHEET in addition to formulas. Study from section problems, lecture slides, old exams. Be really clear when writing your exam solutions, especially WRITTEN RESPONSES (WORD EXPLANATIONS) because they do look for buzz words. Exams can be graded pretty harshly.
This class is alright, but it's heavily designed for pre-meds and is thus much less interesting.  A lot of the concepts are simplified to appeal to pre-meds, which comes at the expense of actually engaging with many of the physics concepts.  The homework problems are tedious and it's really just a way to get a requirement out of the way.  Even if you are not really committed to learning physics, I would recommend taking a different physics class just because it's more interesting than these simple concepts - this feels like high school.
This was a somewhat bio-focused physics course that covered a lot of topics at the surface level over a short period of time. Doing practice problems really helps for all of the exams.
Be prepared to think like a physicist for a change. The lab work is also more important than it seems at first, so be sure to put in the necessary work to get everything you can out of lab.
If you're premed and need to take physics, this is definitely the way to go. Also Logan is so great.
Gotta do it. But BEWARE.  THIS CLASS IS REALLY HARD AND YOU'RE COMPETING WITH PREMEDS WHO ARE NOT ONLY COMPETITIVE BUT WHO LIKELY HAVE A STRONG HIGH SCHOOL BACKGROUND.  Be prepared for tough exams that test a bunch of different concepts at once.  No idea how to recommned preparing for that because for me, just the practice problems and problem sets didn't really help.Also, the problem sets are pretty tough to figure out on your own -- be prepared to go to help room and have people tell you to do seemingly random things that you might not have thought of on your own.  Sapling is really tedious and time-consuming.
You need to put a lot of work and practice in this class to do well. Do not only rely on class practice problems but take some from the book because the exam is quite different and you need to know how to apply your knowledge to different styles of questions.
difficult, but logan's great
If you have to take physics, this is one of the best ways to fill the requirement. The class is a little dry to take it for any other reason.
Solid class, learned a lot, not to difficult.
This is a great comprehensive course that covers the major concepts in physics regarding mechanics. The teaching staff is easily accessible and there are many resources available for assistance. It does a great job of connecting physics and biology.
Exam questions weren't really consistent with problem set questions, and the difficulty of exams could be quite surprising.
It's a pre-med requirement and, in my opinion, the lesser of the evil physics courses. Logan is such a great lecturer! You will pull your hair during the labs though. When studying for the exams, make sure you understand the CONCEPTS most of all and not just how to answer problems. They love to mix up concepts in their questions. Sapling online problems are good for practice. However, I highly suggest you look at OLD EXAMS whenever you're studying.
Do lots of practice problems: online hw problems, section problems, additional problems to prep for exams. Start in advance...
Typical premed class. Not too painful. Help room is awesome for psets. Lab is not bad. But still, premed class.
It's a hard class, but its easier than 15
It's not terrible if you have to take it, but don't take it if you don't have to.
It's a good class if you need to take physics for pre-med.
While I enjoyed the class very much, I thought it was very difficult and that they really emphasized understanding the concepts. The problems on the exams were always different from anything we had seen before. The sapling website was very unique and was useful.
If possible, avoid this course.  Lectures are boring, and this class fails to accomplish its promise of integrating biology into introductory physics.  Assignments take up a lot of time, and exams are difficult.
You have to take it for the requirement...
Fun lectures but difficult exams, pre med kids and bad labs.
By far the most difficult class I have ever taken at Harvard. The exams were very tough and labs didnt help me at all either. This class made me re-evaluate being a pre-med.
This is a great physics class, especially for life science concentrators. It's really not incredibly difficult (especially in comparison to orgo), as long as you put in the time to learning the material. Logan is really a great professor, and the exams are fair. Just don't slack off or you'll fall behind.
The class is very fair and the most well-taught pre-med class I have ever taken except perhaps LS2.
This is a fast-paced, challenging course. Logan is a great teacher but you need to put in a lot of time to do the problem sets and prepare for exams. It's not easy!
Many opportunities to get help and do well (:
Logan is great and really teaches the concepts very well! Listening and attending lectures was most helpful to me. I also was lucky with a great TF in section that helped teach how to approach problems and solve them - which is essential for exams and the homework assignments.
If you have to take a physics as a premed requirement this class is probably the way to go. However, the course is not particularly interesting and some of the concepts are not taught in a very clear manner so it may require a fair amount of outside work in order to fully understand them and succeed in the course. Nonetheless, if you put in enough work you can likely do well.
IF you are reading this Q guide, you probably have to take it for a premed or concentration requirement so it doesn't really matter what we say.  This definitely is not an elective course and if you are trying to decide between physics course, the good news is that the material has relevant biological and real life examples attached and the down side is that you have a billion competitive pre meds.  Good luck!
Take this class! Professor Logan is incredible and the teaching staff is very accessible and helpful. I learned a lot from this class and came out with a greater appreciation for the applications of physics to biology. Just be sure to be on top of your assignments and do as many practice problems as you can to succeed in this class. Section, though optional, was also a great resource for me.
The class is interesting but the tests are not like the homework problems.
This class requires a lot of outside work on problems. I would also recommend the friday review sessions and the help room.
PS2 will definitely not be your favorite class at Harvard, or anywhere close to it, but it is probably the least painful way to get through the pre-med physics requirement. The material gets harder as the class progresses, and the second midterm is more difficult than the first, so don't get lulled into a false sense of security in the beginning.
Take a real physics class.
It's required, so suck it up.
Logan is a great lecturer and teaches the material well. The problem sets are incredibly doable, and while the labs are pretty useful, they're not as bad as those in other premed classes.
I don't love physics, but I liked the way PS 2 was applicable to real life. Usually physics feels very abstract. Logan is very enthusiastic, which makes the class more enjoyable. There are problem sets every week, which is a lot, and exams are often quite difficult. Be prepared to do the work. If you're a premed who isn't very interested in physics, this is a good course, I think.
To make it very clear, the only difference between this class and physics 11 is matlab.
A great option for a physics course--if you're interested in biology and chemistry, and are open to looking at physics through a biomedical lens, this is a great course for you. Logan is a knowledgeable and entertaining lecturer, and Beatriz and the rest of the teaching staff do a good job providing additional reviews and helping to clarify confusing concepts.
It's physics - you either love it, hate it, or just kinda get through it.  The course itself is pretty well-organized and well-staffed, and I thought it was generally very manageable and very fair (tests were pretty different than homeworks, though, so that was a bit unsettling).  The professor is a pretty awesome guy and usually fun to listen to - the only problem is that he spends way too much time deriving things in lecture that are really hard to listen to at 9:30 in the morning and are not tested at all.  Hopefully that'll change, but probably not.  Problem sets are half online (with lots of tries at getting the right answer) and half offline (graded on completion - so weird).  My advice is go to help room.  You won't waste any time at all stuck on a problem and will get all the right answers in the shortest amount of time possible.  Tests are tricky but doable.  Generally a good class but not an easy A unless you're really good at taking unpredictable physics tests.Oh and labs aren't particularly good or bad - getting a lab time later in the week though is definitely a good move, because they work out the kinks in the labs before yours and may even tell you to skip questions in order to save time.  It's great.  And the lab TFs are AWESOME.
Logan is the best lecturer ever. He made physics so fun and totally painless.
If you're pre-med and have no interest in learning physics for the physics itself, then definitely take this course as it's your best option. Professor McCarty is a fantastic instructor and makes the learning process enjoyable.
This is a fun class and you will learn a lot if you put the right work into it.
If you're taking this, you probably have to so just deal with it.  It's really not too terrible, just get through it.  Use help room to get the problem sets done.
Often the assignments are mind-numbingly tedious and boring, but Logan is a great teacher who does his best to present interesting biological applications given that it is very much an entry-level pre-med physics.  That said, if you have the math background and really want to learn physics, you should probably check out 15.
PS2 is a very solid introductory physics course. There are multiple resources that the course provides for you to learn and reinforce concepts, but it is definitely difficult to stay on top of all of it because it moves at a very fast pace.
Fairly painless for a physics class. Learn your formulas and don't fall more than a week behind and you'll make it. Lab is annoying.
You're probably not going to take PS2 unless you have to.  If you have to take this class, it doesn't really matter what I say.  That being said, PS2 is definitely a solid intro physics class.  Logan is a great lecturer and really tries to make the course applicable to life sciences.  However, the psets are super long, the online problems & the sapling site can be a pain to deal with, labs are too long, and exams are difficult.  If you're like me, and haven't taken any physics in 6 years, you'll probably be at a pretty big disadvantage.
Since the lectures are incredibly interesting, you should make it your goal to attend all of them. The best way to understand the material is through completion of copious practice problems. Make use of the additional Sapling problems every week. Rather than merely finishing the homework for the week, make sure that you truly understand the concepts. In fact, review all of the lecture notes in series long before the exams come around so that you can understand how all of the concepts fit together.
In-class demos are fun, definitely go to lecture!  Make sure to start the sapling problems ahead of time as they often take longer to complete than expected.
This class is super well organized. McCarty is a fantastic lecturer. Review sessions are not worth going to. Do practice problems.
Good physics course. Having prior experience in any kind of physics will help you understand how to think about problems, but you don't need experience to do well I think.
I would tell them that this is a fun, interesting class, especially for a big lecture and it takes work but it's worth getting through.
This class will be extremely challenging for you if you've, like me,  never taken AP Physics/a rigorous introductory physics course. If that is the case, you will be forced to go out of your way to find help--with your preceptor, your TF, your lab TF. It is possible to succeed in PS2, but it will be a haul.
It's hard, but not as bad as the other physics classes. If you had high school physics you're definitely at an advantage. Be sure to do well on the first exam because it gets significantly harder afterwards
This course is very interesting and there are many resources to help you do well, just be ready to put the time in.
This is a great introductory physics class!
Complete as many practice problems as possible!
Be ready to spend a lot of time with practice problems to do well--many problems were very nuanced and you need to really be familiar with them
Professor Logan and the teaching staff are very nice. I just feel like I needed more support from section and more midterm/exam practice problems.
I would only take this class if you have to. Logan is a great teacher and I always felt super prepared going into exams, but the exams themselves were unfair. Not representative of things we had seen in the past.
Professor McCarty is a good lecturer but the material is so dry that this class ends up being hard and boring. The problem sets are unnecessarily long and are not helpful for the exams. Some of the lectures were better than others and the demos were always interesting.
GET A TUTOR FROM BSC!!! They are the best and make it sooo much easier! Lecture is not that helpful so you will rely on other things to get your psets done. Go to the help room! Organize a good study group!
Watch the Friday reviews!!!
If you do the work and if you have a background in physics, you will do well in this class.
It's a well-run course but time-consuming with the daunting weekly online and offline psets. Labs are tedious as well. Overall, though, you'll come away with some really interesting knowledge of how the physical world works!
it's really hard, so be ready, but it's not like you have a choice for premed..
Professor McCarty does a good job of staying upbeat and doing relevant demos in class despite the large class size. The course covers everything needed for the MCAT, and there a few really excellent TFs.
This class is fine, just study hard. The sapling questions are really frustrating, I hope they've gotten rid of them.
The problems, lecture notes, and practice problems that they provide help prepare you for the exams.
Dr Beatriz's problem solving session was excellent- she is a great resource.
This course is a decent intro physics course but be prepared to jump through a lot of hoops to prove that you understand something that you do in fact understand.
Logan is a really great lecturer. If you pay attention during lectures and do all the homework diligently, you will be prepared for the exams. Also, though Sapling is annoying at times, it does actually help you learn physics better
Definitely better than 11a. Prof. Logan is a great teacher.
This is a good course but very difficult.
Physics definitely for bio majors. I enjoyed the applications and the class moves at an easy pace. Online assignments were annoying at times and lecture could be a bit slow, but I enjoyed it overall.
If you've taken physics before, this class is pretty easy. However, it will still be incredibly tedious and time-consuming (between online homework, written homework, section, lab, etc). I do think it's a better choice than the Physics 11 series (or whatever will replace it). That being said, if you have the math and want a difficult (and interesting) physics class, take 15.
It's a useful course to help get a general understanding of physics applied to life sciences, but a more rigorous experience would be found in Physics 11/15/16. The course is taught quite well and is much less tedious in almost all aspects than most premed courses, but for me at the end of the day it was just another requirement to get out of the way.
If you have to take some physics, this will be the best choice, unfortunately. Lab is a pain, as is Sapling.
It is probably better to take PS2 as opposed to PS15a, 16, or 11a, all of which have a calculus based focus. Although present in this class, the calculus is minimal, giving way to the physics concepts at the heart, which serves you better in the long run. Obviously take this course for your concentration and Pre-Med requirements, but the time you put in to the homework and exam reviews will serve you well later on.
Logan puts in a lot of effort into this course and it is very well-organized and very interesting, especially if you are interested in the biological applications of physics. The demonstrations are really cool, and the workload, and lab work is reasonable!
This class is difficult and the homework every week takes hours (especially if they continue with the online and offline components). I felt like it was possible to really grasp the material but just not perform well on the exams since it's all application based and many of the questions were so obscure.
This class is tough, but one of the most enjoyable pre-med classes I've taken at Harvard (I've taken 7 so far).
Logan is a great professor but this is still a difficult class.
its a little simplified, which can get confusing sometimes.
Pre-med class, you have to take it
It's not painless, but it's not painful either. Lectures are pretty dang good. Logan is a lot of fun, and the demonstrations they do in class really do help you learn the material.
If you're taking physics for medical school, this class is definitely better for the more life sciences-oriented person as opposed to the other options for physics classes.  I had a difficult time with the class because I had very little physics background.  If you anticipate the class being difficult, it's worth investing in a tutor (not from the BSC) early on so you don't have to play catch-up.
Do not take PS2. I know most people will tell you that it is the easiest of the physics options and that it is the far better alternative to Physics 11a or 15a, but do not listen to them.  This course is terribly taught. Having just finished the course, I can confidently say that I did not learn a thing about mechanics at all.  The online homework is pointlessly tedious and made me feel like i was in high school again.  additionally, none of the homework problems are formatted in the same way the exam questions are.  this leads you to a false sense of understanding the material.  you have to approach the exam in a much different manner than you would approach the homework. it's ridiculous.  then the book is no help at all, so if you decide to take the course dont buy the book. the reading is vague and unhelpful and the practice problems assigned from the text are very very very simple.
Logan makes lecture somewhat entertaining, but Dr. Gabilondo really helps explains things - go to her office hours! Lab is a huge pain, but certainly not as bad for all the pre-meds who have had to survive Chem 27 lab...
do many practice problems...take advantage of office hours...pay attention in lab, the concepts are very important. This is a really great approach to physics if it is not your primary science interest.  Logan is a wonderful lecturer.
Graded on a typical pre-med curve (material is easy but tests graded in a difficult manner); final grade may not reflect what you know
It's so frustrating, and really just an exhausting and irritating course.
If you have to take physics for a pre-med requirement, this is a great option.  It relates physics concepts to medical/biological concepts, so you end up learning a lot of medically pertinent information.  Professor McCarty is wonderful!  Make sure you get a good TF for section, because it really hurts you if you don't.
This is a difficult course, but if you are ready to put in the work, it is worthwhile.
Very interesting class and Professor Logan does a great job of making the class interesting.  Though section isn't necessarily required, it's important to go and meet with TFs, especially when understanding the offline problems.  Not too stressful.
If I had more math preparation, I would have considered Physics 11 or Physics 15 over this class.
I feel like if you are taking this course, it is mostly because you have to. I think that the most important thing to remember to keep a positive attitude and to get help early on in the semester.
It's supposed to be the "easiest physics" class, but for someone like me, who has never taken physics before, this class was challenging.
PS 2 is a hard course. You will not do well if you have not done physics in some shape or form before. The material is really convoluted in lecture as we try to cover so much ground and so many random topics. The biology component of the course is very contrived. Lecture is rather boring and don't be fooled that you understand lecture when you are sitting there. When it comes to homework assignments, you will likely need help but that is why it is so great that there is a lot of help available (office hours, help room, etc).
The course material is interesting, but there is very little support from the teaching faculty with help on problem sets and understanding the material.  If you have not taken physics before, I would strongly recommend having a tutor.
It's really pretty straightforward. Do it!
work hard and review concepts, do all the problems, seek out help - it is there if you search for it. if you do all these things, this class can be enjoyable, or at least, not painful.
Only take this class if you have to, and if you absolutely don't want to take a "pure" physics class, like physics 11.  Often the applications to medicine in the problem make them much more confusing, and the concepts get lost in trying to figure out all the non-physics details of these types of problems.
I think this class is for a student who is a pre-med and doesn't want to be bored with many of the explanations in normal physics classes; however, the teaching fellows are going to be very picky when grading the exams, so watch out for that.  You take one step from the format of how they expect you should solve a problem and you're toast.  Learn to mimic your teaching fellow's way of solving problems, even if doesn't make sense.  You have to dot your 'i's' and cross your 't's' in order to get an amazing grade for med school even though you might thoroughly understand the material.
The class is great for a pre-med requirement. Make sure you completely understand all the concepts because the exam won't be about just what you've seen on the problem sets.
It was difficult, but rewarding in the end.
Only if you're pre-med.
Take this class if you are pre-med or in the life sciences but don't want to get into physics too much.  This class is comparable to Physics 11, only the material is simplified slightly more.  The class is taught pretty well, and it fulfills the purpose of teaching students enough for the MCAT or whenever else one may need physics.
only if you need to for med school!!
Unless you like physics and/or are premed, you probably shouldn't take this class because it's really tough.
Take it only if you absolutely have to
Chances are if you're considering taking this class you probably have to, so nothing I say here will likely make a difference. Exams are tough - try to review as many problems as you can, and start early! Problem sets, review problems, section problems, practice exam.. try to get through them all. Tim French's Friday review sessions are also really helpful, I was always surprised more people didn't go to them.
I came into this class not really expecting a great experience (frankly from what I had heard about those who had taken it before) but I thought the material was really interesting, from the stuff that you typically think of as mechanical physics to more foreign concepts such as fluid flow and brownian motion. Logan is a great lecture and the demos are really informative on the intuitive level. Take full advantage of everything Tim has to offer, he is the guru. Look at all the Friday help session annotated notes online as soon as you can to clear up questions before the days leading up to exams, and go to help session for homework because even if they are graded only on effort, it really helps to have a TF lead you through tricky problems to understand how to approach and start doing similar problems. Also, the labs are really draining, but there are only 7 and actually teach you a lot about error propagation etc which comes up a lot on the exams. In general, hang in there, and I hope you like the material, because it really is quite cool! And way more applicable to pre-meds then I thought, because it's interesting to take concepts from LS2 like circulatory system and biomechanics and understand the physics of it.
It's easy. But you will probably learn physics. If you like math, I would take 15. That said, the instruction is really good.
The concepts that are taught are not particularly difficult. The difficult part is figuring how to apply different concepts to a certain problem.
you're taking this because you have to. It's not too bad- hw is reasonable, the exams are challenging. typical premed course
Difficult class, need to work hard on it and you never feel ready for the exams, especially the final
I was a student with no physics background at all, and I found this course really difficult but also really rewarding. The examples used are interesting and the instructors are really energetic and great!
It's not all kittens and sunshine, but it's a lot less painful than PS1 and LS1b are. And if you're premed and don't want to take Physics 11, you pretty much need to take it. Just listen to the interesting examples, do the reading (the reading's actually more useful than the lectures!), and do lots of practice problems.
Definitely attend class for the second half of the course, since this was the part that was most disorganized. The help room was also helpful for completing psets.
If you're pre-med, you sort of have to take this class, but I found that sections were really weak and it was difficult to keep up with the material.
Physics has been historically difficult to navigate as a life sciences concentrator.  This course is a fine course, just be prepared to work on your own to get the material.  Exams can be frustrating because the course doesn't have adequate practice problems and there are times when it appears to only set you up for failure.  Everything works out in the end, but it's a bit frustrating to go through the motions of the course.  Melissa Franklin is definitely one of the most enjoyable parts of the course.
the second half of the semester's lectures are not helpful, and study hard for the exams because the psets and section problems are not good indications of what you will be tested on
Definitely a great class, be ready to work.
PS 2 isn't easy, but it's an extremely well-run course and is the best option for pre-meds who don't want super intense (15a) or unpredictable (11a) physics. It's really not as painful as most people make it out to be, and Logan McCarty is a terrific lecturer.
take it if you need the pre-med requirement - not an awful awful course (actually quite well structured and generally well taught); but dunno why you'd do it otherwise
It's a good class even if you've never taken physics before. They are not there to trick you (most of the time). There's tons of help available. The labs are random and aren't helpful but the lectures are organized and structured well and so is section.
If you like physics this is a good course and well-structured.  Not as bad as I thought it would be.  PSETS take forever start early...exams were better this year.  Prof. Logan is AWESOME and Professor Franklin IS HILARIOUS but no one ever understand what she's saying.
It is well-taught, and involves physics with cool biological applications!
It's an interesting class that I would probably take even if it weren't required.  Working through the problem sets is the best way to learn the material, I think.
Study hard, and GO TO LECTURE!!!
You cannot fall behind in this class because it is difficult to catch up. Practice problems are key, probably the most important thing in the class. Looking over solutions to problems isn't actually helpful.
background in physics necessary
great class! the professors are excellent lecturers and the expectations/assignments are very clear.
Interesting material presented well, but with little support and even less guidance about the relevance of particular concepts to the course's end goal.
Work is quite tedious and time consuming. Nevertheless, the instructors put in a lot of time to the course and you will come out with a decent understanding of physics. Note that this class DOES apply the physics to biology, which is good for some people and annoying for others. The course does tell you that you need math 1b, but calculus rarely shows up on tests (usually in derivations in lecture). You will gain a good but of problem solving skills, which is always useful.
ONLY if you need this for pre-med.  I worked so dang hard in the course for very little tangible return.
Its rough.
It's a requirement for premeds and some biology concentrators; as such, you will likely leave the class with no greater enthusiasm about physics than when you enrolled. The lectures are great, and the biological applications are interesting, but the exams are unfair. be prepared for this.
If you want to get bare-bone physics without a deep understanding of what's going on, PS2 is sufficient.  However, if you expect a deeper level of understanding than what you could get from, say, AP Physics, you will be disappointed.
Invest your time in the psets.  If there are no additional practice problems available, do the book problems to internalize the basics.  Don't invest your time in reading the book.
only take it if you have to (premed)
Its a typical pre-med class but I thought the tests were manageable and fair, better than what I had heard from previous years coming into the class.
It's not easy, and it can be kind of tedious sometimes.
Do practice problems before exams (review your tests); ask questions when you have them!!
This is the best physics class to take for pre-meds. Physics 11a is poorly taught, and after taking it for three weeks, I switched to PS2 (much better taught). It's not easy, but it's definitely manageable.
While I was nervous entering the course because of negative Q rankings before, PS2 was a painless experience. You will learn a great deal of physical concepts but without much depth. It's not easy, but if you work at it then there's no reason you can't do well. The labs are pedantic and annoying, but that is not unique to this course.
It's difficult, but doable. I went in with really low expectations and was pleasantly surprised. Make sure you really understand the broader concepts for the tests.
I thought it was REALLY HARD.  You just need to work your face off.  Negatives: it is a physics class filled with really hardcore premeds.  You're basically doomed to unhappiness right there.  Positives: the teaching staff really cares and there's a ton of opportunities to get help in this class.  I thought the lectures were actually really good.  And when you actually do well on exams in this class, you feel like you're on top of the world.  It just takes sooo much studying to get to that point.  I would STRONGLY encourage everyone to go to the weekly Friday reviews.  I think they would really help cement the material in your mind.
This course isn't easy, the exams aren't easy, the homework isn't easy. BUT our final exam, unlike the year before, was somewhat more reasonable. Do as many problems as you possibly can. Seriously.
Logan McCarthy is a fantastic lecturer and while he was teaching, I actually didn't mind the class (even though large science classes get pretty old by senior year).  Melissa Franklin on the other hand, although she is genius in the physics world, spent more time in lecture figuring out her own mistakes and making strange, sometime inappropriate jokes than actually teaching anything.  Other than that, the problems do a good job of relating physics to biology, so the material is actually pretty interesting if you don't mind spending half a day on problem sets.
Make sure you have a LOT of time to devote to this class. Also, the "prereq" of math 1b is not true, as I had only taken 1a and encountered no material I hadn't seen.
Get ready to work.
become tim's buddy.
If you have to take physics for Pre-med, this is probably your best option.
They do a great job of making physics seem relevant to medical students, but be prepared for some some really difficult psets and tests.
giancoli
Challenging and sometimes tedious. You have to put in the work if you want to do well.
Stay away
It's physics dumbed and watered down for premeds. If you're good at physics, then you should have no problem whatsoever in this course
PS2 lectures were actually fun! Not what you would picture for a pre-med version of physics. The course is definitely challenging and requires hard work but based off the little bit of 11a that I saw during shopping period, this just seems like the obvious choice for which intro physics class to take. Also Logan is amazing! He should really teach the whole semester.
If you go to section, this class is a great way to knock out the physics premed requirement. I have yet to find a person who wishes they had taken phys11a over ps2.
Based on my roommate's experience in Physics 11a, I think I can safely say that if you're debating between the 2, PS2 is the way to go.  There's a lot of infrastructure to help out if you're having trouble, Logan is great, Melissa is hilarious, and the problem sets and midterms are manageable.  The final was tougher than the midterms though so watch out.  Lab seemed sort of pointless half the time, though.
If you have to take it, you have to take it.
PS2 gets a lot of mixed reviews, but I think overall it was actually a really good course.  I don't like big classes as I never feel as motivated to work hard when I feel like a "number", and I think that may be a major complaint of many people.  That being said though, nothing about this class was "terrible" or truly unfair and the material was actually quite interesting.  I don't expect many people to take this as an "elective", but if you have to take this course I think its well worth it in the long run... and some parts can actually be quite fun.
I think that ps2 is a better option than physics 11a for premed students from what I have heard from other students. They are working on the course to make it more fair and less calculus intensive. Logan is a great lecturer and the pset schedule is considerate of holidays.
It's a tough class and lots of crazy premeds take it.
It is not as bad of a class as some people make it out to be.  You don't need to know the material to more of a depth than what is covered in class and problem sets.  Problem sets can be a pain in the neck because the questions are not straightforward but sometimes they are about interesting topics and also the problem sets were graded more for effort than completion.
Both of the professors have a great sense of humor. Tim is an excellent preceptor, and Evelina leads lab very knowledgeably and effectively. If you have physics questions during this course, be sure to ask them!
The course is very challenging but interesting. The professors make the lectures exciting and there are plenty of outside resources to look for help.
This course was difficult but interesting.
As far as premed classes go, this was my favorite one. That said, if you don't have to take it, you probably shouldn't merely because it's a lot of work.
This is the best pre-med class I've taken at Harvard! The first part of the class was really well organized, but the second part got a little hectic. The labs don't meet every week and are really straightforward. Definitely use all of the resources they provide - Friday reviews, help room, etc. - and you will do well!
This class is predominantly taken by premeds, but if you are interested in physics as it applies to the biological realm, you will find it interesting.
This is a great intro to physics for pre meds. even though you have to take it with other premeds, the teaching staff is really helpful and fair.
review lectures
A fine, manageable physics class. Take only if required. Logan makes it less painful.
Do the practice problems! And think about things in terms of application.
Plan to spend a lot of time outside of class learning the material is you have never taken a physics class before
This class applies physics to biology--awesome! Take if you're pre-med.
It's a premed course, and it comes with the standard pains (weekly problem sets, weekly labs, two midterms), BUT it also comes with extremely entertaining lectures.  While it is unfortunate that these lectures are at 9:30am, Logan and Melissa are really fun to listen to.
fun lectures!
It's really hard. Don't get behind and get help when you need it.
This is a great class. The material is well presented. There are so many resources to help you understand everything.
To be successful really need to be able to teach yourself some of the course
If you like physics it will be a fun class. Also, the psets don't exactly translate to the exams.
Typical premed class where no matter how much effort you put in there's still someone at the top throwing the curve with a 100% on the exams. The midterms were really hard (69% average). The final was thankfully more reasonable than the first 2 exams, but the psets were also very difficult. You had to go to office hours / help sessions to get them completed. But they were graded on effort which was nice. The course material was semi interesting, but as a whole the class was boring (1.5 hour lectures starting at 9:30 am) and poorly taught. Labs were long and you also had to go to a section. You were tested on lab material which, although it makes sense, is still annoying. This is supposed to be level one physics, but in the end it's just a typical Harvard science class where they make all of the material much harder than it needs to be. Only take this class if you have to.
It was a good class - i think it was a better experience than physics 11 (of course I haven't taken physics 11, but i liked ps2)
Painful and annoying, though the course staff definitely care a lot and try to make it as wonderful as possible.
This class is not good. Only take it as a pre-med requirement, and even then go into it realizing that the teaching sucks, the problem sets are weirdly worded and difficult to understand, and you will be frustrated.
This class is terrible. Get a tutor early if you know you are not good at physics
This is definitely the "pre-med" physics. They try really hard to connect the material back to bio, which can be really interesting at times and sometimes just really confusing. Most people do have some kind of physics background, so if you do not (as I did not) then you definitely will have to work harder to grasp the concepts in order to do well. But Logan is great and Tim French is going to be your lifesaver!
It was a challenging course, but I did learn a lot.  Lecture is pretty interesting.  If Logan lectures, you learn.  If Melissa lectures, you laugh.  GO TO SECTION. I wouldn't take this course unless I had to though...I'm sure there are more fun electives out there.
Standard pre-med class, but better on average than the life sci classes.
I like physics. And find it interesting. This course it tough, but interesting Go in with lots of energy (like Melissa) and lots of attention on the material because you must dedicate time if you want to do well....
Don't waste your money on the book that is supposedly "custom-made for the class". It was not useful at all. Go to the Friday review session or watch it online, and go to a different section if you get a bad TF.
Logan is amazing! Prof Franklin is fun and could be a great lecturer if she became more focused - so make sure you understand the stuff she has lectured on after each lecture or you may not be able to pick it up before the exams. Overall, I would suggest it. Interesting and not to painful for premeds.
It is a nice, easy course for those who are taking it only for requirements.
This class is relatively painless. Logan McCarty is a very gifted professor and truly made his material interesting - however, Melissa Franklin's portion of the course was awful. Don't take this class if you're not premed.
The class is an interesting approach to physics, taking a biological perspective. Expect a workload and exam difficulty level typical of most pre-med classes. If you have to take physics, this is a reasonable and pretty interesting course, but not all of it was extremely well taught.
Physics is not phun.  They try to hard to apply this biology and medicine and do not teach you much physics.
The exams are fair, unlike many other premed classes.
This is about what you would expect from a basic physics course.  The concepts are not overly difficult to understand and it's not as time consuming as some other science courses.  I liked the focus on life sciences.
It's rough! But if you're pre-med, I think it's your best bet.
This course is fairly challenging but I found it useful to supplement the lectures with online video tutorials which provided some really basic insight into some of the concepts.
I would not suggest taking it unless it is a requirement.  Also, don't be worried about the calculus that is necessary, the only thing you really need to know is how to do basic derivatives and integrals.
it's a pretty good physics class for bio people. learnt some interesting things about physics in the body. you will need to learn how to solve the problems in the way they expect you to, but once you do, it's alright.
I would recommend the PS2/PS3 course track over 11a/11b based on the quality of the PS2/3 professors and TFs
It's a pretty well-organized class, and it's pretty cool to see physics tied into how the human body works.
One word: Excruciating. Worst class of my Harvard career. Make me rethink being a pre-med, to be blunt. You are forewarned, do not take this class lightly.
It's the best way to learn physics.
I would definitely recommend this course for premed/biology students who need to take Physics. I also suggest taking this course along with LS2 as, PS2 will explain the physics behind some of the same concepts taught in Anatomy and Physio. They do a good job of making the material relevant. Don't be fooled when they tell you not to worry about book problems. Many of the exam questions are very similar to the more challenging problems. Also make full use of Help Room, Section, and Tim's Friday Review Sessions. Exams are brutal, but you can do well in the class if you drill the concepts on a frequent basis. I learned a ton of information that will help me understand Physiology in medical school. This course actually made Physics enjoyable for me.
Watch Tim's friday reviews and keep up with the homework. Self-study.
Considering that pre-meds have to take a full year of physics, I guess this class is the best option since it is designed with you in mind. However, it is still going to be difficult, especially the final exam. The professors are very nice and seem to care a lot about the class, but lectures with Melissa Franklin don't tend to be very clear. Once again, it's a necessary evil with some nice examples relating concepts to the medical field.
This course is just one of those things that you have to get through as a premed, but I didn't enjoy it at all and felt like the entire semester was just a struggle.
The TFs for this class are amazingly terrible. Logan is a fantastic lecturer, but he stops half way through and Melissa was terrible
Not an easy class - be prepared for a lot of work. Some students also enter the course with a lot of physics under their belts from high school, so if you're not one of these people, you'll have to work a lot harder to keep up. The first half of the course was taught well; the second half was taught extremely poorly. Go to the review sessions on Fridays - they're extremely helpful.
Ugh. PS2 is as annoying as you think it is. However, it is not terrible. Problem sets feature long problems that are often more confusing than they need to be, but you do learn the concepts. The first half of the course is decent, but the second half tanks...HARD. I wonder if I actually learned anything after the second midterm...Anyway, for you premeds, take this course if you are new to physics. Although the 11 and 15 series are probably taught better, they have more students familiar with physics. The grading is decent; although midterms were difficult, you do get quite a bit of partial credit.
This class is not as bad as people think. Logan is a terrific lecturer. I recommend going over lectures soon after they happened and keeping up with the material. If you do that it's not to hard to do well.
lecturers are hilarious
Only take it if you have to. At least shop 11a based on who is teaching it that year. Otherwise, be prepared for some hair pulling LS1B level frustration and incompetence.
An okay option for premeds.
if you want to learn and have an overview of physics which includes aspects that aren't really important, such as surface tension, etc. then you should take this - otherwise physics 15 is probably better
The midterm and the final are really difficult. You should work really hard on your labs and psets.
It's difficult.  Not at all like a normal physics class.  They test you on questions you've never seen before, which is often a good thing but in this case it just made me feel completely unprepared and stressed out.  The professors are awesome, though, and it's fun to go to lectures.  The demos were great.
Only take this if you really have to
This course gives a great foundation to mechanics, fluids, and basic statistical mechanics and does a great job applying the concepts to real life situations and medicine.
Good class to take if you're premed and need to fulfill a physics req. Well taught and fairly graded.
The professors really care about the course, and so does the teaching staff, however only take it if you feel comfortable devoting many hours, it's very convoluted and a constant struggle.  Draining, you'll NEED J-term afterwards.
It's better than the other physics courses! prepared to do some serious studying for the exams. lectures are helpful to attend.
I wouldn't recommend this class at all.  People only take it to fulfill the pre-med requirement for physics and to prepare (hopefully) for the MCAT.  This class was boring (with limited interesting biological applications) and not super helpful in imparting physics concepts that I'll remember.
This course is difficult. The exams are graded harshly and are difficult to study for since they don't reflect any of the problem sets/practice problems that are posted on the website. Don't be fooled by the first half of the course (mechanics) - the second half is much more difficult. The problem sets are long. Don't take this course for an elective - only if you have to for a pre-med requirement. That being said, it is probably still better than Physics 11.
PS2 is not difficult if you have a good physics background.  The quizzes and midterms were very fair.  The final was very difficult.  Problem sets are difficult.  You shouldn't have any problems with the course as long as you keep up with the material!
The class is very well taught
Best option for a physics class if you are required to take one and don't feel extremely comfortable with the material.
This class was really hard and I struggled through it.  Going to lecture was not enough to know how to do the problem sets.
Take it if you must. The material can be very interesting and applicable but very difficult at the same time.
If you have to take a class that opens your eyes to how applicable physics is to the outside world, this is a really great class to take.
Only take this class if you need to fulfill a requirement - if not, its a huge pain and not worth it
It's not good but you have to take it.
This class is certainly not cookie cutter physics.  It is still a difficult class. I went in with the mentality that this class would be a breeze, and it definitely was not.
- If you do not have highschool physics, DO NOT WORRY, it is a good thing! You will do better in the 2nd half of the course and the playing field will be evened with those kids who just do well because they went to fancy highschools- The labs are boring, and a waste of your time and Harvard;s money, suck it up- Do practice problems, THINK
Don't rely on the teaching staff for help -- make friends with one of the physics geniuses taking the class if possible.
Lectures are pretty useless. Problem sets don't really correlate to exams. On the exams, you get like half credit for just writing down the concept associated with the question. This class basically sucks, but you if you're a pre-med, you've got to take some sort of physics. Make sure you do well on labs and homework to keep your grade up, because exams can be unfair. Don't buy the book; it's useless. It is nice that they try to connect physics to the human body, and I have to admit that the class is very well organized.
This class is difficult and requires time.
If you've taken AP Physics in high school, this class probably won't challenge you at all. The class's rigid approach to teaching physics may also frustrate you if you already know how to solve the problems without their ridiculous problem-solving structures. However, if you want to fulfill requirements, this is a pretty straightforward way to do it, and the class is well-taught--at least it's entertaining to be in lecture.
Not as bad as I was expecting, but the labs are very brutal. Logan is an amazing lecturer and definitely helped make the class more bearable.
PLEASE EXPLORE ALL PHYSICS CLASSES BEFORE DECIDING TO TAKE THIS CLASS.  This class is very hard.  It is because you learn physics concepts and their biological applications at the same time.  In addition, the final exam and the problem sets are very challenging.  I decided to take this class because I did not like the professor for Physics 11a.  But I believe that was my biggest mistake.  All of the exams for 11a were open book and all of the students thought the class was not too hard.  (Also, most of the people I talked to just took general physics or did not take physics at all in high school).
Let's face it. You're taking this class as a requirement (for pre-med, concentration, etc), so it won't be the most enjoyable class in the world, but it's still pretty interesting and the professors and staff really try to make it fun and relevant. So, go ahead and take it!
Do lots and lots of practice problems! The assessments are hard and the finals sucked!
The concepts in this class weren't particularly difficult, but the grading is somewhat draconian.
This class was very interesting in terms of the demonstrations the professors performed in class and the application to medical examples. However the class is still quite difficult and has some weaknesses to it.
This class is not easy. It is actually pretty hard if you haven't taken physics before. If you have to take it, take it, otherwise audit - the lectures really are interesting!
The lectures are well taught, but that may make the course appear deceptively easy. You will have to put in a lot of time on the problem sets because of the way problem sets and the help center are structured. Labs are intertwined with the course, so make sure you understand the labs. What is important in this class are not equations and computations, but understanding the concepts and broad themes.
Be prepared for unclear and rushed lectures that focus more on experiments and examples rather than teaching you how to use the equations and solve problems.
Apply yourself and this course can be quite interesting.
I know the only reason people take this class is as a pre-med req, so just buckle down and deal with it because it will suck.
It's neat learning physics from a medical perspective but it takes a lot of work and the final was unfair. Expect to struggle at times.
Only take this class if you have to.
I can't speak for the class relative to Physics 11a, but the class was relatively decent. At the end of the day, you're taking this as a pre-med or concentration requirement (or you would be in one the hardcore physics classes), so just tough it out and get it done.Staying on top of the problem sets will keep you in a pretty decent position, but make sure you don't get lax. The final exam was by far and away exponentially harder than anything prior in the course (including the midterm).
It's a reasonable way to fulfill a premed or concentration requirement if you don't want to take 11 or 15a. The professors are clear lecturers, but problem sets are probably very different from typical physics questions you've seen before.
final exam was difficult. grading is sometimes questionable, especially given the "absolute" vs. curved system. made a big deal about this semester. material can be interesting at times. overall, what you'd expect for a pre-med physics course.
This is the worst of the premed woodchipper I've seen so far.  The idea of the class is to take something straightforward, intro physics, and muddy it with medical applications.  If you can still tease out the physics concepts, well done.
This is a reasonable introductory physics class that deals with the physical concepts most relevant to a career in the biological sciences and medicine.  A strong background in mathematics is required, so Math 1b (or even higher levels!) should be taken before entering this course.
don't ever get behind in this class.
It's a hard class. Most people say it easier than Physics 11 or 15, but I think PS2 was actually just as hard as Physics 11. Keep in mind that you are now dealing with pre-med classmates!!
effort may not be proportional to final result
If you're premed and don't want to take 11a, you pretty much have to take this class. Logan and Vinny are great professors, but the class requires a TON of time and effort. Start problem sets early and give yourself a lot of time to study for the exams. This is a difficult class.
There are some interesting things learned in this course about biophysics, and the class is manageable, but it can be very stressful the way the class is structured in terms of the volume of work in one p set, or one test, there is a lot of work and only a very small window of time in which to do it, and not very much help.
Lots of work and lab is AWFUL.
If you want a physics class with an interesting applied twist, its a good alternative to all the other physics class options
Lectures often dry or difficult to follow, or seemed like they were longer than they needed to be.  The class is supposed to integrate biology a little--it seemed to do this only on a very cursory level - for instance using body parts sometimes as examples of some physics concept.
It is a good course and the materials are very interesting. But it can  be a very difficult course.
It's not that hard as long as you focus on understanding concepts first then learning how to do problems.
If you can (department-permitting), definitely take PS 2 over the other physics options! Logan McCarty is fantastic, and PS 2 is VERY VERY well taught. It's probably the best pre-med class I've taken! But it's difficult and does take a lot of time.
Not an easy physics class. The grading is hard and unreasonable at times depending on your TF and the lectures don't really cover how to solve problems that you're given.
Just give up.
only take if you have to/are interested in physics. it's a huge, intro, pre-med stressed-beyond-reason class.
Pros: the applications to biology/medicine are interesting; lecture was good; labs were interesting and generally well run.Cons: section was very unhelpful; while the basic concepts aren't too hard, the application in P Sets and exams can be frustratingly difficult and confusing- not many practice problems to help here either; p sets were often graded harshly and arbitrarily.Overall: probably easier than physics 15/11, but unsatisfactory sections and lack of preparation for very difficult exams make for a stressful experience for many.  If you're pre-med, this is still probably your best bet for the physics requirement.
This class is insanely difficult especially after the midterm so be prepared to practice a ton.
Take this class only if you have to and even then find another way
It's probably way better than taking 11a or 15a... but it's still really hard.
Seriously, only take it if you have to.
The material is interesting but challenging
Not a bad class especially if you did well AP Physics C and aren't too lazy. Homework is overrated in this class. Put most of your effort into labs, quizzes, and exams.
A well-taught class, but it's very challenging!!!!!!!!!!!!
this class will ruin your life
This was an extremely frustrating class. The problem sets were very difficult, as were the exams. I found lab to be frustrating without much guidance and the concepts difficult to grasp as presented.
The lectures were very good and material pretty interesting. However the problem sets, lab, and pace of the course made it quite painful.
only if you need to satisfy premed
It has a fairly large workload with weekly Psets, and tends to be very difficult questions, even if the concepts aren't really that hard.
WORK HARD! Go to as many office hours as possible!
You can take this to fulfill a pre-med requirement. You'll want to enjoy it an do well, but neither of those will become a reality as the semester goes on. No matter how much you study, the midterm and final exam will throw something at you that you're not equipped to handle.
Be willing to put in a lot of time and effort to learn the course material. It is difficult. Although the professors do their best to start from the beginning, they have a lot to cover throughout the semester. STAY ON TOP OF YOUR WORK!
If you're a premed who's annoyed that physics is a premed requirement, take this class. The professors do a good job of convincing you of the applicability of the class to medicine.
It's difficult, but it is geared towards the life sciences which makes the applications of the material seem more relevant and interesting for premeds
Go to Tim French's review sessions. Do not start homework the night before. Become buddies with Logan McCarty, he is very nice and helpful if you take the time to get to know him. If you do not find that your TF does a good job during section, consider going to another section in addition to your own, and/or setting up one-on-one appointments (they do a better job individually and you will have better luck than attempting to get any help during the "help hours" where assistance on a pset can be likened to battling it out for the last gazelle in the Sahara Desert). Avoid the "help hours" at all costs. Pre-med students are unpleasant creatures.
This class is challenging and time-consuming, but the lectures are really good and the applications to biology are fascinating.
Go watch a MIT introductory physics lecture and then go to a PS2 lecture. It will make you lament on Harvard's behalf. This class tries too hard focus on the intersection of biology and physics, ultimately teaching you neither. I am a premed who enjoys physics. A class like this is like a slap to the face, emphasizing only the annoying useless aspects of physics while rendering the intellectually stimulating aspects annoying beyond belief. If you must take this class, I wish you the best as you suffer through the worst class I've ever taken in my life.
You are expected to do most of the understanding by yourself
It's a fine way to fulfill your physics req
if you're reading this you're a premed, and what choice do you have anyway? I heard physics 11 is more straight forward, so that might be a better choice
Take this class only if you don't have the math/physics background for an upper level class. Otherwise, you will be miserable.
Pretty boring for someone who has taken physics before. Grading is frustrating at times.
Should probably go to Friday review sessions and learn from Tim.
This is probably the least painful of the physics options for those interested in medicine/life sciences. That being said, it will still require a great deal of effort to do well.
It's difficult, but not too difficult, and is very worthwhile.
Take it if your pre-med because they gear it towards kids like us, but it definitely has weaknesses, like section, lab, etc.
This class is pretty hard and took a lot of time and the exams are really tricky, I spent so much time practicing the problems I could get my hands on and still ran into things that I did now on the exams. Also I took a really long time to work on problem sets because I did them entirely by myself and just checking with others but I would recommend doing that because it really halped out a lot
It's hard, but the material is far more interesting than chemistry!!
This course taught you nothing of what was on the homework or what you were tested on. Even if you understood the broad physical concepts that lecture was about, you HAD to go to the help session on the Monday before the problem set was due to get the right answer to many of the homework problems. They did not teach you how to solve the problems whatsoever in lecture, and expected you to be able to on the tests when literally the only time are learning how to solve problems is with 50 other students crammed in the help room for 8 hours on Mondays. This class could have been much better organized at actually teaching you the things you needed to know for tests and homework. Sections were also weak. Oftentimes, lecture teaches broader physical concepts and section teaches you how to solve the problems and test questions. Section for this class did none of that- they left you to your own devices to tackle practice problems and would walk around the classroom if people had questions. Of course, all of the class had questions and half the class wouldn't get to ask their own questions. This is by far the worst class I have taken at Harvard.
Take at your own risk
A great class. Don't believe those who hate it.
One of the most challenging courses I have taken here.
take only if you have to take it... other than that... good luck
Go to office hours every week. Read the textbook. Do lots of practice problems early and find out what your questions are and ask your professors. Go to help room.
This is the most difficult premed requirement in terms of how the course is graded.  The concepts are straightforward, but the exams are often unnecessarily difficult.
very interesting to learn, but be prepared to spend a lot of time on the problem sets
For students with limited options in physics, I would say PS 2 is very interesting if you want to see how physics is applied to medicine. However, I wouldn't suggest taking this course if you aren't trying to fulfill concentration or pre-med requirements.
Don't take this unless it is a requirement. Although the lectures are good at relating the key concepts, the amount of time you put into the course may not reflect how well you do.
Take this course if you are a premed, because you have to, and the applications to biology are pretty cool (they are all that got me through the course). To be frank, though, I absolutely hated this course (and I have liked/loved every other premed course thus far, including orgo). The textbook was a waste of money, I didn't open it. Those who did agreed it didn't apply to the course. The quizzes are not bad, the midterm is tough but fair. The final is semi-impossible and there isn't really much you can do to prepare. That said, about 150 people get through it every year, so just suck it up and prepare for an awful class.
The teaching staff really tries hard to make this course as interesting as a 200-person course could be that is not about inherently interesting subjects like the science of cooking. All in all a great effort.
Not really that bad; of course, I took AP Physics (although seriously, that was 4 years ago), and I didn't mind the biological approach.  Others may feel otherwise.  I have to say, though, I liked this a lot better than orgo XP
take this class, not 11a
It's quite difficult, but a great option for fulfilling the premed physics requirement. The instructors are great.
This course is hard and extremely frustrating due to unfair homework grading (it's not normalized so different tfs are stricter than others) and the materials the student is presented with to prepare for exams is not a good representation of what the exam will ask of them.
Class is ok, but I would only recommend it if you need to fulfill requirements.
If you're a pre-med then you're kind of stuck taking this course. Just be prepared to get low blows on the exams: the questions are way harder than any question you'll receive in a problem set and/or section worksheet. And even having a tutor doesn't even really help with the course because regardless of how well you think you know the information the tests try their best to prove you wrong.
Next to PS1, this is probably one of the best-taught premed classes I've taken so far at Harvard.
class is tougher than i expected it to be, but the TFs are generally helpful.
PS2 is a requirement for many people, and is something that must be lived through. If math is not something intuitive, it is not easy, and a lot of work must be put in. That being said, the instructors make the course as interesting as possible, and are very open to questions.
People say that you should only take this class if you're required to.  For the sake of your sanity and your GPA, believe them.
Do not take this course unless you absolutely have to or already know physics. It is poorly taught and the examinations are unfair.
Only take this course if you absolutely have to - for concentration credit or pre-medical requirement.  It's a useful class and not too difficult, but it's hard to really be engaged in and thrilled about the material.
Not bad if you have to take it.
From what I've heard, this class is better than Physics 11. But that would be the only reason to take it.
It makes you die inside.
Do a lot of questions. The course is pretty fair throughout, but the final exam is hard. In case you were wondering, I never really regretted taking this over phys11a, but I'm sure that is also just as challenging.
The lectures are good for the course, and the material is useful. The problem sets are time consuming and assumption/estimation based, so this will be very frustrating to someone who is used to quantitative problems. The problem sets also don't prepare you very well for the exams, which can be tricky. There is also not enough practice problems and well explained solutions for the exams. The section is not very helpful and only the final answers for the problems are posted. Overall, this course is not a very good experience.
This is a good physics class for pre-meds. Problem sets require a good amount of time to complete.
Only take this course if you are a pre-med.
The professors try and do a good job of making it interesting and I think its a fair course, except that the actual examinations seem much harder than the practice ones.
This class is poorly organized and it favors sucking up to TFs, not understanding the material. Homework and exams are graded in a bizarre manner. In short, this class is terrible.
The concepts and demos introduced in lecture are interesting. The midterms, tests and problem sets are very difficult, so make sure you have a very deep understanding of what is being discussed in lecture.
This course will introduce you to a few physical concepts, but that's about it.
This is a difficult class. Be prepared to work hard.
It's hard.
be ready to work hard in a very do-able manner.
If you need to fulfill a physics requirement for pre-med or biological sciences purposes, definitely take this class.
this is a good class for those looking for a very clear, organized way to learn physics.
Friday reviews are the secret to understanding the material and doing well.
Study for the tests by just practicing as many problems as you can.  Don't worry about the details of the concepts - just practice applying them.  The tests are much harder than anything else in the course.
If you are pre-med and don't want to do super intense physics, this is your best option. The math is reasonable and they include a lot of medical examples which is cool.
it is difficult... do practice problems!
Good, easy way to fulfill pre-vet/med requirements.
This course is a good physics foundation class, though the professors spend far too much time on derivations.
PS 2 is a great course that teaches you mechanics, fluid statics/dynamics, and basic statistical physics while successfully applying those things to biology and medicine. I was quite skeptical of this whole "applied to the life sciences" thing at the beginning of the course, but I've got to say they actually pull it off quite well. The lab is well coordinated with the lectures, the exams are fair, and the demos during lecture are really fun. Great class!
The second half of the class will require you to self-study in order to understand the more complicated concepts of surface tension
Logan is awesome!  Professor Manoharan is too!  They have genuine excitement and interest in the class and it's very endearing.  The material isn't too bad, lectures are fine, psets and exams are hard.
take it if you like physics otherwise don't
The biological application is one of the best parts of Physical Sciences 2.  The class is very organized and the labs are helpful.
You should focus on the textbook problems since these are the sorts of things the exams cover-not the examples from lecture or the problem sets, which was an unfortunate surprise. The lectures will not prepare you for the level of difficulty of the exams so be prepared to do extra work to get comfortable with the material.
Bad class...if you want real physics take 11a.
This class is offered only because pre-med students are forced to take physics. Very few people in that lecture hall actually want to learn about physics. This is not a reflection on the professors, as they do their best to make the material interesting. The class is well organized until you find yourself completely disoriented on the exams. This could be due to my lack of a knowledgeable section TF, but I found this class to be a disaster.
Only take it as a requirement, but as for fulfilling a physics requirement it seems better than other options.
only take this if you HAVE to for pre-med, even then, maybe take physics 11 or whatever
PS2 is not a very good course, but you may have no choice but to take it.
Only if you have to take it.
Keep up with the homework and topics and don't fall behind. Ask questions when they first arise!
If you have pre-med, take this course.
It's difficult.
it is a lot of work, but you learn a lot, and it is possible to do well in, and it is a fair class
be prepared to work hard. also hard to find enough practice materials since problems from Giancoli were rather simplistic.
Very well taught course, but quite difficult.
Unless you really want the biological application component, it might be easier to take straight physics. The application to the body and biology seemed to make it more complicated.
For pre-meds, this is the best option for physics.  It's light on math (you don't need Math 1B to take this course) and the labs are well designed and not excessive in terms of work.  Though they try to connect physics to biology, it isn't done in a way that detracts from learning the underlying concepts.  If you're looking for a physics class to satisfy a pre-med requirement, this is definitely the way to go.
Since you have to take physics if you're a pre-med, this is probably the best class to take.  It's word problems are really interesting, usually, and they help make a boring topic much more interesting.  Do all the practice problems for exams -- and go to Friday reviews, because it's only an hour of your time and will be helpful for problem sets.  Definitely use help room on Mondays before problem sets are due... it's not a great idea to do nothing on the problem set before you go, but lots of people do that and manage to finish the whole thing while they're in there.
good for premeds.  not great if your goal is to get excited about physics.
It's a fairly straightforward class; the course itself is well organized, and the material is not as difficult as what is covered in other physics courses.
It's a well-taught class.  Both professors, especially Professor McCarty, were clear, enthusiastic, and even amusing, and it was a pleasure to go to lecture.  I learned basic physics and facts that relate to my everyday and biological interests.  Switch sections if you don't have a good TF.  Problem sets were not as bad as Orgo.  If you have a more advanced physics background, though, it's probably worth it to take 15a, but otherwise this is a solid course.
I would only recommend this class to pre-med students who need to fulfill a physics requirement. I would tell them that it's not easy- in fact it is a very difficult class but it is the best option Harvard has to get this requirement fulfilled.
It's a good course, but can get a little difficult towards the end.
be prepared to study a lot and do a lot of questions.
It's a premed drudge class, really nothing more to say.
The class teaches you a great deal and you will feel like you are learning a lot, but when then quizzes and exams come around, you will feel like you just wasted months of your life!
Good way to learn physics if you're a life sciences concentrator.
DON'T TAKE THIS COURSE if you're not PreMed and fearful of taking Physics 11. I mean it was painful. Truly a painful experience for me. In other words I was only able to get through it by reminding myself that this is just something ridiculous that admissions offices are requiring me to do for medical school and that by doing this I'm a little bit closer to being a doctor.
You will be able to explain the physics behind so many events.
Your performance in the class will be worsened because psets, labs, and lectures aren't properly integrated or well taught.  I had a subtle feeling that the lectures were attempting to bury the actual physics students were learning and needed for exams in somewhat humorous videos and somewhat interesting problems, and this desire put me off.  Concepts could be explained clearer, and the professors should spend less time dancing around math.   If your interested in biological questions related to physics, this course might be fun.
Even if you've had a lot of physics before, don't underestimate the difficulty of the course, especially when it comes to the quizzes, which have a large time pressure.The course is taught fairly well as far as science courses at Harvard go.
Just be aware: the first 12 lectures does not represent the course. The second half of the course is much harder than the first because it's material you have never seen before, and you need to keep on top of the material a lot better. Also, make sure you know the concepts behind formulas, otherwise you won't be able to do any difficult questions on the tests.
This class was actually not nearly as bad as I was expecting, except for the exams. The exams are really hard although they're usually pretty good about giving partial credit. Labs can be pretty bad but Tim is really helpful, and at least they're not every week.
You will probably find a lot of friends in the class but you will hate yourself for having to fight with the other premeds. It's labeled as a better alternative to 11a but it really has its own pitfalls. Go to lecture, study the lectures, and then be brilliant on exams. That's all there is to do.
Easiest physics class at Harvard, but don't drop your guard.  Do the problem sets on your own as much as possible.  Watch out for the quizzes and exams as the problems you will see there will undoubtedly be much harder than the ones on the psets.  This class will challenge you.
This is a hard course..get a great study group, a tutor, and work hard!
It's not easy but it's engaging and makes a great attempt to contextualize concepts that might otherwise seem unapplicable.  A great pre-med alternative to a strict, textbook physics class.
PS2 provides a broad overview of the Newtonian, kinematics, and fluid dynamics portions of physics. The lectures are interesting, in general, but can get tedious sometimes. Like any other large lecture course, sections vary a lot in quality. Problem sets can be challenging.
good course that is well-taught, but is very difficult and time-consuming
Although this is probably the easiest intro physics class that you can take, it is still pretty difficult and requires a fair amount of outside work to understand.  Really try to pay attention during lecture and review material on a weekly basis, because it can be difficult to review large amounts of material at once.
This is a great class if you're afraid to approach physics, but need to take the class.
Be prepared to work hard.  Expect the tests will be more difficult than the materials you will be given to practice.
This course was a great introduction to physics. Go to lecture, sections, labs, and work together with people on problem sets. This is a manageable class if you do so.
If you need to take a physics, this is probably the easiest one, plus it also introduces concepts from a biological standpoint, which is pretty interesting.
If you're considering taking this class, you probably have to, so you're stuck. But if you don't have to, seriously don't. Although this will make you love biology/chemistry more than you already do, so that's a plus.The class was really fascinating when the profs used physics to explain some concept we've always taken for granted in the life sciences. And I'll admit I have learned a lot because I studied my ass off for the final. But in general, it's really not worth it. If this is your only introduction to physics, take Physics 11--I hear it doesn't quite deserve a 1.7 this year. It's a shame because I think they really try; there are just some aspects of the class that overwhelm the attempt in a very negative way.
It's probably the best way to do the pre-med requirement in physics.
Great intro physics class - the professors and preceptors/TFs spend a lot of time trying to make the course engaging and applicable to bio/medicine!
Few people know Newton's fourth law: that physics sucks.  This course made an admirable attempt to make physics not suck, but this cannot be done as it would violate the laws of physics.  They did come close to disproving Newton's fourth law, but then the final happened.  Now every time I see a spring I cringe in horror and flee the premises (I used to love springs because they are so bouncy.  But now they have periods and stuff which is just gross)PS.  Even if you tend to do well in science classes don't take this course lightly.  It takes work.
Study using the practice problems given for the course...the questions they ask on exams are written in a very different style than what you find in the textbook.
The class is interesting, and the way it approaches physics is different, and I think, relatively new. However, despite being challenging, it makes it worthwhile in the end.
Best physics option for a premed in my opinion.
The professors do a good job making the class interesting and relevant for many students who are not comfortable with physics.
great class to fulfill physics premed requirement because it's not too hard, and provides an interesting perspective of physics on biology - good for premed. also teaching is very good.
If you have to take a physics class and are a life sciences person, this is probably your best option. Go into it with a good attitude (it'll be easy but it's not a joke, so put the work in and you'll learn something interesting) and you should be fine.
Probably the easiest physics at Harvard, so if it's for pre-med, I'd go with this one
The problem sets are long and do not necessarily help with preparation for exams.
only take this class if you're pre-med and absolutely need physics
Only take it to fulfill premedical requirements
If you have any background in physics at all, take Physics 11.  This class takes about three biological applications of physics and beats them to death.  The exams are unfair, and the second half of the lectures are totally unclear.
Only take it if you are pre-med.
Much better than Physics 11a
Pain in the ass, but it's filled with dumbass premeds so it's better than 11a.
It is a very challenging physics course.
Take it if you have to.
Pre-meds, take this class rather than 11 or 15 - it's designed for you, and you will appreciate it.
Be ready for some tricky problems but manageable overall.
The lecturers are excellent and the class gives students a great understanding of basic physics.
Physics is no phun.
Lots of work, must put in a good amount of effort, but not the worst pre-med class ever.
Its not just straight physics, which I might actually have preferred.
Only take as a requirement.
As long as you like physics infused with biology, this is good.
A well-organized physics class with interesting lectures and interesting material. Labs connect well with the lectures.
Study, study, study!!!
A good class that gives you the basics of physics.
A strong physics background is necessary.
The test problems are inordinately hard and are dissimilar from the homework material. They aren't impossible, but you have to get used to the problem type, which can't really happen until the final exam when they finally give you enough practice problems. Also the grading scheme (uncurved) disincentives striving for an A which is messed up.
it is hard, i would only take it if you ahve particular interest in mechanics or it is a requirement
Use all of the resources they provide you with - TF's, office hours, help room
It may be hard to learn physics from scratch in the application - driven class.
Go over the problems in the weekly review lectures while studying for exams; they are very helpful.
There isn't any better choice for pre-med physics, but I would warn them that it is not a fun experience
It's a bad class, but better than PS1, and probably easier than Physics 11a or 15a.  You'll probably take it because you have to, but don't expect to like it.
Unfortunately, for pre-meds you have to take this course.I didn't pay 6.25K (or 25k a term/4 classes= 6.25k for this class) to be take this class or take any class that is taught this class and unfortunately phys 11 or 15 aren't better, so u get shit on. can't believe they have a course like this at harvard.
It's definitely not easy; be prepared to devote quite a few hours to it.
Only take this course if it satisfies a pre-med requirement.
I found it difficult and you have to be prepared to teach yourself physics. The lectures didn't really teach the fundamentals of the material.
Reserve time to work in this course, budget time wisely, DO EXTRA PRACTICE PROBLEMS FROM THE BOOK. There are short cuts in there that not all of the TFs teach.
Very difficult and time consuming. However, material is interesting/relevant.
The class is a good introduction to mechanics from a biological perspective.
This class provides a very good background in physics.  It is taught well and I left feeling more comfortable with physics.  The exams are hard, but the knowledge you gain is valuable.
Find studdy buddies. Go to office hours. Start the sapling early!
The teaching staff is amazing. They really want you to do well and to develop a true interest in the material. Even as a person with little background in physics, I found this course to be super fair.
You likely have to take this class, so I know this doesn't mean much.  Be aware that this class does require a lot of time and energy, and is frustrating at times.  I would say that the professors are trying to find ways to make the class more interesting and more effective, so it is encouraging to see that they really are trying to fix the fact that students dislike it.
You have to take this class, so, yeah.
Just stay on top of the material and sapling is actually really helpful though frustrating at times.
This class is probably the best physics option-- the professors and section leaders all try their very best to help you out and make it as good a class as it can be.  If you dont have a previous physics background coming into this class, I would advise taking advantage of all the office hours you can from the very beginning and really thinking about the concepts of each module early!
Really liked the new interactive components of lecture and the group exam! I think the new teaching principles are really effective, but the organization could be a lot better - uniform section notes and answers, relevant Friday review sessions, review for the midterms and final, more practice questions that are similar to the exams.
No one in the class wanted to be there. Not as bad as it could have been. The only learning you'll do is with Logan, and be careful since Louis isn't listed as an instructor, who only starts teaching after add-drop. 

Two big psets due on the same day every week. Lab was a pain in the back to do, only tedious work. If you're considering it, I suggest doing AP 50 or 15a instead. This class tries too hard. One plus, however, is that you get group exams which can potentially save your grade.
Easy, well-taught course. Very painless way to learn a lot about physics. The teaching staff is extremely friendly and easy to approach, both in and outside of class
Best option for pre-med physics- Logan is an awesome lecturer and exams are fair.  Don't expect to be super enthusiastic about the material but you will learn things.
This is overall a very painless class to take. However, don't get behind. You must know your concepts (not equations, concepts) cold before entering an exam, because they make multiple choice questions worth 4 or 5 points each, making it very easy to lose lots of points at once. Sapling might be annoying, but it's also how you learn and isolate mistakes in your problem-solving steps, and if you check your steps with people, you can get good grades on all psets anyway.
A good class, you probably have to take it anyway but it's fairly well-run. The new format with activities during class is a bit jarring at first, but I think overall it actually did help facilitate more active learning.
The best pre-med, intro to physics option available.
Solid class. New lecture style is great, keeps you awake!  I was scared of physics before entering PS2, but I think the new lecture style and the helpful professors/section leaders really made a difference.
This is hard if you have never taken physics and math/physics isn't your strong suit.  It's very bearable though.  Logan and Louis are AMAZING!! They care so much and really want everyone to succeed and it really shows.  Go to office hours!  Start sapling early because it's a pain.
The class is very easy and lectures are excessively slow and dull
Make sure you study the Sapling. The questions on offline and review were harder than the actual exam. Multiple choice questions were hard
PS2 is everything you would expect it to be. If you've taken a high school physics course, there should be no surprises. If you are looking for something more challenging, I wouldn't say this course is for you.
It's not as bad as it once was.  PS2 has been restructured somewhat from previous versions, and the class' collective performance shows that these changes were useful.  I thought that midterms were very reflective of what we learned in class.  Problem sets take a long time to complete, and office hours are crucial, but the offline components are graded on completion, which makes the problem sets a little less stressful and gives an incentive to actually learn how to do the problems rather than just get every detail so as not to lose points (as pre-meds tend to do in other classes).  The focus on problem solving during lecture is a huge help.  My only complaints are that we didn't do very difficult problems in the lecture activities.  Derivations and basic applications are important, but the final exam required some more advanced application, and it would be nice to have that in lecture.  Application problems have a place, but not on high-stakes, high-stress assessments.
Class is relatively light, and the material doesn't move too fast. Ample resources by TFs in help hours. Many resources in terms of preparing and studying for the exam: all lectures recorded, all course materials uploaded to website, TFs respond to messages quite quickly.
well taught.
Very well-run class with two top-notch professors. They really care that you not only do well in the class but understand the material. Section TFs are all very professional and communication outside the classroom is on point.
The course does start out easy, but it doesn't stay that way. Make sure you consistently do your homework, then you will be fine.
It's a fine course -- if you're not comfortable with taking some of the classes in the Physics department itself, PS2 gets the job done in a solid manner. Also, the mole hill joke.
just do your work and you'll be fine!
The style of this class consists mostly of doing activities and only a little bit of lecture. If you know a bit of physics and you think the hands on approach to learning works for you then you will really like this class. If you don't know a lot of physics or prefer to learn by someone telling you the concepts and explaining them, then you might struggle in this class.
I was terrified of this class, initially, but as the semester went on physics became more accessible. The teaching style and group exams really helped solidify concepts.
PS2 is a pretty good class. Lectures are good and require a little bit of thinking, problem sets are fair overall, and exams are manageable.  Your attitude in the class will probably influence how much you like/hate the course.  The class is mostly pre-meds, and most complain/stress about the course.  Don't do this, and you will be fine.  A note to people who have taken any previous courses in physics or AP physics in high school: there are some new concepts, and the numerous examples from biology may be interesting/helpful, but you probably won't find the course very challenging and should take that into account when choosing a physics course.
Take this physics to get it out of the way- it's not the most fun, the material is taught in a very on the surface way, but you will be reminded of the physics you need. The plus is the loose the connection the class has with medical concepts- it was great taking it concurrently with LS2!
If you hate physics, this class is for you. It really is not bad, and I think you really learn a lot
You learn important physics. Not such a painful class besides the pointless labs and psets/sapling problems which take forever.
I honestly actually enjoyed this class more than I thought I would going in.  The workload is tough, but definitely doable if you stay on top of things.  I had mixed feelings about the new teaching style of the course this year that got rid of conventional lectures - I think it was good for some topics but made learning others more difficult.  If you're someone who really learns best in a conventional lecture-style class, then I'd recommend doing a different physics course, but otherwise I think this one is the best for pre-meds.
The review problems were usually more difficult than exam questions. The problem sets and sapling can be tedious. Labs aren't too bad. Felt like the final was not very fair.
Don't be intimidated, do go to office hours
Very well organized, staff is great!
Work hard and understand the lectures and homework and you will be fine.
PS2 is a good introduction to physics if you have never taken it before. If you have, the first half of the class will be incredibly boring but do not underestimate this class. If you put no work in, you will face problems on the final.
While you will have to work hard to bridge the gap between lectures and assignments, this course covers important topics in a way that is accessible and that uses interesting biological examples.  So for pre-meds who need to take physics but don't want to take anything too physics-y, this is the best option.
Good class with clear learning expectations. Be prepared to study on your own as well though.
Take AP 50 if you are premed and think you can do group projects. Or if you are like me and hate group projects, take this class and do as well as you possibly can on the midterm exams and on the homework (SAPLING IS NOT COMPLETION SO DON'T F THAT UP) and lab (LAB ALSO IS NOT COMPLETION SO MAKE SURE YOU UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU ARE WRITING IN THE POST LAB AND CHECK WITH TFs) because the final will destroy your grade like chipotle does your bowels.
There are so many resources and they try to really help you to do well.  Careful, because it's easy to get screwed over on the midterms and ultimately get a poor final grade.
I don't like physics very much but this class is great.  Louis and Logan are great Professors who really care about improving the course and making sure we learn the most that we can
I really liked this course. The physics taught is great and never too difficult to understand. Logan and Louis do a great job lecturing. And I really enjoyed the class overall. If you enjoy physics but don't want to suffer through one of the more in-depth mechanics classes (i.e. physics 15a or 16a), take this course. Also good for premeds as it uses biological applications of physical principles fairly often.
Lectures are extremely unhelpful so expect to learn everything on your own but exam questions are fair
Stay on top of the saplings, and you will do fine. I imagine I will get about an A-, having studied only one night for the final, and I think this was because I tried to work through the sapling by myself throughout the year.
While this is a pre-med course, the class tries to be non-competitive with its heavy group focus. Even if you're pre-med and physics doesn't seem too interesting to you, it's still interesting in the application of physics to concepts that would be interesting to you. The range of things to which physics applies is a bit surprising, and it becomes apparent over the course of the semester why med schools consider physics to be so important. The group theme of the course makes class time more active, so you'll want to get a group of friends in the course to work with (or make friends in the course by working with them) and go to lecture rather than watching online. The course isn't particularly difficult, but unless you're really good, you'll still have to put time in to get the hw done and prepare for the tests. Definitely better than I'd expected!
PS2 is a great class to gain a solid foundation of basic concepts in physics. Problems are usually pretty straightforward. If you're looking for more of a challenge, I would take higher level physics classes, but PS2 is really great at teaching you the basics. Help room before psets are due or before the exam is super helpful, and I would definitely try to get to know Louis and Logan - wish I'd done that earlier in the year! Both are eager to help students understand concepts and genuinely care for them.
Easy but that's it
Office hours are crucial. Can't get the psets done without them (more so than other premed classes)
The strengths were the advanced technology and class demonstrations and dedicated professors. It was great to have posted notes and lecture videos. The dedicated profs and teaching staff made the course enjoyable. However, in the first half of the semester there were definitely not enough office hours and help rooms were WAY too busy. This course is really challenging and the psets take around 14 hours a week...so that's not very fun! But Logan and Louis are amazing and love physics so much! Louis posts fabulous notes and is always offering extra office hours to answer questions. Just be willing to spend long long hours working on the psets.
This course is honestly not bad at all. I took regular physics and high school, and while I felt disadvantaged for the first 4 weeks, the rest of the semester I was on even footing with everyone. Just make sure you get a tutor or something early on in the semester, and you should be able to hold on.
The material can definitely be difficult. But Professors McCarty and Deslauriers are wonderful and give engaging lectures full of demonstrations. The teaching team clearly wants you to succeed.
Although the teaching staff are very dedicated to the course, it is not well-taught. You must seek them out if you are confused because they do not teach the material in class. Most of the time is spent deriving the equations and working on activities. Be sure to stay on top of the material because it will catch up with you once exam time comes. Exams and assignments are generally fair.
You probably have to take PS2, so go into it with an open mind and you could end up really liking it. I thought it was awesome. The material was interesting, and the teaching staff were great. If you can't get Anna as a TF, try to find out when her office hours are and go to them. She's a fantastic teacher, and hilarious. Logan and Louis are also great teachers, so go to their office hours if you're confused on anything. 

Go to help room for p-sets or Sapling. 
Do sapling before offline homework, sapling is usually easier and gets you used to the equations before having to think really hard about combining them in offline homeworks.
That said offline homeworks are graded for effort so don't kill yourself over them. 
Making a sheet of equations/major concepts as you go along is really helpful for the midterms/final, especially when you're making your final equation sheets to bring to the test. 
Go into the class with an open mind! If you like physics at all, you'll enjoy it.
This class is one of the most straightforward you will take at Harvard -- if you go to lecture and section and take advantage of all the practice and review resources made available, you will learn something about physics
This class is a good class to take if you want to fulfill the physics requirement for non-physics concentrators. It gives a good basic introduction to mechanics and fluids with a large overview without going too much in depth.
It's not an easy class, but there are a lot of opportunities to get help.
Go to section and you will be fine.
Doable workload. Great teaching, and cool topics that you explore through physical phenomena.
I adored this course. It was my hardest class this semester and I may not have done well by most people's standards but I learned so much and really enjoyed my time in this class. Each lecture I left having learned something new and interesting about how the world around us works. The course staffers are amazing and super helpful. The professors are super approachable and helpful as well. I came into this course thinking I hated physics and it wouldn't be useful, and I left realizing that physics is all around us and that I loved it. Even if you are not good at physics (like me!) you will get a ton out of this class.
Final exam was really hard. Everything else was fair
It is interesting to see how physical principles apply to biological systems. However it can be difficult to realize this as you're going through the course, because there's a lot of material to learn (especially when it comes to fluid statics and dynamics). Overall it's a very manageable course..lab only 6 times a semester is great. It is definitely much easier to manage the course work if you have a background in physics from high school and some calculus (though not necessary).
It seems like this class has improved from the past. The grading seemed fair and the teaching was good. The teaching staff provided many opportunities for students to catch up on material (section, reviews, etc). I think it is difficult to avoid spending a significant amount of time learning the material for this class, but if you do learn it, you will do well.
This class is not the big-bad pre-med class it is made out to be. It is extremely accessible information, the staff is really kind and helpful, and the workload is not high. Don't take AP50.
In this course, you have to be prepared to do a lot of practice and outside-reading to solidify concepts covered in class. Go to office hours and work in study groups.
This class really requires you to go to office hours in order to really understand the material, as well as re watch the lectures.  Never leave the Psets until the day before.  Always do them early because you will definitely have questions.  make sure to read the pre reading because often times the class will stem from that material and you will feel lost if you didn't really understand the pre reading and only glimpsed at it.  Devote a lot of time to understanding the material.  If you do not it will be hard to catch up by the time the exams roll around.
PS is not a course about which you should be concerned or at which you should be annoyed. Rather, if you are dreading physics as I was, view this class as an opportunity to better understand the biology and chemistry you love, and to have your eyes opened to the more mathematical reasoning behind those biological concepts. Logan is also a really great instructor--I would encourage you to get to know him and go to office hours! Louis is also great--in fact, in my experience the teaching staff in general was really helpful and enthusiastic.
The professors are so nice and really want to help you. This is probably the lowest stress physics class you could possibly take here at Harvard, (obviously still some stress because it is physics, but the class is set up in a way to make it as easy as possible). The work load is very manageable. The best part about the class is the group midterms.
This course is exactly what it advertises to be. Take it if you have concerns about taking higher-level physics or wan a more biologically oriented class. Be ready to engage fully with the course material though.
This is not the way to learn physics.  You will not leave with a working knowledge or intuition about physics.  Lectures are 200 person sections and not helpful at all.  Furthermore the tests are simply testing how well you can algebraically rearrange physics equations and not if you actually know the physics behind them.
Make sure you understand torque and liquids.
PS2 definitely surpassed my expectations for physics. I found myself actually engaged in lecture because it was so hands on. The labs were not bad at all - kind of fun. The material was difficult and sometimes I felt frustrated in lecture because it felt like nothing was really being explained to us very clearly, but there were plenty of resources available to students (TFs, office hours, online videos), and in the end, I would say this class offered me a definitely positive learning experience.
ugh take it if you must. lord have mercy on your soul.
PS2 has changed a lot, and I think in retrospect the changes have been good. It has been the most enjoyable pre-med course I've taken thus far here. While I was initially daunted by the prospect of lecture being solely activity based (they tried this new 'flipping the classroom idea' where you read about the concepts you need to know in a very brief background 'pre-reading,' then come to lecture and get into groups to do activity problems based on the new concepts), I think it did, in fact, help me learn the material better. I also liked the addition of group midterm exams after the individual exam. Logan and Louis are both fantastic instructors who know the material well.
If you are a person who learns best in groups, this is a great physics class for you. Midterms are deceivingly easy; final was very difficult.
A great way to learn physics in a biology/medicine context. Great lecturers and well-organized class overall, even though it is a large class.
This class had potential so did i before I took it.  No med school for me but maybe you'll do better (LOL). The course is curved on years past so it means that you are not competing against your peers.  The psets were useless except for the last one where one problem appeared on the exam.  my biggest problem with this class is that the material that they emphasized the least made the most appearance on midterms and finals.  It was almost as if they knew where their weaknesses were as a teaching staff and instead of addressing it, they capitalized on it greatly to differentiate those who took AP physics C in high school from those who didn't. If you are taking this class without any prior knowledge of physics.. I'm sorry but there is nowhere to run. you have no choice.  The fact that you are reading this means that you are a premed either stuck taking this course or Physics 15 (and we all know that's not an option).  Good luck. The second half of the course and professor (Louis) was great.  I couldn't even with the first half.... at all... the final exam... das rude.  Centripetal force is key to passing this class.
It's definitely a requirement for a lot of things and is thus inescapable, but as physics classes go, it could be a lot worse.
some topics are presented really easy, and others are just presented assuming you will pick it up, so be aware of that.
It's not as painful as you'd think physics could be!
Fairly painless way to fulfill a physics pre-med/vet prerequisite. Louis and Logan are wonderful, and make lecture not terrible at all. The whole double homework (Sapling/offline) thing is a bit annoying, but not too difficult at the end of the day. The whole activities/lecture format works better than a lot of people give Louis credit for--you actually have to engage in lecture, which helps with a lot of things sticking. Give it a chance!
Overall, well-taught and fair. The labs are a bit of a pain but only every other week.
AWESOME course. I'm lowkey obsessed with Louis and Logan. Their demos make the material really exciting and they always make sure you realize how relevant everything is. Physics is really hard material, but they did an amazing job of teaching it in a way that I could understand. They also have loads of office hours which is rare and great.
Great professors who truly care about the students' learning and constantly look for ways to improve their teaching. Definitely take advantage of their office hours and the other resources open to you.
good premed physics requirement, not terribly time intensive, and much help available. like how it's made applicable to different areas of medicine
This class is a really interesting, really good introduction to physics. The material is very engaging and Logan and Louis are very dedicated to making sure that their students  understand the material.
It's really nice to take a course where the professors actually care
I really enjoyed this course. I can't say the same thing about the homework assignments but they did help me learn. The professors are really enthusiastic and everyone is willing to help. I loved the demonstrations they did in class. I think this class was doable because I had already done AP Physics in high school but if I hadn't I would probably think that its not the best way to to learn physics for the first time. Its fast paced and assumes you know a lot and also depends on group learning during lecture. I would rather there be more instructional time during lecture.
It's great. Just make you sure you get as much practice as possible for the final!
I loved physics in high school and still could not enjoy this class. Look into alternate physics class options. I'm sad I did not.
If you took AP Physics, the physics you do in this class doesn't go much farther than that.  Logan is great, Louis is not.  Good luck navigating the impressively inefficient and frustrating labs.  The curve is ridiculously easy- I bet the average grade in this class is an A-.
This is a very painless way to satisfy the physics requirement for premed and Logan and Louis really care about the students and do everything in their power to make sure we are well supported
This class makes it really obvious how physics relates to everyday life - and they make a concerted effort to make it relevant to premed students, in particular. As a premed req, ps2 is the best choice for physics - it's painless, interesting, and can be fun
A lot of work, you need to keep on the ball the entire time because if you start slacking after second exam the final will be a huge slap in the face.
Teaching was really great and it's definitely possible to do very well even if you have little physics knowledge going in!
Study in advance if this is your first time taking physics. The lecture format is absolutely terrible. Not conducive to learning for all students. Essentially this year we were lab rats.
I think Physics 2 has a great staff that works really hard to make sure you succeed. Physics in general is one of the least liked sciences and I think they did a great job at making it engaging. I did not think that the psets or lab were that stressful. However, that being said, I think a lot of self-study and practice is needed to do well on exams and if you don't keep up with it, it can catch up to you.
This is a solid, pretty straightforward introductory physics course. They have been trying out a new teaching style based on problem-solving during class, and while I think this is a better way to learn than pure lecturing, I think they sometimes focused on the problem-solving at the expense of presenting actual content. I think a better balance needs to be struck between presenting/explaining concepts and problem-solving during lecture. That being said, this is not a super-difficult course and if you put in the work (especially if you have a high school physics background) it shouldn't be too painful. Labs are also pretty fun, which I was surprised by.
Though I struggled in this class, I enjoyed it overall. Logan and Louis were both good professors, and many help opportunities were offered throughout the semester. In terms of pre-med classes, this was both more enjoyable and more manageable than organic chemistry.
This course is super fair, and the material is not that bad. If you study using the extra practice problems (not sapling), you'll be fine. The professors are great and its a great premed course.
Take it if you have taken AP physics before, have no serious interest in physics, and want a decent grade. It's not the greatest physics class in the world; it's not the worst.
I would say that this is not a course to be taken just for the general education requirement. While the material is interesting and the class structure is more fun than being purely lecture based, the concepts are difficult and not always well explained by the professors.
The course format is pretty poor and the lectures are very difficult to follow despite extensive physics education previous to this course.
This is the physics lass to take for premeds. It is not too difficult even if you have no physics experience, as long as you keep up with the material and ask for help. Louis's great.
This class (pre-final) was relatively easy, which surprised me. The midterms were both very manageable and reflective of the section problems especially. The final came out of nowhere, and I scored 20pts lower on that than my midterms average, but then again so did basically everyone. It made the course end on a sour note, but overall they really do try their absolute best to make the course work for people.
Amazing course! Super enthusiastic teaching staff (with oodles of office hours, and a philosophy that 'we want to be tired by the time lecture is over'), engaging lectures (challenging activities-based learning BUT definitely the best way to learn and have things stick... for the MCAT), and tons of extra support (they go above and beyond with problem solving videos and other materials online).
too boring. lectures are useless
I had a great experience in PS2! The instructors are so willing to help with any questions you may have. At first I was skeptical about the new teaching strategy, having been so accustomed to lecture style science classes. However, the interactive teaching style was highly effective. While PS2 is very challenging, don't be afraid to take it even if you don't have any background in physics. Most students have already taken AP Physics so you will have to do some catching up, but it's worth it!
Good intro Physics class. Extremely helpful teaching staff. Take it.
It's the best physics option for pre-meds who want to do a fall-spring physics sequence. But it's still not great.
