If physics isn't your thing, this is going to be excruciating.
Quebec is not as large a topic as most students had hoped.
AVOID AT ALL COSTS!!!!
Pre-med requirement
For a physics course, this is a great bet. The professors are enthusiastic, and the material is clearly presented. The section leaders do a good job clarifying material, and the grade is well distributed among different components.
The material is abstract and it is hard to keep in mind why on earth one would need to know about it.
This class was very poorly taught.  Labs were long and tedious.  Tests were difficult.
Hopefully since this is a relatively new course it will improve with time. If you don't have the time to wait, just grin and bear it.
Only take it if you need to satisfy a pre-med requirement.
Make sure to understand every concept as much as possible. Use the resources and go to help sessions.
Its really unfortunate that basic physics is so awfully taught.  I think trying to integrate a variety of sciences, is a failed initiative for the physical sciences courses.  I loved physics in high school and these courses don't teach real physics, or anything else.
Only take the course if you are planning on going to medical school. It is probably easier than the higher-level physics courses.
Only take it if you have to. In which case, I wish you a lot of luck!
I like that it is physics for biologists, a lot of the exmaples on the problem sets were interesting. I also very much enjoyed the lecture by Dr. Ptak on ECGs and the medically relevant examples.
Do not take it unless you have to.
I recommend this course as a good way to fulfill the pre-med physics requirement.
I do not recommend this course under any circumstances.
The teaching was terrible, one of the worst at Harvard in 4 years.
Stay away.
If you need to fulfill your premed reqs and not learn, this is the one to take.
This was honestly the worst class I have ever taken.  It was incredibly confusing, extremely unorganized, and generally painful to attend.
Terribly taught lectures and I wish I would have taken physics 11 instead
Pay attention & don't fall behind
Poorly organized, poorly taught - only take if you have to (I'm surprised that they haven't ironed out issues from when it was taught last year yet).
Lecture format is very problematic as some lecturers are great while others can be quite confusing
It is harmless, although grading may be arbitrary at times.
I would say that unless you had to take this course you should not. I would say that unless you are prepared to try and learn all of this information on your own then you will not truly get a good grasp on the material.
The class is not well organized and the teachers do not seem to care.  Lectures were often horrible and unhelpful and the only way to learn the material is through review lectures.
I would only recommend this to people that need it as a requirement.
I would recommend the course if you have a strong interest in physics or need to fulfill a premedical requirement.
it's simplified physics for pre-meds and while the material isn't the most incredibly challenging in the world, sometimes the inability of certain professors to communicate it makes it that much harder to understand. look at physics 15 as another option but consider how hard you want your physics course to actually be.
Don't take this class unless you absolutely have to.
It's probably more interesting than the other physics courses available becuase it has a biology twist to it. There are also some really great and interesting lectures.
Physical sciences 2/3 is easier than Physics 11a/b, but it is also taught much better.  I learned much more in PS3 than I learned in Physics 11a last semester.  The instructors clearly care a lot about the course and everyone works very hard to make it run smoothly.  However, if you love math, you should probably take Physics 11.
Take this if you need it for a premed requirement and don;t want to do much work, but it is boring and not well taught.
I would not recommend this course to anyone that I liked.
If you are pre-med or MCB, this is probably the best of the physics courses to take to fulfill requirements but make sure you do a fair amount of learning on your own before you go into exams.
Only if you have to take it.
This class sucked.  Take it only if you absolutely must.
Lectures are lengthy and unnecessary.  One week's material could easily be condensed into a focused one hour lecture.
Unfortunately, this is the most appealing option for second semester pre-med physics. I would have dropped the class the first week had I been given the option. Even though this class is supposed to be easier, I would probably recommend Physics 11b since PS3 has so many flaws.
Make sure you find a good study group and a TF you are comfortable asking questions.
Course is not easy
i hear physics 11b is similar in terms of difficulty and actually a better choice for pre-meds.
Take this course to get a good grounding in basic E&M; anyone who has already achieved this level should look to 11b or 15b.
The course material was well taught considering its difficulty.  The material can get confusing at times because the material is taught by a number of different professors but I would still recommend it as a great course to take  for both your physics and pre-med requirements.
Take Physics 11b instead.
don't take this class.
in is not very good, but probably have to take it
Take more advantage of the Review Sessions
If you want to teach yourself, this is a good class. It is especially good if you are not comfortable enough with calculus to take higher level physics.
The class is poorly run. Only do it if you need a pre-med requirement.
I would enthusiastically recommend PS3 to my worst enemies.  I would tell my friends that it was the worst course I've taken in college.  (This includes, by the way, the two years' worth of courses I took at a local community college during high school.)  I would unequivocally tell my friends to avoid this like the Plague.
You have to take it anyway for PreMed, so I guess it doesn't really matter. At least all your friends will be suffering through it too.
Good if you need to complete it as a requirement, but not worth an elective.
Only take this course if you need it for a pre-med requirement.
it's nothing special, but it gets the job done.
This class is still pretty poorly organized and the lectures do not do a very good job of clarifying concepts. This was a very confusing class.
Make sure that you really want to see the integration of the life sciences and physics... if you haven't been exposed to physics before, it might be better to first learn physics by itself before learning how to integrate it with biology....
Don't take this class unless you have to
Make sure the professors change before you take it. The material was so poorly explained for so long it was hard to follow.
This class is extremely difficult and not that fun, and should only be taken if you need it to fulfill a requirement (pre-med or concentration).
It's really fun, informative, and the material is interesting, and pertains to stuff we use everyday.
Be prepared for poor poor teaching that gives you no kind of application for tests/problems sets. This class should have been taught by Billy, Joon, and section TFs.
I would tell future students to try Physics 11, or to take physics over the summer at Harvard Summer School or another university (if for a pre-med requirement).  This class requires way too much time and work for the minimal benefits reaped from it.  Perhaps if the teaching staff were completely revamped, then the class might be more enjoyable, but at the moment, I would tell students to definitely NOT take PS3.
Make sure that the lecturers are CLEAR and ORGANIZED before you decide to take this class.  Make sure you have at least two other physics textbooks, with solution manuals, on hand before you decide to jump into this class.  It will not try to help you along in any way.  And also look for a good TF.
The problem sets take a lot of time, the professors are variable- some good, some very unclear, some completely unrelated.  The labs are mostly enjoyable but need more pictures in the procedure (especially in the microscope lab) to explain the set-up. This class uses basically the same amount of math as Physics 11b, and the final is harder not because of the material but because of the type of question- not straight forward at all.  Take physics 11!!!
This course was a mess.  The extremely unequal preparation of students coming into this course led to it being virtually impossible for students with no Physics background to even get a mediocre grade.
Most students who take it will take it because they have to.
Only take it unless you have to@!
Stay on top of your work
I would tell future students that the only way to do well in this course is to have Billy Lau as a TF and undivided attention to devote to PS3
take it only if you have to; don't take this class with another hard/heavy class
I liked the class but thought the last couple weeks suffered from poor organization/explanation of the material
Read the book, because it presents the material much more effectively than the lectures do.
this is a difficult course if you aren't ready to put a lot of time into it.
I would only take it if you have to, but if you're going to take it, its probably because you have to. I also am just not very good at physics...try though I might
This class is way too hard and the lectures are not at all helpful.
You should take this class for pre-med requirements.  Everyone else is a pre-med, and you can all work together on the problem sets.  The concepts aren't too difficult, and the instructors provide a lot of support for you.
Pray they revamp this course.
This course is extremely difficult and confusing.  Only take it if you absolutely need to.
It's an easy way to satisfy a second semester of physics but probably not the most stimulating
The best way to do physics (at least for a premed)!
Definitely the best way to learn about electricity and magnetism.  It can be challenging but they try to keep it fun and relevant.  It definitely helps to take it with friends so that you have people to compare psets with.
Perfect physics class for science student that does not care to study physics too intensely (otherwise enroll in 11 or 15/16), or for a pre-med that needs high grades and taking a bunch of other pset classes. This class is very manageable and also enjoyable. Harder physics class maybe much more painful.
To practice as much as possible, do all the readings, and make sure to get any and all questions answered as soon as possible.
This course has some good points, but the final was completely unfair and the labs were very boring and tedious.
only take it as a requirement, but definitely take it instead of Physics 11b or Physics 15b if you are pre-med. The Physical Sciences team does a good job of tailoring this class to biologically-applicable situations that makes this class the most pain-free physics class for pre-meds (ie non-physics majors)
A good way to complete a physics requirement.  An organized class that requires hard work but is fair.
Take Physics 15b
Lectures aren't always great, but overall a pretty solid course
If you need it for pre-med, it's a good physics class to take (the most basic).
The teaching staff is wonderful!  I learned a lot, and the material was interesting.
You should take this course if you need physics for premed.
You have to take it, and it's supposed to be a lot easier than Physics 11b.  That being said, it is a LOT harder than PS2.  You need to put in a lot more time than you did in PS2 to be successful.  Also, GO TO THE FRIDAY REVIEWS (or watch them online).  THEY ARE THE SECRET TO THIS CLASS!!!!!
For an introductory class in physics, PS2 and 3 are the best.
Still the best way to fulfill pre-med physics req
keep on top of the work! even if you start to not understand problem sets just a little bit.. it catches up really fast
physics is not great subject
It is all you would expect out of a pre-med class but not inspiring.
Difficult but one of the most rewarding classes taken so far
Take in as much as you can from lecture, because catching up can be a nightmare
Great physics class if you like physics, in the sense that they are clear and the material is presented pretty well (but I am not personally a big physics person so it's hard to recommend with enthusiasm).
It's difficult but doable.  It's not very interesting though.
You would have to be really sure that you wanted to go to Medical School, or that you really enjoyed the way physics applies to biological systems.
is a pre-med requirement, but would not recommend for fun
The final exam is disproportionately difficult in comparison to the rest of the class.
It's better than Physics 11b if you are at all interested in Biology.
It is a lot of work but rewarding-- the work informs the concepts and the class.
Its well taught and well organized, subject matter is a little dry and the labs are sort of unapplicable, but otherwise good.
Take this course only if you have to for concentration or pre-med requirements.
Ugh. It's just not fun. But if you're premed, just suck it up and take it. Also make sure to go to reviews/read the book.
The class is a relatively painless and well-taught way to complete the physics requirement for pre-med. You're not going to come away thinking you have a great understanding of physics, but like I said, it completes the requirement.
Some of the course material is pretty difficult but the labs do a pretty good job of giving the material some kind of practical application.
Make sure you understand basic physics early on.
Very difficult. Be prepared to put in a lot of time and work to do somewhat well!
Take it if you need it for the premed requirements.
Watch out...physics is a difficult subject for some people (like me).
Very hard
It's a good class but difficult.
You need to put in the time. Take it when you know you'll be able to do this.
People who are taking this class are probably only doing so because they have to.  You will suffer through this often poorly taught, poorly organized course.  It will help to go to sections and help rooms.
This course is taught very well overall, and is interesting.
A lot harder than PS2.
n/a
This class is well taught.
Much less painful than Physics 11a for people who are not particularly math or physics oriented.
Study the material before the class. The pace is fast.
great physics course, challenging but manageable
If you need it for premed then it's probably better than the other physics options.
Pretty standard as far as pre-med classes go, definitely difficult.
I mean - if you really HAVE to take physics (I am unlikely to recommend this subject, period), then this is a good way to take it.  But I'm sorry for you.
It is going to be tough but you will get through it.
Only if you're pre-med though
only take it if you have to.  and I would tell them not to go to lecture but just to do practice problems.  lecture isn't very helpful.
The only reason that I would tell a student to take this course is to fulfill pre-med requirements. There is no other reason to take the course.
You may be frustrated with how little material is really covered and how application-heavy it is if you really like math. However, it's MUCH better than PS1.
It's extremely difficult.
If you absolutely have to take two semesters of physics then you should definitely take this course over other physics classes.
This is the course to take if you are pre-med and want to learn physics from a more approachable angle
Get a good TF.
This is the most bearable way to fulfill the physics requirement for science concentrations and for pre-med. That being said, it still is physics and therefore, necessarily painful.
Most of the students taking this course are only taking it because premed requirements mandate it.
Fun but hard.
this is the worst class I have ever taken at Harvard
Recommended above other options for pre-med students ONLY.
It is poorly organized, poorly taught, and catered to students who have a strong physics backgroun
Only do this if you have to.
Your going to hate the class, but you have to do it, so learn to like it. But it sucks.
The earlier you finish the problem sets, the more comfortably you learn the material.
Difficult but you just got to it over with. Probably the best physics for premeds.
Tough
be prepared for poor teaching and a lot of work on your part to keep up
This course is a MUST for anyone interested in biology or interested in how physics is important for biology.
get a good TF or you wont understand anything.
The lecturers aren't great. The labs are good, the homework is tough. The exams are brutally tough.  John Huth is the worst lecturer i've had at Harvard.
Spend a lot of time on this class.
only take it if you have to
Class teaches physics well and shows interesting ways physics can be applied to medicine and real life.
People are probably going to trash PS3 on the Q because the final exam was hella nast BUT I want it to be known that it's very possible to do very well in this class, which is well-taught btw. The key is to pay attention to the last 4-5 lectures between the second midterm and the last day of classes. If you do this you will ace the final exam and be rewarded generously. ALSO, go to lecture! It's worth 5% of the grade. This is the difference between a B+/A-.
Keep up with the work, go to lectures, and make sure you study a lot for the midterms. Typical pre-med class.
If you need a second semester of physics for pre-med, this is the class to take.
This class is tough, and full of really competitive people, but you will learn things. Despite the workload, you do come out knowing more about physics.
Check out physics 11 and 15 during shopping period.  Those classes usually aren't saturated with overeager premeds
Only take this course if you have to.  If you have to take the class know that you have to put a lot of effort into it in order to get a good grade.
If you have the choice between Physics 11a/b and Physical Sciences 2/3, go with Physical Sciences!
PS 3 was a much better experience for me than PS 2.  If you are going to take this class, I think the best way is to engage with the material and the class.  Take detailed notes, work on the PSet by yourself first and then go the the help room, use TF office hours.  If you do this, PS 3 will not be a horrible experience.
Just suffer through it and hope that becoming a doctor is worth it.
The material is challenging, but if you did well in PS2 you have nothing to worry about!
Material is suited to premeds, but that means a lot of premeds take the class, so it is quietly very competitive. The tests are generally okay except the final this year was ridiculously hard, for seemingly no reason. I'd say the class overall was still a fine experience, though.
Not a course to take unless it is a pre-med requirement.
This course teaches you the basic concepts regarding electromagnetism, circuits, waves, etc The concepts are pretty straightforward, but sometimes the way that problems sets are phrased make things more difficult than they should be. The final exam is usually different from the midterms and is difficult to know necessarily what to expect.
If you dont have to take this class, don't. Please.
Much better than PS2
WORK HARRRRDDD! Always go to Tim French's reviews and office hours. Perhaps that will save you from getting burned by the midterms and finals!
Go to all office hours you can
If you like physics and would like to cover more topics in one semester than the higher level physics classes than definitely take this class. I really enjoyed it.
Take if you must... I like the material, but the course is definitely inferiour
Must take the time to teach yourself, because no one else will.
You will most likely be taking this class because you have to. It's not too bad, you just need to be good about working at it.
The final exam was a killer. After the midterms, psets and labs I thought the class was not that bad - the lectures were full with interesting demos, the midterms were fair, the labs were actually interesting (you built a mini-computer) and often short, psets were graded generously, the TFs were helpful (help rooms, etc) - but after all these positive aspects, probably just because people did too well on the second midterm (average of 83), they decided to make the final really irrelevant and different from the practice final and all the previous midterms. Worse of all, the final really didn't test the knowledge that should be learned, but tricks that rely a lot on luck instead of practice.
Students who are preparing to take this class should make sure that they have a reasonable background in basic physics, and they should also be prepared to think cleverly and to study lecture material extremely closely right from the beginning of the course, if they do not want to fall behind.
I imagine that most people would only take this class if they had to. It's possible to do well, but you really have to put the time in. The material is actually interesting, and the professors good, but it's a lot to handle.
Unfortunately, the only way past these messed up Physics classes is through them. My apologies. I can only hope that they pay attention to the kinks in the course and straighten them out for future years of pre-meds.
Only take if you need it for premed requirement
I think that this course is taught better than Physics 11b (Prof Huth and McCarty are very enthusiastic and intelligent), but it is definitely not easier.  From what I hear, the applications of our material to biology, etc. make the problems conceptually more difficult and abstract. I took PS3 because I needed to fulfill the second half of my physics pre-med requirement--it is definitely not an elective or something you would take for fun because it is very challenging.
As usual, I couldn't escape the feeling that I wasn't there to learn the material, but to be compared to my classmates.  The disconnect between the problem sets and the exams is still striking.
If you like physics, consider taking 11b instead.
All of the concepts are well-taught and there are a lot of cool demos.
As far as a large introductory science class goes, this is among the best run and least painful.
Stay on top of the practice problems and problem sets and should be manageable
This is a great class to get your physics requirement out of the way.  The lectures are usually painless, the psets graded for effort, and the labs fun.  As much as I liked the course taking it, I disliked after sitting through the final.  It was a beast of an exam.  The midterms, however, were relatively easy.
It is too bad this course is a premed requirement. Maybe Physics 11a isn't so bad after all?
If you have to take it for pre-med, do. Otherwise, don't.
Always review the review notes that Tim publishes. They are super helpful.
Go to class, and stay awake.  do practice questions, and go to section!
If you have to take physics for pre-med or concentration requirements, PS 3 is the way to go. It's the best of the mediocre physics choices Harvard offers to non-concentrators.
This class is definitely the most painless of all of the Physics courses offered at Harvard. Take this if you are debating between PS3 and 11b. Make sure you get a good section TF - they can really make or break your experience in this course.
Go to lectures, they are helpful.
The class is informative and a good intro to physics-- with many examples of applying physics to "real life". However, the class is challenging and requires you to keep up with the material on a weekly basis.
Practice, practice, practice and try not to cry.
This was fun, well taught, and fair.
It's not as hard as everyone says, but some of the problems are more difficult than the concept seems.
Way better than PS2.
After taking 11a, which was ok, I really enjoyed ps3.  I thought the class was really organized.  They gave you great notes in lecture, so I never really had to refer to the textbook.  Help sessions are great for understanding some of the tricky homework problems.  After going through some harder classes, it's nice to be back in a pre-med class that babies you a bit.
Does a decent job of teaching an often painful subject. Having a good section TF can help tremendously.
This course is difficult but very beneficial, the material is interesting, and the course is very well run.
Electricity and Magnetism could be interesting, but this course is very difficult
This class is the best option for completing a pre-med physics requirement. It's pretty interesting and the workload is manageable. The final sucks.
It is a good course for introductory physics, and helping students study for the physics portion of the mcat if they are pre-med
It is more interesting than mechanics.
This is one of those courses you HAVE to take be it for your concentration or premed reqs, not because it is a fun class.  Huth was amazing and a great change of presence.  Logan was also fun and interesting, as usual. The topics covered in this class are much better than those in the previous physical science courses however the assignments and exams are just as annoying and off-the-wall in difficulty and grading scheme.  Is it bearable? of course an the lab portion is fun.  Is it fun?  maybe,  some of it was for me but some love it but many hate it.
I would say this class is definitely easier than other physics classes here, but it gets annoying with the problem sets and poorly taught classes.
Definitely great for pre-meds. The material itself is extremely interesting (I prefer it to kinematics), and PS 3 is more straight-forward than PS 2. If you need to take physics and you like interdisciplinary classes, take this class.
It is very difficult, but in the end is very rewarding. Your experience depends a lot on your TF. Lectures were some of the best you will ever have in a pre-med class.
A typical pre-med class. Loved the demos though!
If you don't have a physics background and want to learn about electromagnetism, take this course. The demos alone are worth it.
This was a big improvement over PS2. If you have to take an E&M class and aren't that interested in in-depth math (lots of derivations, etc), I would take this course.
This is definitely the way to go to fill a pre-med physics requirement. It's as painless as physics can be for someone not interested at all in the topic. The professors are great, and they seem to very well understand that most of their audience is pre-med and teach/run the course accordingly. The course is organized and runs like clockwork.
If you're a Pre-Med, you can't really find a better way to fulfill this requirement.
If you like physics, take a different course.  If you don't like physics, and are not required to take physics, do something else.
Although it has its pitfalls, I'm sure it's a lot better than the other physics options to fulfill the pre-med requirement.
The class is hard, but hard work pays off.  Do the practice problems every week and definitely before the midterm/final.  Use the solutions manual and ask TFs/Logan and find out why you got some of them wrong.  Labor over the problem sets. Go to Logan's office hours.  Meet with your TF and/or other course staff when you have questions. Go to/watch the Friday reviews. Figure out why you got stuff wrong on the exams and practice exams.  Redo them as many times as you need. Ask questions!
may god be with you
Yeah this is an intro class. If you need to take physics and you are a biologist, it's the way to go. It won't be easy, especially if you've never taken physics
This class is fairly difficult but the teaching is great. Expect to devote a significant amount of time to doing the problem sets and studying for the exams.
If you want to make sure you fully understand the material, my best recommendation would be to receive help from the faculty because they are really willing to help out.
This class gets a bad reputation, but it can actually be a lot of fun.  Speaking as someone who didn't have any E&M in high school, I learned a lot and it was not painful.  Lab is fun and relates well to what is going on in lecture.  When you're doing the problem sets, focus on really learning the material instead of just trying to get full credit on everything.  It will make things much easier when the midterms come around.
It's not that bad.  Pretty painless, especially if you've taken a decent physics class in high school.  They broaden the scope a bit, and you kind of (not really) have to remember simple differentiation and integration, but the math is not bad at all.  If you want to know the hows and whys, take a harder physics class; this class knows what it's delivering--a physics for premeds-- and it delivers.  Good mcat prep. If you've taken PS2, you already know the structure of the course.  Logan is a good lecturer.  There are lots of demos of shiny things that light up :)
Work together with other students in the class -- learn and teach the material to each other! You understand the concepts a LOT better when you actually have to explain it to someone else.
This is a challenging class, so be ready to work hard. If you are pre-med, this is definitely the best way to fulfill the physics requirement. Logan is a really great professor, and there are a lot of resources available to help you succeed if you choose to utilize them - professors' office hours, TFs' office hours, Tim's reviews and office hours, help room on Mondays and Fridays, plus a bunch of people in the class who will be very willing to check psets and study with you. If you don't take this class lightly and put in the work, you will be fine. Also, don't freak out on exams and leave questions blank - they're pretty fair and are really good about giving partial credit, so always write down the concept even if you don't know how to do the problem!
It's incredibly hard and you have to make sure to stay on top of it from the very beginning.  Psets and exams are not representative of what you learned in class.
ps3 is way easier than ps2 and an awesome class for E&M
If you want to get through pre-med physics without too much pain and effort, this is your best bet. But if you care more about getting a nuanced understanding of the material, take Physics 11b. PS 3 is easy, but as with any course, if you slack off, it will sneak up on you. It's sadly lacking in concepts that "blow your mind" -it's more about remembering which equations you need to use.
This class sucked. Don't take it unless you have to
Logan is a great teacher and manages to make pretty dry material somewhat interesting. I wish the the multiple choice questions on the exams counted for fewer points. I don't think it's a very good way to test understanding of the material.
Though it was a difficult class, I found the material interesting.
You have to take it for medical school, so you will. But you will hate it.
It is an interesting course with great demos during lectures and caring professors; it's not the best organized, as most large science courses here, but there are a lot of places to turn if you need help.
If you are shying away from taking PS3 because of PS2, don't. It was much better! Keep up with problem sets, DO THE READING, and ask about what you don't understand. It really helps to ask professors or Tim/TFs about material. Some of these things you just can't understand by reading it or by doing a thousand problems. Good luck!
This class is really hard. be prepared to do a lot of work.
PS3 was an improvement on PS2 and was, generally, a solid course.  Lectures, labs, and section were good, midterms and assignments were reasonable (the "completion" policy on psets helped reduce the stress of the class significantly).  However, the final exam was unreasonably difficult, so hopefully they'll change that for next year.
Take physics 11. this class was terrible.
If you want to understand the actual physics, not just knowing how to solve problems using equations, do not take this class.
PS3 is like getting an abortion...and you are the baby. it is hell but it is your last pre-med class, just hold your breath until you are out.
Probably the best way to fulfill your premed physics requirement.
If you have to take a physics class, this is probably better than the other ones.
Consider 11b. I really don't think PS3 is any easier. The tests don't seem like they're actually trying to test your knowledge but just asking tricky things.
Don't take this course if you can help it. The midterms were fine, but the final exam was absolutely ridiculous and unfair. The course doesn't provide nearly enough practice materials to succeed.
Do as many problems as you can
This class is much more bearable than PS2, and while it is difficult, it is interesting material. Just be sure to keep up with everything and you should be fine.
If the class continues the way the second half was it's a great class where I learned a lot. PS2's format this year, however, was not very good.
Not too exciting, but is a decent class.
It's not that bad of a course. The lectures have everything you need to know, so make sure you actually attend them (or watch them) so you know what's going on
Be prepared for a crazy final.
Only take this course if you have to. It's not particularly enjoyable, especially at 9:30 a.m. The day to day homework aren't bad, but the exams are pretty tricky. It also happens to be the more manageable physics class, so unfortunately there aren't that many good options.
While this is definitely not my favorite class, this is probably the best way to take physics at Harvard. If you study ahead of time for the exams, ask the TFs for help on conceptual questions, and take the practice exam seriously, you can do fine in the class.
Form a homework study group. To do well, do the homework two or three times to make sure you get it.
If you're a premed and can't understand why physics is a premed requirement, this is the physics class for you. The professors really convince you why everything you're learning is relevant to physics.
Only take it if you have to. I had a very unfortunate experience.
Decent class.  Will learn the basics of physics with some cool demonstrations in class.
only take this class if you need to fulfill a requirement...its a very annoying class to deal with, and if you really care about physics its probably not a very legit one
If you're taking it, it's probably required. Section is optional but really helpful so you should go, especially because they didn't post the section handouts online. Lab is completely useless.
Take it only if you're pre-med or if you don't want to take the other intro physics classes offered.
The final will screw you. Everything up to the final is fine.
Definitely take this course if Logan McCarty is teaching it. Otherwise, be cautious.
Although many pre-meds are not extremely enthusiastic about taking physics, PS3 is taught very well and the professors do a great job of giving clear and interesting lectures (thanks to lots of demonstrations).  The material covered in the course provides a great foundation for understanding daily phenomena in the world.
You should do the psets.
its hard, but doable and there's lots of support; if you don't need it as a requirement- take some gen ed to "explore" physics
Read the textbook in combination with the lecture notes
Great physics class.
This class is very helpful for those who plan on taking the MCAT.
good to take to fulfill the premed requirement - better than ps2
Not a bad way to check off your physics requirements for medical school.
Physics 11 is supposed to be a horrible class (poorly organized, poorly taught, etc.) so if you have to take physics, but don't want to take Physics 15, then this is the class for you. Homework is minimal, tests are usually quite straightforward. This is an easy way to take care of your physics requirement.
It's a "great" way to fulfill a pre-med requirement. But more than that, if you give the course the time it needs, some of the material is very interesting. Sadly, PS2 was a bit more applicable to what you see in everyday life - it's a bit harder to get as excited about current-carrying wires, for example - but it's still validating to understand stuff happening in the world around you. Practically: find Widagdo's website of practice problems. HUGELY HELPFUL.
Although the content is interesting and the teachers generate enthusiasm for the material, I wouldn't recommend this class unless you are required to take it. Even if the lecture content makes sense, the problem sets and test questions are very difficult. I felt like the time I put in wasn't reflected in my results
Put in the time during the semester to learn the material, go to sections (they are very helpful even though voluntary), make sure to learn the material early.
SO MUCH BETTER THAN PS2.  Some of the lectures are a bit dry, but the course is never as overwhelming as PS2 was.  Go ahead and take it.
Be careful. It's tougher than PS2. Do practice problems. Go to lecture, because you won't watch them, even when you plan to.
Challenging course, requires a lot of work.
If I got an A: GARBAGE CLASS.If I didn't get an A: HOT GARBAGE CLASS.
Only take this class if you absolutely have to. It will be a waste of your time otherwise.
It's really standard for a premed class in my opinion. Not a great class but average as far as premed science goes (better that 11 or 15 from what I hear).
Make sure you stay on top of your work and review everything as much as possible. Do as many questions as possible!
I hate it.
Take if you have to. But beware of the MC on exams, they are extremely tricky  and never test your actual abilities or knowledge.
Many students had already taken Physics in the past and were proficient at it.  Students without prior work in Physics are at a significant disadvantage.  The problem sets are numerous (11 minus a dropped one) too long.  The exams/quizzes are quite difficult, for the questions usually have twists.  Only take it if you have to unless you're brilliant at Physics.
Only take if you need it for pre-med.  Talk to Tim, he's very helpful and a cool guy.
This class should be taken if you have the requirement. Otherwise, I see nothing special in it.
This is the worst class I have ever taken. Do all you can to avoid this class.
Stay with the material. It's not too hard if you keep up and the exams don't try to trick you.
It's not that bad... just go to section and do the problems, and you should be fine for the problem sets.
this class is well structured and prepares you well for the MCAT
This class is tough, but if you just keep up with the problems, read the book, and focus you can be okay.
don't take it if you don't like being in a class where you don't have control over your grade, you can get perfect scores on the psets, go to section, pay attention in lecture, and still not have a clue what the f is going on in the exams.  The lab component is generally mind-numbingly dull.  The subject matter itself is not bad if you like learning about how things work.
If you need to take physics but don't have a strong math background, this is the class to take. If you go to lecture and section and pay attention, you will learn what you need to know and you are even likely to find the material interesting. The instructors do a good job of trying to make the class interesting and clear, and they hand out printed lecture slides to students at the beginning of lecture. Likewise, a little preparation before lab makes lab go by fast and enjoyably. Also, I didn't use the textbook once the entire semester.
It's hard, so be prepared to devote some time to it.
I enjoyed PS3 and I think it's a good class for those looking for fulfill their concentration requirement for physics. It is not too heavy on the math, which could be a plus or minus depending on what you're hoping to get out of the class.
make sure you stay focused and keep up with the material on a weekly basis
It is a difficult course - the exams are very tough, and the students are smart. That said, if you're pre med you have to take physics, and I would recommend this one.
Going to section is helpful because problems similar to the ones in the problem set are usually gone over
It's a great class for people needing to fulfill premed requirements.
This is a fairly difficult course, and is not very interesting - a bad combination but there is lots of room for improvement.
PS3 is a great electricity, magnetism, waves, and optics class that really does a good job of teaching the concepts and hitting the relevant applications (digital circuits, vision, etc.). The labs are great and the workload is very manageable.
most people who take this class have to. also, the curve is not very generous.
This class is going to be a lot of work unless you are already kind of good at physics.  It will also take up a lot of time and make your life more miserable, especially if you are a senior.
The class is a good introduction to physics.  I found it too incomplete and easy for my level of interest, but by the time I figured it out it was too late for me to switch up.  Some of the problems required large leaps of intuition during tests, but most of the material followed from lecture, section and labs.  The labs were good.  The teaching was ok- John Huth was not very engaging, and Joon and Tim try hard but are not incredibly outstanding.  Nonetheless, the course covers physics materials, and also includes interesting materials like digital circuits, optics, and sound.
If you had a choice between PS2/PS3 and Physics 11a/b, definitely take PS2/3. So much better than Physics 11a/b.
Take it if you have to. A necessary evil. It's actually one of the less painful premed requirements.
better to take a pure physics class, like 11b. it will probably be more straightforward
Only take it if you're premed and need an intro physics.
This is the least painful way to do physics.  From what I hear physics 11 is taught less well with much more difficult tests, and physics 15 is for scary math zombies who fap while their physics textbooks are open.  There are premed humanities people in the class who really have no business attempting to do math, so the curve is pretty nice.
This class wasn't as bad as I was expecting (but that isn't saying all that much). The material isn't too bad, but the tests are hard.
It's your best bet for premed physics, but you don't have much of a choice.
If you have any sort of physics knowledge, take Physics 15a. This class is decent for people who have no physics knowledge, but Physics 15a is supposed to be an amazing class, whereas this is mediocre at best.
If you're premed and have to take physics, take this.
take it if you need the pre-med requirement
This class was the bane of my existence and I regret having taken it. I had a difficult semester outside of the classroom and having to meet this requirement made life pretty gruesome (and I am NOT pre-med). If you are a neurobiology concentrator needing to fulfill the physical science requirement, and are not premed, you should seriously consider whether organic chemistry would be a better route to go. Physics is taught poorly at Harvard and one should not have to go through either PS2/3 or Physics 11. There needs to be more accessible physics options that non-pre-med students with no physics experience can handle.
It tells you what you need to know for the MCAT
Not a great class, but probably the path of least resistance for pre-med physics
HARD CLASS
This is probably the best way to fulfill a premed or concentration physics requirement if it is permitted by your concentration. Keep up with the material and ask questions if you don't understand some concept, or it will snowball fast.
very challenging but there are lots of opportunities for help that students should take advantage of
Take this course if you must fulfill physics for a premed requirement, because you have to.
Don't take this unless you have to for premed reqs. It's an awful experience.
stay on top of the material.
Unlike PS2, this was a somewhat painless way to fulfill the pre-med requirement for those pre-meds who dislike mathematics or complex physical concepts.  Recognize early on that you should put in some time learning the concepts and doing practice problems, and you will do fine in the course.For those who dislike learning with real-world examples, or the mixing of physics and biology, consider the 15 series (or 11 if you really want)
Standard pre-med class, solid teaching staff, fair assessments
Unless you like physics, it is not worth taking the course.
unfortunately, you probably don't have a choice in whether you take it or not.
If you need to get your pre-med physics requirement in, this is a not-too-painful way to do it.
Take physics 15. This isn't actually really a gut class, and you get no respect for taking it. On the bright side, at least for this year, the previous years' course websites have been very, very helpful...
Be warned: it's your typical large "pre-med" lecture course. Totally doable, but it's not the most well-taught class ever: lectures were often not very engaging, and psets (as with any other physics course) will require time.
Depending on your level of expertise with physics, this may or may not be an "easy grade". You might get more out of 11 or 15 series if you're pretty good at AP physics, and it might actually be just as hard to do well in the physci series because it emphasizes applications and doesn't cut you much slack in terms of the grading curve.
Only take this course if you have to fulfill a requirement. It's a lot of work, but you get what you put into it.
be prepared to work hard.
You don't really have many choices in pre-med requirements, so I guess my only advice can be to tough PS 3 out unless you want to take the other physics courses.
Only take it if you really like physics or are premed.
Study the textbook and do practice problems!!
This class gives a solid education on electricity and magnetism and optics and is not too challenging if you stay on top of the problem sets and are able to put in a lot of time to study for the exams/quizzes.
This class is a good class that covers physics with a focus on real life examples.
If you're looking for a premed course, this is it. Otherwise, take 11b because it's probably better and not stupid.
you really need to stay on the ball from the beginning. and READ THE TEXTBOOK!!! but overall - much better than 11b.
It's difficult! Be prepared to work hard because physics doesn't come easily to most people
You've got to do what you've got to do.
It's not an easy or fun class, but if you find a good TF or other people to help you in your studying, that definitely helps.
if you have to take it, you have to take it.
This class is difficult so you must spend a lot of time with it.  Seek out help early and consistently, especially if you find the concepts difficult during lecture or in the readings.  Office hours are a big help.  Exams can and will feel like a smack in the face.  Stay strong and keep your head up.
If you've taken AP physics before, it will help you a lot with E&M.  All of the lecture slides and review slides are put online, annotated, which is a big plus.  Very manageable class.  Not everyone would agree with me, but I personally thought the labs were pretty cool.  If you ever wondered how confocal microscopy works... or if you're into circuits then you'll like lab.
I would tell people to only take it if they have to. I wouldn't put it in the "fun" category of classes.
This course is a lot of work and not very rewarding.
Good for fulfilling a requirement but not the best-taught or most enjoyable course, although you do learn E and M.
This class is easy if you are willing to keep up at all times and work to understand the topics day to day, but it can be unrelenting, if you let it get away from you it is easy to fall behind.  Go to section and the weekly review.
you must work very hard
It seems to be the most manageable of the E/M courses offered, but it's not easy, and because the course leaders are committed to pretending the course is at least partly about biology, be prepared to read unnecessarily long and confusing questions on psets and tests.  Study hard, and it'll pay off.
I think that if a student needs to take a physics course, then this class is a very approachable, good option. However, it does take a lot of time and require a lot of work so be aware of that when registering for the class.
Take this for a premed course
not the worst way to take care of this particular premed requirement
be prepared to work hard.
The course covers the standard E&M topics but does seem to try to make it as painless as possible. I found many of the topics quite interesting. In addition, the material is very useful for the MCAT.
If you need to fulfill your physics requirement for pre-med, this is probably the least painful way to go. They definitely do try to make it relevant for future physicians, which is nice.
Study hard.
Do all the problem sets by yourself before consulting with a group.
It's probably easier than straight-up physics courses.  Just keep up with lectures, do a whole lot of practice problems a few days before the quizzes/exams, and you'll probably be fine.  (But study based on your own work rate, of course.)
Take this class because you have to (ie, you are a premed). If you don't love physics, take this class rather than 11 or 15. It's not that painful, but it's not that fun either.
Very competitive, quite challenging.
Basic physics course decent for pre-meds.
This course is very do-able if you put in the time to study and meet with TFs. You probably can't do the problem sets totally on your own so put in the effort to go to the help room. Also be aware that tests and quizzes will always be more difficult than the practices problems. Also beware of all the premeds...
It is a fairly standard pre med class.  You are not going to derive much enjoyment out of it.
This course has difficult subject material that is not intuitive at all.  only take if you need to fulfill a premed requirement.
Just because this is among the easiest second-semester physics classes one can take does not mean that it's easy. Stay on top of the work/ course material.
Seek out help if you need it.
Work closely with Tim French or Professor Huth- they are really helpful!!
Make sure you get a good TF who is willing to help you! Go to Prof. Huth's office hours-- he is very helpful and approachable.
The professors mean well and are nice people but the class is not fun or interesting to me.  I hated every minute of lecture, labs, homeworks, and tests.  This class basically ruined my entire semester and I wish I never had to take it.
So much better than PS2.  Psets took way less time, material was more straightforward, and tests were less ridiculous, in my opinion.  Still not the most fun class, and lecture was sometimes unbearable at 930 am... but overall not bad.  Do the psets with other people (and use the helproom), and get a solid lab group so you dont waste time or lose points on labs.
The course is more difficult than you would think so prepare wisely.
Just another E&M physics course, moderately hard. There is some effort made to connect concepts to biology and medicine, but it is just a handful of connections used over and over (i.e., cell membrane for all of electricity/circuits, MRI for magnetism...)Calculus is not used heavily in the course, though almost every week there is one question on the homework that requires you to interact with some kind of differential equation. Sometimes those questions also find their way onto exams. I didn't understand these differential equations and still don't, but I don't feel like they had too much of an effect on my grade.
it is a well taught and organized class, it is a lot of material that often does not seem to follow any thread (it contains a random assortment of topics basically), the tf's are not very helpful in general
An incredibly well taught course! Definitely visit Professor McCarty during office hours since he knows a tremendous amount about the material and can provide the necessary background in which the material is nested! I found that the TFs/preceptor struggled with explaining the material sometimes, but his explanations usually made the material straightforward and easy to grasp.
Professor Logan makes physics as fun as it can possibly be for a non-physics major!
very straightforward course. not difficult, very "plug and chug." if you care about physics and want to have a conceptual understanding of it, do NOT take this course. It is tailored toward premeds who just want a good grade. One plus is that Logan really cares about the students. At the same time, though, his lectures can get ridiculously annoying, as he talks to us as if we're 7-years-old.
Logan is a great teacher who tries to create enthusiasm, however I feel like it was very hard to improve in this class because it was unclear what was expected and because of the lack of material to practice with (Sapling questions were way easier than anything they would have actually given on tests).
You learn a lot in this class. The labs are a bit tedious, but the homework is actually great in that you are forced to get a firm grasp of the material.
Do the Sapling practice problems!
You have to take it. It's alright--not great. I was not very pleased with the way that the teaching staff related to the students, for the most part.
The actual physics is easy but the class is super annoying. Lectures are dull, but exams are straightforward. Better than Physics 15 for people who don't want to do math, but often painful because of the obsessive premeds and the ridiculous curve. It's not hard, but be prepared for an annoying semester.
This is a solid physics course. The teaching staff is exceptional and dedicated. It will help you to understand key phenomena occurring in the world around you.
Physics with unnecessary biology connections. Take a higher level physics instead rather than burden yourself with this class.
This course was really difficult for me. Make sure you do a lot of practice and keep up with the material. Do homework to further learning and really understand the concepts rather than just to get it done. Also, take advantage of office hours. The staff really cares and are there to help!
As a pre-med class, PS 3 is pretty painless. If you study and do the problem sets, you'll be fine. Exams can be pretty hard. I liked PS 2 better, because it seemed like the topics were more related to each other than they were in PS 3. That being said, I liked the life science applications of the PS 2/3 track.
If you have a choice, I'd recommend not taking the course. But since this class is mainly for pre-meds who don't want to take Physics 15/11, most people don't really have a choice. I highly recommend the help room if you are struggling with the psets.
If you're pre-med, you have to take physics. PS3 is medically relevant, and they put a lot of effort into catering to pre-med students.  However, there are a lot of students who have already taken physics C or are dropping down from an upper level physics, so if you've never had electricity and magnetism, it'll be a challenge.
If your strength is not electromagnetism, you'll find this class generally tolerable. It's not difficult per se, but be careful on exams. Make sure you have a good understanding of concepts, because those are tested relatively rigorously.
A lot of the concepts are a bit hard to understand, but study them in your spare time and you should be fine. Also, there are many sources to online learn the information that may explain better than the lecture notes and textbook
Better option than the other physics classes, simply because of Logan McCarty.
This is one of the most well taught pre-med classes I've taken at Harvard. The class is very fair and doesn't waste your time, and you'll learn a lot in the process.
The class is manageable, although it is easy to not do well on the exams are there are quite a few multiple choice questions that are worth a lot of points and can be tricky.
E&M can be tricky, and the topics covered are broader and a bit more diffuse than intro physics/mechanics (e.g., PS 2). However, Logan and the teaching staff are great, and do a good job of preparing you. The course structure is similar to PS 2, so while taking PS 2 specifically isn't necessary, it eases you into what will come to feel like the second half of a year-long course.
PS 3 is an extremely well taught course. Logan is a great lecturer and the teaching staff wants to help you. The course is definitely challenging if you do not have a physics background, but as far as pre-med classes go, this was actually one of the most interesting and well organized. P sets can take a while, but the online problems were helpful.
Too much application to medicine, I'd rather actually learn the physics before being thrown into trying to apply it to biological model.
Logan is great. Physics is definitely my least favorite subject, but I found that I really liked the PS2/PS3 series. It's interesting to see how these abstract concepts I first saw in high school applied to things like MRI, musical instruments, eyeglasses, etc.
Take calc before. Seriously.
The best pre-med physics class out there...but it's physics.
If you have never taken physics before, this class is hard. Period. The course moves very fast, so you must stay on top of everything and make sure to seek help (mostly from TFs) when you need it. Also, make sure that you study as much as you can for finals because they can throw a lot of new concepts at you that you have never seen before.
PS2 can be stressful because of the large number of students in the class (especially the high concentration of pre-meds), but Logan does a good job of keeping lectures light and entertaining, and the homework problems and exams are challenging but fair. The course does provide good preparation for the MCATs, which includes circuits, optics, waves, and magnetism, as well as many topics from PS2.
Pretty easy, but interesting, class. Definitely the most painless way to fulfill a physics requirement!
This class is straightforward with its expectations, but at the same time it does not go deep enough into the math behind the material so it becomes frustrating.
Professor McCarty is absolutely fantastic.  His lectures are informative, entertaining, and packed with cool demonstrations.  Be sure to do lots of practice problems before exams, because the exam questions don't really reflect the type of questions you will do in your homework.
This class is a pre-med class, prepare accordingly.  That being said, it's a fine introduction to E&M and waves and all that.
Great class.  Teaching staff is excellent, the TFs at office hours are really helpful, and the units flow successfully from one to the next.  I think the course really helps you realize how physics relates to the other sciences and made me more excited about medicine in general.  I think the practice problems were a good representation of the exam.
This class is fantastic if you haven't taken any physics before. Logan is a fantastic lecturer. But, if you have done any E&M before (not even at the AP level), this class might be too basic for you and may leave you bored. If you have a special interest in physics, Physics 15a,b,c will be more suitable for you.
This course somehow makes physics interesting. It's not crazily easy but if you go to lectures and utilize other resources, like the help room, section and Friday reviews, this course is definitely bearable. Also, a homework buddy helps!
i mean...its necessary and not THAT bad. Logan is awesome..
If you're looking for pre-med physics, this is the class. The applications are very medically focused and it's easy/interesting. Great prep for the MCAT. If you want something more than a superficial treatment of physics though, you might be better off taking physics 11/15 (or whatever it's being changed to).
You have to have previous knowledge of physics and really know your Math 1b skills.
Logan is awesome and tries really hard to make this interesting and relevant, even if most people are just taking it as a pre-med requirement.
It's a lot harder than PS2 was. Go to the Friday "review" sessions; they are not review, they are absolutely mandatory. If you find yourself having no idea how to do the pset and wondering when they ever taught you how to do those problems, it's because you didn't go to the Friday sessions.
You need physics for med school.
This course is really great for biologically and chemically oriented physics, although if you're interested in theoretical physics, another department option may be better!
Much better organized and well-taught than Physics 12a,b.
PS3 is a very well taught and organized pre-med requirement course. It teaches E&M, waves, optics, and imaging in a way that is relevant to life sciences. Lectures, sections, and labs were all very informative and insightful. The tests in the class can be tough and the grading is harsh at times (e.g. multiple choice questions are worth up to 4-6 points). Overall, the class was enjoyable and manageable as long as you make a commitment to work hard in the class.
This is a good course and it is taught pretty well. However, you are going to have to do some outside learning on some of the core physics concepts, because the resources provided through the class are sometimes not enough to fully understand things such at E-field integrals, etc.
Difficult class, but very well taught. Help room and the TFs are great. If you want to do better than average (i.e. get an A), I recommend going to Help Room every week. Not only do you get through the p-sets faster, but you also learn to connect them with the key concepts in lecture.
Exam questions are very different from what problem sets and practice questions would lead you to believe. Logan is a great lecturer, but the rest of the course administration was questionable.
This class required hard work but can be rewarding and interesting.
This course will provide you with an interesting biological lens through which to think about physics. Be sure to link concepts together week-by-week so you can see what connections might be drawn upon on the final exam.
You most likely don't have a choice and are taking this for premed... sorry. Logan is nice, but this is going to be a frustrating experience. Do the homework yourself as best you can!
Go to section. The section problems are more relevant to doing the homework/exams then lecture.
Be prepared to put in a lot of extra time finding practice problems for this class. Also, you should utilize your TFs...they are often willing to meet outside of section with you individually if you ask.
There are a lot of resources for this class- section, friday reviews, office hours, help session- they are great to use and are there for you! Professor McCarty is a really great lecturer, it's definitely worth it to come to all the lectures, especially since breakout questions in lecture make up part of your final grade.
PS3 is harder than PS2.  It's pretty disjointed and is harder to understand because it is not physical in nature as the material covered in PS2.  Background in neurobiology, at least to some extent, is helpful.
I really liked PS2 better, so unlike PS2, I wouldn't take PS3 unless you really have to. Also putting effort into the problem sets every week really pays off at exam time.
Even though people might tell you that PS3 is the easier option compared to other physics classes, you'll still be struggling if you hadn't taken physics class before in high school (like me). The class focuses on providing good theory.. Logan consistently made a big effort to make sure that he was not simply throwing out equations out of thin air. He explained, step, by step, how each concept was derived, and it was easy to follow him. However, while the theory aspect of this course was great, there really was minimal effort to connect the theoretical parts to the application part. Yes, of course, we learned about how neurons, microscopes, and MRI worked, but only IN THEORY. I wish there had been more applications/problem solving during lecture, instead of assuming that, just because we fully derived the equations during class, we should be able to apply them in any circumstances that they throw at us. While doing homework on Sapling or offlne psets, I had to reteach myself how to use the concepts in application settings. Ugh.
The course is challenging, but also interesting, and they provide a lot of support for students.
PS3 was a fine intro course to second semester physics - the material was interesting, but some of the assignments (particularly the Sapling) felt a bit like hoop jumping.
This class is worse than LS1b. You will hate it.
Best class to take if you want to fulfill the premed requirement with as little hassle and as little danger to your GPA as possible. Not the best class to take if you want to learn to solve problems in and think about actual physics; the emphasis is vey much on how basic physics principles underlie certain ideas in biology. Nevertheless, this is a decent, pretty painless class. Also, I thought Logan was a wonderful instructor. He was funny, engaging, and always seemed to work really hard to get you to understand the concepts and "see" the physics and the relevance as best he could. He really made the course for me.
If you have to take a physics course for pre-med, take the PS2/PS3 track, and go to all the lectures, do all the problems, take great notes on the psets, and you should be okay.
Although the class does not seem to be super difficult, you need to give it more time than you initially expect.
You gotta do what you gotta do. Logan is fantastic, but the homework is a nightmare and the exams can be quite the leap.
For premeds out there: this is a well-taught and painless way to do another semester of physics. Homeworks are very doable, labs tend to end early, and lecture notes are awesome. Logan is a very good lecturer, and very clear. You do have to attend lecture, however, for the "concept questions." The course covers a fair amount of breadth (though not very much depth), going over electricity and magnetism, circuit models of neurons, basic optics, and introduction to waves. The tests are fairly easy, but make sure to put everything on your cheat sheet, including values of constants.
If you need to take it you will. Otherwise, I wouldn't recommend for a Gen Ed or anything like that.
Gotta do it
The course is challenging but a great introduction to the subject. The teaching staff are supportive and there are many resources available to supplement the course and prepare for exams. The information is presented in an organized fashion. The course requires a large time investment but the hard work is well rewarded. Students interested in medicine and physics should feel confident that they will receive a great education on important topics not only relevant to physics but also tied to medicine.
This is a much better class than PS2. You'll inevitably have friends in the class, and the material and assignments aren't particularly stressful, so you can be more relaxed than in other intro-level science classes. At the same time, it's not an intellectually fulfilling course, because you don't learn any deep concepts but instead learn applications to biology that often seem forced and irrelevant. Good class to get a pre-med requirement out of the way.
A lot of premeds enter the PS2/PS3 track thinking it will be a bird course or easy A after having survived orgo, but in fact it is pretty rigorous and should be taken seriously.
Do a lot of practice problems, for exams. The exams are almost the same as the practice tests.
This course is the best alternative if you have no prior physics experience or have a weak physics background. Most certainly, this course is better than Physics 11 which is now Physics 12. This class is incredibly well organized. However, this class lacks in that there is an insufficient number of practice problems. Thus, problem sets are hard. With insufficient practice problems, the midterm and the final especially will be difficult. Nonetheless, this is probably your best physics alternative if you can't or  are not ready for Physics 15/16.
It's a great alternative to the 15 series for physics requirements. Lots of premeds in this class, but if you have even a little proficiency in physics, this class should be a breeze.
This class is designed solely as a pre-med physics class, but I do not really understand the purpose of it.  If the point of pre-med classes is to consider different ways of thinking about the physical world or to think experimentally, I would say this class did a poor job.  If the point is to make you apply some formulas you do will not need to actually use as a doctor, it has probably been a great success.  I wish I had challenged myself with a harder physics class so that I had the opportunity to gain a deeper grasp of the concepts of physics.
They provide you with many problems and material to prepare you for the exams. The concepts you learn are similar to those you need to know for medical school.
Look for the tricks in problems. There are a lot of "subtle hints" that they give you that will help you solve problems, but the questions are never straight forward.
Found the material interesting but the exams are definitely tricky. Make sure to take advantage of the help rooms and office hours because a lot of the intricacies not covered in lecture explicitly are required knowledge for the problem sets and eventually the exams.
This is a good class for what it is: physics for people largely not interested in physics. But the administrative side of the course is a bit frustrating.
Logan is a great lecturer, even though the concepts in PS3 are more abstract than those taught in PS2.  The teaching quality in sections varied across the sections.  It would be very helpful for you to find a good section early on in the course, instead of sticking it out with a section leader with whom you are unhappy.
This was a painless and cool way to fulfill the pre-medical physics requirement. Especially if you are neurobiology or interested in optics this course delves pretty deeply into problem solving aspects of those physics applications. The Application portion of this course can be very specific and not always well taught but they can usually be boiled down to a few question types.
AP50 sounds more fun.
This class is GREAT for preparing for the MCAT. I definitely learned a lot and the lectures were really interesting and well-organized.
PS3 is not a super traditional physics course, in that you learn a lot about the biological applications of physics, which makes it really interesting (such as how an MRI works). Logan does a really good job of breaking down the concepts and the whole course felt like there were several central themes that tied it all together and it all came together very nicely and in a coherent manner. The teaching staff are also really great, and the homework assignments were very reasonable.
This was a very challenging course.
PS3 was a not a great class, but probably the best option for the pre-med physics requirement. Lecture is boring, labs are painful, and section is not super helpful, but if you have taken PS2, you probably know what to expect. I would suggest that you keep up with the material over the semester, since the exams are pretty hard. One positive is that you get a cheat sheet during the exam, which is super helpful.
easy premed physics class with good instructor
If you're looking to take this class, you probably have to so just suck it up and deal with it.  It's going to suck no matter what.
I came into college dreading physics, but I did enjoy PS2/PS3 much more than I expected I would. I thought the lectures were pretty interesting. The Sampling problems were very helpful, especially when studying for the exams. Labs weren't life-changing but they were shorter than the PS2 labs, which was nice. Overall one of the more enjoyable required pre-med courses.
If you need to fulfill the physics requirement, this is certainly the least painful way to do it.  You will gain a basic understanding of E & M and have fun doing it.
This class was a good introduction to Electricity and Magnetism for pre-med students. I enjoyed the integrated physics and medicine examples that made the physics seem more relevant to the medical field. This is not an easy class, but if you keep up with the work and do all the problems while making sure you understand the underlying concepts, the exams are reasonable. If you are struggling, the preceptors, professor and TFs are all very willing to give extra help, so reach out early and don't be shy.
Not a great class, but you have to take it.
This class is way harder than initially advertised. From my experience at least half of the students were very miserable and struggling to understand what was going on. The explanations given in class do not help to understand the material, and you probably need more than math 1b even though it was not advertised that way. Unless you are a physics genius, this class will be EXTREMELY stressful. Even if I went to the help room every week and got a tutor and went to every lecture, I still got way below average.
It's the same structure as PS2, so no surprises there. However, beware if you haven't taken E&M before
Necessary evil, but McCarthy does the best he can with the requirement.
Be sure to keep on top of your work or you may get lost!
physics. for premeds. enjoy. biological applications are pretty cool, but this course is practically all memorization of a huge amount of material
This course is difficult. It's hard to do well unless you've taken AP Physics.
This is a great class! Very well taught and I HIGHLY recommend it for pre-meds who are not physics concentrators or who don't have an incredibly strong physics background. That said, if you took AP Physics C (or even AP Physics B) in High School, you will not find this course challenging. But still, I think you will get quite a lot out of it.
Don't take it unless you absolutely have to. It sucks and it is really hard.
Difficult in its own right because electricity, magnetism, waves, etc. aren't readily observable like the concepts in PS2 are.  I found it to be not all that hard because I had previously taken AP Physics and was concurrently taking Chemistry 165, which was covering much of the same material in greater detail, so I guess I had it a little easier than most.  Concept questions are still a thing, and it's a hassle and a nuisance, but whatever.  I thought labs were better than PS2's were.
Do a lot of practice problems and actively seek out help.
To do well in this class, you need to practice, practice, practice. Do the sapling problems (over and over again), the additional problems, the Friday review problems, section problems, and, if time permits, the textbook problems. Also, a pro tip: After doing Sapling problems, even if you get them right, read the solution explanations. They are very informative and reinforce learning of the material.
This is a good course and is growing into a great course. If you're not really into dealing with premeddy courses though, find something else.
This course is not particularly well taught and it feels like the concepts we are learning are being molded into a pre-med curriculum. Specifically, Professor McCarty tries to make connections between physics and the biology behind it but often in an unclear or confusing manner.
This class is difficult and requires a lot of time and effort, but I found it a very enjoyable class (given that it's an E&M physics class, anyway). Logan does a great job of tying the concepts to medical applications which is cool since basically the whole class is pre-meds.
Typical premed class, but there are many resources that can help you. Pretty painless! Lab is not bad. The TFs are cool!
This is a great physics option if it is required for your concentration. You learn basic physics concepts in an interesting application.
you must have enough time to pay attention to the concepts and making them second nature to you. The exams are really about the concepts.
This is better for pre-meds than Physics 15 to fulfill the physics requirement.
Strong pre-med class.
This class was a breath of fresh air after taking Physics 11a.  PS 3 is very well taught (granted at a level which sometimes assumes its students don't know anything).  It was a bit degrading at times when Logan spent a huge portion of class time discussing simple things like cross products and the right hand rule.  I definitely had to think a lot more about material while doing homeworks for Physics 11a and to understand it better.  But if you don't enjoy physics and want to take an easy way out, take PS 3 instead of Physics 11 because its more clearly taught and you won't have to go into the material in depth.  Also, you get lecture notes printed for you.  Embrace your inner pre-med.
Attend and engage in lectures fully; it will help your understanding in the class immensely
Take it if you have to take a physics, but it may be a struggle. I had to take it for my neurobio concentration even though I'm not a premed, but it was painful. I didn't enjoy lectures since the hall was so big, and my section leader was incompetent.
Most of the TFs are not that good, but there are a few gems so I would ask around and find one! I found out really late in the year that Natalie holds AMAZING review sessions that aren't a part of the real course. I would try to attend them!
If you are premed and need to take physics, you should definitely take the PS2/3 series. It is not excessively difficult (although our final was too hard) but it doesn't feel like a waste of time. Logan is really great and does an excellent job making physics relevant to medicine/biology.
logan is really enthusiastic and makes lecture fun! do as many practice problems as you can, focusing on derivations too!
Problem sets are deceptively long. The exams look a lot like the practice exams. If you're cramming, make your "cheat" sheet first and then take the practice exam, if you have time go over the class notes and homework
Good option to take for premed physics. Pretty standard work load.
This class was really just pretty awful. Lectures weren't clear, there was NO problem solving at all, and the concepts were explained horribly.  It was a huge disappointment considering I actually enjoyed PS2. Do yourself and your gpa a favor and take AP50b instead.
This class isn't that difficult, but since there is little to no variation in how people perform on problem sets or labs, your grade will be entirely based on your exams and how you do in comparison to others.
If you are pre-med and need 2nd semester physics this is a good way to do it. The class was disorganized this year but check with the preceptor to see if it becomes well organized. Logan is a great professor so having him teaching you is great.
this is the hardes/worst class I have taken at harvard...don't take it
Interesting, genuine applications to medicine/biology!
Only if you want to go to medical school! Don't take this just for physics fun, because there are too many
If you're pre-med, this class will be really interesting!
I really think this class underwent major changes that drastically improved it. I heard it used to be TERRIBLE, with people crying during the final exam. My experience was completely different. The midterms were totally reasonable, the final seemed okay, and labs were really fun (especially the one where we created a model circuit of a neuron!). Now, my final verdict is that this class is not so bad, and the material is quite interesting. Look forward to it, all you pre-meds!
PS3 is amazing. The teaching staff is the BEST. So much support is offered, so you won't get lost if you just ask questions.
From what I've heard, much better than Phys 11b. Section is definitely a big help.
You probably will not like this course. However, in the unusual case that you actually have a fervent passion for all things pre-med physics, you may, by one of those strange coincidences in life, have a good time. Roll Tide either way.
Kind of okay, kind of sucks, depends on how you feel on any given day
If Prof. McCarty and Tim French and others are teaching this class, then definitely take it. Prof. McCarty was great. This class does have a lot of premeds, but it's not what many of say it is. It's definitely a simpler version of physics, and if you don't think you're capable of doing physics at the higher reaches of 11 and 15, then this is a great option for you. You will learn physics in a context more related to biology and things you'll encounter in medicine, than you will learn in another physics class. Definitely take it if it can fit your schedule.
It isn't FUN, but the effort component of psets made it a lot less painful, midterm exams were hard but not crazy, the final was insane, so study a lot for that.
Well-organized, not too bad.
This class is a great way to get the pre med physics requirement, logan is an amazing teacher and you also get to learn about how medically relevant things work which makes a boring subject actually interesting.
Only take if you really have to. It's miserable
This class is so much fun!
it is what it is
Not that bad.. just take it if you're premed. Plus if you open any review book for the MCAT you realize that you learn most of it in this course
This class gets better after the first midterm. The material can seem like a lot to understand, so make sure to keep up with the material on a weekly basis.
it's not the best, not the worst.
I think the best way to prepare for tests is to get your hands on a lot of problems and plug through them all. I don't have an incredible aptitude for physics so often in order for me to perform ok on an exam question, it helped for me to have seen something similar(ish) on a practice exam.
come hungry, leave satisfied.
It is a difficult class so you have to stay on top of it.
It's easier than PS2 and Logan is really funny. There's lots of help if you need it and don't be afraid to seek it.
You have to take it if you're premed, but I can't say I enjoyed it.  Logan at least made the lectures semi-understandable.
I didn't like it, but just deal with it. It isn't that bad.
I like how the physics is related to biology in this course, compared to something like 15b which is pure physics. Then again, I'm a neuro concentrator
Get ready to work. It's just like every other science class.
This is actually a well-taught physics pset with lectures that are mostly fun to go to.
Study hard, work on the psets diligently, and ask for help anytime you are stuck.
If you're not premed, it's not worth it to take this class. PS 2 is way better though.
If you have to complete a second semester physics requirement, this is definitely a good class to do it with. I liked this course a lot more than PS2. Although I felt that the material was more abstract and difficult to grasp at the beginning of the semester, once I understood the basics of circuitry and electricity, all of the other concepts seemed to build nicely on top of each other. The material is a lot less all-over-the-place than I felt PS2 was. Logan is still great and while this course is difficult, it is definitely doable. The exams are challenging but fair.
This class is improving, but don't expect to be blown away by the teaching.
This course is a really easy way to fulfill a physics requirement.
Better than the other physics classes.  Manageable but still a pain.
If you're pre-med, you gotta take it, but it's not that fun.
it's all right.
I did not take math 1b. I was okay but it was still a very challenging class. I wouldn't take it if you don't need to but I almost feel better not that I've made it through
I mean if you need to take physics, it's not so bad I guess.
Please do not burden yourself with this class unless necessary for pre-med requirement. Even then, consider physics 11b or physics 15b (if you like physics). I did not like physics before going into this class, and now I loathe everything about physics.
Take it instead of 11b and 15b. You'll be happier. It's a party most of the time. Just do the typical physics routine --- don't just know equations, know where they come from and how to apply them. Then you'll be aOK.
Logan is great! My lab TF was great! Evelina who runs the lab is amazing and sends super helpful practice problems for the exams! Although at times it was difficult, I really enjoyed PS3 - I would highly recommend it as the physics option for pre-medical students :)
You gotta do what you gotta do.  But it really isn't bad at all.
Pretty good for a premed requirement.
quite a well organized class, Logan's a great prof, but do know that you'll have to put in the work like any other pre-med class
It's physics but pretty light on the math which can be nice if you no longer know how to integrate things. It's an extremely well structured, organized, and taught class. You can tell the staff puts a lot of thought and time into each lecture and it's very well supported by all the teaching faculty. The things you learn are so applicable! I make nerdy jokes referencing PS material all the time.
My favorite pre-med class. It is very well run, and the information is taught well.
Only take this class if you have to; maybe try PS11, some of the application problems seem to confuse the material.
PS3 is very well taught and organized. Logan is a great lecturer and has such a good handle on all of the material and works hard to make sure the lab, section, and lecture components are all well integrated. I found the material much easier to understand than PS2.
This class was a struggle. It was way more mathy than expected, so make sure you brush up on your calculus. Additionally, Logan was fabulous but the TF's are hit-or-miss. Some are horrible and belittle you for not understanding the material (i.e., Widagdo-- run if you get him as a TF). Others are fabulous. Definitely get a tutor. If you keep up you might actually like the course, as some of it's pretty interesting.
This class was very interesting and although challenging was not at all overly difficult. Just keep up with the practice problems and concepts during the week and you will do well.
Gotta take it booboo!
Probably the best option if you aren't planning to go any further in physics or engineering and are interested in biology. A heavy neurobio focus in the applications.
Study for the exams and you'll get through it! Much better than PS2!
Good as far as pre-med physics goes, and the staff is fantastic.
If you didn't have to take it, I don't see any reason to take it.
I was actually surprised, by the end of the course, that I was enjoying it. Lectures are funny and you should take initiative to talk through confusing concepts with TF's because it makes a world of a difference. Way easier than orgo.
Wasn't all that bad. Very predictable workload week-to-week, there's a weekly problem set and lab and then you'll have to study more during midterm weeks. All in all, not painful but not that much fun either.
I would suggest going over lectures many times, and trying to think of new ways that the concepts could be applied. Do lots of practice problems! And don't forget that the TFs and professors are there to try to help you.
If you're premed, this class would be preferable to Physics 11 or 15!
Standard physics, coin flip between this and physics 11
Really think about how you want to be presented physics concepts - and whether it helps you learn to have the concepts presented in a science-applicable model. There is a lot of emphasis on the neuron model, for example, or the MRI rather than focusing on the actual physics concepts.
This is a difficult course - only take it if you really want to be a pre-med student! Labs were interesting.
The teaching staff tries very hard to make PS3 an excellent learning experience and is very supportive.  There are plenty of avenues for help if you want it.  The exams are written in a similar format to the ones in PS2 so having taken PS2 should make you feel pretty comfortable in PS3.
It wasn't the terrible experience that I was expecting! Honestly, it's physics, and if you don't like it, you probably won't have the best time in this class. McCarty is a really great professor though, and you can tell that the teaching staff really does want you to succeed. If you have to take physics for a premed requirement, DEFINITELY go with this one.
PS3 has made a lot of improvements in terms of class schedule,problem sets, test difficulty and lecture formats. As you are probably taking this class as a pre-med requirement, I can only recommend it as far as it is easier than more advanced physics classes (ie physics 11b)
Study the sheets every night after lecture.
I thought that the class was done well because concepts that we learned were applied to the body and medicine quite frequently.  For example, I found optics very interesting when we talked about its applications to nearsightedness and farsightedness.  The course also teaches physics in a way that is accessible to many people, whereas Physics 11 or 15 may be too advanced for students that aren't as interested in physics as a whole.
If you're interested in applications of physics to biology, this course is better than Physics 11.  The applications also make a lot more sense and don't seem as forced as PS2.  If you have choice of taking this class while writing a thesis vs. taking it junior year-- don't do it while you're writing a thesis.  Also, the final tends to be the last one of finals period, so take that into account as well.
it's a pre-med class, what do you expect? it could be worse -- tim and logan are actually really organized and great at teaching.
go to lecture. they're fun!
Unless you like physics or are premed, I don't see any reason for you to take this course.
painless way to do physics.  It's really not a bad class at all
Watch the lecture after you've attended it so that you've seen it twice before you're tested on it, because it goes pretty quickly and is complicated and there are some things you won't get the first time. Also, the reviews are really helpful for actually applying the material to problems, so at least look at them before problem sets and exams.
Only take it if you have to. Classes like this are just dumb, typical pre-med requirements. Too many kids, too standardized, and too early in the morning.
Definitely better than 11A
Be prepared for questions that don't always match up well with the ways in which the material is presented. The tests often have seemingly vaguely worded questions, and it can be difficult to know what is most important.
It applied physics to the medical context, which was really cool and fun.
Not worth taking as an elective, but it was fine as a requirement.
put in the work and go to office hours!
It was hard but the teaching staff is phenomenal and worked very hard to make it as easy as they could while still having it cover a lot of difficult material.
Review the lectures shortly after they are given before the next lecture to make sure you understand the material from that lecture. Since the class is pretty early, I think it was harder for me to retain the material the first time around. It doesn't take very long, but helps a ton: it helps you from falling behind since the lectures build off of one another, makes the p-sets easy, and makes it so you don't have to study much for the exams.
WORST FINAL EVER. otherwise a relatively fun and painless way to get your premed req out of the way.
good alternative to physics 11b. PS2/PS3 series has really improved since last fall.
I switched from physics 11b to PS3, and it was such a good decision. PS3 teaches you the basics without messy calculus, and Logan is a good lecturer. That being said, though, I became grossly aware of how "premed-y" this class was- with largely useless labs and competitive peers. The teaching and administrative staff, other than Evelina (WHO IS AMAZING), are at times unsympathetic and unhelpful.
Logan is the absolute best physics teacher you can imagine! This class is well-taught, and the concepts, labs, homeworks, and exams are all quite cohesive. This class is especially great for pre-meds as it applies physics to biology.
Only take this class as a pre-med requirement.
Great professor!  The best physics class you could enroll in.
Definitely a good option if you need to take electricity and magnetism, but never choose it as an elective.
excellent course. very organized lectures and very supportive teaching staff! you'll learn a lot of fun stuff :)
Tests are not fair. Be prepared to do poorly on exams.
PS 3 was improved a lot this year, and it showed. Overall, a really interesting class with great lectures from Logan and extremely well-run. Certainly the most painless way to fulfill the pre-med physics requirement.
Doing problems in the textbook will help you do better on the exams--more so than just going over lectures.  Be sure you understand how to solve differential equations.  Take this class if you need it or are very interested in getting a physical model for how the world works.  It is a very well taught physics class, though certainly not easy.
This is a really well taught and fair pre med course under logan tim and evelina. I would defintiely take it even if I didnt need it for pre med.
Make sure you understand all concepts covered in class while well before you start studying for exams. Focusing on problem solving in the days before exams is essential. This course was very similar in format to PS2. Some lectures and laboratories were more interesting. If you feel like you might benefit from having a peer tutor I suggest trying it out at least once.
The material in this class is really challenging... you really need to devote a decent amount of time to keep up and understand the concepts since a lot of material is covered.  Logan is great though!
This is a good class.  I did not spend enough time preparing or learning the materials, but the class is well taught, the sections give good suplemental problems, and the homework help hours are great.  Just make sure you really do the homeworks and understand how to do everything.  Because the homework is just graded for completeness, it is very easy to fall behind on actually learning the material.
I really think this class is underrated. First, I think it's amazing that there is a high-quality physics course aimed at biological relevance. It provides an integrated approach to the sciences which is very unique to Harvard and makes us all better students. I know intro courses get a bad rap in general but this one especially was great and well balanced. I learned so much this semester.I really like how the homework are graded: it provides for a lower stress environment while not sacrificing quality of work. The material is well thought-out and examples are very relevant. I loved the overarching neuron model theme. It was amazing to think of the brain as a circuit even if that is just a model. Don't listen to your friends: this course is not easy. Don't get fooled by the fact that the course number is "3" and not "11" or "15". You will work just as hard it's just not as math heavy and there is a biological focus.
Great course.  Not too difficult, but still a great intro to em and waves.
It's really not that bad for a pre-med requirement!  You'll learn a lot and maybe even have fun.  Logan makes the class bearable, but as long as you do the psets and understand them, you should be fine.
Avoid this class unless you have to fulfill a pre-med requirement.
Typical pre-med class, but it wasn't too bad. Problem sets seemed to have lots of derivations that were unnecessary to know for tests but other than that homework and labs were manageable.
Recommend with enthusiasm for pre-meds. Cool applications of physics to medical world. The class is very organized and definitely fair. You'll get out what you put in.
PS3 is a very manageable course if you stay on top of your work.  Exams are fair and resemble problem sets.
This class is really hard.  But if you go to all the lectures, thoughtfully complete all the problem sets, watch all the reviews, go to all your sections, and study hard for the exams, you will be OK.  Basically, just work your butt off.  If you dont' do that, you will hate everything and get a bad grade.
It's as good as it gets for premed. Challenging but doable.
PS2/PS3 have good intentions, they want to make physics relevant to premeds who don't care about physics. However the "medically related" problem set and exam questions sometimes are very hard to decipher. A strong biology background is needed. Do every practice problem you can find.
It's a really interesting class and probably the best physics pre-med option, but it is not easy and definitely requires time outside of lecture and section.
PS3 is a pretty good class. I didn't take PS2, so I am not sure how it compares. However, I found it to be leaps and bounds less stressful and better taught than Physics 11a. If you are trying to decide between Physics 11b and PS3, I would definitely recommend this course! Logan is a great professor and the teaching staff is pretty helpful.
Logan is the only redeeming thing about this class--otherwise it's a difficult premed requirement with a lot of high-stress students.
The concepts were somewhat easier to grasp than in PS2 but the curve (to me, at least) seemed much less forgiving in this class.  Some people suggested it was because 11a kids came into the class, which is very possible.
Just stay on top of your work and go to Logan's office hours and you'll be fine. Not the best course, not the worst, but a fairly painless way to fill the premed physics requirement.
it's a good course to take if you're premed and just want to get your requirement out of the way. it applies physics to biology, which is interesting and useful to see how stuff works. physics will always be hard, so might as well take one of the easier ones that harvard offers
I took Physics15 before this course, so relatively I found it very easy and less time consuming. However, it is sometimes assumed that you took PS2, which covered some different topics that Physics15. Most if not all people take this class as a premed requirement, as such, there are few people who seem to actually like or be interested in physics. If you're one of them, take a more advanced course. If not, you have to get through it, and it's not so bad.
Unfortunately, it seems like a necessary evil in order to fulfill premed requirements.
So I liked this class becuase I love seeing how theory can be applied to real life situations. i also appreciated the focus on Neurons since I am a neurobio concentrator. I loved doing lab with my lab partners becuase we would take ridiculously funny pictures and crack jokes in our write ups with our lab tF getting mad...btw Matt barr is really cool (lab TF). Sometimes, I thought that Logan took us to slowly through material we should already know (like wave properties) and too fast through tougher things (E and M, Lenz Law, Logic).
Really great class covering wide range of topics. Don't fall behind, ask questions early, and make good use of physics help room for psets and other questions. The course staff do their best to offer many ways to get help, so it's up to you to seek help when necessary.
The course is really great with considering the demands of the students.  For example, there are no problem sets due the same week as an exam so that you can put more time into studying.  Resources for help are everywhere if you want to take advantage of them.  The course definitely caters to pre-meds also by putting things in biological contexts where possible.  Logan is a great lecturer too.  Definitely recommended for pre-meds who need to take physics.
Just sick it up and deal. It's not fun. It's not pretty. You have to do it.
Not the worst premed class you will take.
This course turned out pretty well this semester; EM stuff is less intuitive than mechanics, so the activities and demos are quite helpful. The hw is designed to make sure you understand the necessary concepts, so you actually learn the material. Labs were well-done overall as well. The course doesn't take too much time either, so it won't preclude you from taking other courses that may be a bit more difficult.
PS3 is an awesome class. The material is really cool, and the teaching staff is unbelievable. They have a crazy amount of resources, it's hard not to do well in this class. They write condensed notes of the material for each problem set, have an online Q and A, hold like 10 hours of help room per week, make little videos of confusing concepts (s/o to Anna's cat that one time), and provide a ton of practice problems and extra office hours for exams. The group learning in lecture and through the group exam is really helpful and effective. Optional section is also really useful, because you get a quick summary of recent lectures then work on problems from the material that you just learned, so it gets you prepared for problem sets and the problems turn out to be great for studying for exams. I haven't heard of any of the TFs being bad, but try to get Anna or Suzanne if you can. They're absolute gems, fantastic teachers and hilarious people. Overall a fantastic course.
Tough but a very enjoyable learning experience
You're better off just buying an intro to physics book and reading it rather than putting up with all the miscellaneous stuff that happens during lecture and lab that you can easily BS and doesn't facilitate learning.
Logan is a great teacher who really wants students to learn.  I went to office hours for the first time on the day of the final, and he was very clear with his explanations.  I did great on the final, but I probably wouldn't have needed to spend as much studying if I had regularly gone to his office hours instead of plowing through the material over and over again.Anna and Suzanne are great at explaining things and quite available as well.Don't worry about it being too much work, and while lots of people complained about Sapling, I found it to be an invaluable resource for learning.
I took this class as a physics pre-med requirement, expecting to not really enjoy it. This class turned out to be great. Professor McCarty is a great lecturer, and the teaching staff is very flexible in its availability and very helpful. Assignments and tests are also very fair.
The entire year was fine except for the final.
Logan and Louis understand that the goal is learning, not a certain distribution of grades.  If you're just interested in learning some physics in college (or taking it for pre-med reqs), this gets a huge recommendation from me.
It's a straightforward class in which you learn a lot about Physics.
Best for pre-med requirements
take AP50
I respect Logan and Louis a lot for the amount of work they put into giving students the resources they need to learn and to practice with concepts. They obviously care greatly about the educational experience of students in PS3. I wouldn't call this course enjoyable, but you (the reader) are only here because of a concentration or pre-med requirement anyway. PS3 is definitely the least painful way to fulfill your physics E&M requirement.
This is a great physics course to take if you're looking to fulfill some type of physics requirement. Logan is an excellent instructor, and the course is a mix of the basics of electricity and waves as well as pretty interesting and useful applications of the material.
Definitely take this class if you are pre-med, it's a great intro to physics and why it matters to a future doctor. also it's pretty active learning and collaborative, which I found to be one of the best learning environments of all pre-med classes.
It's a decent class.
Review the practice midterms before the exam! Those problems are the best tools to be able to prepare.
basic pre-med physics. probably the best option available for people who don't have a strong background in math or physics.
How can PS3 have the same teaching staff as PS2, but be so, so much worse? Honestly this class is poorly taught, even though I love Logan as a human being.  Activities overemphasize conceptual understanding so much that you almost never walk away from lectures with the formulas you need to do Psets/exams.  Section and lab is a nightmare.  Ugh.
This class is really well organized. The professors are great and are always available to help you. I think they do a great job of presenting the material and preparing you for the exams.
This is an amazingly run course and they work so hard to make sure everyone understands the concepts. Take this course! Go to the help sessions! Put in the effort and it will all pay off.
It's a great way to fulfill pre-med physics.  The teachers work so hard to make sure you learn enough to succeed.  They make it as interesting as physics really can be.  If you study a lot for exams, they are doable.  Lab is very fun!
For pre-meds, it's a great course.  THere are a lot of applications to the medical world, for instance, how MRI machines work, ways to model an action potential, how the eye works...also for anyone interested in biology who wants an intro physics background.  I will say that if you're interested in a more math explanation of physics, this isn't it.  There are the fair share of math equations, but this class doesn't go into derivation and math principles, it just gives a general (qualitative) explanation of where the equations come from, but usually the intense math stuff is dropped off.
Do all the practice problems. This is not a painful course, but you must keep up with the material to do well on the midterms. Sapling problems are exceedingly helpful and telling you what you still don't have down cold. I probably wouldn't have taken this class if not for a requirement, but it does the job well. Also, you take midterms twice--once by yourself, once with a group. The group score has the power to raise your score a bit. One thing-- lab is useless and will make you want to tear your hair out, but beyond being a minor waste of time, does no actual damage.
if you have to do it for pre-med, it's something to get through. Otherwise, don't take it.
It's getting better.  They haven't quite perfected it, but PS2 and PS3 have been the least terrible of the pre-med requirement classes.
As a person who hated physics in high school, PS3 is very doable. Logan really breaks down the concepts during lecture. If your TF isn't good, go to another TF. You start working more problems in section, and you want to make sure you have a TF that can explain things to you clearly.
Sapling is a pain, but helpful.
This class is interesting and well run. If you take advantage of the course resources and do the work, you will do well.
If you are premed, you pretty much have to take this. The material is not very interesting, but they have the best resources of any premed course I have taken
Do not be afraid of PS3. Logan is an awesome person and a clear, positive professor--get to know him if you can. This class somehow made physics bearable, even enjoyable; I often looked forward to lecture, excited to hear how Logan would apply physics concepts to some interesting biological or chemical situation. Sections were dull, but that appears to be the nature of the subject sometimes; the work load was fair (as were the midterms) and psets were just at the right level. The final exam was exceptionally challenging relative to the rest of the course, however, so just be prepared for that. Overall, however, PS2 and 3 were both positive experiences, and I will not remember physics negatively!
PS3 is definitely not as bad as people expect it to be. Logan and Louis are really trying to help people learn more physics and do well. Go to office hours and make sure you understand all the practice problems and homework questions before the exams.
Great way to get a physics requirement out the way.
Great class, do the work and you will learn some basic physics.
The class is very well taught and engaging, with all of the examples they give of how physics applies to biology and medicine. If you put in the work and do practice problems it's not too difficult.
A great, relatively stress-free introduction to E&M / way to satisfy the pre-med physics requirement. The entire teaching staff really cares about making sure you learn the material and they're all super helpful. They literally could not do anything more to help you learn the material. The grading policy is very fair and it doesn't feel like the staff is trying to screw you over on grades. Be aware though that although the midterms are pretty straightforward, the final is far harder.
This class feels like a survey class in electricity and magnetism. It covers a lot of material in lecture, but doesn't go into depth on any one topic. It is generally interesting, but jumps around a lot and suddenly introduces hard problems without really connecting units or giving the student a strong base. If you're a premed student who prefers not to dive into physics and math, I'd recommend taking it. If you are very strong in physics and math, I think this class might be disappointing.
The course instructors care deeply about the students and finding ways to teach effectively to enhance learning. I did not love the course materials, but I felt that their commitment to the course definitely made it a much better experience.
It's a fairly interesting and not-too-painful way to knock out a premed req and they do a good job of making it relevant to medicine
Great teachers. The final is brutal though
The teaching staff clearly want you to succeed, and give you enough resources to do so if you take advantage of them
Logan is great, and he makes this class relatively painless.  Study for the exams.
This wasn't a fun class to take and not really the best learning experience, but you kinda gotta do what you gotta do when it comes to PS3.
They try really hard, and they deserve credit for that. It's unfortunate that the course was very rushed this semester, but they made the most of it. These topics are pretty challenging at times, so go to section and stay on top of things.
If you have a background in physics and math, then you will be fine in this course. The activity format makes it hard to learn if you do not have some prior knowledge.
If you have to take it, take it. It's not the worst, it's doable, but it's not painless. It's not the worst physics class I've taken.
PS3 is strange. The professors and TFs really seem to care and want everyone to learn, but at the end of the day it's a huge premed class which isn't really conducive to learning. They certainly try hard, but could do better. As far as physics classes go, it's probably the best option for premeds.
Logan is an amazing lecturer and the entire teaching staff, especially Logan, Louis, and Anna, are accessible and very much willing to help.
Thought the material was better taught than PS2 - the HW problems and practice problems were definiely much more helpful. The teaching staff dedicated a lot of time to curate useful Sapling problems and Kristina's notes summarizing the concepts from lecture on the Offline HWs were extremely helpful.
Had some interesting material, not too tough. I appreciated the innovative teaching techniques.
Easy premed requirement
The teaching staff want to make this course as painless for you as possible, and they really want you to learn some decent Physics along the way.
Section is very important - always go if you can. Clear up confusions about concepts immediately (don't wait until before the exam).
PS3 was a great deal better than PS2. The course felt more organized and the applications to biology seemed much more pertinent. As usual, there is a significant time commitment in the form of section, psets, labs, but that is expected of intro science courses. Section is extremely useful- make sure to attend.
Midterms were fine, final was impossible.
Overall, an easy way to take care of your physics pre-med requirement. The course is not hard as long as you go to lecture and take advantage of the resources available to students, such as office hours, help room, and section if you need help. Also the in-class demonstrations are pretty cool.
Working through the problems can actually be kind of fun if you have the right mindset. Go to lecture!
Very straightforward way to cover physics
This course is very easy. If you're looking for more challenge, opt for Physics 15 instead. The practice problems had a decent amount of challenge in them, but the exams were mostly reiterations of the practice problems.
PS3 is of similar difficulty (if not easier) than PS2. Midterm exams were much easier than practice problems. But the final exam was more difficult than both midterm exams. The class is curved very generously, and it's clear that the course staff want as many students as possible to succeed. Logan and Louis are fantastic.
Best pre-med physics course out there.  If you are reading this comment then you don't really have a choice otherwise.  Sucks to suck.  Not much group work except for during exams which helps your grade and not hurt it.  Other physics courses like AP50 focuses on group projects a lot but I heard that class is a easy A but ps3 you actually learn physics.
This class is pretty easy, with the exception of its soul-crushing final exam. Logan and Louis care a lot about the class and are really receptive to students' needs.
This course will be very useful in giving you a basic understanding of waves, magnetism, electricity, and imaging. The applications are very relevant for pre-meds, but others will enjoy it. Definitely the most manageable second-semester physics course at Harvard.
More interesting than PS2.  Substantial workload, so balance accordingly.  Lots of resources, and if you take advantage of them you should be ok.
This course is necessary and so much better than PS2 but make sure you choose you other courses accordingly so you aren't miserable
Nothing special. A good physics intro class.
This course is an excellent example of the fact that premed classes do not need to be painful, anonymous, and deflating. The teaching staff works extremely hard to make sure students succeed, and the material, while definitely complicated, is presented with engaging in topics that are relevant to medicine.
I really like their approach to learning-- very well-rounded.
Given it is mostly taken by pre-meds who have to take physics, it isn't a bad class. Very organized and can be interesting at times. Pretty painless compared to orgo, but not as good as PS2.
PS3 is a great course. The teaching staff really wants you to understand the material and they are always willing to help. I think as long as you are organized the workload is very manageable.
They do a really good job of teaching the material and constantly checking you to make sure you understand it so that you can not tune out and then realize a long time later that you do not understand the material.
This class is a relatively not-painful way to do physics.
This was one of the better pre-med classes I've taken overall. The difficulty wasn't overwhelming and homework was manageable. Labs didn't take too long but were poorly written, confusing, and not always relevant to the material. However, I thought that the material itself was very interesting, except for the topics of the final few modules.
PS3 is a very fun and exciting option if you have a physics requirement. Even if you don't, I highly recommend taking it because it teaches you the basics about circuits and electricity.
PS3 is a great way to fulfill your physics requirement for medical school. It's straightforward, and the way they are now teaching the course makes it easier to remember and integrate course material. Sapling questions in PS3 were helpful for building up toward larger problems. I would recommend taking this over other physics courses if you're pre-med. The demos are cool and the relation to medical technologies and the body are interesting.
PS3 used to have a bad reputation, but it has truly become a great course. You learn a lot and in a  collaborative way. I am not a premed, but I think the premeds forget that they are premeds too, because there is interest in the material, a sense of accomplishment, and no unhealthy competition.
make sure to do tons of practice problems before exams, and sapling is really helpful
Physics is a necessary evil for many pre-meds, but PS3 really is the most painless way to do the requirement. I had only honors physics in high school, but I managed to do very well in the course by re-watching lectures and doing lots of practice problems. The instructors want to see you do well and assignments/exams are very fair. After finishing the course, I feel very confident about the physics portion of the MCAT. Take PS3--don't bother with AP50 (PS12 may be a good option if you care about MatLab).
PS3 should be taken following PS2. It is a challenging course, but the course staff members are determined to help and are dedicated to teaching the material. I felt as though it was great preparation for the physics section of the MCAT. Also, don't be afraid to take the course if you haven't taken a physics class before. There is a steep learning curve, but it's worth it.
PS3 is way better than PS2 for anyone who did not find most of PS2 intuitive!
In terms of having to fulfill a physics requirement, this is a fairly painless way to do so. Logan is a very engaging instructor, labs are annoying but not too difficult (make sure you have a working breadboard before you decide that you're doing something wrong and spend an hour trying to figure it out...), and the exams are difficult but fair. Hopefully the change in Sapling will continue (yay Kristina!) and it will be didactic rather than a waste of time (as it was in PS2)!
Logan is wonderful and the course is very manageable.
If you are pre-med you have to take this class. Although you should seriously look into AP 50 and higher level physics courses. That being said, if you do take this always go to office hours. Go to office hours for problem sets and sapling (especially sapling since it will not give you credit if you round too much or do not enter it in the exact format the answer is it. The online homeworks are not graded based on completion like the offline homework so DO IT). Go to Louis's office hours (especially before exams if you want a hint as to one problem that will be on there). Use all the resources available. Go to sections- they are optional but helpful. And most importantly, pick a good group for the group exams (you take the same midterm twice, once individually and once in a group of 3 or more). This will help your grade!
For fulfilling your pre-med or concentration physics requirement this is an awesome course to take. It's not too difficult and the homework really does prepare you for exams. Also, Logan is an awesome professor (and Louis as well though he didn't teach this semester). They do a great job of convincing you that physics really has real world applications that could come in handy in your future career (particularly if you are pre-med). Overall felt like an extremely painless pre-med requirement.
This is not an impossible class at all but certainly wasn't easy for me. I found the sapling and the written assignments difficult, and some of the concepts tricky but this is probably because I have never taken E and M before. Its a lot more material to cover than PS2. Use the resources given to you like office hours and meeting with the professors. They're awesome! The instructors really do want you to do well.
Good intro physics class. Logan is a great teacher, Louis is also great. TFs are always supportive, and Help Room is helpful too. Exams are fair, PSets are a little abstract...The material is always interesting though. PS3 was a good intro to lenses and MRIs and magnets that I never really understood until now. As always, ask for help when you need it! The teaching staff is always there for you.
generally well taught physics class. chances are you're taking this as a pre-med who's not super interested in physics, but know that the assignments are fair, and they do make an effort to include medical applications of physics concepts.
If you're premed you have to take physics and PS3 is a decently painless way to fulfill the requirement. The class is not hard but the style of teaching can sometimes be frustrating because it often feels like they are teaching a particular type of problem instead of general knowledge that will make you really understand physics. As a result, I feel like I'm able to recognize and solve problems but I still don't have a really intuitive understanding of the concepts
This class tries too hard to make physics seem cool. While the demonstrations might be cool, not enough time is spent understanding why things work. This class tries to get you excited about physics, but doesn't spend too much time teaching you. Any interest that you had is lost due to frustration.
Final exam is an absolute killer but the rest of the course was fine.
Study for the final... or don't, since the professors will just going to make it terribly hard and beyond the scope of the practice questions, and then make up for this by awarding partial credit for every little pencil mark so that it enables them to claim that the average went up thanks to their ultramodern teaching techniques.
This is the best science course I've ever taken as a premed. Logan and Louis are awesome professors and structure the course in such a way that you need to be less worried about your grade (because the grading is more than fair), and more concerned with actually learning/understanding physics.
This course is similar in format to PS2 but engages with in some ways more practical and practicable concepts (electronics and optics)
PS2/PS3 is the easiest way to satisfy premed physics requirements. PS3 is easier than PS2, taught well, and graded very easily.
very fair course! great for premed taking physics. most helpful and understanding staff
They do a pretty good job with this class.
Standard physics course.  I personally find the pedagogy of this course (not traditional lectures, but more focused on students deriving equations/working through problems on their own) to be not very effective, but if you're someone who likes to learn that way then this course is a good fit.  Also, the final exam was at a WAY higher level/tested topics not really explicitly covered in lecture, so be prepared for that.
It is well-run and you can do well if you put in the time and practice a lot
If you do the work and keep practicing, it isn't that bad.
It's the best physics option if you don't want to do 15b for pre-med, and it's not too hard given that you can take note sheets into all exams, but it's kind of tedious at times.
Best basic physics class. Professor is awesome and makes information easy to understand. Request Kristina Callaghan as your section leader. She is the best section leader I have ever had. I didn't have her during the second semester and didn't like the class half as much.
Logan and Louis want to see the students succeed. The tests were fair, though the final was definitely more challenging, and the grading is incredibly generous throughout the course. PS 3 was relatively stress-free.
I was initially wary of the 'flipped classroom' model, but it has turned out to be fantastic -- and I've learned a lot more than otherwise (plus, I remember a lot of it!). The applications to the life sciences (e.g. how MRI works, how a nerve impulse is transmitted) are really interesting. Logan is a great instructor, and funny too.
Make sure that you have a good TF
Great class! Really enjoyed it!
This class has gotten way better from years past. It is not hard to do well, and showing up to lecture and doing the activities definitely helps you learn the material.
It's a pre med class, so it needs no recommending.
Great class. Very well organized!  As long as you go to lecture/section and put in your work, you will do fine and learn a lot.
If you want to take a course where the final tests you on topics you have NEVER seen during the course and has a ton of busywork, and you want to have a miserable time where half the time you're frustrated at how poorly taught the course is and the other half berating the Harvard premed course track in general for its poor quality, go for it. I wish you all the luck in the world. And as always, do as many practice problems as you can--but there weren't that many problems provided by the course itself. Sapling is useful for learning concepts but useless for the questions that come up on the exams. I don't understand the point of having us practice solving problems one way and then testing us on solving problems in a totally different way on exams. Anyway, until Harvard gets its act together and revamps the way premed courses are taught, I doubt any of this will change. good luck!
Great course. Easy, fun, applied.
Logan is a fantastic lecturer and the whole teaching staff is incredibly dedicated. PS3 was much harder than PS2 for me, since I took AP Physics Mechanics but not E&M. That being said, definitely go to the Help Room and office hours whenever you can, and especially before exams, and you'll get a lot of support. I know, pre-meds are all thinking "Why do I need to take a year of physics to be a physician" but Logan made physics interesting and relevant for me at least, and I think it's been really valuable to my education! They clearly try very hard to make it an enjoyable experience, so I think each year it'll get better :)
It's not too difficult a course but it is taught very well. I took Physics 15a last semester and found that the PS series actually teaches you conceptual physics much better, even if the class itself isn't as difficult. I found, as someone interested in physics and with a fairly strong physics background, that the PS series was much more interesting and did a lot more actual teaching, rather than just throwing difficult math problems at you and calling it physics.
This is a great physics class! Really reinforces basic physics principles, giving both intuition and application.
Most likely you are taking this as a requirement, so all I can say is do every single practice problem you can before exams if you're not naturally great at physics. The exam questions combine concepts from multiple lectures, so you need to make sure you actually understand the concepts. Get a tutor if you need!!!!!
I took this as a non-pre-med science concentrator, and I think I would have preferred ES50. That said, PS3 is more effective at presenting physics in a biology context than probably any other class (including PS2). Also, the labs were actually fun and interesting, which isn't exactly what I was expecting. Overall, the class is pretty good, except for the tests, which can be brutal.
It is a very organized course. Assignments are consistent every week and the lectures match the weekly assignment. Great way to fulfill the physics pre-med requirement. Not too difficult, just keep up with lectures and sections!
It's a premed class...don't expect anything amazing but in my opinion was more understandable than ps2. Take advantage of the office hours for psets, very helpful
Whom you get for section matters a lot..
This course is fairly difficult if you don't have a strong mathematic background. Make sure to review.
Logan is a great lecturer, but sapling is a brutal learning tool.
I found this course challenging, but manageable. Make sure to take notes during lecture (the notebooks make this easy) and go to section, it will make the material much easier to digest. The exams are particularly tricky, so make sure you know the material inside and out!
An unpleasant but essential topic I guess. Logan does a great job of making the class as interesting as possible though and his enthusiasm really helps things along. Section (Kristina is the best!) does a good job of tying in the basic lecture concepts to actual problems. The midterms were rough. Do not expect previous midterms to be anything like yours. The final was not nearly as bad.Also, if you have Ted as your section TF, switch out immediately.
PS3 is very similar to PS2. It is not the best taught class, and it is quite difficult. I would not recommend it unless you need to take physics for a premed or department requirement. That being said, they do a good job of making the material more interesting by including some cool applications of physics (e.g. how MRI and microscopes work).
This is an all-around excellent class, and an improvement over PS2 for sure. The concepts themselves are often less intuitive than those of PS2, but the calculations themselves tended to be easier and more straightforward. Even when the lecture material is challenging to grasp, it is always possible to understand by simply going back and reading Logan's lecture notes, which are posted after each lecture. The homework is pretty short (probably 2-5 hours a week depending on your speed) and the questions are very relevant to lecture material. Logan is also a superb lecturer, and I got the impression that the entire TF team was also very good.
If you like hands on things, you might want to try Phyiscs 50 series. The lab sections of ps3 were amazing and I have heard that phy50 may be more like the labs of phys50
This class is very organized and the lectures are actually pretty interesting. More painless than I anticipated! Also, the problem sets are more do-able than the PS2 problem sets.
Keep up with the material and go to lecture.
Take it because you have to
Material = super interesting.  Would love to describe it all qualitatively.  Would not like to calculate any of this stuff again.
Do not take PS2, the labs are horrible and the course in general is bad. PS3 is slightly better with labs but the double homeworks are exhausting and too difficult for the material taught in class. Office hours are only twice a week so keep that in mind for your schedule, it's not accommodating.
Practice makes perfect! Go to office hours, pay attention to and redo the homework and Sapling problems, and review the lecture notes and examples, and you should be set for the exams. If you didn't understand or like orgo, you may like this class better because the material is more concrete and you'll feel the time you put in led to better understanding, unlike with orgo.
This course is pretty disorganized. Don't take it unless you have to for a premed/concentration requirement. It is pretty easy (one advantage), but otherwise there aren't many practice problems, grades were delayed, and I never got a lab back.
This class is like many other standard pre-med requirements. The material is interesting and it would probably be more enjoyable if it weren't for the stress of having to do well in all assignments to do well in the class. The labs are also tedious but as long as you keep up with the material it should be OK.
This is a class you likely have to take. Find some study buddies to work on the problem sets together or go to office hours and it wont be too bad. Logan is usually engaging, but some of the material and problem sets can become tedious.
This is the worst class I have taken in my three years at Harvard. I took it because it seemed like a painless way to deal with the physics requirement for my concentration. However, now I really wish I had picked another option. On the plus side, It is not that difficult. On the other side: the TFs were horrendous and didn't know the course material. The pace of the class was entirely wrong-- it dragged through sections of easy material with endless examples and then glossed over the important information.The labs were unhelpful, confusing and dull, and the lab TFs acted as if they had not read over any of the information before showing up. I have taken almost every classic pre-med requirement, some of which have gotten horrible scores here and this was the worst one.
Definitely doable, less math than 15 series. Pretty interesting topics, covering a broad range of physics with very little depth.
Expectations are made clear and there aren't really any surprises on the tests.  It's not a particularly great class, but its straightforward enough to make it painless as a pre-med requirement.
This course was much more accessible than PS2 (maybe since I finally got the hang of it), but I think this is a shared sentiment since the exam average climbed throughout the year. Professor McCarty is a clear, animated lecturer (though the material can definitely be boring). He is very accessible and invested in his students.
Logan is nice!
Take it if you have to
Honestly if you're taking this because you're pre-med strongly consider taking like physics 12 or 15. They may be a bit harder (in terms of concepts), but I think those courses are a lot more concrete. Not this bs of physics trying to apply to bio but not working and then just making everything harder. I think those courses will have much better support systems because they are smaller and the people in them actually care about physics. Avoid ps2 ps3 if you can.
Reasonable class, less work than orgo or MCB 52/54. I enjoyed it.
The topics in the course are very disjointed, but  overall I liked the course a lot more than PS2. Sapling questions are annoying, but less annoying than they were for PS2. I felt like the exams were always so much harder than anything we'd ever done on homework, which was really annoying.
Nobody is taking this unless they have to...
A solid pre-med class with an outstanding lecturer in Professor McCarty. Although it is a pain in the butt at times, the Sapling portion of the weekly homework is really helpful & helps to nail down basic concepts.
The PS2/3 track is a good pre-med track. Grading is not as harsh as other physics tracks. Sometimes, however, while doing the homework or studying for exams, you'll realize that the class tries to do way too much. We spent probably 1/4 of the time in this class learning how circuits can model neurons or how magnetic fields can be used to image brain regions (MRI). These things are superficial at best. We could have better understood the fundamentals instead of spending time learning those things.
Taking PS2 is very helpful. Also, reach about to TFs and Professor McCarty throughout the semester if you're having trouble with any concepts. They are very helpful and approachable!
This course is a fantastic introduction to basic E and M and if you're pre-med/bio and need to take a course on this material, this is it.  Logan is an amazing professor and the course really helps with the MCAT/general understanding of E and M without being overbearing or irrelevant.
Take this if you have to take it, but try to find another option. It is taught so poorly and is a very frustrating experience overall. Prof McCarty has the rare gift of being able to talk for 90 minutes without conveying any comprehendible information: he tries to make things exciting with demos but this is at the expense of actually explaining things. That being said, most people take this because they have to so if you decide to take it, find a tutor ASAP. They don't tell you this, but you will eventually realize that TFs do not hold office hours outside of the incredible chaotic and unhelpful "Help Room". In sum, this course is very difficult with very little support from the teaching staff.
Review often. Start homework early. Do practice problems.
You might not like PS3, but you will definitely love Logan! Get to know him outside of class if you can! Good luck, premeds!
You have to take it if you're pre-med. 15b is too inaccessible, but PS3 can be pretty annoying in that the exams did not quite translate from the lectures/practice problems. They were quite a stretch for physics newbs like us.
Great option for physics. Would highly recommend actually going to class and section. I feel that I would have done a lot better gradewise if I invested time throughout the semester, instead of cramming the psets/exams the night before
Much harder than PS3, though not sure exactly why. Lectures were less organized overall and thematically made less sense, material (i.e. transistors) that was emphasized is also way off base from MCAT or other relevant applications for most life science concentrators, and we rarely went through helpful examples in class. And if your section TF is bad, you're out of luck.
This class is absolutely wonderful!  Logan is honestly one of the best professors I've had-his lectures are both interesting and engaging (tons of really cool and elaborate demonstrations)  and he's just generally an incredibly nice person.  Exams are not easy but they're fair, and psets are very doable. Lab is also pretty painless and actually really cool sometimes!  If you have a physics requirement (for pre-med or otherwise) I would recommend this class many times over...it actually made me really enjoy physics!!
Go to Logan's office hours, go to help room, do the additional Sapling problems.
If you've taken PS 2, you probably have to take this anyways. I wouldn't recommend it to non-premeds, but as far as physics courses go, you could do far worse. You certainly won't be a battle-worn engineer by the end of it, but you'll have a good intuition for E&M, waves, optics, etc with very little suffering. Logan is fun as ever (he sings!) and lab is pretty enjoyable as well, far better than in PS 2.
N/A question. It's a premed prereq
Great course if you are a premed taking physics, gives you a good foundation with applications in medicine
Chances are you are someone who is pre-med and has to take physics- in that case, PS3 is surprisingly not a painful experience. Overall, Logan is a wonderful lecturer and you do come out of the course having learned quite a lot. For the most part, the concepts are straightforward and can be mastered if you practice. The only problem I have with PS3 and large pre-med courses at Harvard in general is that they unnecessarily force biological applications. However, that is unlikely to change, so if you are unwilling or don't have time to dedicate to taking Physics 15, then PS3 is not a bad option.
better than PS2, still hard but more interesting material that is much more applicable to biology!
You're going to spend more time on this class than you would ever hope to. Be ready to have it be either a huge mental burden on your semester or a hugely time-consuming. (Assuming you're not some physics genius, in which case, why would you ever take PS3?)
Don't fall behind! Electromagnetism isn't as intuitive as mechanics!
-It is best to take PS2 beforehand to know what you are expected to understand and the different abbreviations.-Always start Sapling early, at least by Friday at the Help Room.-The exams are very challenging so really pay attention in lectures from the beginning and ask any question as they come up.
This is going to be unconventional; lab is awesome. Honestly, lab often was essential for me to actually understand the material. Other then that, lectures are clear. Pretty much what you expect from PS3 if you've taken PS2.
Pay attention during lecture, go to section, start the psets early
This course is really one of the best premed classes I have taken at Harvard. It's incredibly well run. Logan knows what student audience (pre-meds) he is teaching and fine tunes his lecture so that he doesn't go into TOO much depth while still connecting it to biology. Logan is also one of the most effective lecturers in science I have met thus far. He has this capacity to simplify things to aid your understanding. Plus, the TFs that staff this course are AMAZING. A particular shout out to DAVID, CRISTINA and KRISTINA for literally being the best TFs I have ever had. I wish more premed classes learnt from PS2/3. As far as doing well in the course is concerned, treat sapling as the basic elements that you need to know to progress onto the written pset. The latter is graded on effort because the problems can be really hard and are reflective of what you'll get in the exam. Prior to the exam redo all the sapling+written HW problems. These will get you in the right frame of mind for the exam. The exams literally take off from the basic concepts so be sure to have them down pat.And don't worry too much about the class in general. It REALLY IS THE BEST PREMED CLASS
Please put in all the work earlier rather than later. Actively meet up with TFs and with Logan to seek help if concepts remain unclear. Attend class, and actually pay attention. Also, try and enjoy the material as much as possible. It's the only way to get through.
Don't need a strong physics background.  Strongly recommend section for synthesizing the material and help room for really understanding the homework.
You really don't have a choice, but this class is the worst. There was no preceptor this year, so that may have added to the struggle, but it was ridiculous how poorly organized it was. Much much much worse than PS2.
It's a great course if you put the effort and time into learning the material!
if you took AP physics in high school, then this is a good review
I enjoyed this course. Despite not having taken PS2 beforehand, it was very manageable without sacrificing learning content.
PS3 is very similar to PS2, but is a bit harder and is more of a hodgepodge of topics. The structure of the course and the teaching staff is largely the same, so you know the deal. My only advice would be to try to stay on top of the lectures/material early in the semester so you don't fall too far behind. Because almost everyone who takes PS3 has taken PS2, they dive right into the material during shopping week, so before you know it you can find yourself behind on the material. You're most likely taking this class because you have to, but overall I think PS3 is well taught and probably the best way to finish up your pre-med physics requirement, if that's what you're doing.
I would recommend this IF you're looking to get through physics without trying too, too hard - no saying its always easy! (its not, EM physics can be quite conceptually challenging!) But you won't learn the underlying reasons/explanations behind physical phenomena, which I wish I had learned because I find that it makes understanding how to solve problems easier. Material is definitely less intuitive that PS2, so expect to spend a bit more time.
This course is hard, but there are very few surprises.
It's not as good as PS2--try and get a good TF and work to do well on the midterms. The final is terrible. Logan is obviously still a great professor but the support staff (disregarding a few) don't help. Lab's fun at times--
Look into AP-50a/b. This is really difficult class if you don't have a physics background. Kids that should probably take Physics 15 are in this class which is annoying for the curve and average test grades.
Easily one of the worst classes I've taken at Harvard. The problem sets are fine, but the exams are so unnecessarily difficult. you will see problems on the exams unlike problems you've never seen before. They will be so tricky and if you don't see the trick or make that one essential assumption, you basically have no hope of solving the problem. Lectures are useless. Don't take this class unless you absolutely have to.
I would not have taken it if I didn't have to. If you're pre-med, nothing you can do. Better than PS2 but good luck. The final was impossible.
Why are you even reading comments? You're probably pre-med, which means you have no choice. If you're not pre-med, what are you doing?
Great for pre-meds; covers topics on the MCAT
As a course that you are probably considering because you have to take it, the question really isn't why should you take it but what should you expect. You should expect much fewer course materials and support than in PS3, such as additional practice problems and reviews. The homeworks are, in my opinion, easier than the ones in PS2, but the problems done in section were often irrelevant. The course material itself was often interesting in its applications, for example, MRI and corrective lenses, but those lectures also ended up adding confusing and irrelevant information to the course material that cropped up later on. The exam averages were higher than in PS2, and I thought the exams were fair, but I did not think they were easy. They still allow cheat sheets during exams, which is the saving grace. Overall, the course is interesting because Logan is teaching it and he's fantastic, and there are some really cool demonstrations during the lectures, but the course needs more materials available for students to practice. If you bought the book (which I did), you will never know how to use it to your advantage, except for blindly flipping through it to try to find practice problems that are relevant. And often on the homeworks it is difficult to figure out where the formulas you are supposed to be using are coming from, and because of the lack of materials available from the course, I often used google. But google had the answers, mostly, so you end up figuring it out in the end. Despite all these complaints, this was one of the more enjoyable pre-med courses I've taken! The labs are actually fun, also.
If you're taking this course, you are likely a pre-med with very few options. The course is challenging but manageable. The exams can be rough, but you do have lots of practice material to help you prepare.
For people who need to finish a year of physics (pre-med or some other track), this is a good option. Similarly to PS2, it is more basic than the other courses, and lectures are very good. It can be frustrating because the support isn't great all the time. Lecture is where everything is taught, and the textbook really isn't relevant for the most part. Sapling problem sets can be annoying when you understand the concept but do not get the numerical solution, and the offline psets were on and off (some were very difficult, and others were more manageable). TFs make a big difference, and section is the time when I really learned most of the material on a deeper level. Lecture introduced the ideas, the demos illustrated concepts, but it was section that reinforced it all.
i would not take this class if it was not absolutely necessary, it is pretty disorganized, some TFs are really great while others just get by by doing the bare minimum, if you get stuck with the latter then your grades will reflect that, lab was okay, not a lot of practice problems available, sapling is annoying, ..overall seems like other physics classes are better...
Well its your physics requirement. Try to enjoy it.
Logan's lectures keep it straightforward. I leave lecture knowing exactly what I'm expecting to know. The lecture handouts are short, which is incredibly helpful for when I had to go back and review. I wasn't wondering what was needed and what wasn't, because the lectures are concise and include important summaries and review at the end.
This class is a requirement, so just buckle down, take advantage of the opportunities, and prepare very thoroughly for tests.
Easiest way to fulfill physics requirementscan be a bit annoying at times, but Logan is passionate and the assignments/exams aren't too bad.
Although this class is challenging, it is truly a worthwhile and interesting class, and I recommend taking it even if you don't necessarily have to. The material makes you think different about the world around you, and the assignments ground this understanding in a way that makes you grow as a student and a scientist. Logan is one of the best professors I have ever had at Harvard - he is able to make the material interesting and exciting, and he brings energy to every single class and meeting. I think that if you work hard, do all of the problems available to you, and go to office hours, you can do a good job in the course and learn so much.
Personally, I liked the material in PS3 a lot more than PS2, but found them to be about the same level of workload/difficulty (which wasn't really too bad). It's really mostly plug and chug, and all pretty straightforward. Logan is FANTASTIC. If you need to take physics but aren't really a physics person, PS2/3 is a great choice!
Stay on top of lecture material from week-to-week and do every practice question there is. You'll be golden and the material will be easier than you think to grasp. Don't listen to everyone else complaining about this course - they probably haven't taken advantage of all the resources.
Take it another college.
i found PS3 more interesting than PS2, because some of the topics covered are more applicable to biology (ie: optics, MRI). the labs were also much more engaging, and involved less troubleshooting with loggerpro. the end of the semester was a little hectic though, as many students spent time studying for the second midterm (which was scheduled very late in the semester) and thus were not as focused on learning the material from the last few lectures that were not tested on this second midterm. since the final exam was weighted towards those last few lectures, the late date of the second midterm made the final harder to study for.
This is a very easy course and even more painless than ps2. It's essentially high school E&M physics plus some MCAT physics. Helpful for the MCAT. Lab is better (less tedious) than ps2. Good lectures. Straightforward class to check off of your requirements.
I mean...if you're taking this class, it's probably because you have to take it. Not the most pleasant experience, but super easy. I actually found the labs, especially the circuit/transistor stuff, really fun (and almost always finished 1.5-2 hours early). Also, Logan is a gem - make sure he sings for you at some point.
Take it if you have to.
A pretty fair physics course. The final is much harder than the midterms so make sure to get your points early in the course.
You have to take this class if you are a premed. Sorry, because it is much worse than PS2. Everyone in the class gets close to full credit on labs, homework and participation for the most part, so don't slack on these areas or you'll be several points below the average and start out with a B. It really comes down to the exams, which are not accurately represented in Practice Exams or Sapling/P-Set questions. Study your butts off.
This class is really a pain to get through. You have to do all of the homework, and go to section if you feel like that it helps you, but really the calculus used is just plain confusing cause it is oversimplified. This class really disappointed me, and I really didn't feel like my love for physics improved after taking it.
Good class, clear expectations and fairly straightforward if you put in the time and effort. Definitely not a walk in the park though!
A great way to fulfill second semester physics, without any tedious, annoying work (coming from someone who took 15a and was not a fan) - Logan is great, the teaching staff is really supportive, and an overall painless and pretty interesting way to learn E&M.
only take this if you have to
Be prepared to work!
It's just pre-med physics. They kind of just barely touch the surface on so many topics that you never feel like you fully understand anything. Logan McCarty is great though despite the lukewarm course.
PS3 is a very well organized and taught class on E&M. Highly recommend it!
It's a good pre-med class, the professors really care about students and the material. They try to make it interesting and accessible. Definitely a good introductory physics class.
I think this is your best option to knock out the physics pre-med requirement (along with PS2) - the classes teach you all the material you'll need to know for the MCAT, applies most everything to medicine, really encourages collaboration (everything is done in groups... from breakout sessions in lecture to group exams to HW assignments), and the teaching staff puts a lot of thought into curating the pedagogy of the class!
You'll probably end up taking it if you're premed. The demos are pretty cool and Greg and Louis are great instructors. Make use of office hours (especially the ones held by Louis and Greg) and review concepts you don't understand early on so that it doesn't snowball by the end of the semester. Overall, it's well taught and I feel like I really learned a lot even if I don't have a huge interest in physics.
This is a clean-cut way to learn E&M. It's harder than kinematics, in my opinion, but still doable. The professors also really care about teaching and ensuring that students learn.
The lecturers are really likable and affective, and the material is so cool!! They give awesome demos.
Great class, most fair class I've taken at Harvard, take it!
Probably a good physics course for a pre-med. If there is any chance that you have any interest in physics outside of pre-med requirements, I would highly suggest a more rigorous physics class, even if it is slightly more work, as I was a little bit underwhelmed with how much I learned, and am not sure if it would get me to a higher level physics course.
This class was actually a lot of fun and the teaching staff is great. Before high school, I thought I liked mechanics better than E&M but that has changed for me because of this course. This is the best way by far to prepare for the MCAT if you want to do that. Go to the help room office hours! They help so much.
Not a great class but you're probably taking it because you have to. Greg is actually a great lecturer but the first half of the class was taught by Louis who cares a lot but isn't amazing at lecturing. Shop around until you find a good TF and stick to their section because that is what will get you through this class.
In comparison to other premed courses, PS3 is fairly easy and low workload. The course material is not super interesting, but if you understand how to solve all of the practice problems before the exams, you will do fine.
The exams will be more difficult than you expect from the rest of the course.
If you have to take it for premed reqs, then you'll probably take this anyways. I didn't take AP 50 but, i would actually recommend this course over AP 50. This class requires a very low time commitment. Psets are graded "on effort," and you can do well on exams if you just study the night before. Labs are very straightforward, and you don't even have to pay attention to lectures. In my experience, taking a day in the beginning of the semester watching all the MCAT physics E/M material should get you through most of this class.
N/a
Both professors were incredible and the TFs were awesome. Lab was great as well; Erik, Connor, and Yvan were very helpful.
it's physics, so it is what it is. i thought it was significantly better than ps2 - the material was way more interesting and applicable to everyday life. make sure to study the sapling and offline homework before the exams! lecture is okay, but section is really helpful for condensing the material - way more effective than ps2 was. it's not impossible - just put in the work, go to office hours, and you'll be set
The course is very well taught and structured. The materials provided are great and the course staff really want to help you learn.
This is the best way to take care of the second semester of the pre-med physics requirement. The course structure follows the course staff's goal of doing everything possible to allow students to best learn the material and succeed in the source. For instance, the teaching staff's help during interactive lecture activities, the structure of the Sapling, office hours and help rooms, and group exams are a few of the many ways that the course staff works to enable the success of all students. It is a course for which you must do work regularly, ideally devoting some time every day. This will be especially important to allow you to succeed on the final exam, which is an effective test of your engagement throughout the entire course.
the best premed course I've taken - the teaching staff wants you to succeed and presents the material so well. beware that the final is hard
The sapling is a time sink. Get buddies to collaborate together on it.
Only take it if you have to. This is a physics class for premeds so it is meant to be easier than regular physics, but it has a ton of competitive premeds in the class. Also, they try to relate a lot of the physics to the human body which does not make sense in some cases.
you have to take it, it was super easy
PS3 is a very manageable E/M physics class, and the support system the course has is excellent. I would definitely advise taking advantage of sections (which provide great recaps/summaries of lectures), office hours, and help room. I actually found the Sapling homework quite helpful, as it reinforced the application of basic concepts (do these before your offline homework!). The material was taught in a very engaging way, and the labs were a lot of fun.
If you need to take physics, this is a pretty painless way to do so! The work was never excessive, the resources necessary for understanding course material was readily available, assessments were fair, and everything overall was really doable!
The teaching staff are incredible and do everything they can to help you succeed! Very fair course and you learn a lot of physics.
This class is very useful for gaining foundational knowledge in physics. It is very broad and besides the unit on MRI, which is more pre-med focused, the topics of the course are widely applicable to future classes you will take. The midterms were very fair and as long as you actually tried on the psets and reviewed the material you could do fine. The final was definitely harder, but again doing the practice problems and taking the time to study will decently prepare you. Sapling isn't as bad as some people claim. It is actually very helpful to start off with easy questions that pick up in difficulty. I would recommend this class for people that aren't coming into college with a strong background in physics. We will learn a good amount and it will prepare you for the MCAT if you are premed.
The class will be difficult at first for people who have not done any electricity and magnetism before. However the teaching staff is really great and are always available for students to reach out and learn more, and they are very open to feedback.
decent physics class, psets and exams are not too bad and the material is broad and useful. heavily tilted toward premeds so keep that in mind
This is a great way to fulfill the premed physics requirement, as well as a life sciences physics concentration requirement. The course staff is great at helping as much as they can, and they certainly tailor the class for the students.
PS3 is a great course. It is designed to help you learn and succeed. The teaching staff is also dedicated to helping you learn.
It's a great course for a pre-med: it really applies the concepts to what doctors will see in their patients' bodies and in medical technology.
No one wants to take PS3 because they want to take PS3. They take it because it's either a pre-med requirement or the easier way to fulfill a year of physics for certain concentrations like chemistry. In hindsight, I wish I took the 15 series. The Canvas quizzes were annoying, and the course was full of obscure medical applications that were not useful to our fundamental understanding of physics. Though lecture attendance was graded (via the Canvas quizzes), lecture was full of complex derivations that were unrelated to this applications-focused course. Because of this, the annotated lecture notes were commonly confusing, and difficult to read. Referring back to the lecture videos is inconvenient and time-consuming. In fact, many of the "derivations" were simplified, and the "bending" of fundamental mathematical rules to drastically simplify problems was disconcerting. The Sapling problem sets were often too long, and Sapling itself is an awful platform for hard science problem sets. The grading of offline problem sets among TFs ranged wildly; for example, my TF was unnecessarily harsh in grading problem sets. The first midterm was unnecessarily difficult. Student beware.
If you need to fulfill a physics requirement, this class is low-workload, enjoyable, and certainly easier than 15b.
It's physics.
PS3 was a pretty straightforward class, though that last unit was a bit iffy. I feel like it's the type of class that varies based on who is teaching it. I found some of Greg Kestin's lectures, especially module, to be confusing. However, the practice problems were a saving grace and the teaching staff was helpful. It shows in the exam averages. Felt it was much more manageable / reasonable than PS2.
If you have to take this to fulfil physics requirement for pre med or concentration, just know that the professors will literally do everything they can to improve the course from year to year and even within the semester. i think its a good way to go, you get a lot of support.
Great class! If you want challenging physics, though, I'd suggest 12 or 15.
This is a challenging class, but very well taught, with many resources to help you succeed! Physics is hard, but PS3 was definitely a much less painful experience for me than PS2. Has a pretty great staff overall, dedicated to helping you do well!
Go to the help rooms and make sure you actually understand the material, in and out.
Very straightforward and well-taught physics class.
Very easy if you've taken physics E&M before, and manageable if you haven't before. You'll find that even if you struggle, the teaching staff is very willing to work with you to make sure you still get an A. Also the grading scale favors homework and favors participation, so even if you find the material somewhat difficult, it should still work out.
It stinks, but you probably have to take it.
PS3 is a fantastic course as a pre-med requirement and as an entry-level E&M physics course.  Louis, Logan and Greg together do a fabulous job of making lectures interactive and with shifting the responsibility of learning on the student.
You should take it if for no other reason than just to understand the topics.  It is a very applicable class and it certinly changes the way you see the world around you.  It is pretty hard, but very manageable, straightforward, and the staff is amazing.
Its physics..exams are a bit tough but overall very fair
The teaching staff were so enthusiastic and really wanted everyone to do their best.
only take this class if you are premed and need the requirement, but i would definitely look into other classes that are not such a frustrating use of time that also fulfill what you need. While the class is hard, its not too difficult to get a good grade with minimal effort.
Pretty chill class with great professors. The only negativity comes from the students who despise the subject. Just focus on the lectures and assignments.
If you struggle with physics, this class is going to be tedious and difficult.
PS3 was very well-taught. All the resources that you could ever need will be offered to you, but it's up to you to take advantage of them. Don't be intimidated by people who may have seen a lot of the material in high school, since it's quite possible to be able to have no background in any of the physics done in PS3 but still do well.
super interesting material, professors go out of their way to help as much as possible
The course is designed to help fulfill pre-med physics as painlessly as possible while still mastering the material. You'll learn a lot but not grow to resent anything about physics in the process. Assignments aren't too overbearing, and the midterms are geared for students to do well. Don't be afraid and go over to AP50 if you have any interest in actually learning physics, especially if you'll be taking the MCAT in the future. This course is set up for everyone to succeed, but because there are p-sets and certain benchmarks you will walk away with enough physics knowledge to get through the rest of your pre-med course load/testing.
if you have to take a physics class to fulfill the premed requirement, then definitely choose the ps2-3 series
Everyone said this would be scarier than PS2.. It's not. It's basically the same format and is easy enough to do well in if you do all the practice problems and ask questions at office hours. There are tons of materials to help you do well (one-minute concept review videos online, posted annotated notes from lecture, lecture video, tons of OH esp before exams, and very helpful TFs)!
This course involves a fascinating look into how physics is more important in everyday life (seeing, hearing, lights, etc.) than one would otherwise think.
I found PS3 much more difficult than PS2 but I've heard it said the other way around. All I can say is make sure you don't get behind in the course, try to attend every lecture, and really put effort into the problem sets (even if they aren't graded for correctness). Your exam grades will thank you later.
A painless way to satisfy your premed requirement. Grade inflation is real but staff is super helpful and really wants to make sure you learn. They are so enthusiastic and accessible outside of class -- they really make an effort to help you out, and care about you!
This class is a good way to fill the physics requirement for pre-med. It is geared toward pre-med students, and it is structured so you really learn the material. However, the lectures aren't always that clear, but the TFs are great.
This is a great course for a physics requirement because the teaching staff very much wants to see the students succeed so they format the class in a way that maximizes the number of students who suceed
For people that need to take this class (for concentration, pre-med, etc), it is great. If you're not required to take it, I wouldn't just because it seems like an unnecessary amount of work. That being said, it is very straightforward and the teaching staff really cares about making the course enjoyable. I would usually spend 3 hrs on sapling and 1 hr on offline hw each week. I felt like the midterms were a very fair assessment of the course material. If you study, you will do well. I would recommend watching the 1 minute videos if you are confused or just going to office hours. Don't stress if you have to take this class!
PS3 is a great, comprehensive (the number of topics we cover is ridiculous) overview of many topics in electricity, magnetism, and more. The professors are fantastic--they really care about making sure you understand the material. The psets and exams were very representative of the material actually covered in lecture as well.
The teaching staff is really supportive, and there are many resources available to canvas
the professors really want you to do well, you should take advantage of office hours and help room
The structure of the class is very similar to that of PS2, so there are not many surprises if you've taken PS2, but I do think that PS3 is more challenging because the course material seems less intuitive and more unfamiliar (most high school physics curricula focus more on mechanics than electricity and magnetism). I would highly recommend going to section and making sure that the theory is clear, because I think the lectures could do a better job of explaining the theory behind the equations and formulas. Doing practice problems are helpful, but if you don't get the theory behind them, it may not be that helpful to only do practice problems.
An interesting, well-applied physics class. Reasonable in terms of workload and geared toward students with interest in applying to medical school. Great teaching, and tons of support resources.
Dont take this class unless you have to
PS3 is more demanding than PS2 even though the class structure is exactly the same. Do not underestimate. The course may have been hard at times but it was rewarding in the end because I feel like a learned a lot about electromagnetism without having any prior knowledge. This is a doable course as long as you put in that work. Jah feel!!! Good luck homies.
At the very least, it is a well-organized class with many resources. Make sure you have a few good friends/peers in the class with whom you can work and study. Try to keep your motivation strong right until the end of the class, even if you find the first set of lectures very confusing! A decent way to fulfill your physics requirement. The lecturers do really care about your success, so try to use the many resources made available to you. Section is not very useful, and is not mandatory, so probably better to allocate at least one hour a week to help room rather than attend section.
You are probably premed and going to take this anyway, but if you really want something to read...I didn't go to class for the last month or so (due to some mental health concerns). I didn't watch the lectures either, but still did the homework (I have no physics background and just looked at the posted notes/ summaries for the last couple psets. That being said, even though I was able to score ~ 95% on the homework without going to class, I got crushed by that final. Moral of the story is to go to class, and if you don't, you should probably at least watch the lectures because 1. you shouldn't be like me and not go to class/ not watch the readily available lectures, 2. they make announcements in lecture like "the final will be in a different room," and 3. the homework is easier than the exams, so maybe lecture had the answers?
Tough class but necessary as a premed. Get help from TFs and profs throughout. Don't wait till the last minute before the final.
Take AP50 if you just want to learn, if you love physics take this class.
PS3 is a great, well-taught course that prepares you well for the MCAT and gives you great physics knowledge. It's very interesting, and the course staff are always caring, available to answer questions, and providing great practice materials to do well on the exam. I loved the activity-based lectures, and it's just like the format of PS2!
Great class during the semester. The teaching staff is amazing. They are very encouraging and want you to do well. Midterms were fair but the final was VERY difficult compared to the level of problem solving that was expected during the semester/on the midterms. Overall though I enjoyed the class.
this class is totally fair. Stay on top of your work each week, reach out for help, and you'll be totally fine. Going to office hours for the offline homework is so helpful.
Take it for Louis. Take it for Greg. Honestly, they are the nicest, most understanding, and encouraging lecturers I've ever had. Most of the kids are pre-meds and have the mindset of "let's just get this out of the way since I'll never use physics again anyways." But these two guys make you want to look beyond the grade, look beyond seeing it as just another pre-med requirement. Yes I struggled and probably didn't do the best in the class. But life is not about finding sunshine after a thunderstorm. It's about learning how to dance in the rain. Love these two guys. Long live King Louis and Greg!
This class is very difficult, and I did not find lectures helpful. I did all of my learning in section, and in the Help Rooms, which the TFs run, that I attended to complete problem sets, and study for exams. If you have to take this course for pre-med- like me- Help Rooms/ TF office hours are a must. Be prepared to work!
Good way to fulfill the pre-med physics requirement!
If you're a premed choosing between AP50 and PS3, take this course! You'll learn material in a way that is actually relevant to the MCAT and to biological systems, which is really useful. The problem sets aren't too bad, and lectures are recorded. The teaching staff is committed to having you succeed and enjoy physics, so definitely take advantage!
I enjoyed this class more than PS2. The subject material is very interesting and relevant to the real world.
only take it if you need it for a pre-med requirement. Its not terrible and the head teaching staff is great, but its very hard, most TFs are bad, and there is a lot of work
Easy physics course with generous grading. Professors are super nice and very helpful. Lectures are slow and boring and not much is covered. Decent course.
This course is the best way for premeds to fulfill the physics requirement. Most of the examples are interesting and medically-related, and I actually enjoyed learning about the physics of vision and MRI. Just beware that it's not a joke course. It takes time even if you are really familiar with the subject just because of the volume of assignments.
There is a lot of work every week, and Sapling can be kind of annoying. But there are a lot of resources available to students. The TF's can be hit or miss, but you can go to other TF's sections. Exams can be different from practice exams. This is a bearable pre-med class.
very doable, even if no physics background. exams are tough though
About as painless as physics gets, probably. Found adjusting to Louis' teaching style a little difficult coming from Logan's in PS2somehow it felt very different to mebut after that things were smooth sailing. The activities can seem pointless at times, but given how easy the rest of the class is I'm not complaining!
This is a fantastic class! The workload is relatively light and you really do learn a great deal. Greg and Louis are both such understanding instructors - the assessments are really fair. There is a great deal of support in the class - from frequent help rooms to office hours.
While the material in this class is harder than in PS2, the level of difficulty is more consistent throughout the course. Greg and Louie are also really great professors and want everyone to succeed. You also learn a lot in this class, so I think it is worth it, even though the material is a bit tricky. But still overall a very reasonable course.
Not the most exciting course but the staff is there to help
The PS2/PS3 sequence were some of the best courses I've taken. So organized and the staff wants to help you in every way. The material isn't all that interesting, but they try to connect it to be relevant to you.
This honestly wasn't as bad as the Q made it seem...
This course has the potential to be great but falls short. Greg is an enthusiastic professor who really cares about the material. Louis is a fun guy, but sadly a bad professor. Whether it was because his kid was on the way is unclear, but he was far too scattered and almost never finished the lectures. Breaking up the material was a pain. This class was a letdown after how strong PS2 was.
Fantastic physics class, take it if you have the chance. It's well-taught, well-organized, and well-executed. There is plenty of material to study for exams, and the teaching staff is very helpful and accessible. If you ask for help, you will find it.
This class is totally reasonable. Lecture may or may not be helpful, but practice problems help you learn material.
Best way to get your Physics requirement done for pre-med! Biology applications are cool.
This class is a painless way to finish the physics pre-med requirement. The teaching staff really make an effort to improve the class at any opportunity. Material was challenging at times, but it was straight forward. Tests and problems sets were fair.
This class teaches you a lot and is also very helpful in preparing you for the MCAT.
This is a straightforward way to satisfy the physics requirement for medical school, albeit not a terribly enjoyable course sequence. The assignments and exams are fair, but often tedious.
This is a mostly painless way to fulfill premed physics. The teachers really care about making it an enjoyable experience
It was easier than I thought it would be
Louis, Greg, Spencer, and the other TFs were all great! They really make an effort to help everyone understand the material and do well. I took this class as a pre-med requirement and wasn't particularly interested in physics before, but ended up appreciating the material and enjoying the course. If you put in the work to stay on top of the material each week, then the course won't be that stressful.
Overall the class gives you a great introduction to the material that it teaches but does not get too bogged down in the deep physics, allowing you to walk away with new intuition on these concepts.
PS3 is more difficult conceptually than PS2 and there are fewer resources available (no Friday review session, no practice exams in section). Be prepared to spend more time understanding the larger concepts because they really aren't intuitive. Problem sets are about the same length (Sapling + online), and there are 2 midterms and one final. Problem-solving strategies aren't really taught in lecture so take advantage of office hours and help room, and do all the practice problems in preparation for the exams!
If you're thinking between this and Physics 15B, you should take 15B no questions asked if David Morin is teaching.  If not, know that this course material-wise is easier than 15B, but don't get complacent by not putting in effort.  A lot of material is covered so be sure to be on top of the material.
It is a pretty painless way to fulfill your pre-med physics requirement. The teaching staff really does try to help you and care about you. Pre-med classes can be a drag, but this is as good as it will get.
It'll teach you intro E & M. Be prepared to study to learn the material. The formula sheets really help out, though.
This is a hard class, but it is better than the other physics options. Better teaching staff, better materials. I guess you have no choice, really
This is a great physics class for biology majors. While still challenging, it is pretty manageable and the teaching staff is excellent.
Make sure you attack the course aggressively in the beginning.  The material ramps up pretty quickly, and if you have uncertainties about the fundamentals of modules 1-3, you're putting yourself in a bad position.  Also, as boring as it may be, make sure to go to section every week to at least have more exposure to the material through a different voice.
It feels a little like a high school class, doesn't go super in-depth into math/formula derivations. If you're looking for deep math-based understanding of physics, may not be the course for you. Otherwise it's not an overly demanding class time wise and lectures are clear and easy to follow
There are a lot of points to keep track of. Logan cares a lot about his students. Lab can be interesting too. Getting the course pack for free was the best part. Overall, the course was a very straightforward, doable physics course.
Its hard, the material is pretty new, you should solve problems weekly and start psets early
As someone who only took this class because it's a requirement for vet school, PS3 was not that bad. Actually, pretty cool, with real-world applications. The p-sets are reasonable, take ~5 hrs. And there is plenty of material to prepare for the tests, which are pretty fair.
Definitely a lot of work, but worthwhile if you haven't taken E&M before.
You learn where and how to apply equation, and where some of the equations derive from. But at this level of physics, there are still too many assumptions.
Logan is amazing! Every time he does demonstrations he gets so excited, and that just brightens up the room.
make sure to stay on top of your work
Necessary pre-med requirement.  Take AP50 instead.
This course is pretty interesting, and it provides a lot of resources that allow you to do very well in the class.
Though it's harder than PS2, it's taught by Logan (who's amazing) and the teaching staff still very much wants you to succeed. The Sapling homework is not as helpful. Definitely
PS3 does a really wonderful job of presenting electricity and magnetism very clearly. The assignments are really helpful and always useful, and not too overwhelming in workload.
If you are taking the MCAT this and PS2 are absolutely great at preparing you for the chem/physics section. The class oftentimes tested things that weren't outright taught in class but they provided plenty of practice material so you were able to get a hang of the difficulty before heading into the exams. The exams can be tricky but they are really fair graders so lots of partial credit is given. TF quality is extremely variable, if you can get Suzanne do it!
If you're premed, this is definitely applicable to the MCAT so you should take it over AP50. that said, its no fun at all. psets arent too bad, but the exams really suck. make sure you have a good cheat sheet! while physics definitely is not my strong suit, this was probably the most painless way i could have learned it. logan is a great lecturer.
This is an engaging and straightforward way to fulfill a physics requirement.  Professor McCarty is very engaging and does fun demos.  It's a straightforward class.
Only take if you must. Or find a way to bypass it. Take AP 50. Save yourself now. Run. Now. Stop reading my comment and close the Q guide. Flee.
This class  and PS2 have definitely been some of my favorite classes at Harvard. The material is hard, but mastering a topic is so fulfilling.
It helps with MCAT but it just really expects a lot out of students that have never taken physics before.  If you want an easy A, hopefully you've taken physics in HS.
Work hard, and do a lot of practice problems to do well. Make sure you understand the material - different than PS2. Mechanics was more intuitive; E&M is less so.
Definitely more difficult than PS2, and feels less cohesive.
Take AP50. This isn't worth the frustration and students in AP 50 seemed to have a pretty easy time. If you're not a physics buff, or if you are, this class just really isn't worth it
This is a solid physics class for the pre-med who's looking for something traditional. It does an excellent job of reducing stress while also covering a lot of material; the lectures and assignments are extremely well organized and there is a strong support system. There's also no harm in taking PS3 before PS2--I did that and was perfectly fine (although you'll probably want some background in high school mechanics).
This is a great class!
Typical physics course to be endured.
If you're taking this class, it's likely because you're continuing physics after PS2 to fulfill pre-med requirements. If it's not a requirement, I would not recommend it. Though I definitely learned a lot, it's not nearly as well taught as PS2, and the concepts are confusing and never really thoroughly explained. It still has the group exam component, which I personally really like and found very helpful. The sapling homework assignments tend to be a lot better as well. But the exams are graded more harshly, and PS2 is definitely the better class in the sequence.
Great teaching from Logan, who is phenomenal; problem sets and exams can be time-consuming and difficult though
On the spectrum of physics classes, this one is pretty straightforward/chill. It's got a bit of an AP physics feel, very doable. Be sure to do as many practice problems as you can, I found those to be more helpful in reviewing than just going through old psets. Before each pset is a review of the material, use that, it's super helpful!
This class was difficult but mostly taught poorly. The teaching staff did not seem very invested in the students' success.
10/10 would recommend AP50
PS 3 is a great way to learn physics if you don't have a strong physics background. I really liked all the connections to medicine and biology. Logan is such a great lecturer. Make sure to start studying for the exams early to identify areas that you're confused about. Sapling questions are also helpful for checking your knowledge throughout the semester. Don't save them for the last minute because they can be tricky, but they're overall more manageable than the ones in PS 2!
If you can take ANYTHING else to fulfill this requirement, I would strongly encourage you to do so. This class is one of the worst classes I've taken in my life. The material is hard, yet the professor parades around the front of the lecture hall describing it like it's the easiest thing in the world, and pretends to be sympathetic, but in reality has entirely forgotten what it's like to be a student. The teaching staff is entirely useless: they often contradict each other, they use different notation than the notation used in lecture, office hours are this elusive mystery, so on and so forth. The problem sets (two per week) are not helpful in the slightest, and the exams will either go fantastically or terribly, depending on if you happened to predict which questions they'd include.If you do not have to take this class, please, don't do it.Take AP50 instead.Take PS12 instead.Take PS15 instead.Switch concentrations instead. (I was very close to switching out of my concentration for this class. I absolutely love my concentration, yet this class was so terrible, I had most of the forms filled out such that I wouldn't have to stay enrolled in PS3.)
Good fundamental concepts learned
This course is not easy, despite what the pre-meds say. It requires work and dedicated attention, especially if you do not have a background with physics.
PS 3 is fine. Logan is supportive but treats everyone like children. The exam problems are not related to practice problems.
PS3 is a great, straightforward class if you need a second semester of physics. The material is pretty interesting, and Logan's lectures are great. The labs are pretty painless, as are the exams and problem sets. It requires a bit of time, but if you focus and pay attention, you should do well and learn something along the way.
The final exam was brutal, but the class was alright. It's set up the same way as PS2, so if you liked the setup of that class, then you'll be okay.
Logan organizes this course very well, and it is easy to have success if you keep up.
From the point of view of someone who doesn't always to well in these sorts of classes, PS3 gives you everything you need to understand the material. You just need to figure out how to use what they give you to learn the best way that works for you.
You have to get physics done; this is the best way to do it. Logan and the staff are committed to making this the best experience it can be. Read up on the answers to One Minute Papers, do practice problems.
If you're pre-med which is probably why you're reading this, this class is just what you need to satisfy your physics requirement.
PS3 is better than PS2 in my opinion.
lab is awesome, exams are horrible, some TFs are not best, Logan is amazing!
Honestly just a great class. If you're taking this, you're most likely interested in satisfying pre-med requirements, and Logan just does a fantastic job keeping in this mind while still managing to motivate and teach us. He's fantastic, material is relatable and applicable. If you're struggling, the resources are definitely there. Try not to think of it begrudgingly because you'll make yourself miserable when it's really a well done course overall.
Good way to get through your physics reqs!
If you are premed you might have a better experience in a different physics class. Sections are not that helpful. The problem sets online and offline are time consuming. Exams often cover topics quite differently from the way they are approached in class and in problem sets. I find physics interesting, but the lectures were not great and the labs were a huge pain to complete.
Make sure to go to lecture!
This course really gives you a good understanding of physics. The work is manageable and Logan is great at explaining the material and does really interesting demonstrations.
this course is great! it's definitely a little difficult but I learned a lot while being minimally stressed about it.
just take AP50 this class isn't worth it
This class is really enjoyable. No matter how difficult the material seems, Logan makes it understandable and fun through demonstrations and careful explanations. Great class for pre-meds - lots of biological/medical applications of the physical principles that the class teaches (learn how an MRI machine works, for example).
Work hard, give it time
Course is the same structure as PS2. Well structured/organized and most of the assignments make sense.
This class is very poor, Logan means well, but he's an ineffective teacher. He's too caught up in trying to find the new "best" way of teaching rather than focusing on the traditional style which has worked for centuries. Really tough to grasp some concepts, lots of he exams questions are unfair. Definitely don't take if you dont have to
PS3 is fine for an Electricity & Magnetism course. E&M is just not that exciting of a subject, so I was sort of lukewarm about the class the whole semester. That being said, it was much, much more manageable for someone with hardly any background in physics than PS12a, which I took last year.
Not terrible. Logan tries to make it a good class. I liked the medical applications - they made it more interesting.
I would take this course over AP50 because you really do learn a lot of physics. The course is not as intimidating once you are taking it and there is a lot of help that comes from both Logan and the teaching staff. I found the psets to be fair and they help consolidate the material you learn in class. As long as you are consistent with practicing the material and making sure you understand lectures, you will be prepared for exams.
Exams actually do try to trick you, more so than they test the material. Homework assignments take a long time to complete. Labs are a joke. But you do learn a lot, and Logan tries to really help you.
It's a pretty standard physics course, although the course staff really does care about the students. I enjoyed the applications to biology and neurobiology.
I took this course with a decent physics background and took Physics 15a. I didn't want to take 15b my senior spring so I decided on PS3 instead. If you're in a similar boat and deciding between AP50b and PS3, definitely pick PS3. PS3 is very liberal, you can get as involved or not involved with the material and the course as possible. Lectures were very well done and the assignments were fair and well written.
Physics was not my strong suit in high school but PS 3 did a really good job of making difficult concepts easy to understand. I really enjoyed learning under Professor McCarty; he is nice, easy-going and very fun! Group learning and demos made the class super engaging, and I will definitely walk away from this class with a firm understanding of physics that is sure to help me in the future (MCATs, etc.)
It's a really good class and Logan is a great teacher. Make sure to stay engaged in lecture because it can be hard to keep up without being engaged.
PS3 is similar to PS2, but more difficult. Make sure to do the practice problems!
This class is a lot of work, but the work really re-inforces the material.
The teaching model in this class is tedious and patronizing. The class itself is well organized and not hard to learn the material in by yourself so you'll get through it if it's a requirement, but the administrative style definitely detracts from the class. Also the exams are a good deal harder than the practice material.
It's a great way to get the physics medical school requirement out of the way. Logan is a gem.
It's very unpleasant experience. If you're a pre-med, just soldier on.
Recommended. Problem sets and lectures are good and the exams are fair.
This class is great for synthesizing ideas and concepts such that they may be applied immediately to the real world. It balances very well case examples with knowledge that one will need for the MCAT. A very strong course! While it takes a chunk of time, so does any PSET class, and at least you're not making stupid models like in AP 51.
if you're looking for a painless way to take physics, take this course. it's really straightforward material, if you just put in a little time and effort it is very easy to do well. they hold your hand the whole way.
Go to lecture!! That is the most helpful part of the class, and while it is very tempting to skip, don't do it.  Falling behind is tough.
First midterm is hard; study for it
Very doable if you put in the time, but far from a 'nothing' class. I thought the material made more sense as a whole and was taught in a more linear and less-fractured way than PS2. I thought it was basically the exact same difficulty and time commitment as PS2.
This course is difficult, more difficult than PS2, but manageable. There are a lot of resources and help available, inside and outside of class. The staff is very accessible and wants to help you do well, and understand physics.
It's a lot more difficult than PS2 and at times seems impossible. It's fine, you have to meet your pre-med requirements anyway.
Straightforward pre-med requisite
This course is structured for learning. Logan really makes it clear how interested he is our learning. This class will make you appreciate how physics impacts your everyday life and how it is applicable to all aspects of learning and living. I would encourage anyone interested in physics and learning to take this class. This class can be extremely valuable and rewarding if you have an interest in the subject and if you want to learn. There is ample opportunity to improve yourself as a student and use the structure of the class effectively, but it does require personal accountability and desire to put in the work and meet them half-way.
