This was a good physics class but it was not easy, do not take it lightly.
This is the best physics option for non-physics majors. The class is small and the teaching staff is great, so the classroom atmosphere is really relaxed. Unlike PS2, you will actually learn some more in-depth, calculus-based analytic physics. The Matlab component takes some getting used to but is an incredibly useful skill for all scientists and engineers.
You want an AP physics background and 21a &b knowledge. the math says you only need 1a/b but the pset's require much more. The psets and labs take forever
This class is Hard and be prepared to struggle on the psets.  At the end though you will come away with a solid conceptual understanding of physics.
This class is definitely a better option that physics 15a. Although it is harder than PS2, this class gives you a deeper understanding of approaching physics problems, as well as gives you a good introduction to MATLAB. Randy is a great teacher and is willing to go the extra mile for his students. Because the class is small, you get to develop good connections with the teaching staff. Definitely make use of Randy's office hours and physics night, as they are the only way you'll finish the pset correctly. Overall, if you're an engineer and you are deciding between this and 15, definitely take this.
The instructors really care about this class and the lab component is very good.
Don't take this class if you're not already comfortable with AP physics. They breeze through problems without explicitly explaining strategies, which hinders those who don't immediately find the strategies intuitive. Additionally, you're split between the physics and the statistics/matlab component which takes up a significant amount of effort and brainpower. Make sure you're already comfortable with AP Physics C material or else you'll be struggling on both fronts.
Same content as physics 15a but more practical, smaller class size, and more numerical less theoretical work.
Strengths: The small class size was very nice; both in lecture and section there was a strong emphasis on participation.  It made it easy to raise your hand and ask questions.  Randy and Prof. Stubbs are fantastic lecturers;  Peter's sections are great.  Doing the psets together on Physics night was a great experience.  I especially admired Randy and Peter's dedication to the course on these late nights. Weaknesses: While the integration with MATLAB was great (definitely better than previous years judging by those Q scores), there still is some superfluous MATLAB and tedium especially in labs.  Grading seemed very subjective both in labs and on psets; points were taken off for very random and small issues, though the Berkeley grading system applied to quiz and exams were good.  Grades were not returned in a timely and organized fashion... many of my grades are still a unknown to me.  Perhaps an online grade book would be helpful.  Labs could be streamlined... they should take the allotted amount of time and be edited such that guidance from a TF is not always necessary.
there's a lot of work and it takes a lot of time but its a good class
Wait until the course has been further established before considering taking it. It seems fine for the first half and then there are several more concepts that you learn and there isn't enough time to go over them in depth and properly understand them.
Randy is great, and so is the rest of the teaching staff. This course I think is much improved over the previous version as 11a. It seems like they're getting closer on the balance with Matlab and analytics. You have a ton of support in this class, which is really nice. Additionally, the small nature of the class was great. This differs from most other intro physics courses, in that it has a relatively large component of Matlab and numerical analysis, which is really applicable outside of the course, and is a great way for you to improve your Matlab coding. I also think you'll learn more in this than AP50, although it may be a bit more challenging.
take this class! the teaching staff is wonderful and very accessible, assignments are moderately challenging, and you will learn physics well if you put in a bit of effort
be prepared to spend a lot of time on psets. final project is very fun. quizzes can take a long time
class is harder than it needs to be.. cool but sometimes lots of work
The first third of the semester is really easy, but then the work picks up around module quiz B, which took an unexpectedly long amount of time. That being said, it's an interesting course and a great alternative to PS2 for pre-meds more interested in Matlab.
PS12a is really not a great class. It gets the job done and you will leave knowing some basic mechanics. Lectures are terribly boring and not worth attending, except that a large portion of your grade is based on participation on quizzes during each lecture. The problem sets and module quizzes (especially these quizzes) could be very difficult, time-consuming, vague, and sometimes poorly written.
Psets are necessarily difficult. Lots of frustration.
This class takes way too much time and provides little returns in terms of physics. I learned more about MATLAB than Physics
This is a good way to fulfill your physics requirement. The course is definitely manageable because you get to collaborate with peers on every single assignment, which is definitely nice because it helps you learn how to work together, explain the concepts to one another, and understand the collaborative environment that you will encounter in the engineering and scientific field. Also the problems are challenging but not impossible, so the course strikes a good balance between being a too difficult physics class (for the physics majors) or too easy/pre-med-like (like what might happen with PS2).
Great class taught by really passionate teachers. It's a great way to learn Matlab.
Only take this class if you really have to.  There is little help for you if you are struggling in this class--office hours are minimal and the TF's didn't really know how to help.  You definitely need a physics or MATLAB/coding background to succeed in this class.  I did learn a bit about coding, but if you're looking to learn a lot about physics, I don't feel like my understanding got a lot deeper.
The physics aspect of this class is not difficult at all.  However the Matlab aspect, especially for first time users, can often be difficult and intimidating.  Spending some extra time in the beginning of the semester learning the program will go a long way.
PS 12a is definitely a tough class, but it has a lot of potential. If you're looking for a class that goes significantly beyond AP level in terms of concepts, I'd recommend looking at Physics 15a. That said, if you're looking for a solid engineering-flavored mechanics class, PS 12a is it. The MATLAB component of the course is really good to learn, and ends up being pretty useful. Do not take this course lightly - it can be a LOT of work, and even with an AP Physics background, you'll need to stay on your toes.
Need to love coding and physics
It's quite tough and the psets are long. It's great to learn matlab.
Learn how to use Matlab.
This course enables you to develop an understanding of physical mechanics in a collaborative manner with minimal unnecessary stress.
The course is useful in more ways than one. It teaches you some cool physics concepts and trains you in quantitative methods.
It's probably a good class for people who already have some physics experience and who are interested in studying engineering. For premeds who don't fit that description, it's probably not the best class to take.
If you want to take physics, but are not a physics major, take this sequence. Labs are chill. Professor Kaxiras is awesome (he once broke a wood block during class) and Nils is amazingly enthusiastic.
This is a great way to fulfill a physics requirement, even if you aren't particularly interested in physics. The course seems is very unorthodox, and I appreciated how I learned not just the underlying physics but also a very useful skill in MATLAB.
It's great that there aren't any finals or midterms; however, the module quizzes are difficult and do require A LOT of time. Module Quiz B nearly took me 40 hours of straight work.
Hard, but worth it
This class is difficult/can be a lot of work, but if you put the time in you will do well.  Make sure you have a good pset group
This class is a great introduction to physics. If you haven't taken physics before it makes it a bit complicated, but it is completely doable. I recommend for the take home style and the excitement of the course staff.
This course is much more challenging than it might seem on the surface with its take home module quizzes and pass/fail labs. Although nothing is taken in an exam situation, the material is hard to compensate for the greater amount of time you have.
This class was deceptively time-consuming, but was well organized with a very good teaching staff and an excellent professor. The take-home exam format was great at reducing stress, but the take-homes were very difficult usually. As far as course content, it was great to learn MATLAB.
Good class for those who have physics backgrounds but don't want to put in extreme amounts of work or intellectual energy in something like Physics 15a. 12a is Physics for Overachieving Pre-meds and Underachieving Scientists, which is actually pretty good. If 12a counts for your concentration, I'd say take it.
This is a really well-constructed class--the teaching staff on the whole does a really good job supporting you and trying to reduce stress. I was scared to take this class because I have basically no physics background, and I am by no stretch of the imagination good at either math or physics, but I still found this class totally doable. It's one of those where if you put in the time, you'll be fine, and if you try harder, you'll get more out of it as well. I had fun learning physics, which I didn't really think was possible before I took PS12a. If you want proof that PS12a is set up to help you *learn* physics, just consider the labs: just show up and do your best and you'll get full marks on the lab. So you're free to try harder and be more inquisitive without fear of failing--and incentivized to do so because it makes physics so much more interesting.
Find good pset / module quiz partners. Go to physics night each week, and office hours as much as possible. Hard class -- harder than they'll try to sell it at the beginning, but doable if you start early and spend lots of time on it. Similar to CS50 in that office hours and working with others are very very important
The structure of this class is great! It's very encouraging of collaboration with fellow peers (the final project you work on in teams was really enjoyable). However, this class is quite difficult and time demanding. Make sure you account for this when picking other classes.
At times I loved and at times I hated this class.  And as someone who took basic mechanics in high school, most of the material was already familiar to me, so I rarely went to lecture.  Physics can be fun and challenging and like solving puzzles.  But sometimes it can be really frustrating, like the module quizzes, which sound easy because they're a take home exam but don't let that fool you.  The teaching staff could be discouraging and patronizing at times.  But I still think this is a great physics option at Harvard and overall am content with my experience.
Overall I'm happy I took this over PS2/PS3-- the people in it, both students and teaching staff, are very cool and relaxed and just interested in what they're doing. It was a good opportunity to learn MATLAB, and it wasn't unduly stressful. If you stay on top of things and give yourself enough time on module quizzes (I can't understate this-- start well in advance. This is not something you can do in a night. Trust me, I tried and it did not end well) then it is probably a very enjoyable course. Lectures felt pretty useless after a while-- the expectation was sort of that you'd learn things yourself beforehand by reading the textbook, but the lectures didn't really seem to elaborate on these things at all and often contradicted what we learned in the textbook. Materials from lectures, in-class mini quizzes, sections, and labs were frustratingly never provided online. Lab was surprisingly the most informative and useful part of the course, I found. Cool opportunity to learn MATLAB but only if you're comfortable mostly teaching yourself both the physics and coding components.
This class is poorly organized and doesn't actually teach that much physics. It's not uninteresting though, and gives a pretty thorough understanding of using MATLAB to solve numerical problems.
This is probably your best bet for physics if you are not a physics major but still want some rigor/calculus in your life.  MATLAB is hella frustrating but it's better then special relativity.
This course is a good alternative for those not comfortable enough with physics to venture into physics 15, but the lack of simple organization made the course much more frustrating than necessary.  The TFs were not given solutions to the problem sets prior to holding office hours, which meant that they were much less helpful than they could've been, and various members of the course staff had different ideas concerning the quality of work they expect from students, which was unnecessarily stressful.  While the content was ultimately manageable, and I appreciated the extra experience with MATLAB that this course provided me with, I found it to be a fairly unenjoyable experience.
The psets and module quizzes are difficult! Don't waste time in starting to work on them early!
Great physics class for fulfilling the physics requirement. It is Matlab heavy so if you have any prior experience that will help a lot. If you have done any matlab before take this class over PS2 because you will find it sure manageable.
It is a great, more manageable alternative to physics 15a.
Make this your centerpiece course of the semester. Although there are no tests, stress levels run high and a LOT of time is necessary for many of the assignments. But faculty generally care about you and your education and lots of class bonding!! Great class.
Easier that physics 15, and not as pre-med-y as PS 2&3, but expect to do A LOT of MATLAB. And with absolutely no instruction on how to do so. If computers are as mysterious to you as a double rainbow (like for me), then you will struggle with this far more than with the physics part. Hard to get help (depends on which TF is there for physics night). Overall, I appreciated this class when I didn't have a final to worry about, but psets were always a struggle, and not always because the physics itself was hard.
take this class to fulfill your physics requirement! the teaching staff is mostly very helpful, assignments are of fair difficulty, labs are very useful, and it was generally fun and painless
I'm not super sure who this course is aimed at: I had a pretty solid high school physics background and didn't really feel as though any of the physics content here was new. But then again, I kept thinking that people without any background would struggle, because especially the first few weeks were a bit of a rush, and many of the concepts weren't taught super well (although the textbook was pretty good, and possibly more useful than many of the lectures.I liked that we got to use MATLAB, which I think was useful. I liked that the psets incorporated MATLAB questions. I liked that we had the whole week for psets (when the were posted on time). However, I thought many of the psets were unreasonable both difficulty-wise and time-wise for one person, and almost always required extensive collaboration. They took far more hours of my week than I really expected, especially when added to three hours of lecture, two hours of lab, and an hour of section. I would recommend getting a good pset buddy early, as well as developing other relationships with peers at office hours and things.As regards MATLAB specifically, I didn't like that MATLAB was basically assumed from bootcamp and not taught in the class, while bootcamp was confusing for many people and not super targeted to what was needed for the course. I did like the few instances in lecture where example code was talked through, and the idea of the final module quiz where we commented out distributed code. Perhaps more of that in the first few weeks, because while I had taken CS50 last term, my friends with no CS background absolutely floundered.I quite liked the labs, they were fairly chill. Section was pretty mediocre. I think the office hours/physics nights were often highly inefficient, in that the instructors present would take each person's question one by one, and would often deal with many many similar questions. I often was frustrated by this, and thought it would be better organised if they addressed each section of the pset one by one and fielded questions/ran walkthroughs on that.I really liked the /idea/ of module quizzes and a final project instead of exam style assessment. I found the module quizzes to be rather hellish, unfortunately, though I thought the final project was structured quite well. I thought that the grading was both kinda slow and not very transparent, especially with regards as to how raw scores might translate into letter/final grades. I thought that most lectures were poorly delivered in that they would often involve lengthy derivations with no context, that were probably at the expense of clear delivery of content so that it could be understood.
This class is ok, but I wouldn't expect it to be a walk in the park because it definitely was a time drain at times.  That being said, if I were to make the decision on whether or not to take this class again, I would take it.
As a pre-med deciding between PS2 & 3, and PS12a & 12b, I am very happy I took 12a and 12b. I got to learn MATLAB, which I was interested in learning anyways, and this course makes physics much more doable with take-home exams, a final project, and lots of group work. I enjoyed PS12a! Whether you are a physics-extraordinaire, or if you're not necessarily a "Physics person," if you have some interest in learning MATLAB, this is the course for you!
It's a pretty easy to way to become familiar with concepts, the class itself is not difficult to get by compared to other pset and science classes.
PS12a, according to various upperclassmen, was a much more immersive and enjoyable experience before Spring '15. The new teaching staff tries to shove the material down your throat without actually caring if you learned or not.If there is one bright spot in this course, it is Nils, the lab teacher. Nils is caring and will guide you through the labs after you try enough times leading to great learning opportunities. Take a different physics 15 until they fix this course.
PS12a is a bit of a mixed bag. The course has noble goals, of integrating numerical and analytical perspectives on introductory physics, but sometimes seems unclear on how to best attain these goals. The MATLAB component of the class can be odd, in that MATLAB plays a huge role in the work one does in the class, and yet it is never formally taught, except in a horrendously boring and far too cursory "Bootcamp" at the beginning of the year, which is a general series for the community. The PS12a lectures then focus a great deal on re-hashing what we have learned from the textbook, rather than addressing coding techniques, which is what most of us need rather than derivations most of which we could learn on our own. This disconnect creates a frustrating situation where one basically learns the MATLAB needed to solve a give problem on a problem set or module quiz by teaching oneself, which can be excruciating. This can be rewarding, in that one figures something out and feels the satisfaction of pulling oneself up by the bootstraps, but then one gets the sad sense of "Why couldn't they just teach this in lecture?" Overall, I'm glad I took the class, and I certainly gained a brute-force understanding of MATLAB coding for which I am very grateful, but the sink-or-swim teaching style was not necessarily appreciated. The professor and preceptor are both really great, but can be hard to learn from, with the former often not explaining things clearly and the latter being at times condescending and difficult to talk with. The labs are great, with the lab director always cheerful and helpful. The group project for the final was in theory a great thing, but the group nature of the work could be excruciating, with members not showing up/contributing very much, and a generally difficult work environment. I personally think I learned a great deal from the group project, in the same sink or swim fashion, but I doubt this works for everybody, and group projects by their very nature are often deeply flawed. All in all, I think I got a great deal out of the class, but the class is not very well-conceived. I'm all for trial by fire, but better teaching quality is probably preferable in the long-run.
First off, PS12a, although not a very difficult class can be frustrating at times. Prof Kaxiras, however is a great professor and his lectures are interesting and engaging. In addition, the head Lab TF, Nils, is an absolute stand up guy - and really makes the class worthwhile. If it weren't for Nils, I don't think I'd be able to get through lab.However, that said, Joon Pahk has been by far the worst TF I have experienced at Harvard. In all honesty, he is so horrible, and manages to deprive any enjoyment I would have derived from the class. He offers little to no guidance on the homeworks/tests and often replies with trollish responses. It seems he gets pleasure out of tormenting the students. Joon Pahk single handedly ruined this class, and possibly any future I may have had in physics.
Course isn't too bad. You'll gain some matlab skills, and all exams are takehome, which is nice, but can be a bit stressful.
Really hard. But beats the other physics options. The collaborative structure of this class is wonderful - you get to know a lot of people, students learn from each other, there's not much of a feeling of competition which is wonderful (so you can actually focus on the learning and not on the whole being better than other people). But it is really hard. So many hours of my life gone. Basically it is a toss up. You can't have everything.
PS 12a is a great alternative to Physics 15a and PS2. I enjoyed the MATLAB component of the course, and the take home quizzes were a huge plus because this allowed for collaboration with peers and learning for each other.
The course is a good way to learn physics. But the heavy reliance on Matlab made it very difficult for me, given that I had no experience with Matlab prior to this course. The excessive emphasis on Matlab detracted from the course for me.
This is a good class to learn physics. However, it is extremely difficult with unreasonable assignments. They expect a level of knowledge, far beyond what they teach you and there are a lot of assignments to do. As well the labs are busy work and not that much fun. But like I said it is a good class to learn physics.
This class is amazing. The entire teaching staff are enjoyable people to be around and they do a great job with helping you learn physics.
A good physics option with a good teaching staff. MATLAB is super useful.
I would recommend this course to students who are planning to study engineering or are serious about physics. Be prepared to learn Matlab and spend up to 35 hours per week on the class when module quizes are assigned.
The exposure to physics and matlab experience I learned from this class will help me for the rest of my career.
Module quizzes are hard and take a lot of time. Just depends on if you prefer that or a stressful exam.
some parts are fairly easy and understandable, but the module quizzes and some problem sets really creep up on you out of nowhere
It starts of deceptively easy, but things pick up later in the semester.  Beware the module quizzes.  It might seem nice to not have in-class tests, but they consume your week.  With all that said, the grading is very generous.
This course was unreasonably difficult. Don't be fooled by the promise of take-home exams. These exams in the second half of the course are incredibly difficult, as are the problem sets.
If you are choosing a Physics course to fulfill you requirement for science or engineering, your options are limited to begin with, and PS12a may be the easiest in terms of material. However, the class itself could be run better. Take home quizzes are a big portion of your grade, and take an inordinate amount of time. Lectures are seldom helpful, and labs have little to do with problem sets or quizzes. Expect to put in a lot of time and effort into this class to get a good grade, but perhaps not soundly learn physics.
You'll learn a lot about physics, but do not underestimate the amount of time you will give to this course. Though there are no midterms or finals, I still spent over 20 hours on the take-home midterms.
This course requires a lot of work. Make sure to get a good hold on MatLab early, it will make the class much easier.
Took this as a concentration requirement. It is an interesting course because it is all pset, take-home test, and project-based. If you didn't know MATLAB before, you're going to learn a hella decent amount of MATLAB. Read the textbook before going to lecture.
Takes a lot of time, but the class is fun and you'll learn a lot.
Overall a good course to take -- the professor is very nice and approachable, Joon is incredibly intelligent but will stare you down, and the TFs depending on who you get. Although the over-focus on MatLAB may be the only part I disliked, the collaborative nature of the course is welcoming.
The course is a bit disorganized and it definitely gets harder suddenly in the 2nd half of the semester. But there's lots of office hours.
This course is not good nor bad. It's a good physics course, you just need to respect it to get a good grade in it. It wasn't that well organized but it was actually fun.
I had a love-hate relationship with PS 12a. I loved this class because it is probably one of the lower-stress intro physics classes you can find at Harvard - no high-stakes exams, not even a final, and all assessments were taken-home and collaborative. This class is one that really encourages you to work together with peers, and through physics night & other physics-related struggles, I definitely came out of this class with new friends. That being said, this class definitely wasn't easy, especially for someone who didn't have coding experience. I didn't anticipate this class to be as MATLAB heavy as it was, and it was definitely VERY MATLAB intensive. I got through this class just fine, but there was definitely a steep MATLAB learning curve at the beginning, which was frustrating when the majority of the students in the class already had coding experience. I also didn't really find lectures in this class very useful. While Prof. Kaxiras is a total sweetheart and will interrupt his own lectures to say "bless you" when you sneeze, I don't think I actually learned that much from his lectures. In general, all members of the teaching staff were very willing to help. Also, Nils (head lab TF) is the friendliest man alive, and everyone loves him.If you're pre-med, I would both recommend & caution against this class: It's a good class, you'll learn MATLAB (which is really useful), and it's easy enough to get a good grade in, but I'm not sure I'm actually learning that much physics and I know I'll have to do a pretty intensive physics review when studying for the MCAT.
The best part of this class are the in class problem solving sessions. Best tip you can do is read the book before you go to class because class will mostly just be problem solving. This is also a great class if you like MATLAB. Note that TFs are strict in grading the module quizzes so start strong.
Physical Sciences 12a is the physics for underachieving scientists, and overachieving pre-meds. But, it's actually pretty great, and teaches you a lot of useful skills on Matlab.
It is more difficult than you think
I don't recommend this course at all. It quickly loses sight of the physics. Homework is tedious, often taking well over 6 hours (unless you get answers from a friend, which is what almost everyone does). The module quizzes easily take over 12 hours (again, unless you get answers from a friend, which I wasn't smart enough to do) and often as much as 15 or 18. Module quizzes are the take-home midterms, and you have a week to finish them. You are allowed to work together and go to office hours, but office hours are often just TFs who aren't allowed to help you much and instead give you lots of teeny tiny hints that don't really get you very far. Your grade will be okay even if you don't do all of the homework or all of the quizzes as long as you explain your thought process, so I wouldn't worry about failing the class or getting a terrible grade, but I just suffered so much frustration that I would never take this class again if I could go back to the beginning of the semester. They also emphasize MATLAB way too much, to the point where some of the homework or module quiz problems are more of computer science problems than physics problems.
This class is great for students who are interested in learning introductory physics with a touch of numerical methods. The MATLAB component of the class is not too difficult, but will teach you some interesting techniques. Since everything is collaborative and take-home, if you put in the time, you can really learn a lot.
Okay, so when you and your crew roll up to PS12a on the first day of class (or maybe just you - I'm not gonna judge), this is what you're gonna do: look to the person sitting to your left. Now look to the person sitting to your right. Ask yourself the following questions: Do I like these people? Do I like them to the point that I'm willing to spend 10+ hours with them every week doing physics? Will my relationship with them survive seeing them (or them seeing me) burst into tears because of a car on a ramp? Because PS12a is, by far, the most time-consuming class I've ever had the misfortune of taking at this school. Seriously, invest in something to protect yourself from getting mugged, because I guarantee you will be walking back to your dorm at 3 in the morning on Friday multiple times while taking this class. Problem sets and module quizzes are designed under the assumption that the class is full of MATLAB wizards and physics savants; the latter is especially amusing, as there are precisely zero physics concentrators taking the class. Frustratingly, it's not even the physics that's that tough; 80% of the assignments take place after all the physics is figured out; all it boils down to is absurd amounts of algebra and finagling MATLAB to get it to spit out the answer you want. Bottom line: if you've ever said to yourself, "Man, self, you are just getting WAY too much sleep," I guess this class will go a long way towards solving that problem. But if you're just looking to get a physics requirement out of the way, the PS2/3 sequence is probably going to be a lot less painful.
PS12a is an amazing course. Be ready to learn how to code in MATLAB, which isn't always easy! Joon is fantastic!
TAKE THIS CLASS! I obviously did not take PS2/3 but this class literally could not get better. I wish every science class at Harvard was like this: everything (EVERYTHING) is take home and collaborative (weekly homework, module quizes in lieu of midterms, and a final project). No final exam, no stress about memorizing formulae! Nils the lab TF is AMAZING and SO enthusiastic about physics. I had no physics background at all and did just fine in the class. Taking CS50 the fall before was definitely helpful because MATLAB is close to C and you will be doing A LOT OF MATLAB! Make sure to take the class with a good group of friends so you can work on homeworks and module quizzes with them!
The collaborative nature of this course makes it a great class to take with friends. The problem sets and module quizzes were reasonable, but the module quizzes were harder. Physics night is a must if it is a module quiz week.
PS12a is a great class. If you're looking for an intro physics class and you do not want to be surrounded by pre-meds (PS2) and you don't want to be spending a ton of time dealing with very theoretical problem sets (Physics 16/15a), take PS12a!! Especially if you're an upperclassman late to the physics game, take this. It's challenging but not incredibly time-intensive, leaving you time to focus on other classes. Also, there are no exams, only module quizzes and a final project. Finally, the teaching staff is pretty awesome. Professor Kaxiras is wonderful and so into physics. Definitely take the time to get to know him. Also, Nils, the head lab TF is amazing and actually makes physics lab quite fun!
A good way to knock out a physics requirement without getting too difficult.
You should really have some physics background before taking this course because it is not easy. Make sure to put the work in at the beginning because it becomes nearly impossible to catch up if you fall behind.
This class was great in that it helped me learn how to use matlab, but other than that, I didn't feel like I learned much. Nils is the nicest/most enthusiastic man on earth, and the lab component of the course was surprisingly the part where I learned the most. Randy is also great at explaining and makes an effort to make you understand material if you reach out to him. Stubbs sometimes led interesting conversations, but often gave frustratingly circuitous lectures and was extremely unhelpful in answering assignment related questions. Overall though, the course was pretty good. Didn't love it, but didn't hate it. Good alternative to Physics 15.
I did not enjoy this class. However, I did learn a lot of useful Matlab. That being said, there are also no exams (all take-home partner quizzes and final project).
It's a great physics alternative but really different from conventional physics courses
The teaching staff is great and extremely enthusiastic.  You also fell like you learn physics to address problems in the real world.
This is an awesome course with a great style of instruction.
If you are choosing between Physics 15a and Physical Sciences 12a, do absolutely should take PS 12a instead!!! This class is difficult but very doable because of the amazing teaching stuff and the help resources. You will learn to use MATLAB, a very useful skill, and you will learn so much through lab and the final project component. There are no exams for this course, which is absolutely wonderful and reduces unnecessary stress.
You don't get that pre-medy vibe in this class.  But ironically, the majority of students in this class--intended to be for engineering sciences concentrators--are studying biological sciences.  It's not as tough as physics 15 and it doesn't require multivariable calc like physics 15, but there are not as many analytical (pencil and paper) questions as there are in physics 15.  There is, however, a lot of Matlab and numerical analysis, which I found very enjoyable especially since computation in this day and age depends on computers and manipulation/visualization of data.
Cool class - arguably better than other physics options. You have no in class midterms, instead there are take home midterms which are really just like a long pset (I thought I would hate it but I loved it). The class does a great job minimizing stress, but it is still a lot of work. Also the teaching staff is GREAT
If you are interested in learning more about how the world works, and if you are willing to put in a fair amount of effort, take this class! PS 12a was definitely my favorite class that I took this semester for a bunch of reasons. First of all, the teaching staff is awesome. Professor Stubbs is a funny and great lecturer, and he is inspiring outside of the classroom. The man has a Wikipedia page, and will casually tell you about how he almost won a Nobel Prize, and then you're shocked that you are talking to such an intelligent dude and he is teaching you physics. Randy is also a really great teacher. At first he can be a little hard on you, or maybe cold toward you, but if you go to him for office hours he warms up to you really quickly. He is a good lecturer and really knows how to teach the information so the students grasp it. Also, this class is super life applicable. In this class not only did I learn a good background in physics, but I also learned how to code in Matlab. If you have no background with coding, fear not, because the staff will walk you through the basics of learning Matlab. And then, after you finish the class, you have a valuable life skill of coding in your bag of tricks. It's a wonderful class, but don't take it lightly. It's a huge time sink and I would spend at least 7-8 hours combined on assignments each week. The assignments are long and difficult, but they aren't tedious, so that's a huge plus when you can walk away from a homework assignment and not feel like you wasted time. Plus, no real exams, just take home midterms and a final project. You can't lose!
Definitely take this class!! The Matlab portion might seem strange at first, but it's a very useful tool. Also, the teaching staff are great.
Interdisciplinary course that integrates physics, engineering, and statistics, which is pretty cool. You become familiar with Matlab, which is definitely useful. Also nice to have a final project instead of a final. Final presentation session was fun!
This was a great intro physics class-much smaller than some of the other ones with lots more individualized attention from the professors, who are great. No final exam, but definitely a fair amount of work with module quizzes throughout the semester.
The aim is to teach basic physics and MATLAB, and expose you to some statistics. You need to either have some exposure to CS or Physics before taking this class. I had never taken physics, but took CS50 and don't know what I would have done without it. The homework consists of a small number of very complex problems, which in my case resulted in a week long headache as I scrambled to figure out what was going on with the physics component. I also did most of my learning from the textbook, as the 9:30 am lectures were often very dry, or just repeating what was in the text.
Know that PS12a is like AP Physics B/C with MATLAB and basic AP Statistics. It certaintly can be challenging, but it's very doable, and if you're already very comfortable with physics, I think 15a is a better option. The MATLAB/statistics part is obviously very practical, but it's also time-consuming and takes away from the actual physics part. The teaching staff is phenomenal though, and if that's your deciding factor, take 12a.
Start Module Quizzes early!!!! And definitely go to office hours if you have any questions! The teaching staff are quite helpful!
Make use of Physics Night and office hours!
Overall, I enjoyed this course for the numerical component, which you would not get in Physics 15a. You learn to use MATLAB, which is a powerful tool for running simulations and understanding physics/statistics concepts. The course staff are all rockstars.
much better than any of the other physics classes if you don't have a physics background. painless.
The exams and problem sets for this class are really great. You will learn a great deal. The only thing is that all throughout I figured out that I learned way more computer science and statistics than physics. I really would have liked just some more simple pencil and paper problems. I felt like the physics concepts were rushed and more time was spent just trying to answer these really elaborate problems and that by the time I figured out the problem I would realize I didn't really learn that much more physics. The lab staff and sections TFs are great. I really, really think that making the class easier and making the questions more straightforward might be better so that people can actually understand, which physics concepts they are learning. Furthermore, the textbook is really, really convoluted. They should offer some kind of condensed notes or something that summarize the key points. Having to read the textbook before class was also really irritating. Maybe they should just have a packet of notes for each module and a list of easy questions to do over the weekend before the lectures.
Great class with a lot of resources and help when needed. The professors and teaching fellows are enthusiastic and willing to go the distance to help you understand the material.
This course is a great way to fulfill the Physics requirement for non-physics concentrators. The teaching staff is very engaging, and care very well about making this the best they could offer. For those interested in CS and research, it provides a painless and very useful introduction to numerical methods of problem solving using Matlab.
This is definitely a better alternative to PS2 for premeds, but it does require a lot of time and effort
This is a pretty good course.  If you have a solid understanding of mechanics from AP Physics, you should excel.  The MATLAB component of the class was the most interesting part.
This is absolutely your best choice for a physics class at Harvard provided that you're not a physics concentrator/genius. The support provided by the class is amazing and there are no assessments under time pressure. Everything is take-home and there isn't even a final, so you can really focus on learning rather than cramming for tests. MATLAB is not easy but they are always willing to help you. Lab is pretty painless and actually kind of cool, though broken code is pretty sad to deal with.
If you need or want to take physics, but you don't want to take Physics 15 or 16, and you want to learn how to code, this is definately a good choice.
This is a fantastic alternative to PS2/3 of physics15. I am a chemistry concentrator (not pre-med) and this class was perfect. It was challenging, but not overly time-consuming like physics15. However, it also was a great physics class, and I really learned a lot without some of the difficulties I've heard people have in PS2/3. All the math that is involved, they go over very explicitly, the problem sets are not bad at all, and the module quiz instead of midterm system takes away a LOT of stress. The final project is also not bad at all, and lab is truly enjoyable and a learning experience (Nils is the coolest). Great class!!
I would like to tell future students how valuable this course is not only in teaching them physics, but in teaching them to be skeptical of unsubstantiated "facts," and to evaluate critically claims made in the world around them.
This is an amazing course. Totally worth it.
great class with great teachers, take it. Be prepared to work though.
I would recommend it over physics 15 if you are not concentrating in math or physics. The lab component makes it more applicable to my field (EPS). It is also good for MATLAB beginners.
This course is a really good introduction to physics and general applied science at Harvard. It is very numerically based, which makes it more interesting and applicable. Not having any exams and only tough problem sets is also a plus, and the final project at the end is a lot of fun.
If you need to take a physics class, take this over 15a. But this class kinda sucks.
Its an ok course, but if you have the time in your schedule, take the 15 track instead.
This is a great way to fulfill your physics requirement that will give you a greater appreciation of scientific research and will make you a more informed consumer of scientific information.
If you've taken AP Physics or have studied mechanics somewhat deeply in any other setting, I highly recommend that you do not take this class UNLESS you need to satisfy some kind of concentration or pre-med requirement. The content of this class was very basic, and the attempt to integrate statistics and programming was a failure. Some of the TFs are not very good at teaching and others are arbitrary and harsh in their grading. In addition, problem sets and practice problems for exams were often riddled with errors.
If you want to take physics, this is a really good course if you want to learn physics in an applied context. The material isn't too theoretical, and this year they did a really nice job of balancing the MATLAB this year than in previous years so it did not feel overburdening. The group portion of the exam is exactly as demoralizing as it sounds, but the TFs help you get the right answers. The exams can be unpredictable, so it is important to practice a lot.
It was very difficult, but you learn a lot.
The coding aspect of this course can be extremely difficult if you are unfamiliar with coding.
This course is not going to be pleasant if you don't already know physics and coding. The stats are manageable but the combination of everything is very tricky, and if you just want to learn physics do not take this course.
Physics 12a is a very well-taught and interesting course! The lectures are taught in an "active learning" style, which means that you complete an interactive handout each class, and TFs walk through the hall to answer questions as you work. I always left lecture with a strong knowledge of which topics I needed to review and which I comfortably understood. The psets are long, but there is a helproom on Fridays from 2-6pm; most students brought their work there and completed it together. I had never coded before taking this class, but there were lots of office hours and other opportunities to ask questions about our code - just know that the coding will take quite a bit of time if you've never done it before! Overall, I'd highly recommend this class - Professor Stubbs and the entire teaching staff are great, and it provides the opportunity to learn physics in a truly fun and exciting environment. I wish all of my STEM lecture courses were taught this way!
This is an excellent course that gets you introduced to many key physics concepts, as well as landmark methods of scientific thinking.  It also gets you doing stats and coding, with no past experience necessary.  The teaching staff are really excellent and continuously went above and beyond expectations.  There are also lots of cool demos in class
If you care about understanding what you're learning, take the physics 15 sequence. This class focuses heavily on teaching matlab and statistics. The actual physics is glossed over. Whenever I asked for explanations, the teaching staff was often condescending and would use large complicated jargon to explain concepts that could be made very clear very easily in simpler and more accessible language if they weren't so obsessed with appearing smarter than the students.
Not organized well. Suzanne is fabulous. Go to her and Tim's OH. Still may be better than 15a depending on your background. Final was super difficult.
Stubbs is not a good lectuere
If you need this class to fulfill a requirement but can take a different physics class, take the other class. If the "quantitative component" of the class is enticing, I can GUARANTEE you that you WILL NOT learn matlab in this course. They take all the exam questions from a different physics book, and those that have access to the book obviously do very well while the others don't. So get that book if you can if you are taking this, but my recommendation is not to take it. In addition, many of the answer keys are so poorly done that it's impossible to study with them. The only saving grace for this class were the preceptors and Nick. He was the greatest TF. The final was also one of the most unfair exams in my time thus far at Harvard. I cannot believe they gave a final that had almost nothing to do with the first and second third of the class, and the exam was not representative of ANYTHING we've every done.
This is a great way to get physics out of the way it is not too difficult you actually learn the material and the teaching staff is incredible.
I took this course for my mechanical engineering requirements. Physics 15 is also an option for engineering, but it's more intensive and I'm not great at physics. I personally didn't like the reverse classroom format of this class. I had taken physics in high school and sometimes after lecture I felt more confused about a topic I had already learned before. The TF's are really great for asking questions and working on psets (Suzanne <3), but we didn't learn enough MATLab of stats for it to be useful. The grading isn't horrible since labs and homework count for more of your grade than other STEM classes. Not the class I would recommend if you want to take a physics class out of love for physics (aka an elective), but preferable to AP50 or Physics 15a for engineering.
The physics components of this course are quite excellent, but everything that Matlab touches gives the course a sour taste. The usage of Matlab in this course feels forced, and rarely yields greater understanding of the material.
PS 12a is a great course to fulfill the physics requirement! The teaching staff is very available and understanding. The class is essentially AP Physics C (with more depth in some areas) with a bit of statistics and Matlab thrown in. The psets, exams, and labs are very reasonable. Overall, I would recommend this course if you are interested in physics and its applications but don't want physics to be your most work-intensive class.
If you already know physics its fine. If you want to learn physics it's horrible.
Quite a good introductory physics course and I'm happy I took this over alternative physics courses. The matlab component was good and particularly interesting if you have some CS experience already. Otherwise, the main part of the course was well taught and the group exams were a nice touch. No complaints really.
Oh PS12a - It's like that Aunt who means really really well but just makes your life a lot harder with her actions. The class is billed as an intro class, and certainly covers intro material, but often that intro material is skipped over to cover something else that's hard to grasp without a firm foundation. Prof. Stubbs is a good lecturer and great person, but I'm not sure how effective the current lecture format is. I would recommend watching the lecture videos online, as a lot of material is often glanced over since he already has worked out the problems. Additionally, there seems to be a large jump between the material/examples done in class and the pset/exam questions. This isn't great and makes psets virtually impossible without going to help room for your Friday night dose of fun. The answer keys to the psets often do not have explanations, or if they do, you'll have more luck asking a friend to explain the concept in greater detail. Labs are ok - learning Matlab is useful but you don't learn any physics skills in lab at all. It's mostly stats which may also be why you don't get a strong intuitive understanding of the physical concepts covered in class. If you do not have a decent physics background, I would do some prep before if you want to take the class. Good luck, we're all counting on you.
Hey, it's mechanics. There are not really many ways to spice it up, but you can try. This course does that with some programming and statistics, which is  nobel effort to make balls rolling down ramps, and standing waves a bit more interesting.  It's a solid intro to material that you will absolutely have to know for any field of science. No, it won't be your favorite course at Harvard, but you'll probably be glad you had it.
Great class and not too difficult, especially if you have taken high school physics. Lab components are annoying and very boring, but you just have to do them and the TFs are generally helpful
This class is fun and manageable. You really get out what you put in.
This is a good physics course that also includes a bunch of statistical analysis through MatLab and I would recommend that you have at least an idea of how code works. The demonstrations of concepts through experiments shown in class is also exciting and something to look forward to.
Learning Matlab is big to companies and research.
The material was interesting and the work was manageable but the class could be somewhat disorganized at times.
If you need to get a physics requirement out of the way, I would take this course. You'll have an easier time than you would in 15a I think.
I went in with a very shaky background in physics, but this class was manageable. I found the help centers immensely helpful but a little stressful on Friday afternoons when everyone is rushing to turn in the psets.
This class is pretty easy on a weekly basis. However, I would strongly encourage going to all lectures so midterm and final season goes well for you.
I would recommend this class if you're interested in the connection between data models/coding/statistics and physics and less on the pure physics itself.
This class is very fast paced. I would highly recommend taking CS50 before you take this class, or having a basic understanding of coding prior to taking the class.
I didn't really like this course. I may be biased because I don't like physics, but this did not help me to like it any more. Sometimes it felt like we were figuring things out on our own, without them having really taught it. Maybe it was briefly touched upon, but not really taught. But if you need a physics course, I guess this is better than PS15.
Really good physics option for people who have had exposure to AP Physics before but are not into the nitty-gritty mathematical proof aspect.  Not sure if I know enough details of physics to get me through more rigorous engineering classes though. Some background in coding logic is helpful because that portion on psets can be tough, but TFs are pretty good on teaching a bit during labs (I took AP CS and CS50 but no prior experience with MATLAB). Exams are all reasonable, based on material learned in class or psets; except final was hard.. Not sure how class is curved, but people all struggle together during office hours on Friday before it's due so there's at least some sense of community.
There is FAR too much going on at one time in this course. I found it incredibly difficult to learn the physics while the labs were focused on coding the physics at a high level, while also having Problem Sets that were large leaps from the lectures and were much more difficult.
This course could have been better. Incorporating physics, statistics, and MATLAB is a great concept, but I felt as though it was poorly executed. The Canvas Site was poorly organized, the lab was not useful at all in reinforcing the course material, help with MATLAB was minimal (without previous background in MATLAB, I doubt that I would have been able to confidently say that I'm competent in basic coding.). The difficulty of examples in lecture, pset problems, and exam problems varied drastically. I recognize that some course staff tried very diligently to make the material as accessible as possible, but some course staff were just horrible in explaining basic concepts. I really liked the group portion of the exam. I feel like this class assumed a lot of things about the students, especially heavy background in physics.
If you are a mechanical engineer or thinking about doing engineering, this is the course for you.
It's extremely analytical and numerical, with the assumption that you already understand all of the physics concepts being discussed. Demos in lecture are super fun but most of the time the lectures are pretty dry.
This course isn't too hard, but you don't really do much rigorous physics.
A great course but very challenging. You will be satisfied with the amount of material you learned during this course.
PS 12a is a great way to see the application of physics, especially for engineers.  This is not a course just for engineers; people of all backgrounds who want to see the application of physics and how coding and statistics can be used to model or understand physical phenomena are likely to enjoy the course.  The teaching staff is always willing to help, and they are always looking to improve the course.  The problem sets are helpful ways to understanding applications of theory read in the textbook as later discussed in lecture.  The material is also interesting.  No coding experience is needed before the course.  Moreover, the labs are helpful to seeing even further application of the theories discussed in lecture.
There is a big focus on stats and matlab.
Put in effort to FIND A GOOD SECTION LEADER! Section can either be amazing or completely useless depending on who you are with. Also, you can do most of the problem sets during the friday help centers, so go even if you aren't yet confused.
If every single one of your friends asks why are you taking this class, definitely reconsider.The grade distribution means giving 100% in all efforts of the class, so tough luck if you want to do well on labs and exams but not show up on time to class for the reading quizzes at the beginning.
Teaching staff really cares, plenty of resources, but don't think it's an "easy class". You will know the physics, a bit more about statistics, and a LOT about Matlab coding (you decide how useful that will be in your life).
The class is very well taught however I would not think of this class as an introduction to physics course. This class is a mixture of statistics, physics and computer science. The teacher is incredible, and cares deeply of you learning how to think critically of science.
Take this course if you plan to major in Engineering. The skills you'll learn in Matlab will come in handy in other classes too.
Fantastic lecturer and very organized.
This is a great physics class!! It is a refreshing alternative to pre-med classes. The teaching staff works very hard to make the learning environment collaborative and to teach you skills that extend beyond the realm of physics. Be aware that this class has a statistics component and a programming component--although I enjoyed the programming component (MATLAB) the most. If you take PS2/3 or Physics 15, you will take a class that is all about physics. If you take PS12, you will take a class that extends beyond.
Reservations: 1) don't take this class if you want to understand physics on a level deeper than you did in high school. 2) if you take this class without any background in programming, you should probably look over some basic MATLAB syntax and understand how to code to some degree. I already knew MATLAB going in, but I heard from students that had little to no experience that it was hell getting to understand the code.
PS12a is a very good course for learning physics concepts along side statistics. I learned a great deal from this class about physics and the accompanying statistics. I also learned a lot of matlab and there is a lot of staff to help you when you need it. Overall a very good physics course. Wouldn't trade this for anything.
I loved the teaching staff and the low pressure atmosphere of the course.
Take this class if you want to have a great understanding of physics.
Awesome course, Stubbs takes time to explain any questions you have at any time in lecture
Be solid on your physics already. Its breezed over and they focus on MATLAB and stats
MATLAB is a huge part of this class - this class has even been described by TF's as a "MATLAB class with a Physics component". If you've never used MATLAB before you can still get an A in this class, but you just need to make sure you to go MATLAB boot camp. And above anything else, GO TO HOMEWORK HELP. That will single-handedly save you in this class.
Read the book! Anna is a great lecturer, and her office hours are also great. Friday help room from 2-6pm is a tremendous help, especially for the Matlab part of the homework, which is pretty hard, if not impossible to complete on your own. Stubbs' lectures are a bit broad so be sure to read the book and complete the practice problems.
If you get a bad final project partner, let the staff know!!! It is waaaayy too  much work on your own. Other than that, great course.
Class is great! You will learn as much as effort as you put in to it! Do the readings!
This class's assignments are mostly busy work, but you feel compelled to spend a great deal of time on them, as well as studying for the exams, because you have to get a 95 or above if you want an A. The redeeming feature of this class is the matlab component. It was helpful to get exposed to using Matlab in structured setting, and the course staff does a good job with this.
This course is the BEST option for fulfilling a physics requirement. It provides you with a very solid understanding of basic mechanics without taking an overwhelming amount of time. The teaching staff is extremely considerate of the students' schedules and needs. That being said, problem sets never take more than 4 hours, and the final project is even completed during scheduled lab time.
The course is really a joy. I took it instead of PS2 for my MCB/pre-med requirement and I'm so happy I did. It was so nice to be surrounded by people who are really enthusiastic about what they were learning instead of just taking it because they felt like they had to, and the smaller, more passionate group of classmates/teaching staff made the class really fun.The Matlab learning curve was steep, but I hadn't had any experience with coding at all and didn't take physics in any form in high school and I followed the class just fine. Just make sure to read the textbook before lecture, otherwise it will be hard to follow.
This class is great!  You get lots of cool demos and most importantly learn physics well.  Professor Stubbs is a great teacher and Anna is wonderful as well!
There is a great support system available if you are willing to seek it out. Overall, it's a really solid class that teaches important and interesting material. DO IT.
Great way to spend time thinking about physics. The course is a fantastic option for anyone who has to fulfill a physics requirement because you spend a lot of time applying physics with a smaller emphasis on handwritten, computational physics and rather incorporate technology through MATLAB to solve problems that are otherwise not easily solved by hand. Professor Stubbs is a true champion of teaching and really wants you to succeed in his course and beyond.
This course provides a less rigorous introduction to physics than Physics 15a, but it instead presents physics in the context of statistics and computer science. Almost every problem set includes statistics and coding components, which contribute to your understanding of the uses of physics in the real world. By the end, the course introduces problems that are too difficult to solve by pencil/paper and require coding, which is representative of real world problems.
Be prepared for lots of Matlab.
Overall it was a good class. The lectures could be a little dull sometimes (especially during the matlab and statistics part of the class). However it was a good basic physics class and gave you a good foundations in matlab
The content is difficult, but the class sets you up for success if you make use of all your resources. The professors are super kind and ready to help you during office hours, section, class time, or on their own time if you set up an appointment. The content is engaging and challenging, but not so overwhelming that you don't feel like you're learning anything. I loved that I was learning physics, but also learning how to apply it to code, problems, and modern day discoveries--not just learning how to grind the formulas out.
Good for bio concentrators not looking to take 15a. Not great. Lectures not super helpful. MATLAB not very useful. More emphasis on basic concepts would be better. Less reliance on self-studying the textbook would be good.
Take the time to learn how to MATLAB if you don't know it already. Get to know the teaching staff - they're all kind and helpful.
A lot of work in and outside of class, but a great teaching staff to help out.
No final, two in class midterms, two take home midterms, one final project. Lots of help provided on psets. Very nice group of professors and TFs.
While it is on the easier side, in terms of physics classes go , it can still be difficult, especially with the MATLAB portion. I did not feel as though the MATLAB was applicable to the things that I will be doing in a more bio oriented field.
This class is not well formatted. By trying to cover stats, coding and physics at once, you never delve deeply into any one subject. I felt that while the lectures tried to teach you MATLAB, it was impossible to learn in such a big setting. The psets were very picky, so you were forced to go to office hours to mine for the answers. Having psets due at midnight on Fridays was not fun.
Lectures were incredibly boring. They were mostly useless and all the time was taken up doing useless demos. I wish it were an option not to go to lecture, but they took attendance with lecture quizzes and "feedback forms" to fill out at the end of every lecture, and "participation" in lecture counted for a significant portion of your grade, so you're forced to attend. The textbook is excellent and you can learn most of everything you need from just reading it, and the rest can be picked up in office hours. If you want intellectual stimulation, just take physics 15a. But if you want an easy class, this is a good one. Lab is cool because Nils, Tim, and Eric is cool.
It is bad
This course is a great science course at Harvard. It encourages student interactions and scientific conversation in a way that I really appreciated.
This course is a lot of work. The lab projects are a serious time commitment later in the course, so having final projects in other classes will be challenging. The take home exams are intensive, so be sure to make use of office hours and work with others. TFs are very willing to help if you email them to meet. Start early because they can take upwards of 20 hours. The in class exams are tough and comprehensive, so make sure to prepare thoroughly for them.
This course, overall, is a rigorous and comprehensive introduction to mechanics for engineers. If you're intending to enter any field that will require programming of some sort, it would be helpful to learn MATLAB.
I wish I had known that the physics component of this was pretty trivial, so instead I could have taken 16 with my background in physics and instead focused mainly on the Matlab prior to entering.
