Great intro to quantum chemistry and thermodynamics. Adam Cohen is a great professor, get to know him if you can!
Very good class if you like chemistry, computation, and a more numerically quantitative approach to scientific problems. Adam is a great teacher and builds up concepts from the fundamentals. An excellent place to get familiar with Matlab if you are not already.
This class teaches you so much. I really enjoyed the final project because you feel like you're doing real science. Also, there is so much help in this class. If you put in the work, it is worth it.
The teaching staff will be extremely helpful in helping you understand concepts you don't understand, but this class is not easy.
The beginning of the course may seem scary since it starts off with quantum mechanics (and you're given a crash course in MATLAB), but it quickly becomes manageable and fun. It was rewarding to look back and see how much I'd learned -- and the final projects were a great way to showcase that!
This is an excellent class. I would definitely take it if you have any interest in science at all. There is a lot of emphasis on cutting-edge stuff which is cool for an intro-course. Plus the matlab stuff, although probably the most difficult part of the course, was extremely valuable and I actually feel pretty comfortable with matlab now.
The class is structured very well and the topics covered are very interesting. There is a lot of support and extra help available for this class.
big time commitment, can be pretty difficult, but interesting subject matter and adam cohen is a good lecturer
Great course for freshmen and sophomores to get exposed to big ideas in thermo and quantum mechanics. Be warned though: this is the hardest intro chem course and requires a significant time commitment, so know what you're signing up for. The course staff are very dedicated and put in a lot of effort throughout the semester, they really want you to learn. Exams can be a bit difficult to prepare for so start early - the book for the thermo portion of the course is useful.
This class is extremely interesting for those with a tertiary interest in what exactly quantum mechanics is. Solid grounding in physics and chem required. Enthusiasm for learning or experience with coding recommended.
Don't take this class as a freshman. Learn, or have time to learn, a little linear algebra. Expect to learn a lot of matlab. Also expect to learn more quantum mechanics than you ever though you would be able to as a non-physics or chemistry concentrator. It's a good class.
Much of the course is math - if you like solving equations etc., very good for you! Helps a lot to have calculus experience, and to also know basic physics. Enjoyed the course a lot on the whole!!!
fantastic course, it's a small intro-level science class, which is a rather rare thing at Harvard. it's tough, but the course staff are patient and willing to help
This course is well worth the relatively large amount of work you need to put into it. The teaching staff is incredible: Professor Cohen is very inspiring and fun, while the TFs and preceptor are all supportive, dedicated, and understanding. The class is a rigorous and thorough introduction to quantum mechanics and thermodynamics, and definitely fueled my interest in these topics. I always looked forward to lecture, as there was always mention of fascinating new topics or interesting demonstrations. The course does move at a pretty fast pace and requires a lot of programming in matlab, which is challenging if you have little previous coding experience.
This class is the hardest of the introductory chemistry courses, mostly because most students have no background in quantum mechanics prior to the class. The learning curve is a bit steep in the beginning because of that, but once you build up an understanding of Schrodinger's equation and some basic models for quantum mechanics, it gets much easier. The material can be challenging, but it is without a doubt interesting. The teaching staff is absolutely phenomenal. Adam is a fascinating person and a great lecturer, and Lu is wonderful beyond words. They are always happy to help students or talk about what they do. This class really cemented my love for physical chemistry. Highly recommend!
The class is incredibly interesting, the psets are not very difficult, but the exams are more difficult than expected. The matlab portion of the pset and of the labs is also challenging so give yourself enough time, start to work on your final project EARLY, the staff is great so do not hesitate to reach out
Such a fun course!  The lectures are amazing, the labs are fun, the problem sets and exams a constant challenge (in a good way)!
Great class - kudos to Professor Cohen
This class is very difficult but the teaching staff and material are absolutely great. If you are interested in this subject matter, the teaching staff does a great job applying what we learn in class to a lot of different applications. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND taking this course (even if you are a bio/life sciences concentrator) because it is a great way to learn some foundational physical sciences. Overall, positives: subject material, teaching staff***, applications. Negatives; difficulty.
I loved PS10 and I would definitely recommend it if Adam and Lu are teaching next year. Although the class is very hard and moves very fast (whirlwind survey of quantum mechanics and thermodynamics!), there is so much support that it is not difficult to keep up provided you are willing to work hard.
The final project is also an amazing experience.
If you are looking forward to a good introduction for college Quantum Mechanics and Statistical Mechanics, this is a very great class. Adam is an amazing lecturer and we learn a lot of concepts; at the end of the year, he will remind you of the topics you learned and you will be pleasantly surprised. The TFs are very helpful and they will literally help you with EVERYTHING so if you have questions, feel free to ask them and they will gladly help you out. The tests may be a bit rough, but I've gotten so much out of this course. If you need an interesting general chemistry (and somewhat challenging for those who are less math/physics inclined), then this class is for you. Do not be intimidated though; some background in chemistry and physics with single variable calculus is all you need! Also, we make ice cream with liquid nitrogen at the end of the year, along with the luncheon for final project; how great is that?
It is very worthwhile and very challenging. I definitely recommend it to anyone who is genuinely interested in the material and willing to work hard to comprehend it.
The teaching staff for this class is absolutely fantastic - they are all so helpful, personable, and open. There is a strong community relationship in the class, especially between freshmen. The class is challenging - very, very challenging. It was at times a rough adjustment from high school, but I learned so much and am so thankful for the relationships I made through the course.
This class is a bast if you are really interesting in engaging in depth with quantum mechanics and the workings that govern the minuscule as well as large. This class though is not a walk and the park and with require lots of preparation within fields that are likely to be hard to grasp since the object of study is too small to ever see. The class though is a lot of fun with many in-class displays of science.
This is a very time-consuming course, but can be rewarding if you are willing to put the effort into it. The material is very challenging, and be prepared for a lot more math than what you would expect from a chemistry class. Deriving formulas and theories is often frustrating and slow, but the application at the end is usually interesting. Don't let yourself fall behind in the material. Definitely seek out Lu's help if you take this course! She is a life saver.
If you don't mind working hard and putting in a lot of time, then this class is really rewarding.  You learn SO much and it exposes you to a lot of different aspects of chemistry.  This was my hardest class, but my favorite class.
This is a great class! All the teaching staff are extremely supportive and helpful. It's not an easy one though, and if you put a lot in, you will get a lot out. I thoroughly enjoyed it, and would recommend.
This course has the best, most understanding, most helpful teaching staff of any class I've taken. The professor, preceptor, and TFs are so accessible, and it's clear they want to help you succeed. PS10 is more difficult than other typical pre-med courses, but it's worth it to know that you're not wasting your time and that you're learning something new that is worthwhile, especially if you're considering concentrating in any chemistry-related field. This is also the most fair and reasonable course I've taken. There are no problem sets or labs the weeks of exams, and the staff holds plenty of extra office hours the weekends before exams so that you have lots of opportunities to ask questions and review. For the final project, you are assigned to an adviser (a member of the staff) that is dedicated to your success, and you are also welcome to ask other members of the staff for guidance. In general, this is an amazing class that I guarantee you will not regret taking. It might seem difficult in your first week, depending on your background, but stick with it at least through the first test and watch yourself grow as a student among some of the nicest, most helpful faculty Harvard has to offer.
This class requires a lot of work and is much different that high school chemistry.
Loved learning all the foundations of the formulas and concepts I learned high school AP chemistry. The biggest strength of PS10 was its teaching staff--Adam is great, and Lu and Amymarie are fantastic resources. They really care about you and help you prepare for exams!
If you have an interest in science but don't know how it relates to the rest of the scientific disciplines, take this course. I am a physics major, and so many of the things I learned up until this class seemed to be of little relevance to the real world because the situations were so specific and contrived
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard so farI really have nothing but high praises for the teaching staff and the material. To begin, the material covered in this class strikes a fantastic balance between mathematical thinking and conceptual discussions. My mind was blown several times throughout the course as we discussed quantum mechanics and thermodynamics, and honestly the way I view chemistry (from atoms to reactions) is forever altered in the most pleasant way. And this evaluation would not be complete without mentioning the ridiculously fantastic teaching staff. Professor Cohen is THE BESThis office hours were the highlight of the semester, I mean you get to ask all these weird questions about quantum mechanics that you've always wondered about and he will explain things to you clearly and satisfactorily, it's the best thing ever. Not to mention the remarkable Lu Wang and Amymarie, who are extremely approachable and devoted to the class. (How many TFs answer your questions sent late at night within 10 minutes?) 

In summary, take this course. It's sufficiently challenging but certainly doable, and just worth it.
A very useful introduction to quantum mechanics and statistical thermodynamics that is well-suited for advanced freshmen or other underclassmen. I would recommend this as a lead in to the new Python-based Chem 160 under Aspuru-Guzik if you have time. For upperclassman CPB concentrators, this could be a viable Chem 160 alternative (I chose this to avoid being in what would have effectively been 160s first year), but it does require a familiarity with differential equations and calculus that might be quite rusty by junior / senior year, especially if you havent taken any math since freshman year.
This course, although quite challenging, is very rewarding in the end. Especially, at the symposium for final projects, as you truly realized how much you have learned over the span of the course.
I loved the course overall, and Adam is very good at explaining things.  The only bad part was the final project: it was stressful and difficult.
A pretty painless way to get a physical chemistry requirement out of the way. Overall, we learned some pretty interesting concepts and it wasn't too much work (compare to other science classes...)
This course is wonderful! Every teaching staff so enthusiastic, and they truly want to help you every step of the way. I have to say that it is a very difficult chemistry course because nobody has seen any of the material from a high school background (mostly quantum mechanics). The tests are extremely hard as well. However, the satisfaction you get once you mastered the material is priceless.
If you are looking for an easy class, this is not the class for you. If you are, however, looking for a class that questions how you view science and the quantum mechanical properties that make everything possible, this is the perfect class for you! Get ready to work hard and spend time at office hours, but get ready for a rewarding experience that I proudly call my favorite class this semester.
The class is very difficult and a lot of work, but it is definitely worth it. You can always get help, and all members of the teaching staff are super accessible.
The material for this class is fascinating and not exceedingly difficult.  Study for midterms and you will do well.
Take this class. It's tricky but so interesting and so so worth it.
This class is great. Definitely in my top 5 for learned the most and enjoyed the most. The psets are brutal, but as long as you get through them you'll do really well on them. The exams are challenging but fair, and the grading on them is probably easier than I would have been. The final project is great because the amount of work you put into it translates pretty directly into success on it.
Be prepared to put in a lot of time into it.
Be prepared for a lot of math!
I highly recommend this class to anyone who is interested in chemistry and physics. Instead of teaching you hard facts about quantum mechanics and thermodynamics, it will show you where those laws come from and help you gain a better understanding of many chemical and physical phenomena. Logan is a fantastic lecturer, who will make your class experience even more enjoyable.
Hard but rewarding
This is such an amazing course. If you are thinking about taking it and are interested in the course material, then just do it. The faculty are phenomenal and the material is so interesting. Just take the course, you will be glad you did.
The teaching staff is fantastic. It is complete waste to take this class and not interact with the staff, even if you understand the material the first time around. Ask and ask again if you don't understand. They will spend hours upon hours of their time to help you to the best of their abilities.
This class was the most difficult class I've taken in my life, and yet I made it throughit may not be just as difficult for you, but I can guarantee that you'll be challenged! The concepts covered are very interesting and answer the "why" of many topics we've learned in previous chem classes. You will learn how to use matlab, or if you already know how to use it, you'll surely become more proficient. Definitely an advanced course, and a strong chem foundation is ideal.Words of advice to do well:start (or look at) the weekly pset before the weekend (they're given out every wednesday), go to every lecture and try to focus on the material and concepts asking questions when necessary (this means getting sleep the night before which I wish I would have done, actually I wish I would have done all of these things...), know how to use matlab before the semester starts, review the concepts taught before the semester, compare problem set answers with classmates. If you do these things you'll surely do very well in my opinion.The teachers (Logan, Lu, and David) were INCREDIBLY helpful, and nice, and encouraging, etc etc, they were great! The first class in which I've struggled with the material yet loved the faculty hah.
This course is an excellent introduction to quantum mechanics and statistical thermodynamics for someone who doesn't have the math or chemistry background for a Chem 160 or 161. It's a great option for freshmen who want to get a head start in chemistry, upperclassmen who don't want to take one of the more advanced quantum classes, and premeds who want a gen chem requirement that's more challenging than PS 1. The class is organized and well taught, all the members of the course staff are very invested and helpful (Logan is great), and the assignments and exams are challenging but manageable if you work hard. Not to mention, the material is very interesting! It's great to get an understanding of some of the more fundamental, mathematical underpinnings of chemical principles. I would definitely recommend this class.
The course material is fascinating and lectures are engaging and clear. The class kept itself (relatively) accessible but did not shy away from difficult concepts. The introduction to MATLAB it provides is well-paced and teaches a useful skill. You have to like chemistry to enjoy the class, but if you do it is immensely rewarding.
This class was downright amazing! Anyone with an interest in chemistry should take this course. It is definitely worth the time. If you have an interest in where the formulas and ideas you learn from chemistry come from, this is the course to do it. Furthermore, it is one of the only opportunities to learn some Quantum Mechanics as a freshman, and the material is sufficiently challenging, and not completely watered down. It is a great class to take if you have taken chemistry in high school, want to avoid LS1a, and gearing up for the Chem 20/30 sequence in the Spring/Fall. TAKE THIS CLASS!
It is an excellent way to get to know the quantum world. Logan is excellent! Exams are hard though, so practice exams are very useful.
This class is hands down the best chemistry class I have ever taken. Logan's lectures are genius. He takes difficult subject material and presents it in a way that is understandable and able to learned easily. He takes complicated mathematics and makes it, again, easy to understand. This class is the epitome of what an into chemistry class should be. In the beginning it is difficult; however, that passes and evolves into only enthusiasm about attending class. Logan and the staff make you want to learn chemistry at the atomic level. This class has everything that most intro books skip over, it provides the most keen understanding of chemistry one could hope for. Please take this class.
PS10 was great. The teaching staff was very helpful through lectures, labs, sections, and office hours. The course material was quite difficult, but the class was able to explain some abstract concepts in a manner appropriate for an introductory undergraduate level. Problem sets were very difficult, but the TFs were able to strike the right balance in office hours between leading you in the right direction but not giving you the answers. Some chemistry, math, and programming background would be very helpful.
This is the perfect course if you took higher level gen chem and physics in high school, so you learned all those formulae and concepts, but you still ask questions like: how are energy, entropy, and enthalpy connected to quantum mechanics?  This course will give an answer to that question in a really satisfying way without being extraordinarily difficult.
This is a very good class, but it is difficult and will require a lot from you if you want to do well.  In general, don't take it along with other really hard or time consuming classes. Don't be afraid to take it just because you think it's too difficult to do well in, because I guarantee if you put in the work, you will get a lot of out this class.  The teaching staff is amazing, too.
If you are interested in how chemistry really works, this is the class to take. Physical Science 10 will enlighten you about almost everything that high school chemistry left unresolved or obscured. The excellent material matched with an awesome teaching staff makes this class the best class I have ever taken. Taking this as a freshman was daunting. I saw the upperclassmen and worried if I didn't belong. As it turns out, we all became one friendly family, helping each other with problem sets and with studying. Some of my best friends as I entered college were met through this class. The workload is intense. The problem sets and exams are difficult and time-consuming. Be prepared to set aside a good chunk of time for this class. But. It will be worth it. You will learn an incredible amount of information about a variety of interesting and applicable concepts. TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!
This class is extremely challenging but also rewarding. I would recommend taking this class only under the knowledge that it is a demanding course. A strong background in chemistry and mathematics is a must, and knowledge of computer programming and physics is critical as well. Computer programming knowledge is not necessarily required as long as one is willing to get help and learn quickly. Time and dedication to this course is a necessity. However, the content is very engaging and provides a fantastic in-depth look into chemistry. It is really interesting and a great course to take if it piques your interest. Also, the teaching staff is phenomenal about helping the students.
It's really fought, a true challenge, but if you're down, you'll feel a hell of a smarter for it.
This is a wonderful course, but I do feel that it can be much more interesting than it currently is. We are only given a cursory glance at the basics of quantum mechanics; however, the thermodynamics part of the course is very explicitly detailed in a way I couldn't have imagined in high school.
Very well-organized and interesting class. You'll definitely learn about a subject matter you may not normally come across otherwise. Professor Logan is an engaging, knowledgeable professor, and generates a lot of excitement for the subject. That said, make sure you plan time for this class -- since a lot of the material is completely new for most students (unless you've taken quantum chemistry before), it can require a little more effort. However, if you plan accordingly, you'll love and learn a lot from this class.
If you like chemistry and physics, absolutely take this class. Logan and the teaching staff are incredible, and during the semester you will learn all of the "why" behind chemistry. It's difficult, but if you put the time in it is absolutely worth it.
This class is well organized and introduces you a ton of legit topics (not watered down) in the short span of one semester. Great introductory class.
PS10 was my hardest but most fulfilling class.  Logan and Lu are AMAZING and very patience, as was David (the TF).  Also, because of the size of the class, it was not so intimidating or awful going to office hours for help.  Even though now I know I don't want to go into physical chemistry, this was a really great (if difficult) course. There are three midterms which are hard, but then the final project is a brilliant place to explore what peaked your interest in the course.A few tips....- GO TO SECTION!!!!- Take notes (don't just download the annotated ones)- Compile the annotated PDFs into one big PDF (because then the type is searchable, which helps when problem sets cover 3-4 lectures)- Go to office hours and get to know Logan and Lu, they really are fantastic.
It's hard. But Logan and Lu are wonderful. This class will make you smarter.
Be prepared to be challenged. This class was without a doubt my hardest class this semester and also my most interesting class. They expect a lot out of students- but not too much. They consistently pushed me to my limit, but I feel like I have learned so much as a result.
This class is terrific for anyone who's interested in chemistry or physics. I feel that I have a very strong background now for any classes in the field that I wish to take in the future. The teaching staff is also very invested in the class and approachable.
This is a great class for anyone planning on majoring in chemistry or a related area. It's a good introduction to chemistry at a very fundamental, quantitative level.
It is hard and you may feel like the world of PS10 is crashing around you.  Have no fear though. It all comes together.  Just keep asking for examples and stayed focused.
If you are looking for an introductory level chemistry class, take this. Usually the class is pretty small and the teaching staff is helpful and supportive. The material is difficult, but you will come out of the semester with a grasp of quantum mechanics, thermodynamics, and coding in Matlaball extremely interesting and useful.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! It is so incredible. You learn so much and everything is so well taught. Adam and Logan are two of the BEST (if not THE best) teachers I have ever had. They are so knowledgable and know how to explain even the most complex problems in a way that you can understand it. Section was the best I have ever had!!! It is difficult and will require a lot of time, but it was easily the most rewarding class I have taken
a GREAT way to see what upper level chemistry/physics is like before you get there. the teaching staff (adam, logan, jacob) is PHENOMENAL.
This course is a MUST for anyone with a decent high school chemistry and physics background and an intent to study science. It forms a foundation for understanding physical and chemical phenomena which is lacking in any other accessible Harvard course. Although the material is quite challenging, the teaching staff are incredibly accessible and are eager to help you succeed. This class is well on its way to becoming the CS50 of physical sciences, so take it while you're still guaranteed to get Jacob as your TF!
Take this class. As a junior who had already taken two semesters each of orgo, physics, and biology (MCB 52/54), I still learned a ton.
Challenging class, but 100% worth it.
This course did a great job of explaining everything that your high school gen chem teacher either glossed over or refused to discuss. It is a taxing class, but totally worth it! Make sure you have a good foundation in math, physics, and, of course, chemistry. Exams are somewhat difficult, but you shouldn't worry about grading in the course.
This course is phenomenal! Both Adam and Logan are absolutely brilliant professors and Jacob is just as excellent as a TF. Dont let the generic title of the course fool you though, this is a really challenging course, and I believe that it is the only course available to freshman to start learning quantum mechanics. I would 100% recommend this course if you are interested in chemistry, quantum mechanics, or thermodynamics so long as you were are willing to put the effort in. The problem sets pretty much consumed my entire Sunday every week during the semester, but I promise you it will pay off once you get beyond the initial struggle on the Matlab assignments  the first few psets leading up to the first test are definitely the longest, but they get easier. Go to office hours for help on at least the first few psets. Also there is no final exam and the final project is really fascinating and fun. That being said, if you are just looking to fulfill a gen-ed or pre-med requirement, find a different course.
Dont take this class as an alternative to LS1a. It is far more challenging, but is also very rewarding when you get through problem sets and matlab questions. Be ready to work hard and to attempt to wrap your brain around difficult concepts.
This class is challenging in that it is a chemistry course that uses a lot of math. But you get to learn a lot about quantum mechanics and thermodynamics, and you definitely come out with a better understanding of chemistry
This is a very difficult class, but one that you will likely love if you are excited about the intersection of quantum mechanics and chemistry, and if you have a strong background in chemistry, physics, and math (and possibly a basic understanding of programming). It is very cool how the course builds up from the basic idea of a particle wave in a "one-dimensional box" to the structure of electron clouds, the formation of molecules, and eventually into thermodynamics and the nature of chemical reactions. This gives you a remarkable (though, of course, introductory) understanding of this topic, from top to bottom.
Both of the professors are incredible.  The lectures were engaging, entertaining, and informative.  It was a challenging course, but in all the right ways.  The final projects really allowed you to interact with the course material and explore how your particular passions relate to the subject matter.  If you're interested in both chem and physics and can't decide, take this course.  You get enough of both to be satisfied, and just enough to make you curious for more (especially quantum mechanics, which Adam Cohen made very accessible to the layman).
If you want to get involved in either physics or chemistry, this class is a wonderful entry into both fields.  It is difficult in material, but also very interesting.  If chemistry and physics are your thing, you will enjoy this class.
Be ready to work hard.
It's excellent and worth it. Profs. Cohen and McCarty really inspire enthusiasm for the material. The time the course demands outside of class is reasonable, and you learn so much! Perfect pairing for Math 23a.
This class was very interesting. It is uncommon for an introductory class with many freshman to incorporate both quantum mechanics and statistical mechanics. Both Adam and Logan are brilliant and gave interesting lectures, often with demonstrations. Problem sets were intense and definitely could not be started just the night before. The most intense part was the matlab component which was often the last question. This would often take as much time as the other questions on the problem set combined. However, it was extremely rewarding when the problem was eventually solved, and I feel like I learned a lot from these questions (perhaps the most useful thing that I took away from the class). The learning curve for matlab was very, very steep. We were thrown into it with pretty much no experience and forced to figure out things for ourselves. Tests were also difficult, not necessarily because the material was impossible, but because there were no sample test questions to practice from beforehand. This became a problem because it was really hard to know what kind of questions to study, making the exams much more difficult than they really should have been. Overall, an interesting class, but be careful before you take it.
I would tell them that they have to be prepared to be challenged and very difficultly challenged.  They need to make sure that they know what they are getting into when taking the course, and to not be afraid to say no if it is too difficult for them.  They need to make sure that they are ready to take on a challenge that will reward them in learning a lot about themselves and chemistry.
If you enjoy chemistry and physics, or (on the other hand) you want to understand how people could possibly enjoy chemistry, take this class! It requires a fair amount of work but it ties together wonderfully ideas in math, physics, and chemistry while drawing on contemporary research for examples.
There is going to be work, but the material is very very interesting and you will learn a lot!
This course has a lot of pay off but it is challenging and should be taken by those with strong chemistry and physics background.
Some students very much liked this class.  It fit with their interests and certainly covered a wide variety of material.  However, it was still very difficult, and the disconnect between labs, lectures, homework, and tests was often frustrating.  The Matlab component of the course was unexpected and very time-consuming as well.
This is a very math-oriented class. I don't think it is very good for a chemistry class but it gives more of a theoretical view of the fundamentals of chemistry. Take it if you like math.
It can be very frustrating at times, but does provide deeper understanding of how things work at the subatomic level. It is a pretty math-heavy course.
You need to like chem and physics to get through this class. It has little application to the life sciences unless you do biophysics. Math agility is required. Calculus and derivations/proofs are common. Adam and Logan are great teachers. The TFs not so much, but section is optional. Tests are tough and the problems are somewhat different in nature than problem sets. The lab component is a mess and often untopical but are similar to the other PS (1-3) courses. CS background is helpful when you learn Matlab. Class contains mostly freshman interested in Chem and Physics and a handful of upperclassmen. Class will probably improve with time, as the profs care about teaching. They're very accessible. The final project is very free form.
