A terrible class. Avoid at all costs. The lectures are incredibly useless when it comes to assignments and module quizzes. Other than Anna and Nils, the teaching staff was not helpful in the slightest. Sections varied widely and there was no consensus among them.
I mean, PS12b's not going to destroy your soul or anything. If you get a good group of friends to work with for the homework, take-home midterms, and final lab project, you'll manage. That being said, it's still an extremely unpleasant experience. Lecture often gets bogged down in not-very-interesting derivations of formulae at the expense of actually learning any what any of the math is good for (I'm still absolutely flabbergasted that the term "inductance" was never properly defined during lecture. We did a ton of math using it, though). If you think any of the derivations will be important later, tough luck, since that just means you'll have to dig through pages of math in your notes to find the relevant formula, which is what the problem sets and module quizzes test. Instead of spending your energy copying down all the math, focus on trying to decipher what physical situation is being talked about; the setup for the math (infinite vs. finite planes, etc.) is often glossed over before Prof. Kaxiras launches into the mathapalooza itself, meaning that, after half an hour, you end up at a formula whose useful application you're not entirely sure of. I highly suggest doing the reading for the class, or at the very least looking at the syllabus beforehand, since, inexplicably, neither the lecture slides nor the lectures themselves are ever titled. So if you're a fan of watching somebody do math on a chalkboard without much idea as to why he's doing it or what the final result will be, I mean, you do you. But I'm assuming people taking the 12a/12b track are doing so because they're not enamored with physics. This class isn't going to change that.
I took AP 50a and was looking for an alternative to fulfill the physics requirement. If you're like me and have issues with AP 50 but can't handle/don't want to handle/dont have the time for the intensity of Physics 15a/b, this is the class for you. The MATLAB is manageable for those who have already done a MATLAB course or two (easier MATLAB portions of psets than AM 105 or AM 101). Lab sections are chill, require no prep, are only 2 hours, and are sometimes even fun. Lab section staff is awesome (get one with Nils, he's the man!). Take home midterms are less stress than in-class exams, and the final project in place of the final is less stressful than it sounds. Overall, a great class in which you actually learn some physics. Better than Physics 15b or AP 50b.
PS 12b is pretty similar to PS 12a: good way to get foundational physics into your head, but not a really great class overall, in the sense that it won't really change the way you look at physic  it just sort of adds further layers of complexity. That said, if you put enough time into it, it's a perfectly reasonable class, if a bit dull.
Pretty painless way to do physics, although it seems that almost everyone has a really good grade so it might be very hard to get an A.
You solve very 'real' problems.  You also do a ton of MatLab, which is super applicable but can be frustrating and time-consuming at times.
Definitely take this class over any of the other physics classes if you are taking it for pre-med requirements! Everything in the class is take home and collaborative, from psets to the midterms. No final exam at the end of the class, instead you work on a final project and they're actually a lot of fun and not stressful at all. Labs are pass/fail and really relaxed, but you still learn a lot. You have to know Matlab before going into the class but its easy enough to pick up on and you get to learn useful functions in the Matlab component of the psets each week. The only issue I have with this class is the way it's graded, since there are no set grade cut-offs. Instead, your final grade is determined relative to everyone else in the class, so even if you end up with a 95+ in the class if everyone else did too you shouldn't expect a A.
terrible course
I feel like 12b serves its purpose within Harvard's intro physics offerings (i.e., is between 3 and 15b in level and difficulty, and is an alternative to AP50b), but I also think the class is lacking a lot. Lectures are not very effective, students in this class don't seem to really care about physics, and sections aren't very helpful. Anna's the saving grace though; go to her office hours, and be sure to not just ask about how to do problems but also why things are the way they are. E&M is not intuitive at all in my opinion, and asking her was how I did the bulk of my learning in this class.
This was a pretty stress-free way to do physics.  A lot of premeds though.  They graded easily so it allowed us to enjoy the class more
It's awesome to not have tests. Makes life way easier. Unfortunately, the psets are a little sadistic, and you'll often spend hours on a single MATLAB problem and 8-12 on the whole pset. Office hours are great if you can get to them. Lectures are a little derivation-heavy, but what physics class isn't? If you have the time, take 15. If you don't, 12 is decent.
This is a great way to learn MATLAB and learn the more "engineering" aspects of E&M without having to worry to much about course load. It is a manageable course, especially good for engineers, but lectures are not cohesive and generally your best help comes from your peers. Took it as a requirement, and for someone who wants to learn some physics, this is a good course, but if you want to learn much more, then it is not.
This is an easy course to do well in. But if you want to learn anything stay on top of the readings and go to section. Lectures were useless I thought
can be harder and more time than you expect. plus is that there is no final and just homework and three take home midterms
take this class if you would like a chill way to fulfill the physics requirement for your concentration! we are allowed to collaborate with other students on all assignments, so it becomes good fun if you have a good pset group. labs are easy, and there are no exams!
The good thing about this class is that there are no exams, so it's a lot less stressful in that aspect. The bad thing is that lectures don't really help you figure out how to do the assignments, and you must rely on section. There is also little instruction in how to use MATLAB, and lab seems to assume prior experience with circuits etc. If you don't need to take this particular course, I'd recommend PS 2&3.
This class is not an easy A, but that being said I would do it again. Matlab is the devil though.
This course is gives students an in-depth understanding of electricity and magnetism, with interesting homework assignments and an emphasis on using computational tools (MATLAB) to solve problems. Worth taking.
Take it if Anna is the TF--she is the best TF/teacher you will have!
This course is not all that difficult, but I did not leave it feeling like I knew a lot more about physics. As of now, this course spends too much time focusing on derivations and the theoretical aspects than the actual physics.
very hard
A good course in E&M concepts. The collaborative aspects of the course can be very helpful, especially if you are used to working with others. The problem sets are fair, though the MATLAB portions may be more difficult for those who have no experience coding.
Good course, love the fact that nothing is ever graded/assessed in class or on an individual basis. Find and make friends in this course: that will be your lifeline.
This is a great class, in which you will gain an understanding of complicated electromagnetic phenomena.  However, it requires a large amount of time on a weekly basis, and students need to be comfortable with regular collaboration.
Good course, in lecture it is difficult to wrap mind around ideas, lecture notes are much more helpful.
Take it with friends and only if you enjoy MATLAB.
A painless way to get through your physics requirement if you're a pre-med.
Definitely take this class if you want to fulfill your physics requirement. The weekly workload can get overwhelming, but you always know how you're doing in the class and there are enough assignments that you don't stress over specific grades too much. The midterms are take home. They are very doable as long as you have a good group to work with and go to office hours. My experience in 12b was way better than 12b because the head TF, Anna, is incredible! She is very kind and helpful. Joon from 12a was sassy and enjoyed making physics hard to conquer. Nils is also the most lively, spirited educator at Harvard that I have met so far. If for no other reason, take this course for Anna and Nils.
This class is fine. However, you'll think you're doing well, but at the end of the semester, they'll give you a grade that doesn't correspond with your actual grade in the course. Heads up, a 96% isn't an A!
This course has supportive teaching staff, and represents a major improvement over PS12a. Be prepared to work long hours on problem sets and decoding MATLAB scripts, neither of which you fully understand. Utilize the office hours and teaching staff. They're always very helpful, a refreshing change from last year's horrible teaching staff.
This class is harder than PS12a and really requires you to understand the material to do well on problem sets and exams. The course work is manageable because the teaching staff is excellent and you can work in groups for the midterms. Make sure to utilize physics night, and go to as many office hours as you can as this was the main way you will get through this class. Lecture is not the most interesting, but definitely helpful when you start the homeworks, so try to skip as few as possible.
Good way to gain both applied physics concepts and rudimentary matlab ability. Take-home exams are essentially just slightly-longer homeworks, so course is very rarely stressful. A great alternative to PS2/3's strange exam structure and 15's excessive rigor
Definitely a solid physics option, depending on your wants/needs.  This course is calculus based and pretty math heavy, so if you aren't comfortable with that then you may want to explore other options.  Also, if you don't have MATLAB experience there is definitely a learning curve.  However, it is nice to have physics that is not taught in a total vacuum.
This class is pretty good as far as introductory physics courses go. For those who are looking to fulfill their physics requirement without all the pre-meds (PS2/3) and less painfully than Physics 15, this is definitely the way to go. Its focus on computational methods and applications definitely helps make the course more interesting. It's also nice to have no exams!
You get a basic sense of electricity and magnetism by the end and learn MATLAB and the textbook are your friends. I hope you get a nice TF because that is what made me happy to take this class.
If you've taken 12a, then you are pretty much locked into taking 12b and I am not sure why you are reading the Q score.
The collaborative nature of this course and the take-home exams provide you with a way to learn physics without the stress of exam-based performance.  The teaching team is wonderfully supportive.  I recommend this class!
The biggest challenge with this class is the discrepancy between lecture material and clarity, and the problem sets/module quizzes. Though the material is fascinating and using MATLAB is super interesting and applicable, often I wish the teaching in lecture was clearer and more relevant to problem sets. However, the textbook presents the material clearly and I was able to understand and do the psets with the textbook.
This is an easy, low-stress way to learn electromagnetism. The problem sets were quite easy and the take home quizzes (in place of exams) were often not too difficult. Be warned, though. Lectures are dreadfully boring, but the "application" part of lecture requires attendance to do well.I regret not taking the Physics 15 series.
This course is challenging so make sure you have a strong interest in physics before taking it. If you're taking this for a pre-med requirement or can take PS2 and PS3 instead to fulfill the same concentration requirement, think carefully since this hard is quite difficult and time consuming.
Not too hard, teaching staff and labs are great! Use a lot of MATLAB.
PS12b is a great way to get your second semester requirement of physics out of the way, especially if you want to learn physics while also being a part of a more collaborative environment. There are still a lot of improvements that need to be seen in the class, but compared to PS12a last semester, this class has improved so much more. Thus, it's pretty clear that this class will likely keep getting better as the teaching staff does seem to really care about our comments and critiques. What I love most about this course is that I've made some amazing friendships due to the camraderie that comes from having a course be based on group work and collaboration! And you learn to be a community (while learning physics). Also: Anna is a goddess sent to grace our human souls, so definitely go to her office hours! Nils is also a lovely human being, and Prof. Kaxiras is adorable and really does love the material and want to get us excited!
Great physics class
This course is a great way to fulfill your physics requirement if you have an interest in learning MATLAB and would prefer a collaborative aspect to the course on psets/take-home midterms/final project.
Go to office hours
PS12b is harder than 12a for sure, but it's still well taught and organized. if anna is still the preceptor next year, be sure to take advantage of her office hours. They are super helpful!
Much better than PS12a. Take this course if you have a good C coding background as it involves a lot of MATLAB
PS 12b is a totally fine and doable class - there's a very predictable workload, all exams are take-home and collaborative, and it's almost kinda fun if you have friends in the class that you can rely on working with. If you're pre-med, I think this is a less painless way to do the physics requirement compared to PS 2/3, but you probably won't learn as much medical/MCAT-relevant physics compared to PS 2/3. Professor Kaxiras is a total sweetheart but not the best lecturer - lectures are very focused on derivations of complex equations, and often can be very confusing. Anna is a godsend - if she's still the head TF of this class when you take it, go to Anna's office hours and bask in the glory of her helpfulness. Just like 12a, you can expect a good amount of MATLAB, although it feels more doable this time around. Psets are pretty standard, and module quizzes are fine if you just put the time in.
This course is more difficult than PS12a conceptually, but follows more or less the same structure. The teaching staff was very helpful and the course solidifies your MATLAB skills, although the psets often consist of busy work. Kaxiras is an enthusiastic lecturer but can sometimes lose students in the more math-heavy lectures.
I thought that the material was more interesting than PS12a. Nils of course is a great Lab TF. Go to lectures! It is important to try not to fall behind.
Beware of the grading system. They have some kind of quota on the number of A's given out and will deflate grades accordingly. I finished with a 95% in the course but received an A- letter grade. When I questioned my final grade, I was told that the cutoff for an A was 96.5%, although there was no indication on the course syllabus that there would be grade deflation. Just know going in that an A in this class demands near perfection on every single assignment.
For getting your physics requirement finished, it's a stellar course. Chockfull of basic E&M material, interesting, and non-stressing/ despair filled, unlike *ahem 15* many of the physics courses at harvard. Seriously, an awesome way to fulfill an applied science physics req.
This is the BEST way to satisfy your physics requirement. The faculty are ever so helpful, the workload is manageable, and you'll actually learn cool stuff about relevant physics (solar cells, leds, MOSPHETs, etc). Beware of the MATLAB component, though. It really requires a nontrivial amount of coding.
This class will teach you a lot but be ready to put in a lot of hours and GO TO OFFICE HOURS AND PHYSICS NIGHT.
The material is interesting and the professor is great. However, the course was not very well organized. The problems sets were not cohesive. I think it has the potential to be a really great course because the professor and teaching staff are great and the material is cool. But I would wait to take it until the rest of the course lives up to its potential.
Sadly, its better than the alternatives. We need to work on having better entry level physics.
For those who need to take Electromagnetism and want a less math-intensive approach, as well as learn by trial how to use basic Matlab, this is the best course to take. Engineering students will likely appreciate the applicability of some of the topics covered, as well as the Matlab portion. However the course is significantly more difficult in the second half of the semseter and covers a lot of material, some of it not sufficiently in depth. Lectures are not necessarily the most helpful for doing homeworks. Expect to spend a fair amount of time on this class.
Very good class, with great teaching staff. But it requires a lot more MATLAB than I thought.
While this is undoubtedly easier than Physics 15, the lack of communication in the class and the Matlab component still makes it difficult.
This class requires a pretty significant amount of work for the psets and module quizzes, but having no exams is worth it, and the final project is fun.
There's a lot of work. Reading quizzes, lab, problem sets. If you fall behind at first, you'll never catch up. Tony and Nils are super helpful. Professor Kaxiras's lectures are generally not a good use of time.
I didn't feel like lectures were as complimentary to the homework assignments, so expect to spend some extra time in office hours to learn the concepts revolving around problem sets.
This course is great. The numerical portion of the course is challenging but really rewarding when you figure out how to solve a problem. Take this class!
The format of the course is stellar - the homeworks are tough but reasonable. The lab component is also great - very hands on and super easy. You should have some prior experience with matlab or  coding - the course is very matlab heavy.
MATLAB is difficult but a great tool to learn
PS12b is a great way to learn satisfy a physics requirement and learn E&M. If you are a science/math minded person, and like physics (but not in a LOVE physics kind of way), this is a good choice. The teaching staff is supportive and encourages a mix of analytical and numerical (MATLAB) work.
This class is a more practical, as opposed to theoretical, approach to physics. The focus is really on application of physical concepts, which makes it a great class for engineers. The class is also extremely collaborative. If you don't like working with a partner or a group, it is not for you. Every exam is a partner take-home, and there is a group final project. This is also a great class to take if you enjoy programming or want to improve your MATLAB skills, as there is a very large MATLAB component.
Lectures are not the best, but Kaxiras' office hours are lifesavers
Good physics for engineers
useful to learn MATLAB quickly, but is overwhelming for new, unexperienced coders
Tests are take home, but the course is poorly organized.
I am a chemistry concentrator, and the ps12a/b track was by far the best option for physics. I liked 12a better, but I still learned a lot about electricity and magnetism is a very low-stress way. Psets aren't too bad, and the system with module quizzes is really great and takes away a lot of the stress. Not necessarily the best taught class, but the teaching staff is also very willing to help and very accessible outside of class. Overall, a very low-stress, interesting, and engaging way to fulfill a physics requirement. Nils and Joon are particularly fantastic!!
good class, best option in intro physics
This class is a good alternative to all the other physics options (15, AP50, and PS2/3). The take home module quizzes and final project were a lot less stressful than a midterm and final would be. The lab is AWESOME (Nils is the best!), section was helpful, and all the TFs were really nice. I probably learned more from the textbook than from lecture, partially because I would read to prepare for the reading quizzes, but the textbook was good so that was fine with me. Also I took this before taking 12a and I was fine.
If you want to take physics, but you don't want to take physics 15 or 16, this is a good course for you. If you're fairly good at physics and you want to learn CS, or vice versa, this is a good course for you. If you want an easy gen ed, this is not a good course for you.
Great course - really liked the ps12a/b series. I think the numeric component helped me learn concepts; by having to programmatically demonstrate a concept, such as the magnetic field around a solenoid, you'll be better able to grasp what is taught in lecture.
This class is a good intro to circuits/E&M. The worst part is the partner quizzes. All of my partners were terrible and did 0 work. Lectures are boring, but you don't need to go to them. I took AP Physics C in high school and was able to figure most of the PSets out without additional help.
I really enjoyed this class. The professor and teaching staff are really dedicated and impressive. The psets are very interesting, and the module quizes are quite reasonable.
prior experience with physics helps so much.
Best way to meet the physics requirement, HANDS DOWN. The 15 series is more geared toward physics concentrators who really want a heavy theoretical challenge, while the PS 2/3 series is too rife with pre-meds (and this is a pre-med writing this). Sure, there is a significant MATLAB component to this class, but this is a programming language WELL WORTH KNOWING, and you can't beat take-home exams.
This course is very good and you will learn a lot about electromagnetism and waves. However, be prepared to struggle with problem sets as the problems are not trivial. Moreover, the material is somewhat difficult, not nearly as difficult as any of the Physics 15/16 series.
nothing
Go to class and read before class, because it will make understanding much easier and you will learn more quickly. Professor Kaxiras' office hours are priceless and you can get a lot of help there, while also making friends with people in the course.
This could have been a stronger class with the old TF. The teaching staff did not seem as cohesive this time around, though the TFs were always willing to help out. My primary complaint has to be with the vagueness of the assignments and the frequent irrelevance of the lectures, as the only way to do the homework ended up being asking for clarification again and again from the TFs. Professors and TFs didn't even agree on how to approach things, and while they were well-intentioned and accommodating, it was kind of stressful. If you have the time, I think you do learn a lot from the class and can guarantee you do well since all exams are take home and let you spend a lot of time learning and perfecting your answers. Make sure you know MATLAB and you should do okay!
Go to office hours as often as you can. Come with questions prepared.
This course has a good deal of numerical applications pertinent to engineering and the life sciences. The focus is more on the practical aspects of physics. The professor cares and makes time to meet with students--please do go to his office hours.
This class definitely needs some work. Professor Kaxiras and Joon are both extremely passionate and knowledgeable but I really didn't learn much this semester. The psets are heinously difficult and impossible to do without extensive trips to office hours. I have never felt quite the same despair as I did when working on the nearly impossible module quizzes. Hopefully this course will be better in the future, because it has so much potential! The lab component is the saving grace of this course. I wish it were a bigger part.
This class is a good compromise between AP50 and Physics 15b, in that there are psets but it is not over the top rigorous in the analytical approach. The matlab portion of the course seems daunting, especially if like me you have never used matlab before. That being said, if you have experience coding and go to the matlab bootcamp at the beginning of the semester, you will be fine. Expect to spend a lot of time on the psets for this course, though they are totally do-able if you work with others. Also, PLEASE participate in class. Speak up and ask questions and you will understand the material better. If you do not, then honestly most of the class will be lost along with you and you will have to figure it out on your own. There is some material in this course where you will just have to figure it out on your own. The Section TFs are extremely helpful with this though.
In order to do well in this course, it will help greatly to have a strong background in physical concepts the class discusses.  Office hours are great if you have time.  Lectures focus on deriving different physical principles.
It's a very good physics class and I enjoyed the Matlab components a lot, but it's definitely more proof-heavy than PS12a was... Very interesting material, but not always helpful for doing the homework.
It's taught very well and has far less Matlab than many of its counterparts and equivalent courses.
As far as the PS12 series goes, this is definitely the weaker of the two. Be prepared to put in a fair amount of time into the problem sets; though sometimes the physics required for the homework wasn't necessarily hard, there is a lot of nit-picky Matlab and geometry. Make sure you find a good pset group or take advantage of office hours in order to complete the homework in a timely manner. The Module Quizzes are a godsend though, because it is so much better to have a beefed up take-home midterm than an in-class midterm. Plus you get to work with a partner, so you're less likely to flounder. That being said, PS12b isn't a hard class to BS your way through, though I wouldn't suggest it personally. Everything is group based, so if you can find smart people and don't feel guilty being a leech, you could put in minimal work. 

The lecture component of this course was fairly boring; Professor Kaxiras just derives formulas the whole time. He's a good guy though. The preceptor, Joon, is a little colder and doesn't seem to really be interested in the students. But all of this is made up for by the awesomeness that is Nils, the lab preceptor. He is literally the best.
This is a hard class that will require a lot of outside work. Very theoretical.
I took this class after taking AP50a and realizing literally any experience could be better than that.  That said, physics 12b was really not bad.  The lectures are pretty dense and equation-derivation heavy, and most of the homeworks leave you questioning yourself after a first attempt--but physics night is crucial, as are other office hours and section.  The module quizzes (take home, weeklong, open material, partner-only assessments) were an interesting way of evaluating, and typically they tried to pair people with matlab experience to those without, but it often became the case that one person got totally shafted by their partner assignment. The final project was actually quite fun and I feel like I learned more from that than from any lecture in the course.
My biggest takeaway is being able to use MATLAB. This course is very time consuming. Don't have anything else scheduled on Wednesday nights. I wouldn't recommend taking math simultaneously. I wouldn't take this class unless it's a requirement.
Be prepared to do a LOT of MATLAB and have no training/teaching about MATLAB done in the class.  Good lectures, though, and very committed teaching staff.
Difficulty: 4/5. A lot of MATLAB, good for engineers
Not enough support was offered for the matlab portion of the psets (which usually took 40% of the entire pset time).
This course was difficult-- lectures could be hard to follow, and the assignments were really challenging. Matlab background is really useful, since it's a big part of the assignments but not covered in lecture.
I would tell future students that from what I have heard and experienced, the PS12 series is definitely a good physics track, especially since it provides tangible experience with Matlab.
I hate physics so I wouldn't say I enjoyed this course, but if you have to take real physics at Harvard (not PS2/PS3), this is probably the best possible class to fulfill the requirement. All the tests were take-home, so you didn't have to cram and memorize trivial stuff, but could actually work through problems and discover important concepts. The take-home tests are hard/long though, so they probably end up taking as long as exam studying, but at least you know you can do well. The teaching staff is super helpful and really care about the course, which makes it a good experience overall. If you're good at physics, you probably won't like this course very much compared to a course with traditional exams.
I really enjoyed this class, especially being an introductory level physics class. Definitely pick this over the 15/PS 2&3 series. Randy/Kaxiras really care about the class and the students. Having pass/fail labs was really great, and the final project was a lot of fun. Also having all the midterms/finals take home and being able to work on them with a partner was much better than having in class exams. The workload is really manageable, and I never felt that overwhelmed at any point during the class. If you have any questions, go to office hours and you'll be set.
This is definitely an applied physics class, but it still covers a ton conceptually in lecture format - probably the best of both worlds. The emphasis on hands-on work makes everything really relevant (which makes everything really interesting), and the emphasis on group-work / team-work makes working in applied physics/engineering look really exciting while also decreasing the stressfulness of the course. Take-home midterms and group projects create a low-stress culture which allows you to focus on the content of the course instead of on any non-relevant stressors, which is huge. We learned a ton, and the goal of the course for the teaching staff is really that you learn. Randy, the preceptor, and Nils, the lab head are really exceptional, and the entire staff is willing to help out at pretty much any time.
I would tell them that Professor Kaxiras has so much heart and enthusiasm that you really want to learn the material.
Reflecting back on this course, I learned a ton of information- great class, great professors and preceptors.
One of my favorite courses I've taken at Harvard, the teaching staff is fantastic and I learned a ton.  This course teaches the same material as 15b but focuses more on the practical and numerical rather than the hard-core theoretical (although you still learn the theory in this course, probably just not quite as in depth).  It is a class that was designed for engineers so you use MatLab on most of your assignments - most people take PS12a before 12b and I found that I really liked using MatLab after I got used to it (had no experience with MatLab pre-PS12a).  GO TO OFFICE HOURS!!  Randy's and professor Kaxiras's office hours are extremely helpful for learning the course material and completing psets.  They're always willing to explain things and go over concepts, and are also really approachable and want students to really understand the material.  The labs are also fabulous, they're pass/fail and 2.5 hours long, they're really interesting and related to the course material and Nils who organizes and leads the labs it fantastic.  I can't say enough good things about the course.  Really enjoyed the small size of the course.  There are four midterms and they're all take-home and you work with a partner; they're hard and it is good to start early and go to office hours, but it is absolutely worth it to put in the time to do the midterms and psets well.  I learned a ton from this course.
You will the most out of this class if you are willing to put in the time and energy.
This class wasn't a cakewalk, but I learned a lot and it was by no means painful. We were evaluated based on take-home midterms (for which were assigned a partner) and turned in a paper instead of taking a final. My grasp of the material increased exponentially with every module test because my partner and I would sit and work through the problems and visit office hours until we got it right. Definitely the best way to teach this class.
take this if you're looking to fulfill your second semester of physics -- all 4 midterms are take home and you are given a partner to complete the assignment. the final is a take home paper where we first look into the 3 topics covered and discuss one thing about each topic and second apply our physics knowledge to some sort of science
This has been my favorite course that I've taken at Harvard. You learn so much applicable material from Matlab to the fundamentals of Electromagnetism. If you've never learned about electromagnetism, definitely take this course, it's honestly some of the coolest stuff you can learn. Every aspect of this course is well run, and the teaching staff is incredible. Randy and Tim work really well together and are almost always available outside of the classroom to help. The labs are also truly interesting, and designed to be very manageable and extremely low stress. On top of that, the lab TF's Nils and Brian are just great guys. I can honestly say that going to lab was always a highlight to my week. The structure of this class is also very well organized, and makes for a low-stress experience while learning a ton. All the exams were take-home and taken in pairs, with at least a week to complete. The final is also take-home, and takes form of a course report, which is very straight forward. Above all else, the best aspect of this course is the resources available outside of the classroom. There are scheduled office hours almost every day of the week, and all of the teaching staff will make themselves available if you have any questions. Take this course! Easily the best intro physics option for engineers!
This class is great. It goes in depth enough to give a thorough understanding of the material but instead of spending a lot of time on complex, theoretical mathematical derivations it gets more into application. A much better option for those studying engineering than the 15 series.
Fun class, excellent lab, and a great, laid-back alternative to 15.
This was an amazing physics class. Really made me enjoy the material. Teaching staff is amazing, course is well organized and structured. Loved it
