Learn the concepts and the applications in the text book and definitely do not ignore the grand amount of numbers that they would like you to have memorized.
Good intro class
Generally great course in terms of pre-reqs.
Personally, I liked the environmental focus of the class, but for someone who is just looking for basic chemistry, this course can be frustrating. It is also still being developed and there are some kinks to work out with the textbook. However, the teaching staff is there to help and the material is interesting.
Do not take it unless it is necessary (concentration or pre med requirement)
Don't go into the class unless you have necessary preparation and are willing to put a lot of time into it.
Take it only if you need to. It's more of an environmental policy class than a physics/chem class. Make sure you use a different text book than the one they give you as a backup in case you don't understand what's going on. Pay attention in section, but not in class: the professors tend to make things more confusing than they really are. The section TFs seem to know how to explain the material better
exams are rough
Get ready to hear about the New Chevy Volt!
I had a lot of fun taking this class.
only for pre-med
Take this class if you are confident that you can teach yourself the material. The professors are interesting but the they dont prepare you well for the exams.
It is way too hard and I don't feel like it was worth taking.
This is a wonderful introductory physics/chemistry course.  It goes a little deeper than a basic course, but it does not go indepth into either physics or chemistry specifically.  All in all, it is a fine course, and I'm glad I took it.
If you come into this class realizing that it is really a hybrid of chemistry and ESPP, then I think you will enjoy it much more.
Go to foundational lectures
It's a hard course, and sometimes unfair. Lectures are boring, and the reading is tedious.
not interesting. hard. boring.
Take only if you have a strong background or interest in chemistry and/or if you need to fulfill your premed requirement.
take it for premed, but prepare
Only take this class if you absolutely have to for pre-med or a concentration requirement- if you can get out of it, definitely do.
Take it only if you have to.
it's a new course, so dont hate anybody who teaches it to you.
DON'T TAKE THIS COURSE!!
It is difficult to learn chemistry from the course, because it is presented confusingly and inadequately.  After taking the class, I felt that I had learned some irrelevant numbers, but that I didn't have a full understanding of the scientific concepts we had covered and would have trouble explaining them to others.  Lectures and the text did not fully explain the concepts and the course needs a lot of work to make it effective.
If you can avoid it, avoid it.
Awesome class with awesome professors, preceptors, TFs and PSLs.
Interesting course material, a lot of resources available to students outside of lecture. Overall, a great course.
take only if u need to for pre-med or concentration requirements
Read the text before classes each week.
It is as good as a general chem course could be, but it is very challenging and unusual in its emphasis on the applied element of the course.
It was annoying, hard, and the material was ridiculous at times.  It's supposed to be a chemistry class, not a class where we have to memorize energy use in China for example.
Lecture could be quite boring at times and the course repeats a lot of what you may have learned in chemistry and physics in high school.
i'm a little bit in love with jim anderson.
Take this class only if it is a requirement. Otherwise, avoid it like the plague. The concept of global warming is cool, but there is no reason to put yourself through all of this chemistry to understand the issue of global warming.
The material was interesting, but the lectures were very boring
it is horrible.
They tr to contextualize everything, and that makes things annoying. But for a basic chemistry class, it's not impossible.
th
This class made me consider jumping off the roof of mem church....several times. i guess it's lucky that i decided not to because i definitely would have left a suicide note saying that i committed suicide because of PS 1 and i guess a student committing suicide due to a course would be much worse publicity for it than a low cue rating.
Hard to stay awake during lectures. Worst decision I made this semester was taking this course.
Be prepared for lectures with fun displays but dont expect to get too much out of it.
Necessary evil for pre-med or many science majors.
This is a class you should take simply because you're forced to with premed. And, it's important to find help outside of class--peer study leaders are especially helpful.  If you have a good TF, great. If not, you'll need to find outside help, and maybe even read a chemistry or physics textbook on your own, because the one the professors wrote isn't especially helpful.
It's not a general chemistry class in that it incorporates much more than that including environmental science.
This class is painful and do not take it unless you ABSOLUTELY MUST. I hated this course and could not be convinced to take it again under ANY conditions. The number of upperclassmen taking the course is ridiculous and drives up the mean a large amount. If the teachers were to take a graph of year versus score it would show a direct correlation to the younger students not doing nearly as well. It makes taking it as an underclassmen unreasonable. It is unfathomable for a freshman with a poor physics background to be competing in the same course with people who have already taken the MCAT.
Would not recommend unless required to take it.
You'll learn some really cool concepts and the course is very applicable to modern energy demands and climate change.
You have to take this course to get a basic intro to chemistry. I don't think I'd recommend it because it is not particularly well-taught or well-organized. The emphasis on climate change and global warming was interesting, but sometimes, it was just downright distracting when it came to actually learning chemistry.
Be sure to read the course text carefully
Do not take this class unless absolutely necessary.
Fantastic class, but read the description carefully.  Don't expect "just" a chemistry class -- it's much more than that.  You'll hate it if you don't embrace that.
Make sure you read, and find a study group.
It's tough- don't get behind.
Take only if necessary, and be ready to put a lot of work into it to reap absolutely no rewards.
Unfortunately, most people don't want to take this class but have to.  My suggestion would be to take Chemistry at another school over the summer.
AP chemistry is helpful. There are limited resources for help.
James Anderson is the man!
It's not especially fun and requires a lot of work.
Be ready to work hard, and make sure you find a good TF or tutor to help you along the way.
It is not a good class, unless you already have a good background in physical sciences and in the global energy crisis, because then you might actually be able to appreciate the only true value in this course, which is the discussion about energy and the environment.  But you can only understand and appreciate that discussion with a decent, already acquired understanding of physical sciences.  Otherwise it is hard to truly understand and grasp the meaning in terms of the global energy crisis.
This class provides a good foundation for future science courses, while simultaneously educating students about important real-world implications. The professors, TFs, sections, and labs are all great and helpful in teaching and reinforcing course concepts.
The class is really interesting as it applies to one of the main issues of our generation.
I don't think I came away from this class with a true, solid background in chemistry.
Only take it if you absolutely need to.
Don't take it if you don't need to. And if you do, I'm sorry.
The course, although confusing and frequently frustrating in its structure and presentation, somehow does provide a lot of solid instruction, and will be useful for anyone pursuing a concentration in the sciences.
This is a basic chemistry class that goes beyond basic chemistry in its focus on real-world scientific problems such as global warming and energy resources.  At times this can interfere with one's understanding of the basic principles but is generally a very interesting way to learn chem that can't be found elsewhere.
To not count on this as being their "easy class"
Challenging. Review of Gen Chem
Keep up with your work, do the practice problems in advance, take advantage of all the help you get (peer study leaders, section, lab tfs, and review sessions) and you'll be fine.
Take it if you need it for concentration requirements
The exams are not representative of the other parts of the class, and I feel its hard to be prepared.
The only reason people take this class is because its required.
This class may be the most frustrating class you will take. The lectures are unhelpful, the textbook confusing, and the problem sets and exams are ridiculously hard. Don't take it unless you absolutely have to.
This course may be a waste of your time so carefully consider what you're looking to get out of it. If it's a pre-med requirement and you have no other option, then you might as well take it, but if it's an elective or core requirement, be sure to look around because there are much better courses available.
The fact of the matter is that anyone who wants to do pre-med has to sit through this course. So just sit through it. You can complain all you want, but you're going to have to just sit through it. Sit down.
Work hard!
It is necessary but really frustrating at times.
I am a graduating senior at Harvard, and this is by FAR the worst class I have taken in my time here.
This class is difficult but not impossible.  The tests are challenging at points.
Take it if you like problem solving, math and physics.
If you have to take it, take it. Do not take this course unless you need it for a requirement and/or love physical chemistry.
It is tough at times to have enthusiasm for the course, but it is well worth it in the end.  The amount of important knowledge gained far outweighs the disappointments of the course.
It's an interesting approach to teaching intro chemistry and physics that often incorporates interesting and relevant examples in the environment.  It needs some work, but it could certainly be a lot worse. Also, attend office hours frequently.  The professors are very welcoming and I regret not going in more often.
This class was living Hell. If you don't absolutely have to take it-don't!! I struggled to find a single positive aspect of this experience-it was the most depressing and frustrating experience of my life-worse than all three of my surgeries combined.
This course is similar to Life Sciences 1a and 1b in that it attempts to cover many fields in too little time. The breadth of knowledge you are presented with is overwhelming and confusing unless you seek individual tutoring.
This class made me hate the large introductory science classes at Harvard.
Only take it if it is absolutely required as a concentration or pre-med requirement.  Do NOT get behind in understanding the concepts.  One concept greatly builds on another, meaning if you do not understand the basics, you will be lost as the class progresses.
This class does a good job of highlighting the importance of tending to the global warming issue, but does not emphasize other topics as well.
If I hate you, I would tell you to take this class. If I like you even the tiniest bit, I would tell you not to avoid this class at all costs, as long as the text and professors remain the same.
It's hard, it only skims the surface of a lot of big concepts
Not a great class ... maybe if things change, then it would be worth taking it. I recommend fulfilling premed requirements elsewhere.
Although it's a substitute for general chem, it's not very well taught and too massive (and pre-med) to be enjoyable for those who wish to get a taste of chemistry.
don't take this its not chemistry take Chem40 instead, harder but worth your while
Lectures will put you to sleep except for during demonstrations.
Though the actual teaching is poorly done given the format, this course really gives students the tools and the framework to understand global problems intuitively.
Be prepared to apply your knowledge of chemistry to real world situations
I definitely enjoyed this class and felt that the professors genuinely cared about the material. The only problem is that, for those looking to just get requirements out of the way it might seem boring. Also, problem sets can be time-consuming and at times challenging.
work hard, keep up with reading, ask questions a lot
This is the worst pre-med/neurobiology requirement.  I'm so sorry that anyone has to take this class.
The practice exams are not like the real exams.  The practice is easy and direct.
I would only recommend this course if one has a very strong background in chemistry.
go to the tf section leaders, i have the best tf and i learn everything from him. Get another textbook, the ones they provided are bad
I didn't like it but it wasn't bad for a premed requirement.
The subject matter is great if you are interested in environmental science, but make sure you know the basics of chemistry first.
Combined physics, chemistry, and biology in explaining real-life problems.
James Anderson means well. Just get through it.
Stay away!
Go to lecture!
Find another way to fulfill the pre-med requirement for chemistry.
only recommend because a pre-med requirement
Do not take this course unless it is absolutely unavoidable.
Lectures are boring; make sure you get a good TF.
It can be a tough class material wise, but the instructors are pretty good.
It's a pretty straightforward class, and a way to fulfill the pre-med requirement. HOWEVER, the exams are frustrating.
Attend the weekly review sessions (they provide helpful notes that summarize the material covered during th week), and go to the Help Room not only to ask TFs for help, but to discuss problems with your peers.
You have to take it because its a prerequisite.
A lot of memorization of obscure data is required for the first two pages of every exam.
If you're pre-med, then you pretty much have no choice but to take it. I certainly would not use it to fulfill my science core. If you're interested in global climate change, you might like this but I would imagine that other departments offer better courses than this one.
It is a great class.
The class is helpful for preparing students for future work in chemistry.  It is difficult, particularily the tests, but in end (despite what your grade might be) you learn a lot.
TO those who must take it, it's not too bad.
While it seems like an interesting, introductory course, it is really confusing and pretty difficult.
It's necessary for pre-meds, but if it weren't I would seriously not recommend it at all.
If you need to take a chemistry course, take it at another college during the summer. This course is a waste of time and not useful as a chemistry course. I would NEVER recommend this course to anyone unless it is completely changed. I heard terrible things about the class from last year but I thought the profs would make significant changes due to the horrible CUE ratings from last year. If they did change anything, it certainly didn't make it any better.
It was largely unhelpful and I don't really feel like I learned anything.
Don't take unless your a chemistry genius.
probably won't use the material we learn ever again especially not if going  to medical school
If they really want a course focused on Chemistry, take orgo.
The course is difficult and splits time between being rewarding and just downright frustrating.
Challenging, but doable.  Make sure to do lots of practice problems, and find a good TF for section (ask around if you don't find that you connect with yours).
This course is passable if it is not combined with other very demanding classes, as this course is EXTREMELY demanding. It requires a lot of outside study time, and definitely don't be afraid to find help.
It's a requirement, so you probably have to take it.  But if you don't have to, DON'T.
Chemistry background is a must.
If you don't like physics, don't take this course.
Important to have a good TF!
The lectures for this course were difficult to follow and comprehend.
only recommend if needed for pre-med requirement
If you love chemistry, you will love this course.  It deepens your knowledge of the physical sciences and expands your horizons if you are especially not too familiar or fond of physics.  Professor Anderson makes the class so enjoyable, but don't be surprised when he starts pushing his "save the earth" agenda.
Enjoyable
Do the readings carefully and things would be a lot easier.
If you have to take this class due to a requirement, it is certainly very manageable as long as you do all of the work and all of the reading.  If you don't have to take the class though, I would not recommend it.
It's not so hard, especially if you aren't a freshman.
I don't feel like I have any greater grasp on physical sciences after taking the class than I did before.
If you did well in AP Chemistry, you will find this class rather boring.
The material is interesting, but it is not explained very well.  I hope you get a TF that speaks English.
The demos for this class are awesome!
The information is interesting and office hours for the Profs are not bad, but the class is poorly organized
It helps a lot to attend office hours. TFs are willing to put you through the material and the Psets without giving you the answers. Also, make a habit of doing the readings before lectures. This makes a huge difference between being lost in class and enjoying the lecture.
This class is an okay way to fill a science or pre-med requirement.
lectures are not always that exciting, and are not always very useful, but it's still interesting and for the most part it is taught well.
Some parts of the course are engaging, but mostly you just have to deal if it's a concentration requirement.
Dr. Anderson was very enthusiastic, but overall, I would only take this course either as a pre-med or if you are very interested in the course material.
PS1 is tedious, and is an environmental science class for the most part, not a basic chemistry class, which most pre-meds signed up for.  The memorization of so many constants is annoying, the labs are for the most part too long and elementary, and the graders are not lenient on tests.
The class is engaging and the professor is adorable.
This class is like an abortion, and you are the cute little fetus.
It's a fun course that doesn't require too much time.
I would not recommend that students take this course with other challenging classes, especially other science courses. It requires a lot of work and time.
Interesting but also incredibly tedious.
Be prepared to learn a lot of material on your own
Don't take this course with LS1b! It's a terrible idea, but if you have to make sure you know what you're getting into and don't get behind.
I would tell students to take it if they want a relatively painless inorganic chem class, but that they'll also have to learn about the environment.
Don't take it as an elective, but if you like chemistry and physics then it could be an okay course.
This class is boring in the lectures, and impossibly difficult come test time.
it was a tough course. i wouldn't recommend it as an elective since it is very difficult and very in depth. having a strong interest in chemistry would help as far as enjoying the course
You will learn a lot of things in this class, and the professors are really good.  However, the textbook is a pain and midterms can be difficult.
Professors Anderson and Kaxiras completely disprove the stereotype that Harvard instructors do not care about or want to get to know their students.
Reccomend for students who want a taste of chemistry and physics
The course is only good to get a requirement out of the way. It is horribly taught and the topics are not worth knowing. Generally stay away unless you need to fulfill the requirement.
keep up with the weekly material!!
That the teaching is great. The lab components are "OK."
The material is interesting, the problem sets are challenging but extremely helpful in learning concepts, and the labs have a purpose and are useful, but the exams are a bit too challenging.
This course is much more manageable if you have seen the information before (AP chemistry).  The lectures are not always clear, but the information makes far more sense after section, so I would strongly recommend attending sections even though they are not required.
I would tell them that lectures were very unrelated to course work, and that the course text was unhelpful.
It requires a lot of work on the part of the student outside of lecture.
take it if you have to
Good intro course, provides solid foundation to future science courses
difficult, boring, and unsatisfying
It is really hard, and I feel that you very often have to teach yourself the concepts and seek a lot of help.
If you have a good grasp of the material covered in high school AP Chemistry, the course will be sufficiently easy for you -- the course provides an interesting spin on the material covered in AP chemistry, and if you put the time into learning the information for this class, it really is a worthwhile class to take.
It may be helpful to have supplemental reading materials to augment the text provided.
You learn many useful facts about the atmosphere, global warming, and energy efficiency.
The class is very interesting and the professors are an excellent resource to help you succeed in the class.
This course was extremely difficult, disorganized, and poorly taught. It is not suitable as an introductory chemistry course for students with little chemistry background. The professors are unclear and confusing, and the course material is hard to follow. Too much emphasis is placed on the environment rather than on the basic chemistry concepts that we need to master.
DUCK! loud explosions may happen any time.  This course stresses environmental stuff, and that can be frustrating to always have to connect everything you learn to environmentalism.
That it is very challenging, especially without an extensive background in chemistry/physics.
beware, you practically have to teach yourself the material because lectures are unhelpful and the tests can be unpredictable
Knowing AP chem/physics is a HUGE help.  Course text is digital only
It is difficult but interesting.
Take it ONLY if you are POSITIVE you want to go to med school.
The professors are really nice and enthusiastic but the class is hard and mostly not chemistry.  It really stinks that if you're a pre-med this class is really the only option.
The lectures are repeats of the reading, which makes it a blessing and a curse in disguise. If you read the text, then the lecture is boring. If you don't then you can get lost in the lecture. Depending on how you prefer your lecture, this is good and/or bad.
Try to get a good TF.  You will probably have to teach yourself most of the material.
I'd recommend this course only if necessary
Not the best class; try to avoid
It sort of works as an elective, but I'm sure there are more interesting chemistry courses out there. Or, if you're a science concentrator and can skip past it, do so.
This course has weekly readings that are accompanied by quizzes, and it is helpful to actually read through the material and take notes, rather than skim to find answers for the quizzes. Also, the lab sections are extremely helpful in solidifying course concepts, in particular, the building of a photochemical cell.
Actually not as bad as hype makes it out to be.
PS1 is anything but a boring physics class - there are lots of real-world applications, the material is structured in a very unconventional way, which is great. The downside of teaching innovations is that it is quite hard to study for. Lectures/textbook was not always relevant to the problem sets/exams.
If you've taken AP Chemistry and have a relatively easy courseload, take Chem 40 instead because PS1 may not be stimulating enough.
This course has some really fun parts and the chemistry you learn is applied in interesting ways, but there is a lot of drudgery that will make you want to tear your hair out.
Take it if necessary, but avoid it if you can.
This class presents the topics thoroughly; though there is work involved in the course, it is worthwhile and you leave the class with a greater understanding of key energy concepts that are important for our society.
not a lot of work, lectures can be boring, lab is not great
rather painful way to fulfill a requirement.
You must go through the practice problems.
Very very hard!!
If you have to take it.  Otherwise, if you just want to learn more about physics/chem, look for another, smaller class.
I would definitely recommend this course to people who are interested in various physical sciences. I think the course is well taught overall, and as long as you keep up with the readings, lectures, and work, it's not too difficult to get a good grade. Although not a difficult overall, I think the hardest part of the class is staying motivated to do the work every week because there are so many checkpoints throughout the semester to keep up with, sometimes it's annoying.
If you can avoid taking this class, avoid it.
It is way too confusing
I would recommend this course only if a student absolutely needed this specific course to fulfill pre-med or concentration requirements. If an alternative class to fulfill said requirements can be taken, I would recommend that, even if the class were considered "more difficult."
The course does a good job of teaching basic chemistry/physics concepts. There is a fair amount of work to do outside of class, but it's all very constructive and useful/relevant for helping you to prepare for tests/understand concepts.
It's not as bad as people say it is, but be prepared to be frustrated at times. I would probably only take the course if it is required for some reason (pre-med or concentration).
PS1 is a very challenging and stimulating course that really presents a new spin on the general chemistry course you would otherwise expect for freshmen.
Only take this class if you have to. If possible, take chem 40.
Not that difficult, if you have had previous chemistry background.
To much "bitch" work. Not as much knowledge gain. But easy to manage.
If they need the class, I'd recommend it because it's interesting and enjoyable.
This is the most poorly designed and conducted class I have taken over my three years at Harvard.  It's embarrassment to Harvard's undergraduate program.
Working through more and more problems will help you more than the lectures on doing well. However, random theoretical/ background info is also in the exams, so watch out.
It's fine and dandy, nothing special though, just a pre-med/core class. Straightforward and broad.
Professor Jim is a baller
The course is pretty much what you expect.
Challenging but doable course as long as you put in the hours to understand the material.
Nothing bad about it, but nothing that great.
Professor Anderson is a great guy
Harvard needs to offer some alternative intro class for these topics.
The course, as long as you pay attention in lecture and attend discussion sections as needed, is not very difficult.
The class provides a great introduction to chemistry at Harvard. It is challenging but at the same time tries to give useful examples of the work undertaken.
Pay special attention in section as that is where you learn what is necessary. Also keep an eye out for errors in the textbook/section assignments/section handouts and bring them to the attention of the course head.
Th class is interesting at times, but not usually.
A necessary evil for pre-meds.
You learn a lot and it seems like the material is easy but it is challenging.
I would tell them that the teaching is great even though the material is truely aimed to interest a enviormental or a physical chemist
This course should be taken by students who are interested in chemistry, are willing to spend an extensive amount of time learning how to solve chemistry problems and would like to learn about how chemistry is related to environmental issues.
It's difficult and a lot of work, but if you're up for it, it will really pay off.
This class teaches a lot of very difficult concepts, has a lot of extra work, and requires a lot of outside help.
This course is a presentation of chemistry in a very different way, and it would help to have taken some chemistry before so that the adjustment is easier.
Good for those interested in learning chemistry with a focus on environmental sciences.
Go to lectures. Read the book. Very basic, very boring, but very necessary to a decent grade in this class.
The course is good, but do not take it the same semester as Life Sciences 1b!  The lectures ended up back-to-back with final exams on the same day--it was brutal.
Be prepared for a tough course
Make sure you can follow derivations
Take it if you have to, or you are very interested in atmospheric sceince
Its not that difficult to get an A.
Make sure to keep up with the material - do the practice problems!
Only to be taken as a pre-med prerequisite
Very difficult if you not have a lot of science in high school
It's a very frustrating class to take because of its structure and teaching styles.
If you put in the work, this class is definitely manageable, and even enjoyable.
The enthusiasm of the professors and the helpfulness of the rest of the staff is very good.  The course in general requires a lot of attention and work on your part.
This course provides students not only with an understanding of the physical sciences, but also provides an understanding of the major energy policies, goals, and debates that are becoming more and more important.  This course provides students with a fundamental understanding of energy world around them.
I enjoyed the class but the material was very difficult.
PS1 is really hard and you shoudl spend your time doing all the practice problems.
I would tell them that they should be prepared to work hard, and that lecture is a lot of fun to attend
Take this class only if you really need the course.
Professors are way too ambitious, they try to cover too much and because of this they cover things too quickly and poorly.
This a good course to take in preparation for any Science major. It is very applicable to real life especially because of the big concern of global warming and energy facing the world. The professor is also very friendly and accessible to students.
Know the specific figures -the EM spectrum, the global energy demand, the amount of energy received by the Earth from the sun each year, etc. -even though they seem like trivia. They'll be on the exams. This is a great class for an intro to environmental, especially atmospheric, chemistry.
If you are looking for an intersting science course at Harvard, this course fits the mold. While it requires a substantial amount of work, the knowledge gained more than makes up for the difficulty.
The course readings are very good, and make sure you go to section because they help you get started in understanding the material for the week.
It is a grind.
This is a great, wonderful class for an introduction to physical chemistry/physics.
Well, it's an intro class, so there's not much choice in taking it or not if you're a science concentrator of premed
Not a perfect substitute for Chem 5, but adds a touch of environmentalism which I enjoyed.
Some parts are less interesting than others, but the real world applications are interesting and fun.
Be prepared to learn a lot about the environment and have to memorize random facts.
ALthough it is not the most interesting class, it does provide a solid basis of some chemical foundations, and is relatively easy.
It is a great class (gets confusing towards the end).  The textbook is very helpful.
Read the case studies!
They micromanage your work and it does not teach intro chemistry well. Not good preparation for future chem classes.
If you are premed, this may be the best way to fulfill a requirement, but overall the class is mediocre and sometimes frustrating. If you are not sure you will need the class for concentration/premed hold off on taking it, it doesn't need to be freshman year spring.
Good intro to chem, but difficult, and helpful to know a decent amount of chem background first.
If you approach this course actively (pay attention in lecture, ask your TF to clarify any questions you have, do the reading, and spend time on the p-sets), you will learn an amazing amount from this course and it will be incredible rewarding!
Some of the course material is on quantum mechanics.
I hope you like chemistry.
Keep reading.
It's a fine class if you need it for something or if you're really passionate about chemistry.  Don't take it as a core.
The experience of this course will vary from student to student. You definitely need to put in the time, and it pays off.
This class will teach you basics of chemistry, but it is not very much fun.
If you have to take this class at all, spend as much time as possible reading and working through problems. Reach out to other classmates when you don't understand something because they're likely to be more helpful than your TF.
It's not bad at all, just don't fall behind.
Get ready for a cool mix of science and the real world
It fulfills the requirement...
Disorganized, difficult - I felt like I didn't learn anything new.
If you're premed and you need an inorganic chemistry requirement, this can be an awesome course. It's really tough, tougher than Orgo, but you learn a tremendous amount. More importantly, you learn why this subject matter in important. But if you don't need to take this course, I would urge you to carefully consider taking it. It's chalk full of premeds, which means there are a lot of crazy people in it.
There are not really other options for pre-med chem, but it has a lot to do with the environment and might not be so helpful for the mcat
Please do not take it
You have to take this course. I'm sorry.  It DOES provide some chemistry information that will be important for future science courses
take it if you need to
Take this course only if it is required for your concentration/department/pre-med route. It is a difficult course, and take it if you are interested in inorganic chemistry.
This class was very well-taught and the professors exuded enthusiasm and wit as they presented the material in lecture. The problem sets and exams were also very manageable. As an introductory course, this class did a very good job teaching me material that would be crucial for me to know in order to take some of the more advanced science courses here at Harvard.
It's probably the most fair intro chemistry class you'll be able to take. It's challenging, like all chemistry, and it is a lot of work, but you will learn it if you put in the time. Professor Anderson is also a great lecturer.
This class is challenging, but very interesting. You will learn more than you ever thought possible about energy and power, as well as with a good grounding in inorganic chemistry.
The course is a big time drain and the concepts are difficult, especially since the lecture/textbook do not explain them best and there is not always time to go to a TF
it's a badly structured course, since too much is squeezed into one semester.
This class is a waste of your time.  The course seems DESIGNED to deliberately obfuscate the material to meet some arbitrary bell curve for grading.
If you are concentrating in science this is a class you should not skip.
This is a requirement that will make you reconsider the concentration that requires it.
This is a great way to learn the basic concepts of chemistry and their applications to environmental science and global climate change. Be prepared to spend a fair amount of time studying the textbook, but the problem sets don't take too long. It's not really worth it to go to lectures.
Even with AP chem, this course is highly recommendable. The course teaches concepts on bonding and thermodynamics that you surely did not learn in high school and are integral to having a good understanding of bonding principles in future courses. Having taken Chem 17 and Chem 27 before this, I realize how much more understanding would have gone into the concepts of those courses had I taken PS1 earlier.
Only take it if you really have to, otherwise consider similar courses offered elsewhere.
It's fine....
This class is similar to AP chemistry, but it covers more topics and goes more into depth. Also, they do a good job of tying in today's relevant issues to the concepts of the course.
This course is completely manageable if you concentrate in lectures and work hard on the problem sets. I personally find the material boring, but that doesn't have to adversely affect your grade, and the professors make the material as interesting as possible.
Much easier than Chem 40
This is one of the classes that a lot of students take because it's needed for various requirements and there's a lot to be desired in the class, but it's doable.
It's interesting and you'll learn more than just calculations.
Good class with very interesting material. Tests are somewhat frustrating in that they tend to focus on environmental applications of the material which might not necessarily be appealing to the student.
This is a very good chem refresher course and would be a good stepping stone for more complex chemistry courses. It is also a reasonable pre-med requirement.
Do not take this class, unless it is a requirement.
Do not take both life sciences 1b and physical sciences 1 at the same time.
Only take it if you have to unless you have a definite interest in chemistry and physics.
Students should expect to learn a lot of interesting material, but not necessarily feel like they have a solid background in chemistry.
Great professors! Use your section leader! Useful!
Unless the way this course is taught is reassessed, I would recommend students who need a general chemistry course to look into other potential chemistry courses.  The professors are very friendly, but did not teach the material clearly.
Difficult when taken with LifeSci 1b in one semester, especially when they schedule both final exams on the same day within 2 hours of one another. This class had too many midterms. Some interesting connections with real-life applications.
It is a pretty boring pre-med requirement that I felt had little or no application to medicine or biology, and I wouldn't recommend it unless you have to take it.  It did, however, teach me some valuable lessons about the environment that I do think were worthwhile and beneficial.
You'll learn a great deal in the course, especially on environmental issues, which I found to be interesting and relevant to today's world.
Don't take it! It's boring and difficult.
You have to take it -- it's required.
Get ready for clickers and other fun with Prof. Anderson.
pay close attention to the textbook. you will do well if you read the textbook very carefully.
Covers a lot of the same stuff that you might have learned in high school chemistry, but does go more in-depth into them. The teaching staff does do their best to make their course engaging and fun, which is nice.
You're probably only considering taking PS1 if you need to, so don't be too discouraged: if you put in a lot of time and really understand the material as it is being taught, you'll do just fine! The midterms might be insanely hard, but overall it's satisfying to finish this course and feel like you've learned a lot. Definitely go to section, and don't stop studying when it gets easy - studying passively is dangerous, too. Practice problems are key!
It's chem, but manageable. study hard and it'll be fine.
This is a great class with the best professors. Get to know the professors; they are very accomplished.
It is really hard to be in such a large, competitive class.  I don't think this class represents the intellectual excitement at Harvard.  If you don't have to take this class, don't waste your time with it.
You must pay attention to the questions on p-sets and you will do just fine.
Make sure to hunt for harder problems in order to truly prepare yourself for the exam.
Material is tough without previous science background and the exams were very hard in comparison to the course.
All of the lecturers were awesome.  big science class but totally worth it.
This class provides exactly what it is supposed to provide- you will learn basic inorganic chemistry from it. Like any premed class, there are three midterms, weekly problem sets and weekly labs, so expect to put in the corresponding amount of time.
This class is not that bad.  It just requires studying the readings and practice problems. Lectures aren't that important.
Stay on top of the work - make sure you understand all of the problem sets, because it's hard to learn all the material right before the exams.
The tests can sometimes be erratic, but an overall engaging course.
Highly recommended for bright-eyed freshmen pre-meds.  You'll enjoy trying to get the professor to notice you laughing at his joke from eight rows up and spending freakishly long hours being a perfectionist and completing relatively simple assignments - plus the occasional fuzzy references to sustainability  will give you a sense of moral rectitude to compliment your chosen undergraduate direction.  Not really recommended for anyone who actually cares about science, unless your high school didn't offer a good chemistry course.  Adam is great, and my TF was nice and very capable, so no offense to either of them ... but the course is designed for the freshmen pre-meds.  Avoid it if possible and take a real course.  If you are subjected to it by requirement, as I was, I found that attending lectures was not necessary, and I think that saved me a good deal of grief.
This class is fun and extremely well organized. Use your PSL and go to the review sessions. For those who have taken AP Chem, don't assume that this class in any easy A. The tests are hard and demand that you think creatively about the concepts you learned in class.
Midterms kind of sneak up on you sometimes. Don't leave studying until the very last minute.
If you can, take a more advanced chemistry course!
This class is hard!
Good luck
Go to the review sessions - they are where I learned the most. Also, try to meet individually with your TF.
Review/ learn AP Chem  before taking this course.  A lot of people took that course before this one, and they had a huge advantage
Definitely seek out help and ask questions if you have them.  Chances are that everyone else has the same question.  Work together on problem sets, and try to continue paying attention in lecture when you feel completely lost.  It's tempting to tune out when you get frustrated with not being able to understand the derivations, but it's important to grasp the overall concepts.  The derivations themselves really are not that important... I would suggest just tuning that out mostly.
Study hard..the tests spring an unpleasant surprise, but professors are really good.
PS1 is an easy class, but not an easy A class. You still have to work hard on the problem sets and for the midterms, and it can be quite difficult to do so if you skip lectures/section.On the other hand, it's a really fun class, with dedicated, smart, and funny teachers who try to connect the material taught to real life. A lot of cool demos as well.
If you have taken AP chemistry, this class is very repetitive. I did not really learn very much new material.
The course is difficult, sometimes painfully so, but you come out with a good background in chemistry.  I certainly feel ready for more advanced courses.
This is a fantastic course, taught by kind and knowledgeable instructors (Adam and Hongkun) who do their best to make sure the students learn all information very well even if they have no prior background in the area. All the information you need to know is presented in lecture, so only if you need clarification on a certain topic do you need to read the textbook (although I must admit, the textbook is extremely well written as well). I really appreciated how they provided the class with slide printouts at the start of each lecture, so students could take handwritten notes on the slides throughout class. Problem sets are tailored to enhancing student understanding and ability to solve problems, and the review sessions provided by Sirinya are extremely helpful in going over all of the information covered in lecture. Section is also useful in providing us with a basic introduction to different kinds of problems. I thoroughly enjoyed taking this course, and if you are considering taking it I would definitely encourage you to do so.
Good overview class, not to be taken lightly.
If you've taken AP chemistry, you will probably find many of the topics covered in this class pretty easy.  Don't let that fool you; the exams will be hard, and you still have to study for them- a lot.  Other than that, this class is pretty low stress, with few assignments outside of class.
Worst class I've taken here by far.  The class doesn't actually teach anything, yet it tests you on everything.  I had to look information up online in order to solve every problem on Psets and in studying.  The exam questions are completely different from those on the psets, and this is an all-around terrible class. Only take it if you absolutely must, which is why at least 99% of the people in it take it anyway, but still, avoid it at all costs.
The beginning of the class is difficult, but don't let it dissuade you from sticking with the class.  Professors Cohen an Park are great lecturers and they know how to keep students attentive.  I would recommend the course to many students.  However, the test dates always coincide with LS1b, so taking both could be dangerous potentially.
I hated this class. It is the class that killed my hopes and dreams for medical school.
If you want to major in the sciences, go to a liberal arts college where someone may actually teach you the material. Harvard is for finance apparently
Take it if it is a requirement. It is better than LS1a though.
very hard course but well taught and people are willing to help
AP chemistry and physics (B) are very helpful for this course. the problem sets aren't difficult, but the midterms are much harder. the labs aren't too bad.
It's a good class. The first section of the course, taught by Adam Cohen, is quite unapproachable unless you have a strong Physics/Statistics background. Those who didn't, like me, suffered quite a bit since it seemed that the course expected us to solve Physics problems without really introducing basic Physics concepts. The class as a whole is quite interesting. Cohen is brilliant, Hongkun is pretty funny, Sirinya is a great teacher. People who took LPSA will find the Chemistry of this course pretty approachable. The staff is still working out the midterms. Last year, it seemed that the first two midterms were too easy and the third midterm was unprecedentedly hard in order to lower the average. This year, the staff tried to avoid that by making the first midterm quite hard (average ~77). The idea was that they would make the other ones progressively easier, but the first one would help make people take the class seriously. Unfortunately, they didn't take TF advice into account... the second midterm ended up being even harder than the first one, lowering the average even further. In the end, the third midterm was unprecedentedly easy in order to normalize the averages. Hopefully the staff will make the midterms more balanced next year.
If you've taken AP Chem, this class is not too bad. The labs are short (none took over an hour and a half even though they schedule 3-hour blocks), and the problem sets are painless compared to other science classes.
Only take it if you really have to.  It's really not that hard, but the TFs/profs go out of their way to make exams difficult (ie, asking questions on material you don't really cover in class) - they overcompensate with trickiness.  Psets are easy - can be knocked out in 1-2 hours.
This class is taught well, but the midterms can be really difficult so be prepared to put a lot of effort in studying for midterms. Also this course is not curved, making it more difficult.
PS 1 becomes increasingly hard as the course progresses. Midterms are challenging.
This course is basically high school chem and physics. Even if you are solid on the material, the midterms were not always easy so study and stay vigilant!
The class is essentially AP Chemistry crammed into one semester of college, focusing however on a lot more topics in physical chemistry and more conceptual problems rather than many of the rote, plug-and-chug problems we faced in AP Chem. If you have already taken AP Chem, taking PS1 will still be very worthwhile. I feel that my chemical intuition has become much stronger and natural. Moreover, I feel that I simply know and understand all of the things that I would have to cram and always forget before an AP test.
This course was very well run with great lectures, interesting demonstrations, wonderful professors and lots of helpful resources. I really liked PS1 MUCH more than LS1a. I actually enjoyed this class a lot!
I came in with very very very little chemistry knowledge, and the class was hard. Very hard. But doable. They are there to help you, so if you come in with little background knowledge, be prepared to put in the time and effort this class deserves. If you do know a lot of chemistry, be prepared to have to study anyways. This is no AP Chem class. And often more than not, the people who fail are the ones who got 5s on their AP Chem class, and didn't see it coming.
Be proactive if you don't understand something
It is important information to learn but it is not efficient or fun.
The class covers a wide range of material (though not necessarily in depth), and although I don't think any pre-existing knowledge is required, it definitely helps to have a good general chem base (AP chem even better). Overall I'd say it's a good class, with enthusiastic professors.
You have to take it for most science concentrations but it's an ok class considering the fact.
A class that may require some practice but the work is definitely worth it.
The course isnt hard as long as you stay on top of the material. Go to section and do practice problems in the textbook, it really helps!
I would tell them that the course should not be taken at the same time as life sci 1b.
The professors truly care about your success in the class. They make lectures very entertaining.
For a premed class its pretty engaging and its really well organized. Not too difficult
Sirinya is AMAZING...get to know her, she's always there to help you (as is the rest of the faculty).  There's a lot that happens in one semester of PS1 so stay on top of it all.  There were also quite a lot of class demonstrations that were so engaging and exciting, that it made the class more interesting to go to.
Amazing class! The name does not look like it but it really is. Every member of the teaching staff is amazing! LOVED THIS CLASS TO DEATH! Nonetheless it can be challenging.
Take this only if you need to. It will be difficult and boring. Sirinya is an excellent resource for the course and is definitely the key to success. Lectures are useless for knowing how to do problem sets during the first half of the semester (when Adam lectures), but gets better toward the end. Studying everything they cover in lecture is not all you need to know to pass the test. What else, then? You'll find out during the exam. Overall, it was just unpleasant.
It is an easy class, especially if you've done AP Chemistry. However, the course isn't boring and the lecturers try to do everything they can to make their material interesting.
The lecture notes are helpful for reviewing for exams.
Ps1 is a big coming-of-age science class. It's big, impersonal and sometimes taxing, but necessarily so.
The class seems like it will be very straightforward, but this perception can be tremendously deceptive. Simple concepts are made more challenging in the exams, so you really have to pay attention and practice more than you think.
I feel like this course makes things more difficult that they need to be. The course load isn't unreasonable but going into Exams were like Russian roulette. Lab is decent
Do your homework early, very early.
If you're not taking it for pre-med, there are probably better classes out there.  It covers important material, and it's a very manageable time commitment.
Make sure you utilize the amazing teaching staff. They are incredibly nice and understanding and want to help you succeed!!
Take it as a freshman. It's not something you want to return to later.
This is a difficult class to understand without prior knowledge of chemistry and physics. Adam and Hongkun do their best to make it manageable, but they still have a lot of material to cover and it can oftentimes feel rushed. Definitely go to Sirinya with questions. She can explain the material very clearly.
It's a big lecture class. Take it if you have to.
This is one of those classes where if you put the time in, you should see results--unless you are like me and make countless silly errors on exams. The class was a bit disorganized (labs were a mess) but overall it was a very solid course and I feel like I learned a lot.
This class is pretty easy if you are strong in Chemistry. The tests are very reactive to how the class did on the earlier exams. But overall, you should do fine if you enjoy Chem.
PS1 is a lot of work if you don't keep up with it. psets dont make sense if you're not paying attention in class (which is most people). to be prepared, you have to read through all the lecture slides, do the psets, the section handouts, and all the posted reviews and practice exams. the textbook is NOT necessary
The class is not a piece-of-cake, but the work is well worth your time.
I think students who are considering to take this class should discuss with someone whether he has enough preparation for this class. Also, having a good TF is essential in understanding the course material.
Course is not too difficult and material is fairly interesting.
It's a solid class that will refresh your knowledge of Chemistry principles. However, it does nothing to broaden your world view or make you more enthusiastic about the sciences.
The lectures in this course a very interesting and the demonstrations and often flashy and quite literally explosive. However, as you'll soon learn, the exams can be deceptively difficult especially for those that have never taken AP Chem. The section handouts and practice problems are EXTREMELY helpful for doing well on the exam, and I reccomend going to all of Sirinya's practice sessions and doing as many problems as possible before the exam.
This class is difficult, but interesting. Don't take it unless it's a requirement.
The class seemed all over the place in terms of concepts for the first few weeks, but then seemed to shape up. Section is where you really learn what's important for applying the concepts to problems. Problem solving sessions/review session highly recommended.
You probably have to take this course already, and I'm sorry. While lectures attempt to be invigorating at the beginning, the concepts only become cogent in review lectures with Srinya and with your Peer Study Leaders. The tests sometimes test trivialities of the material, are oddly phrased, and are disorienting.  My advice to you is to study hard, use your PSL, and do this class with as realistic attitude as possible. Even if you put work in, you might not always get the marks you deserve
This course is one of Harvard's most miserable, lackluster required classes that unfortunately processes the many students headed for science concentrations. The teaching is inconsistent and uninspired, and fairly basic chemistry was made much more difficult due to a lack of help outside lecture and section.
Go to Sirinya's review sessions and office hours. She is the best teacher in this course!
This class was a pretty good way to get the chemistry premed requirement out of the way. The demos in lectures were interesting and the class is pretty well taught. Section helps make concepts more understandable. Exams are difficult.
Section is vital for a comprehensive understanding of the material. The practice problems for exams are often very far from what will actually be tested, so do not rely on those as a study guide.
It is really helpful if you have a strong chem background coming into this class. Stay on top of the material, and this class is totally doable. There are three midterms, though, so if you fall behind it can be detrimental. Go to lecture! Lecture is super helpful
AP Chemistry is really helpful for this class. If you haven't taken it, take LPSA first semester so that you can be prepared for the material in PS1. Lectures are the best part of the class. Professors are funny and engaging.
It's a great course. If you don't understand something, ask. Get an answer. At times instructors can be bad at explaining. Go to reviews.
The only reason you should take this course is if you need some chemistry review before you are comfortable taking organic chemistry.
In addition to being required for biology concentrators, pre-meds, etc., this course is actually a very reasonable introduction to the basics of general chemistry.  Strong past performance in chemistry courses and any past experience with physics, etc. is a plus, but it is not required to earn an acceptable grade in the course.
PS1 provides an excellent introduction to inorganic chemistry and some basic physics.  The professors are awesome and the lectures are very engaging.  The material is generally very easy and the class is rather painless.  Exams and problem sets are typically easy and require minimal preparation.  Nonetheless, the class is worth taking to solidify your basis of chemistry for future courses.
The experiments and displays every class, along with the enthusiastic and knowledgeable teaching of the professors made this rather introductory chemistry class very enjoyable. This is a great class, especially considering that it's an introductory class.
Understand every equation they give you for the tests and you'll be fine.
I thought this class was great. Hongkun and Adam are really approachable and great professors, and they teach you all the course material you need to succeed in the class.
Be ready to do a lot of work, and to be frustrated by concepts, but with good TF interaction and frequent visits to office horus you will succeed.
This course is run terribly and is the worst organized course I have taken at Harvard. Only take it if you need to for a requirement because the material is not taught very well. I only learned from my TF and if you get a bad TF you would be literally learning all of the material on your own.
Dr. Cohen and Dr. Park have an obvious enthusiasm for the course (in particular, blowing up stuff). However, the course is dry by nature, and it is expected that you already know most of the material taught.  It is not taught very well, and it's confusing to know what you should or should not do. My advice: If you have to take this course, do ALL of the practice problems.
Don't take it unless you have taken lots of chemistry before.
If Adam wrote the test, you're screwed.
It's a fun class in many ways.  People give it a bad hype because its a requirement for most and many people take it who don't want to.  The material is interesting and presented well.  There are a lot of neat demonstrations in lecture.  The teaching is good.  I don't think you really need to do the book problems, but I definitely would do all of the practice handouts, midterm reviews, and go over lecture examples.
this course expected that you had learned this material already. they didn't teach it to us in a way that would prepare us for the exams
How much you get out of this course is left entirely up to the student. Getting a good grade in the course is greatly aided by having interest in the material.
I learned a great deal about introductory principles in chemistry and how to solve basic problems. If you have not taken AP Chemistry, I strongly recommend this course- otherwise, I would suggest skipping over it.
Only take this class if it is required for you.
I didn't enjoy it too much, but the professors clearly care about teaching the material.  GO TO SIRINYA'S REVIEW SESSIONS.  Or at least watch them.  Review sessions and section notes are directly related to what will be tested on.  Lectures less so.
Go to section and try to make us of office hours. It's not the easiest class but it's pretty doable if you just put the time in.
I really enjoyed PS1 and did learn a lot. Sometimes the material is boring but Adam and Hongkun are great!
Don't take it if you don't have to.
Ok intro Chem class, but tests can be inconsistent and problem sets are tough.  Also don't buy the textbook unless you have to, I never used it.
It's really fast paced, but really well taught. The professors are an awesome team. You'll enjoy it.
As long as you do the work, you will be fine.
Because the class isn't curved, the professors artificially create a curve by the difficulty of the exams. The first exam was easy, the second one was very difficult and the third was easy. There isn't really a good way to predict what material will be on exams.
It's harder than you think it will be
If you try your best to do all the practice problems they give you, then you'll do well. Seek help if you need it, but do try to understand everything they give because it may just pop up on a test.
Rigorous math-based problems, but lacking in conceptual information. Not appropriate as an elective class.
Good class, but be willing to be challenged to grasp the material and do work on your own
Not too hard, well-taught, and low workload.
IT SUCKS
I really liked this class, and it definitely is structured really well. There is a lot of support, and the workload is appropriate. I didn't feel very overwhelmed, although there were some concepts that took a longer to grasp. In my opinion, this class is easier if you have already taken AP Chemistry or advanced level Chemistry or have a good background in chemistry already. Adam and Hongkun are also really great lecturers and made the class really interesting! I took this class as a premed requirement also, and I really enjoyed it.
Adam Cohen is brilliant, but he makes really hard exams! Hongkun Park is hilarious, and he gives good notes. Sirinya is AMAZING and should totally teach more in PS1. ATTEND HER REVIEWS.
Do not assume that this will be an easy course. While the material appears to be straightforward, the exams are difficult and not fair. Do as many problems as you can and be sure to understand the material well.
Great inorganic/general chem course, but a bit challenging.
It's a bizarre class in the sense that it's too easy to put work into but too hard to blow off completely.  Overall a solid intro chem course!
PS1 is a good class, and I think it'll just keep getting better. It's about the right difficulty level I'd say, not very hard but still interesting.
I loved it, all of the lectures were so interesting and I enjoyed the way the course worked.  It was easy to understand and well structured.
Do the reading and have fun!
PS! is a really fun class to take, and the professors are great. It's not terribly difficult, but they do make you think about physics and chemistry in ways you may not be used to, which is good none the less.
Do what you gotta do to finish pre-med.
You need to study a lot to do well.
This class can be unexpectedly difficult at times.  They will hit you with a difficult exam after all of the problem sets and lectures have been simple and straightforward.  Also, sometimes the lectures keep going over information that you already learned and sometimes they assume that you have been exposed to a lot more than you might actually have been.  The labs are awful, but the lectures are entertaining and the professors really seem to care.  Attend or at least watch Sirinya's reviews.
It's exactly what you expect to get out of it. You need it for most of any of the science concentrations. As a gen-ed, it's not bad, but if the natural sciences aren't really your thing, there might be easier ways to fulfill it.
The lectures were taught well and the material is pretty interesting, but as a whole this class was a disappointment to me. They purposely made the midterms tough so it doesn't measure how well we know the material and to lower the average. The labs consumes your time without actually teaching you anything. I took AP chem, so overall, I feel like I've gained nothing out of this course. Who knows, they may improve it next year.
really helpful to have a good chemistry background before taking this course, the professors are great though
Don't do it. Take anything else. If you have to take it, forget lecture. Go to section and read the book. And cry yourself to sleep.
Listen carefully and pay attention in lecture, because if you don't take good notes you'll be lost. The textbook is not very useful, and the lecture "notes" posted online are just the lecture slides. Attend Sirinya's review sessions - they are really helpful.
Do yourself a favor and don't make yourself go through that unless you took AP-level Chem and Physics... (unless you REALLY REALLY REALLY badly want to be premed and are willing to put your GPA and appreciation for science on the line).
Lectures are generally quite interesting, and the professors are very animated and dorky. Psets are somewhat challenging, but well-designed. Section is really hit or miss. If you get a bad section leader, don't hesitate to switch! It makes all the difference in the world. Labs are pretty useless, but fortunately never take the full 3 hours.
It is a physics-heavy chemistry class.
It's a lot like AP Chemistry, except analyzes concepts with more depth and goes a little deeper (i.e. molecular orbitals, etc).  It's a big class, but still feels personal; when I did poorly on the first midterm, Adam, our professor, talked to me personally about how to fix my grade.  I really appreciated the personal feel of it.
Fun class!
The best approach to this class is just to do practice problems
Learn to do questions really quickly. Otherwise you will run out of time on the exams.
The material is not that difficult, but the exams may surprise you.
Be aware that if you take this class without having taken AP Chemistry, you will find the pace a bit fast.  Having taken AP Chem, I still found the pace to be moderately fast, but enjoyed taking on previous material in newer ways.
This class was a lot harder this year than in past years, from what I have heard. However, if you keep up with the material, it's a very moderate class. It's particularly interesting if you're interested in alternative energy and climate change.
This class is really not all that bad. Just study hard for the exams, and you'll be fine. Don't get bogged down in all of the theory that Adam talks about - at the end of the day, this class is about solving problems. Know how to solve the problems and DEFINITELY go to Srinya's problem solving lectures on Friday. They will teach you what you need to know for the exams.
It's fine as long as you review section handouts and problem sets before exams.
Hey you! My story: sophomore, didn't take AP chem, did take LS1a. I would highly recommend this course to anyone who need to fulfill a physics in the world requirement. If you are pre-med this course is more chill since labs are pretty straight forward and psets take an average of 100 minutes working in small groups. Further, the material is gen chem with an emphasis on physics in how you apply the material, but it turns out to be more formulaic and, therefore, very manageable. The best prep seems to just keep re-doing problems and going to section. Lectures are pretty dope since sh-t blows up every now and then...
1. go to section (the handouts are great summaries of the week's material). 2. go to the review sessions before exams.
Difficult material.
The class is organized very well and you will learn a lot, but sometimes the lectures can be confusing and the tests tend to be quite difficult.
I don't see any reason to take this course unless you really like the subject or you need to take it for a premed requirement.  If you really like this stuff (or are just good at it), you might do well in the course.  I hated it.
Exams are tricky but there are a lot of resources available if you take advantage of them - go to Sirinya's exam reviews, go to section even though it's optional, and really strive to understand every type of problem you encounter, especially the ones that apply the information in creative ways.
Don't avoid taking this class. Don't take it if you don't have to.
A challenging but interesting and rewarding class. A background in AP chemistry and consequent prior familiarity with concepts will definitely be a helpful asset, but are not absolutely necessary.
A good class if you need it for pre-med or your concentration. Wouldn't recommend as an elective, but if necessary this course is doable.
Don't take it unless you have to.
I loved this course!
Not too bad for a science course at Harvard. Lecture is pointless. Sections are good.
know the basics but there's no way of being totally prepared for the test questions
very useful and well synthesized.definitely need previous knowledge of basic chemistry.  great demonstrations.
I learned nothing in lecture. Go to section. And do a lot of practice problems. Constantly. And practice learning how to read the questions -- figuring out what they are looking for is the hardest part.
The staff is always helpful and supportive. Although the exams are difficult and the problem sets challenging, you will have a great base of chemistry from this class.
watch out for the lecture material that is on the slides but is not covered in lecture because it appears on exams
A manageable course, has a lot of explosions involved (literally), but I'm not sure if it was too enjoyable. The first part of the course is taught at a very fast pace. But it is not too difficult overall.
It's a premed class, but not that intense, relatively speaking.  The instructors are all quite nice, understanding, and not evil unlike certain other premed classes.  GO TO SECTION.  Go to section.  Go to section because it will help you with pset, tests... everything.  Shaves your studying time off like crazy because you focus on the important stuff.  ALSO, go to review sessions and/or review the notes from those.  Helps with the test A LOT.  Especially if they go over topics that are skimmed over in class.
To approach the course with some background in chemistry and physics. The course assumes knowledge of basic physics and electronics (voltage, current, charge, etc).
It's not very difficult and a rather painless pre-med requirement.
study hard. make sure to go to the review sessions.
This is a decent class, but without a curve there really is no good reason to take this class. Find some other way to fulfill your Pre-Med requirement, unless there is a curve added to the course.
PS1 is well organized for a large lecture class. Adam, Hongkun, and Sirinya and all excellent teachers. However, I found a lot of differences between the difficulty of the problem sets and the exams. Exams 1 and 2 were extremely difficult in comparison to the problem sets that were given in preparation.
if you're premed you have to take it, but don't be too excited. the professors are cool and do fun demonstrations, but I felt like the organization, structure, and teaching in the class were lacking
This proved to be one very challenging class. The course material and the psets are manageable in terms of understanding and when woking on them in preparation for the exams. However, you have to go out of your way if you want to ace those midterms. Be keen to work on the practice exams before you sit for the midterms, and try to always be on top of things. Speed is of the greatest essence when doing the exams, be sure to watch out for time.
I think the course isn't terribly stressful and the sections are very helpful in understanding the course material.
This class is very difficult
Sh*t. show.
interesting lectures, difficult exams
Overall it's a good course, but the exams are much harder than most material you will cover in section or problem sets.
beware of the midterms. A lot of the questions put on the exam are nothing like the practice problems
It's a big, pre-med weeder course which isn't very much fun or particularly interesting. The lectures are OK but the tests are a bit unfair. Section is hit or miss depending on TF. Psets can be hard but are overall pretty helpful.
section is so important in this course. That and practice.
Adam is brilliant, but perhaps too smart for his students at times. Although he understands concepts perfectly, he is not so good at explaining them. Watch out for the tests, THEY ARE EXPONENTIALLY MORE DIFFICULT THAN THE PROBLEM SETS. That being said, it's usually just the complicated wording and nature of the problems on the exams themselves, so I'm not sure if studying more would even help. If this class is a requirement, you're stuck with it, so suck it up!
This is one of those classes you'll probably have to take for Med School. My advice:1. Go to lecture and take active notes. Sit in the front (don't let those premeds scare you). 2. Do the practice problems and go to office hours. It will help.3. Take a crack at the section problems before section if you can manage. 4. Keep a list of vocab words to keep things straight through the course.BUT Before taking this course, ask yourself: can I take this later? Is there another chem course (eg Soil Chemsitry) that I might like more? Is there a better way to use my time as a freshmen to figure out what I'm doing here!?
This is a very challenging course. Make sure you read the book and keep up with the material and be prepared for lecture. It is very easy to fall behind in this course.
The exams are hard to prepare for but other than that it is pretty easy. Skip it if you took AP chem and got a 5 and take chem 17 first semester instead.
Going to lecture is pretty enjoyable - the professors are pretty entertaining and also have interesting demonstrations. Topics are not covered in too much depth due to time constraints so if you want a fuller understanding you should take the time to read the textbook.
Stay on top of lectures and material; it compounds quicker than you'd think.
This class moves quickly and if you haven't taken chemistry since your high school class it can be difficult to keep up
The exams are completely unfair and unfeasible. The averages for two of the exams were around 75, which is exceptionally low. Completely unfair exams.
The class is not hard if you have taken chemistry before in high school. There are three midterms, and they usually have one question (out of four) that tests your knowledge in a way that is different than in problem sets, so you have to know your stuff to do well on 25% of the midterm!
It's a very easy class with easy psets and you can be deceived into thinking you understand the material and then end up doing terribly on the exams, which make up the entire grade basically.
If you haven't taken AP Chemistry, you have no business taking this course.  If you have, you're still screwed.  There was nothing fair about this course - the exams were at an absurd level of difficulty, the problem sets didn't really match up with what we were tested on, and lectures were bad in the beginning - Adam's teaching is mediocre at best - and worse in the end - Hongkun doesn't really know what he's doing, aside from yelling at Sirinya. Honestly, go to the reviews if you want to learn. Aside from that, prepare to be miserable.
If you have taken AP Chemistry in high school, then you should be pretty well-prepared for this course.
This is a pretty easy course that doesn't require too much out of class work.
It's really well taught and you will learn a lot.
It's a very interesting class, and the professors do a great job of stimulating interest in chemistry.
Good luck, cause the midterms are bullshit.
Be prepared to work hard. The material is challenging for the most part, and the exams are difficult and long. But there are many resources to help you succeed.
The course material is usually interesting, and overall it is pretty painless.
This is an incredibly fun class and it provides you with an excellent background in inorganic chemistry.
It really comes together in the very end, so don't get too frustrated if it's really confusing at some points. I hadn't taken AP chem before this course and I struggled a bit. It goes through a lot of material in a short amount of time. Go to section, go over material/lectures again soon that you didn't understand the first time around. If you let everything you kind of understood but not really pile up until right before the midterm you'll regret it. Use your psl.
If you do not have to take this class, I would not do it. It's not fun, it's hard, the labs are extremely disorganized. Some of the midterms were also cruel which ruined my motivation.
This is my favorite course at Harvard so far, it is taught extremely well.
This class is manageable if you keep up with the work and study hard. Make sure not to fall behind, because the three exams creep up really quickly. Also learn to work with the timed hour-long midterm, because the time crunch can be unsettling sometimes
If you're comfortable with basic inorganic chemistry principles, go straight to organic chemistry. Nothing in this class is essential for success in "orgo." The grading isn't lenient, exam preparation wasn't spectacular, and you're better off skipping this class altogether. I definitely wouldn't recommend it.
PS1 is indeed a necessary requisite for most pre-meds, but all things relative it an approachable and friendly way of getting you used to a rigorous, challenging, but fascinating body of material and laboratory work.
be prepared to be confused and work hard yet still not fully understand the material. try to get Jarrod as your tf.
according to the description of this class it seems like it will be all chemistry, but there is  A LOT of physics.  don't take this class unless you need to for concentration requirement or pre-med requirement.
Hard but rewarding class.
This material is not difficult, but the midterms are definitely difficult. The professors are really nice, and try to make lecture really interesting with demos which is definitely appreciated. Honestly though, the material is pretty boring so don't take it unless you need to.
I really loved all of the professors--Adam, Park, and Sirinya. They always made lectures entertaining and provided good demonstrations to solidify the material. All of there lecture notes were very well laid-out and easy to follow. BUT, and this is a big but, the lab was horrendous. I cringe just thinking about it.
The exams in this class are hard, but the problem sets aren't bad at all if you find people to work with! Don't try to do them on your own.
People complain a lot about PS1 but it is entirely manageable. They will throw curve balls at you on the tests, sometimes, but overall it is not particularly a lot of work or too difficult.
Initially I was a little hesitent to take PS1 because many of the Q responses were along the lines of "a drag, only take if you're pre-med." While it's true you shouldn't take this class just for a fun elective, PS1 is actually a great survey of physical sciences and a very solid class! The professors are amazing too, contrary to in previous years
It is a good place to start if you are thinking about a career in chemistry. Take it, the teaching staff is awesome and you meet really cool people. It may seem easier at first but you need to take it seriously. Overall it is a good course if you like science or more specifically, its applications in real life scenarios.
This class is like AP Chemistry all over again except students do not do well because of the convoluted questions. Also, the lab is awful and incredibly disorganized.
Attend the sections (the section handouts are super helpful), and do lots of practice problems! The labs can be very lengthy, but if you had an awesome lab group like I did, the experiments can actually be pretty fun.
This class is well taught and interesting. However, this does not mean it is easy and will not require additional out-of-class work and study time. It is helpful to come into the class with chemistry and physics knowledge at the level of high school AP courses.
Unless it's a requirement avoid it.
I would encourage students to work with others on the problem sets and to go to the office hours available to them because it is difficult to get all of the necessary information for the tests from the lectures.
lectures were too theoretical and didn't help much on the problem sets
This is a rigorous science course and the more you know about physics the better. The exams are really difficult and the problems sets are not very representative of what you'll see on the test.
pretty fun and interesting. can be hard work on psets later in the semester. exams usually contain one question that comes out of left field, but don't freak out too much because you still have labs and psets to make up for it.
A good intro chem class that's manageable if you have to take it.
It's a difficult but extremely well taught class. The material covered is great.
The course is manageable in terms of workload, but the exams are unreasonable and do not actually reflect what is learned in class. And as there are three midterms, you are perpetually studying for a PS1 exam all semester.
Meet with the professors one-on-one if you have ANY questions. They are really great at explaining concepts and solving problems with you. They're supportive. Use your PSLs. Don't take this class lightly. It's not just a repeat of AP Chem. You will learn, and you will need to study. But it's a good course and manageable. I wouldn't take it at the same time as LS1b, because it's kind of hard to juggle the assignments at the same time. and the midterms are all at the same time.
A solid introduction to general chemistry, very similar to AP chemistry.  One of the better pre-med classes you will take.
This is a large course that is difficult.  That being said, it is necessary for most people and you can make the best of it by appreciating the great lecturers and taking advantage of the many review sessions and office hours.
With a good science background - particularly those who have taken AP Chemistry - this is not a very challenging course, though you will most likely learn some new things (and review all those things you've forgotten from high school). The class also does a good job of reminding you of real-world applications of what is being taught, often leaving you thinking of bigger questions beyond the scope of the course. Tests are generally not too bad - at the very worst, there will be one stumper question, which can seem bad given the midterms only have 4 questions, each of which are worth over 20 points. Labs seemed rather disorganized in this class though. They were crowded and rarely seemed to work...
You really have to take advantage of all of the office hours. That is something i regret not doing. I would have had a much easier time if I had.
PS1. Meeeh. You will not be taught about what you will be tested on. Studying more doesn't always pay off. Could be quite frustrating and you will have to teach just about everything to yourself.
I would not take this class. Even the engineers that I know had trouble with it because the class is not clear on what we are learning or how to make it make sence
This class is really well taught and informative. If you take advantage of the resources offered, you will succeed while having a good time.
Go to section
If you're premed, I guess you have to take it. There is a wide range of ability in the class; some people find it really easy, while others really struggle. Going to lecture is totally worth it because the professors make the material interesting and do cool demos, often involving explosions. The exams can be really hard or really easy. Don't overstudy. Make sure you do all the problems you're provided with in preparation for the exams, and don't trust the practice exams. They're easier than the actual tests.
Be prepared to spend hours and hours mulling over problems.
The strength of this class are definitely the lectures. The professors are funny and engaging, and there are lots of demonstrations! The weaknesses: uninspiring sections, frenzied and unoriginal labs, and of course exams, which range from moderate to difficult (this normally wouldn't be such a big deal, but the class isn't curved).
Its hard work...but the reviews are extremely helpful. Work on the problem set in a group
The exams can be tough so be prepared.
Great lecturers! They really made lectures enjoyable. Material covered is definitely difficult, but if you're premed this class is necessary; I am very grateful I took LPSA before this because many of the topics overlapped nicely, whereas lifesci people had a lot more to catch up on.
I liked this class a lot. I by no means want to go into Chemistry, but found many of the principles we learned interesting and helpful for all fields of science. It's definitely material you need to learn, and is presented in a clear way.
PS1 is a very good chemistry class. Adam Cohen is simply fantastic (seriously, best professor ever), and Hongkun Park is also a great professor. I wasn't sure how I was going to like PS1 when I decided to take it, but the professors were outstanding at making the material seem really interesting and relevant to so many different scientific/political fields. That's not to say that the class is a breeze; the exams were challenging and you do have psets and labs. However, the psets weren't too hard and there are lots of resources you can take advantage of to get help. And I really don't think taking LS1b and PS1 at the same time is that bad, except that the exams are always on consecutive days.
It's tougher than you would expect, but it's worth it. It's an enlightening, interesting course taught by engaging instructors.
If you took high school chemistry it is like that, but more poorly taught.
If you need to meet this requirement, this class is not a bad way to do it. The professors and Sirinya make it enjoyable and comprehensible, particularly for an introductory course. They also set up good networks if you need assistance.
The course is not very well organized and the lectures are not particularly enlightening. It is critical that you find a good section TF so that section is worth going to.
It is a great class and you get pretty much what you put into it. It is similar to AP Chem but has WAY more physics than they tell you which is definitely the hardest and least useful part.
Another intro course that makes you lose your enthusiasm for the subject: too much material discussed too briefly, labs that don't match up with the lectures so you have no idea what you're doing, psets that you spend hours on because if you can't make it to office hours, you will never be able to figure it out, and a textbook that actually makes understanding the material more difficult.
The lectures and readings are really informative however, make sure to do alot of practice problems in preparation for exams.
Coming from Life Sci 1a, this course was sooooo much better. I felt the professors were more engaging, the material was better organized and more relevant/applicable to future classes, and the set-up of MWF for a hour-long lecture was much, much more conducive to remembering and learning. It's still a large lecture class, so a few of the tricky concepts might require you to go out of your way to get help, but there is an excellent support system of TFs, students, and professors who are willing to help.
Pay attention in lecture. Go to section, it really helps. The teaching staff is amazing/really funny.
It doesn't seem that bad and everyone is doing fairly well and then all of the sudden the class average is a 55 on the third midterm and no one knows why.  Yeah, awesome.
Make sure to follow the class at all times and don't fall behind
This is a great course for an introduction to chemistry and physics in college. You should be ready to work hard but it is enjoyable as long as you stay up on the material and do all the problem sets.
Lectures are boring.
The grades are skewed against students who know the material because it is supposed to be an intro class, there should be a high amount of A's but unfortunately some don't want that to be the case.
Take advantage of office hours esp for peer study leaders they were the best help on getting a grasp of material
This is honestly a pretty difficult class, and quite frustrating at times. It's not always about how much time you put into it, but do stay on top of what's covered in class, and take advantage of office hours and review sessions.
Interesting subject material, occasionally taught a little slapshod.
lots of work and can require going over material several times, utilize office hours effectively
If  you took AP Chemistry, this class is a breeze. Just be careful not to be too self-assured about the material
Don't take this course unless you really have to.  It's not really that hard, but unless you closely follow ALL the material problem sets and exams can be very frustrating.
It's not as awful as I was led to believe before taking the class, but you have to be able to be self-reliant.
The professors were engaging and I think the class was challenging, but fair.
It's a hard class, but it's well organized and well taught.  Most of the section TFs are really helpful.
Do your best. Don't worry about grades, it only breeds failure.
the class is fairly engaging, applies simple chemical concepts to real work problems and the professors have their own special sense of humor. Packed with premeds so don't get annoyed at stupid questions and displays of overeagerness.
Its a good intro chemistry class.  Its well run and well taught.  Its not going to be a particularly exciting class, but if you need to or want to learn chemistry then it is definitely worth taking.
Do all the work and readings. Getting behind is death.
The class is difficult but for a class you have to take it is one of the best in terms of teaching and manageability.
It is a class that all premeds have to go through. If you keep up with the material, it's really not as bad as some people make it sound.
If you do all your problem sets and go to lecture accordingly, everything will be good.
Lecture is fairly useless. Attend section to learn what is actually on the exam.
Do not take this class at the same time as LS1b. All your exams will be back to back.
If you have taken AP chem or bio or Life and Physical Sciences you will be fine.  However, LS 1a and 1b had very little relevance to the course.  Lectures often waisted time by making too many jokes and not explaining topics that will be on psets and tests.  The Review session were fantastic though.  And just fyi, after students did very well as a class on the first two midterms, the third midterm the teachers decided that the mean was too high and wanted to lower it.  The class did horribly.  They basically might punish you for doing TOO well...and then tell you its your fault for not studying hard enough for the next test.
It was much better then Life Sciences 1A. If you need help its all available. The material was not too confusing. They discuss the applications of the material from class with the real world (alot). Its also fun and interesting; many, many demos.
It requires lots of hours because of the labs, lectures, and sections, but it's a fairly easy course with minimal work outside of required hours.
The course is well taught and with good preparation it is possible to do very well. The course is not curved however, which is a bit of a deterrent but given that it is necessary to fulfill for Pre-Med requirements, it is worth it.
I doubt you'll post this, but I would say to stay away from this class if you don't need to take it.  Unfortunately, it is a requirement for Pre-med.
Unless you're a pre-med, skip out on this course. Go to chem 20 in the spring or something.
Provides good background in chemistry, but not so much on physics
Course is a good exposure to gen chem and generally well taught (Adam is an excellent lecturer and Sirinya is one of the most conscientious Head TFs I have ever had)
didnt learn much
Be prepared.
This course builds on a lot of the concepts from AP Chemistry, and certain parts of it are pretty manageable while others can be really difficult to grasp without a lot of work.
If you put in a little time it's not a difficult class. The psets and practice problems are very helpful.
If you need help, get it.
This class has some very interesting parts and some necessary evils in my opinion. It is not terribly difficult but some effort must be invested to learn the material. It does have some cool applications and demos!
This class is very doable if you have taken a chemistry class in high school.
the demos make the class really exciting, the professors are enthusiastic and overall good lecturers, the class provides a good foundation in concepts learned in ap chem and also discusses more advanced physics concepts and tries to relate everything to environmental science and energy
PS1 is a relatively manageable course in principle.  However, lecture were often confusing and contained information that was unnecessary and irrelevant to the topic.  Problem sets sometimes contained questions about things that were barely covered in section and lecture.  Take this course only if you need to fulfill a requirement.
This course is required for so many different concentrations, even in some where it makes little sense in context of your previous coursework, so there's not too much to say since you will probably need to take it.  The course was very similar to LS1a in terms of difficulty and layout, and I usually started psets the morning they were due.  Exams greatly varied in terms of difficulty - one had an average in the 90's and the third had an average in the 50's.
This course can be challenging at certain times, so be prepared to go to office hours or don't be afraid to email your TF. That said, you should get started on your problem sets early so you can get such help.
It's not very exciting, but it teaches you most of the basics of chemistry and you pretty much have to take it for most science concentrations
The course is what you make of it. I do have to say that not every student learns the same, and it is your responsibility to ensure that you learn the material in a way that suits you.
This is a great course!  Don't let previous years' q scores scare you.
This class sucks.  Only take it if you have to. Big classes at Harvard full of pre-meds are not the way to go.  Adam Cohen, however, is the man.
interesting material and fair grading system
This course is manageable if you keep up with the material-- with that said the tests are at times manageable and at times impossible. The labs aren't bad. The professors are great.
The professors for this class are fantastic, especially since it was their first year teaching it. The demonstrations in class are engaging and fun to watch. The clicker questions really get you thinking about the topic, and even if you don't know the answer, the remainder of the lecture really helps you to grasp new material and understand the clicker question.
It was really fun and the professors are great! If you work hard, you'll be rewarded.
A good class to take to learn general chemistry.
I wish I took this course in freshman year, since this course would have given me such a great background in my more advanced courses. Physical sciences has applications in physics, chemistry, engineering, and probably more classes than I could name.
The professors can get a bit frustrating and the third unit/midterm would just induce one to cry.
this is a good class. just study and know your stuff. it can be tricky. i don't have the best grade in it right now. but it's do-able and it should be simple to get a high grade.... just study. lots.
you need to do a lot of studying on your own time
A solid chemistry course. Wait a couple years for them to get their exams in order. This year, the difficulty of the exams was all over the place.
This class is pretty good. It seems very easy in the beginning but progressively gets tougher.
Take it! Adam Cohen is amazing.
This is a well-run but bad class. Lectures are useless, labs are boring, but the section handouts are invaluable to psets. Beware of the midterms--they get really hard out of nowhere.
This is a very challenging class, be prepared.
Go to section, even though it's not mandatory.  The exams are all about problem-solving, which you don't see much of in lectures.
Do practice problems for exams.
Good class but must be willing to work hard.
This is an intro science class...not super exciting, and things are not super well explained, but there are resources (your section TF, the professors, your problem set TF) to go to for better explanations.
THis class is very enjoyable. The demos are great and the TFs are helpful and want you to understand the material. There are also lots of incentives for you to do well as the class is not curved.
This course was great especially because of the enthusiasm of the professors during lectures. As well as their extremely cool experiments that they did every so often. Look out when they make an explosion that sends a garbage can to the ceiling!
Make sure that you get a good TF.
I would never tell someone to take this class as an elective.  It's too large and too impersonal.  People only take it to fulfill requirements.
I found the tests hard but fair
This course is one step in the pre-med track, but that's about all it's good for.  Of the holy trifecta: material, professors, workload, PS1 fails on two accounts.  Prof Park is irritating and a poor teacher (asking him to explain something in class only gets him to repeat what he said before; Prof Park, if I didn't get it the first time, I'm not going to get it if you just say it again), and the workload is difficult for the sake of being difficult (in April, the TFs decided they needed to "correct" the grade curve and issued an exam so difficult that the average was a 65.  It was subsequently not curved).  The only saving grace is that chemistry is an interesting discipline with lots to offer to budding science concentrators.  Focusing on the material while ignoring or blocking out the other aspects of the class, however, is not a feasible prospect and this is why the class--put simply--sucks.
beware of the midterms
If you don't stay on top of this class, it will make you feel like you are being killed slowly by a rabid badger. Take that as you may.
This is class gives you a breadth of information about chemistry- like AP Chemistry, but shorter. I would take it if necessary for a concentration requirement.
You're probably not considering this as an elective.  You know you have to take it.  Given that, it isn't so bad.
Just because you do well on one or two midterms, doesn't mean the others will be as easy. Study furiously.
A good review of physical science.
AP Chemistry is very helpful, apparently, for this course... Not having taken AP Chem before, I found it a bit more difficult and time-requiring than others. For example, I found this course significantly harder than LS1b, which was completely the opposite from some of my friends' opinions.
It is a very good introduction to chemistry and the physical sciences at harvard, but if you really don't need this class, then I wouldn't just take it for fun.
Physical sciences 1 is a great introduction to chemistry and physics in college, especially in the context of energy use and conservation. It is very environmentally friendly.
If you've taken LPS A, take this class!
This course is horrible. Don't take it unless you have to, and even then, consider fulfilling your requirement with a summer or online course.
Really good course - interesting and very organized
good intro to chem with good instructors and course structure, but one that you have to invest time into
A very comprehensive introduction to the physical sciences.
Do the problem sets every week with your TF (or another TF that you hear is good) and make sure you understand everything, because the exams are hard and you need to get 100% on all the problem sets. Also, if you can't do the pre-labs by yourself, do them with your TF so that you get full credit as well.  For the midterms, memorize how to do the problems on the problem sets, practice problems, and sections, and basically know what types of problems there will be and exactly how to approach them, and you will be able to do okay on the midterms.
This class is really boring if you've taken chem in high school but it is not hard to do well. If you haven't taken chem in high school you will feel like you know less than everyone.  It is a weird in-between class.
It was not a fun class to attend
It was an interesting class.
go to as many office hours as you can, practice problems are useful, but sometimes aren't enough.
Its a hard course that you probably need to get through for your other requirements
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on the problem sets, and go to office hours of peer study leaders, they will help you the most in a time crunch!  Sections are not "mandatory," but you should definitely go because that's where you'll really learn how to solve problems.
A lot of overlap with AP Chem. Better than LS1b. Don't take it as same time as LS1b
be prepared for the people who run this course to fuck u over
This class is super easy if you've taken AP Chem - but a lot harder if you haven't.
Make sure to stay on top of your game in this course. The pace moves rather quickly, especially in the second half of the semester.The demonstrations in class are AWESOME.
This course taught me to love chemistry.
PS1 makes chemistry fun, enough said.
This was my favorite class of the entire semester. Adam and Hongkun are great professors, always willing to help. PS1 made me want to become a chem concentrator.
It is a good intro course to physics and chemistry, especially if you have only a little science background - but it can also get boring if you have a strong chemistry/physics background.
Physical Sciences 1 is a well-organized intro-chem course.  It's challenging, so I would recommend going to office hours, sections (even though they're optional, they're REALLY helpful for completing problem sets), and especially Sirinya's Exam Review Sessions (these are REALLY helpful the exams!)
This course is a very good introduction to general chemistry and other topics. Readings are not really necessary. Practicing problems is enough for problem sets and exams. Lectures are pretty good.
I really enjoyed the class - Professors Adam Cohen and Hongkun Park really make the class a great experience. Also, the section and lab TFs were really helpful, so there is a lot of help available if needed. I learned a lot through this class.
i really like the material we covered in class, but it's rare that you will ever learn much in lecture
Surprisingly interesting and pretty straight forward.  Unfortunately it's a pre-med class.
This is an excellent option for fulfilling the inorganic chemistry pre-med requirement. The class is straight-forward, doesn't have excess busy work, and the exams are fair.
The professors are very passionate about what they teach, and they want students to do well. Although PS1 might seem to be a scary pre-med requirement, it's a great class.
Problem set questions are similar to tests, so do your homework
It's a tough class. For those who have seen the material before they find it a breeze but being new to it I don't think they did the best job in teaching us the basics--they assumed you knew A LOT. Having said that, it's required so good luck!
Only take it if you must.
Do the practice problems
It's a lot of work but the material is very interesting, so it's easy to stay focused.
Pay attention in section.
It's very, very, very time consuming, but it's one of the most structured and organized classes I have taken. There's also a lot of feedback and a lot of opportunities to get help, the staff is really approachable.
Great course, fills in the gaps from AP Chemistry, low workload, exams are relatively easy, professors are awesome
The class is difficult, and it's probably required if you're thinking about taking it. Do not take it for your Science of the Physical Universe requirement. That is dumb. What is smart, is studying the crap out of the problem sets and the review handouts will prepare you pretty well for the exams.
By "Physical Sciences," they mean Chemistry.
The course has a great teaching staff that are engaging and interesting. Having experience in Introductory Chemistry, like AP Chemistry, is a HUGE help as many of the topics are identical in this course to the structure of the AP tests. Sections are really helpful, so attend them even though they aren't mandatory. And try not to fall in love with Professor Cohen - it'll distract you all semester!
Do lots of practice problems, and go over the lectures thoroughly. I you do, this class will be fun and easy!
Take it if you're interested in chemistry or are fulfilling a requirement. I wouldn't recommend it as a general interest course.
PS1 is a course that is understandable, but you must put in the time and effort to understand each concept.  If one way isn't working for you, find another way of learning the material.
If you're good with numbers, this class will not be hard, especially if you've had chemistry before. If you're weak in either of those areas, then you'll have to put in more effort, but it still won't be that bad.
This course is a great opportunity to see how chemistry is applicable to a lot of current day issues. Also, the teaching staff is awesome.
It's a good class, and you should definitely meet your pre-med chem requirement with this class.
This class is much better than it was. You learn lots and lots.
This class sucks. If it's a requirement, you just have to get through it.
If you have to take this for pre-med, don't sweat it too hard. Take advantage of all of the support networks that the class has built in. If you can, try not to take it your freshman year and wait til you are an upperclassmen and have some other science courses under your belt. It's refreshing to be in an intro level class again after you have Life Sci 2 or something similar completed, and you will be guaranteed to do better in it simply because you are more acquainted with how to study, etc.
One of the fairest of all the premed classes
It's hard. You have to do work.
Don't take it if you don't have to, but it's not that bad for a requirement.
Pay attention to Michaelis-Menton formula
This is a great class until midterm number 3
This is basically a high school AP chemistry course, but even less in depth than that.  Should only be taken as a refresher or as a requirement. It is, however, very well organized and taught and is a good experience, especially for such a large class size.
The information is interesting and the professors are enthusiastic and want you to learn!
do not take this class unless you have taken at least ap chem and are confident in your retention of chemistry from high school
Don't procrastinate on problem sets- they take longer than you think. Go to section, because section is a good summary of what the class taught. Also, section has excellent packets used to review the information learned.
work hard and do not get behind in your work. this class is more than manageable if you keep yourself accountable for your work.  And try to do as much as the problem set by yourself as you can, it will help you learn.
Go to lectures and sections; especially sections!
Try to do the readings and all the practice problems, they help, but sometimes the tests are unpredictable.
This class truly isn't as difficult or painful as others may make it seem. If you keep up with the work you will be fine.
This class is a good intro class for people interested in sciences.
Take this class during freshman spring in combination with life sciences 1b for pre-med.
This class can be challenging, but the lectures are actually quite interesting and the professors are good.
My favorite science class at Harvard so far!
Tests are extremely difficult and lectures are hard to concentrate in.
This class is probably one of the better intro science courses. Good intro to inorganic chem. Great TFs, fairly laid back labs, moderate problem sets, unpredictable midterms in terms of difficulty. Professors were funny and nice, but their lectures were not very comprehensive.
Go to office hours/option section. It really helps with the problems
Not incredibly interesting; just an intro chemistry course that involves some physics. Sometimes boring, tedious and feels like it isn't really teaching anything interesting.
If you are required to take it, it is not terrible. I would not take it if not required. It can be deceptively tricky.
The lectures are pretty fun and engaging (lots of demonstrations!), the problem sets are challenging, but this is helpful in the long run when preparing for exams.
If you've taken a chem class before, this course shouldn't be too hard. Keep up with the material by making sure you understand the problems so that you don't have to cram before tests. Definitely go to section and the problems sessions were really helpful in figuring out how to do the problems. Understanding what is said in lecture is important to understanding what you're doing in the problems, but the actual problem solving itself is what you'll need to know for the test so make sure you practice this a lot.
Adam Cohen and Professor Park are amazing!
The new professors are great, and the preceptor, Sirinya, will save your life! They are all very helpful and are willing to clarify any questions you have. Had a good experience. There were to exams with a very high mean, and a tough one, so overall it was fair.
It is very difficult.
PS1 is a good course, and the material is manageable, but you can't expect to gain it all in the few days before an exam. Learn as you go!
I understood chemistry better in a tenth-grade honors class than after taking this class. As a matter of fact, this class probably just confused me instead of teach me. I am glad it's almost over.
This class is not terrible, but I felt like no matter well I knew the material, I never felt like I was able to perform well on the tests. We were not well prepared for the types of questions we would see, and I didn't feel like the professors and TFs really helped to prepare us well enough.
its ok if you took chemistry in highschool
If you do all the practice problems and section problems, you should be very well prepared in this class.  Also, don't be afraid to go to office hours because the professors are very approachable!
only if you need it for premed
is a good foundational course in chemistry, but definitely feels like an intro course.
It's a great class to better your lab skills and it's a GPA-raiser.
It's worth it as a pre-med requirement
There's really no option if you're a science major. I will say that the professors genuinely care about helping the students and there are many resources, so you will get rewarded if you work hard.
I would only take this course if you like chemistry, need to take it for requirements, or have a background in the material.
Be prepared to work harder than in any other class; keep up with the lectures (understand what's going on in class) or else you'll be screwed.  Understand what you're doing on the problem sets when you're doing them.... make use of Sirinya's personal and general office hours; she's the best person ever. Your TF might be really helpful as well.
Stay on top of your work. As long as you understand how to do the problems, you'll be fine.
I would tell students that this course has drastically improved ever since Professors Park and Cohen took over and I would tell them that although it may be difficult and challenging, it is still a class well worth taking. I personally did not like Chemistry in high school, but this class was so good that now I am even considering to pursue a concentration in Chemistry. I perfectly understand that some students may never, ever come to like Chemistry - however, taking my own experience into consideration, I would still strongly suggest that students looking for a class that fulfills the General Education Science of the Physical Universe requirement give this course - as well as Chemistry - a try before making any judgements.
I would tell future students that lectures are not that helpful and a waste of time.  It's better to just go to section and pay attention there.
This is a great class that really established the basis of chemistry that is used in more advanced courses, and it is taught in a very thorough and interesting manner.
I would recommend that people take this course as sophomores, after understanding how to take science classes and then giving it a shot either before or concurrently with organic chemistry. Don't leave it for senior year. Adam Cohen is great. Taking a premed science class where they teach straight-up science rather than interdisciplinary stuff is great!
If you need it, you're gonna have to take it. Having taken AP Chem lightens the time commitment considerably, tho, and makes the class a bit more tolerable.
there is a lot of learning that you have to do on your own and this is not made explicit in the beginning of the course, it sort of just suddenly jumps out at you
STUDY!  GO OVER THE LECTURE VIDEOS! don't bother with section unless you really need help. The professors are super accessible so email them a lot.
The class teaches you really important chemical concepts which you are sure to apply in later classes. The teachers are really enthusiastic and tend to have decent demos! If you pay attention and do the practice problems, you should be able to do relatively well!
Overall this class is really a good intro chem course.  Everything was going well until the notoriously difficult last hourly exam.  It seems like they are going to try and fix this again next year, so I'd definitely recommend it.  Cohen's lectures get pretty abstract, but he's more than happy to explain stuff to you via email or office hours.
Only take this course if you have a solid grasp of the prerequisite material (like in LPS A and LifeSci 1a).
Be sure to attend section and the reviews as they are very helpful. Make sure to complete all of the practice problems and practice exams.
Prepare for every class and dedicate a significant amount time to midterm studies.
Be prepare to work very hard and go to office hours frequently. However, you will learn a lot and will be ready for higher level chemistry courses.
Be on top of your work and don't fall behind.
Only take it as a requirement. That being said, it's the best course to serve as the Gen Chem pre-med requirement.
Do practice problems and pay attention in section!
Any preparation for orgo is good preparation...
Course is moderately challenging even if you have a chemistry background. Do not expect too much sophistication when it comes to the material, good class to brush up on skills.
I tried really hard to enjoy this class and tried really hard to get into it by putting a lot of time and effort into it...I sometimes succeeded but after that horrible third exam I cannot lie to myself and tell myself I enjoy the class. My perception of classes is often very much skewed towards how I perform so I might not be the most objective source. But overall it was an interesting class if you put a lot of time in.
If you're taking PS1, it's probably because you need it for your concentration/some pre-rec. Don't underestimate it (unless you took AP Chem in high school.) It's a lot of work and the exams are tough. Also, if you need a science core, take something easy.
In general this class has interesting material, and the lectures (and lecturers) are well-done and engaging. I felt prepared coming into this course with one year of high school chemistry (not AP), but I was working at the very edge of my knowledge (e.g. things like ideal gas law, stoichiometry were assumed as prior knowledge and not even reviewed).  If you haven't had at least a year of chemistry, it will probably be rough. Be prepared to stay on top of material (review etc)!
This class was an interesting class and serves as a good foundation for future chem majors.
Although the course material is fascinating and crucial to your future as a scientist/engineer, the course instructors--although amazing researchers and absolutely outstanding individuals in the academia--are insufficient in their teaching techniques.
This class is not well taught, is loosely structured, and is disjointed in the presentation of problems. I learned some things about atomic structure, bonding, and systems energy; however, I learned the majority of these things through section and through my own readings. The group lectures were nigh upon pointless and was often very hard to follow.
The class material is fairly easy if you've already taken AP Chemistry.
Don't take it for a Gen Ed, but if you have to take it for a requirement, it is not too bad.
Do the practice problems!
If you study and do the practice problems you will do well.  You have to put in the time, but you will be satisfied at the end of the course.
It is a difficult course but required. The lectures don't give much information that is helpful for the problem sets or for the exams. GO TO SECTION! That was the most valuable hour of the 7 hours a week (with lab)because the hand outs were useful and we went over problems.
do all of the work
Good intro class to chemistry and physics.
Only take the course if Hongkun is not teaching it.
If you do the work and understand the problem set, this class should not be too difficult. However, if you do not do what you need to do, this class can bury you, so study!
Go to section.
The class is conducted unfairly and it becomes apparent that this is not a course where the teaching staff wants you to succeed
PS1 underwent a huge renovation from previous years, and it was substantially improved. The class is clear and straightforward, and very manageable at almost all times. Sirinya is extremely helpful (her review sessions are SO helpful for the midterms), but lectures tend to be much less useful (especially Hongkun's). Go to section to learn how to actually solve the problems you'll see on tests.
go to sirinyas office hours
This class is really not so bad. The workload is manageable and the material not so hard if you put the time in. Make sure you go to section, take advantage of your peer study leader, and check psets with people. Beware though, they do tend to put problems you haven't been taught how to do on psets, and sometimes even on exams.
Review all material possible for exams.  The midterms had some curveballs on material that was only glossed over during lecture and section.
This is the worst class I've ever taken at Harvard. Do NOT take this course. This class is the biggest waste of time.
Do the practice problems and go to section! You'll realize how helpful they are once midterms roll around.
Lots of class, meets early, is boring.
Go to section, it's helpful and so are the PSL help sessions.
I really loved this course, but it was difficult for me at times because I had never taken chem or physics.
If you took AP chem in high school, this class will be quite easy for you.
i would only recommend it for pre-meds, as a necessary evil
if you have to take it, take it, otherwise, do something more fun
If you like chemistry it is a very well taught class
quite apart from it being absolutely necessary for most bio majors, it's a very solidly taught class.
The lectures for PS1 are inefficient and largely unhelpful but the sections are very helpful.
Use the section handouts, they are your best friend. Ask your TF a lot of questions since that is the best resource to have specific needs met. And don't wait until the day before a test to start studying, studying for these tests is a process.
If the professors for this course change, I might consider it, but if the professors stay the same - definitely not.
It's definitely not as bad as a lot of the other science intro level classes.
Take only if necessary... which of course it will be, so good luck. The lectures are interesting, but the course is deceptively difficult- don't let the first two weeks of the course lull you into complacency!
It's hard.
Unless you felt really comfortable with chemistry in high school, do not take this course. I was my mistake to take this course without any background in chemistry.
I think it's horribly taught and unhelpful to the MCAT/future premed classes.  I would tell people to take anything else (Chem 40) -- even if the material is more difficult, at least people will have a clue of what they are trying to teach.
well organized: basically remembering how to do about 20 types of questions. Lecture is not really useful. Section is great. Lab is painless.
Make sure you know your AP Chemistry before you enter this course, not because the material is hard in any way, but because sometimes they don't do a good job of reteaching it. Have to take it for the science concentration requirement.
Only take it if you have time. Doing psets are more like scavenger hunts rather than actually practicing what you learned.
Go to section!
Only take this class if you absolutely have to or if you know they have given it a major upgrade.  If you are looking for a stress free chemistry class this is not the way to go.  The lectures and written materials are unclear so much so that you can walk away feeling as though you havent understood a single thing.
Prepared to be overwhelmed by your peers who have a stronger high school background in Chemistry.  Also, this course covers a wide range of topics in a rather comprehensive manner- which can seem daunting.
The topics overlap substantially with AP chemistry and the course is a refresher to some basic chemistry concepts. Relatively painless and can be even fun!
It is difficult but the material is interesting.
Don't take this class if you have a strong background in AP chem, and if your scores qualify you for orgo.  I could have taken orgo, decided to re-take PS, and was unchallenged and unstimulated by course material that I thought was easier than my AP class in high school.
Don't take it unless it's a requirement for your concentration.
Take it if you have to, absolutely do not if you don't have to. You would be better served by spending a couple of weeks with a good GenChem textbook. But then again, that's true of almost every class here.
Try to get the most you can out of lecture. It's not that hard to pay attention and the material that we go over is really important to understanding the course.
This class isn't too bad for a pre-med requirement. Definitely go to section. The lectures are interesting sometimes but you don't have to know all of the info from the lectures for the exams. Do lots of practice problems to study, don't just read over notes.
adam is awesome and you should get to know him. don't worry so much about the actual math work as long as you understand the concepts, you can pretty much figure the rest of the material.
It is interesting and well organized. Not too difficult.
Some of this class is learning how to take the test
It's a class you have to take.
This is a relatively difficult course that although may not seem that hard at the surface requires a good deal of work and preparation for the exams if you plan on realistically finishing in the upper-echelon of the class.
You have to take it.  It's not that bad, just GO TO SECTION
This is a very good introductory chemistry course. I would have been extremely lost and confused without problem sections. Definitely attend them, and study those problems for the exams. Course expectations are very reasonable, and I found lectures to be enjoyable.
Only take it if you need to.
much better than life sci 1b
Enjoyable, straightforward class on inorganic chemistry.
Lab is really fun
The professors make it very clear that they want the grade distribution of the class to fall within the standards of a perfect bell curve.  Up until the third exam, the class was doing very well, so they deliberately created an exam that was impossible to do well on.  Then, after the class average was a failing grade on this third grade (which, mind you, was at the very end of the semester when every single person in the class had a hundred other things to do), the professors actually told us they were disappointed with how poorly we did and chastised us for not studying enough.
As long as you stay on top of the course material and ask for help when you need it, you should be able to do well. Do as many practice problems as possible.
You will probably take this class as a requirement, but I recommend it highly because I believe that it is taught well and in an organized manner.
It's an awesome way to fulfill the chem. pre-med requirement (it's super easy). But if you have a genuine love for chemistry, it's a pretty basic course
Another huge pre-med grind all science concentrators take
Hard to take at the same time as ls1b
Do all practice problems, go to office hours, pray!
This class may seem easy, but don't let yourself slack off. It is important to stay on top of the material. Doing practice problems and keeping up with the readings are crucial to your success in the course.
This class is pretty elementary if you've had a strong AP chem background.  Even if you know all the material, it's still a super cool class.  And if you don't have much background, you will learn a lot, though from that perspective, it's probably a ton of info being presented to you.  Overall, Adam makes this course awesome, demos (explosions) are sweet, and you learn a bunch of stuff no matter what your background.
The professors are engaging and explain material pretty well. Sirinya's review sessions are wonderful for preparing for the exams. Can be challenging but getting help from Peer Study Leaders and TFs helps a lot.
The course was okay. They made too significant of an adjustment for the third midterm because the class did well on the first two midterms. It's too bad that you get penalized for the class doing well.
Work with other students on your problem sets and make sure to use your TF's help as much as possible.
high school AP chem + a little bit extra.
Though the material is pretty basic, this course is well taught and good for grasping fundamentals.
amazing professors, fun labs, great sections, reasonable p-sets
Be ready to learn! All the faculty try their best to make sure the process is smooth.
Don't take this class unless you have to.
Be prepared to study efficiently.
It's one of those big lecture courses that people take because it's required, but it's an interesting subject too.
A good class to learn the basic chemistry concepts. Lectures are a bit haphazard but go to section and understand section problems and problem sets.
Chapter readings are useless, they spend a lot of time deriving things and going on odd tangents. Use the section handouts which summarize them.
The course was well taught, but I wouldn't take it unless you have to in order to fulfill a requirement.
Basically an AP Chem class.  Not hard at all and not as much covered as in AP chem, but some material covered to a greater extent and good to refresh your knowledge of chem.
Don't go to section unless you're fortunate enough to have an amazing TF...but definitely go through all the section practice problems since they'll help for the midterms. Go to Sirinya's review sessions before each midterm/final, because they're amazingly helpful - far more so than most of the lectures. And go to your PSL's 'office hours' - they can be AMAZINGLY helpful as you work on your psets!
Study group, study group, study group. Some of these problems are really non-intuitive, so you have to make sure that you know what to do and when. You can't always just figure it out as you go during the exam.
The professors are amazing! AP chemistry would be really useful.
Premed req, well taught, you can do well if you put in the time.
Starts off easy, gets harder! Don't let down your guard. GO to office hours with professors and TFs! They want you to succeed!
PS1 was nice in that the psets were relatively straightforward, but the exams were weirdly worded and had very low medians. Therefore, because it's not curved, it can be intimidating to have your science GPA lowered, but overall I learned a lot.
I think you should choose this class over PS11.  It really isn't that bad so long as you look over all the practice problems they provide you.  If you know how to do all of those, the homework and tests are very manageable.  The staff is awesome also!
I would recommend this course if you need to fulfill a requirement. Is it fun? No. The problem sets are tedious and the exams can be quite difficult, as they expect you to be able to apply topics broadly when you may have only been taught the very general themes of said topic. If you are trying to pick between this and PS11, I think it really doesn't matter. They are both just intro filler courses that you need to get out of the way. If Alan and Hongkun are your professors you'll  a great time. They're both pretty good at explaining things and bring some needed humor to the material. Go to section and do the psets and you'll be fine! Also, don't buy the textbook, I never touched it.
Go to office hours. But if you didn't do well in AP Chem or didn't take it like I did, you'll find it difficult to keep up at times.
It's not as bad as people say. Do practice problems and you'll do well.
This class requires a lot of outside class time.  Be willing to attend all sections, office hours, and review sessions.  You also need to spend time doing and understanding all of the practice problems in order to receive an okay grade on the tests.
Do all the practice problems, review all the pset questions, and then rinse and repeat.
I think PS 11 would have been a better experience
Concepts are explained fairly well and section helps a lot with doing problems. Go to PSL!!! They are very helpful with problems. Psets are straight forward and not tricky and the tests for the most parts are reflective of the psets and practice problems but a few questions can be a bit tricky. I found lecture to be not that helpful but some days are covered well. Overall painless intro class.
Prepare to go to a lot of office hours. For those who don't have any strong chem background, it can be difficult.
If you've taken AP Chem (or probably even if you haven't), this is a pretty painless way to take care of your gen chem requirement for med school/your concentration. And the professors do try to make the lectures somewhat fun/interesting. The teaching staff was great, super enthusiastic and helpful!
This class was very manageable. Make sure you use office hours for problem sets right before they are due. I thought the tests and assignments were fair. I would recommend this class.
Alan was a decent lecturer, but Hongkun was awful.  They were both very nice, but Hongkun always skipped steps which made working psets and reviewing lecture notes very difficult.  One of our tests was very unfair.
Not a bad way to fulfill a premed requirement.
The first part of the class was extremely well taught. If you have background in LPSA/LS1a and/or AP Chem, the first part is not very difficult. The second part is much harder (between 2nd and 3rd midterm) because it's a lot of new material (that was not covered in LPSA/LS1a) covered in a very short period of time and not taught as well (although this is supposed to change next year). The final was fair and it was a good class overall. The teaching staff was very helpful and accessible outside of class.
Consider carefully your options before taking this course. It is very challenging (more so than you may be led to believe by its title) and though it seems like a repeat of AP Chem, it is actually a big time commitment even for those of us already familiar with the material. For some people, PS 11 may be a better option, so do your research.
Easy course, great support and enthusiasm from course staff
Be prepared to do a lot of work.
Do the psets and practice problems.
This class is very well run, and the professors truly care about the students.  It is a fairly straight-forward class for students who have had AP chemistry in the past, but is extremely difficult for students who have not.  If you have not, be aware of the potential for major frustration.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE!!! Take PS11 instead! Taking this course was the biggest mistake of my time at Harvard. This course's Q score (as well as Hongkun's) should be enough to scare you away. I took this course because I am premed and I thought that it would be easier than PS11. I was very wrong. PS11 has a take home final and a professor who can actually teach Acid/Base and Redox reactions. Hongkun Park is easily the worst teacher that I have EVER had. He is so incredibly poor that even the TFs complain about him. The other professor, Alan, is not great, but looks fine next to Hongkun. Lectures are supposed to give you basic knowledge about the material, section advances your knowledge, and you use this knowledge to complete problem sets. However, the lectures are so poor that one is unable to gain a good understanding of the material from lecture. So, TF's are forced to try to explain basic concepts and teach you detailed problems of a week's worth of material in 1 hour! The final was also very difficult and confusing even though I studied tens and tens of hours for it. The structure of this course is incredibly poor. I cannot emphasize enough how terrible Hongkun's teaching was. He simply did not know how to teach. Do not make the same mistake that I made in taking this course - it may very well ruin your semester like it did mine.I see this course as a huge failure by Harvard. I am angry that they kept such a poor teacher in a course taken by so many. It makes one think that Harvard doesnt truly care about its undergraduate teaching or how premeds are taught.
Not the most interesting, or well taught course, but very entertaining.
This course is unforgiving and difficult.  While being a very interesting and educational course, a strong background in chemistry is necessary to not get trampled by the pace.  The book is absolutely worthless and the readings are a waste of time.  Section, which is mandatory, is also not in your best interest.  The midterms and the problem sets in the latter half of the course are very hard and require a large amount of time to prepare for/complete.  I cannot stress this enough: DO THE PRACTICE PROBLEMS.  Without these, the class doubles in difficulty.  At the end of the day, I was left with an in-depth knowledge of chemistry that I appreciate.  But is this worth a B when PS11 (an easier and less informative class) is an easy A?  That is your decision.
Overall a good class. Could be better. If you are deciding between PS1 and PS11, if you just want to do chemistry problems and have less application and whatnot, then choose PS1. I think that PS1 is more of a standard gen chem course.
Exams are so hard.
It's a rough, new course still seeking stability in its material/exam ratio.
It is difficult and pushes your knowledge, but in the end, you feel good about it once you know you put in the effort and did your best and learned.
GET A GOOD TF- Thomas Mankovich. That is the only way you will even remotely survive the class
Good basic intro to chem.
I LOVE PS1!! Alan and Hongkun are hilarious and very effective lecturers. Everyone on the teaching staff is very friendly and supportive. I highly recommend this course with no reservation whatsoever.
This course if very stratight-forward and taught really well. Keep up with the lectures and practice problems as you go along so that you are well prepared for each midterm.
This course is not always well taught but the TFs were extremely helpful and the discussion sections definitely supplemented the in lecture teaching.
The course is very organized and well taught.  The lecturers are good, and the TFs are all very helpful.  It is not graded on a curve, which is annoying considering PS11 is, but overall it was a great course... and it would probably be much better if you are someone who is actually interested in chemistry
The class was completely revamped this year and I thought it was great. Very well taught now. Everything is completely do-able. Just do the practice problems and pset and exams will never be a surprise!
GO TO SECTION! DO PRACTICE PROBLEMS! only way to prosper in this class.
Solid class. Fun and enjoyable.
I had zero chemistry background coming into this class and I struggled a lot. Luckily, I had god's gift to undergrads in my TF (Thomas) and he helped me through. It's a fine class but you definitely either need chemistry background or a will to work.
PS1 will be a piece of cake for those who have taken AP Chem, but if you haven't (like me) you will find that this prepares you for the basics of chemistry. The lecutres can be frustrating just because these are brilliant professors who are not the BEST at teaching this introductory material to students, but if you do the problem sets and all the practice problems and attend office hours, you will very easily be able to succeed in this class.
This is a great way to fulfill your premed requirement. It is not harder than AP Chem and the professors and the TFs are great. You will get all the help you need and have lots of fun. I
Take this case over PS11 if you want to get an understanding of actual concepts without caring too much about their applications. Also make sure you have a very good background in LPSA or LS1A chemistry material.
Take PS11 instead.
The class is not very exciting, but if you have to take it, it's doable.
PS1 is a great class. After talking to students in PS11, it seems like PS1 was much less stressful (unlike PS11, we have no reading quizzes/long take-home tests) and more straightforward. Also, the professors (Hongkun and Alan) are great and keep lectures interesting! The only reservation I have is that it sometimes feels like we are just learning how to solve problems with formulas, rather than understanding the broad concepts behind them.
I thoroughly enjoyed PS1. The material was manageable (however, I had taken AP Chem--be careful if you have not, it will be difficult to learn all this stuff for the first time). But what was actually the best is the teaching staff--on several occasions, everyone (professors, Lab staff, TFs) demonstrated an INCREDIBLE amount of concern for their students. I have never felt more cared for by a teaching staff than in PS1. They are an amazing group of people who I loved getting to know.
For PreMed students, take this over PS11.  PS11 is more engineering and real world application based, and this is much more straightforward.  Also, coming out of LPSA you've got a really good foundation for the course.
Keep up with the work, it is hard to catch up in this course, but if you keep up it is pretty doable.
PS1 is amazing!  The lectures are always fascinating and the material is well-taught!  It is ESSENTIAL that you put the right amount of time into the course (Chemistry is challenging**) if you expect to see positive results on psets and exams.  Overall, I had a rewarding experience in PS1.  I recommend PS1 over PS11 (which allegedly has boring lectures).  There are so many resources available for this course...take advantage of them!  And have fun!  PS1 is really an enjoyable course!
If you've heard anything bad, it's all lies. This is a great class, and you'll be a better student for having taken it.
Pleas just trust me....be wise....Tak PS11. Same credit, better class. That is all.
The course is really all about doing practice problems and taking advantage of office hours. Take advantage of the resources that are made available to you. Don't be lazy!
you will definitely learn chemistry but you might not like how you learn it
Watch the lab. Also, do all the practice problems! For the final, just review all of them.
Not graded on a curve. Definitely a lot less work than PS11, but come into it knowing that you will have to get an A on every exam if you want to do well!
I didn't have the strongest chemistry background and thought this class was very challenging. It was also hard taking it with other students who took AP chemistry in high school and saw this material before. However, I thought it was the best option available.
In order to succeed in this course, make sure to complete practice problems prior to the problem sets. While completing problem sets, go through to make sure that you understand broad concepts behind every question. You must develop an intuitive understanding of how to manipulate these chemical concepts.
The class teaches you what you need to know, however you have to be willing to do a lot of practice problems and read on your own.
This course is manageable if you do all the practice problems and do the problemSets at office hours
I think the section component is the best part of the course -- the TFs are incredibly helpful, thoughtful, and available.  It's made a world of a difference actually going to section and OH.
I thought this was as painless a way to fulfill the pre med gen chem requirement as possible. I enjoyed the demos and the lectures were usually good. The second half of the course was definitely rushed and could be better, so keep up in the back end of the course. Also for the PS1/PS11 debate I thought this was a better preparation for the problem solving skills I needed for the mcat, also ironically PS1 has become the smaller more personal class as PS11 has had so many "hop-ons."
I loved the class, but the tests were more difficult than everyone was prepared for.
This class is difficult if you don't have a thorough chem background. You will definitely need to put in many hours.  The TFs are absolutely amazing though, so they make your life easier because they are always there to help and answer any questions. Make sure to do all the practice problems and problems sets thoroughly and understand the concepts behind all of them.  This will prepare you for the exam.  The exam can get super conceptual, so understanding the underlying reasons behind everything is a must! If you can, get Thomas as a TF. He is amazing.
This class is by no means easy, but it is quite manageable. This best advice that I can offer,though, is to do the practice problems and understand them well because they can prove helpful for midterms and especially for finals.
Take this class it is amazing. The best pre-med class ever. Both lecturers, the TF's, and the lab leaders are super friendly and extremely helpful. This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. Ample help is available and you will fall in love with chemistry.
It's hard and requires a lot of work, especially if you haven't taken a high-level Chemistry course.
This class is difficult because it is hard material, a large class, and most students are premed.  However, it really isn't that bad if you put in the time.  The exams were very fair and the psets helped prepare you for them.  Also, the teaching staff was absolutely amazing.  They were always available to help, even outside of regular office hours.
The lecturers are great and it's a fun class
This was easily one of the worst classes I've taken at Harvard. The lectures were uninteresting and poorly explained, and it seemed like much of the teaching staff couldn't care less about students' understanding of the material. It was far too difficult for how poorly it was taught.
I would say take it! If you wanted to take a general/into chem course I think this would be the best one. Obviously I cannot speak for PS11 (which I think is similar). I would not say that this course is too difficult, especially if you are comfortable with basic chem already.
Before I took this class, some people warned me not to take it. I don't know why. It's a great course. the teaching staff is awesome, and the course is not overbearing. It's a solid course for a basic requirement. The professors are funny.
This class isn't good or bad. It's not an overwhelming amount of work, but it can still get annoying. For some reason the course started with quantum physics/chemistry, so everyone was lost in the beginning. It gets easier as the year goes on (you actually do chemistry).
The course is great, but don't buy the textbook
take ps11--the final exam is sooo hard
It was a hard class and a miserable experience.
Be prepared to study well on your own and to rely on your own studying ability. The lectures are usually not helpful. Office hours are great, as are sections.
Section is very useful. It gives a good summary of the lectures and teaches you how to solve problems better.
It's really not too bad, especially if you have taken AP chemistry, probably the most painless pre-med class.
The class is very straight forward.
Be creative about learning the material from sources other than lecture and you will be fine. Review sessions, practice problems, and section handouts are the key things to succeed.
You'll already know everything they teach you. Some of the p-sets were easiest than my high-school chemistry ones. The exams, however, are slightly difficult.
If you have a good chemistry background, this is a complete waste of time. The professors are nice and pretty entertaining. I'd take another chem course if I had the chance though
Easier version of AP Chem
Its really not as bad as people say it is. Just pay attention in section and go to the exam reviews and you will learn a lot.
This is a really easy class if you've taken AP Chemistry and done well in it.
PS1 is pretty good for an introductory chem class. The class itself is not that difficult, especially if you have a strong AP chemistry background. The tests are reasonable, but since there aren't that many questions on the hourly exams, a simple question might be worth 15 points and a minor mistake could quickly bring you down 5 or more points. Always send in grade change requests because the graders can make mistakes or dock you down by too many points.
Necessary class that teaches you good information but it isn't run as nicely as it could be. Definite pre-med weed out class which can get frustrating.
A ton of work for a mediocre amount of satisfaction.  AP Chemistry or equal should be a requirement, it is absolutely much more demanding than the Q information makes it out to be because so many students see most of the material as review.  If you haven't taken AP be warned.
Take PS 11 instead. They have better lecturers, a more coherent syllabus, and you will learn more, with less pain. Unless Alan goes away, or somehow miraculously changes his way of teaching, his part of the course will be a mess though. Sirinya is awesome though, so it's a bit of a trade-off.
Go to office hours. Switch sections if you don't like your TF. Get a tutor early if you need one.
Very manageable class, just make sure you go to section and you should be fine.
If you are going into a science concentration, take this course. It is similar to the material in AP chemistry, only somewhat harder. Helps you get used to the types of questions/exams Harvard will give you.
This course may not be the most exciting, but ultimately it's very fair and the material is relatively easy. As long as you keep up on the problem sets, go to review, and take the practice exams, the real exams should be no problem.
If they keep Alan and hongkun, you might need a tutor for this class. The material isn't that hard but he way it is taught is very confusing.
If you have taken AP Chemistry before you are all set. Otherwise you will want to be on top of your work, but generally it is a very fair class.
If you're willing to put up with fairly boring lectures, the work isn't too bad. A pretty good choice if you like/enjoy chemistry.
If you took AP Chem take a harder course.
The course was difficult to get a good grade in as the tests varied and certain lectures were hard to follow along with.
Always do all of the practice problems and practice exams. Redo them until you get them right easily. This class is less about concepts and more about knowing how to do the problems correctly. The section component of the class is very helpful for this. If you do all the problems, you'll do well.
Lecutres can be confusing, but you should go to them and compile questions while you are there. Then take those questions to office hours every week, and you will be on track with the course.
Hard. Be prepared to do work. Interesting stuff though
This course is great. I really enjoyed it! Although materials are somewhat similar to AP Chemistry, they way they are presented are different and you get to learn a lot more!
Great introductory chemistry course.
Bad grading.
Teaches the basic concepts of chemistry.
This class was more or less a review of major areas of AP Chemistry class, with some eigenfunctions/wavefunctions and conductivity topics thrown in. It was good for me because Id forgotten most of the gen. chem. Id learned in AP Chem. Section reviews and handouts were extremely helpful, as were Sirinyas Friday (pre-test) review sessions. Exams were challenging; keep up-to-date with lectures and practice problems.
This class is a very typical large prerequisite class.  I wish I would have tried to take a harder course than this one to fulfill my inorganic chemistry requirement.  If you took AP Chem in high school then you already know 95% of the course material, so take it if you want an easy course or take a higher level course if you want it to be more challenging.
Do not take this course unless you are required to for premed or concentration requirements.
Section handouts are basically a summary of the class. If you don't really want to learn the material, but know how to do most of the problems, you could probably get away with just looking at those.
It's not a great class. I was debating between PS1 and PS11 because I knew I had to take one of them as a pre-med requirement. I was scared that PS11 would be too hard and PS1 would be too easy, but I decided it would be better to err on the side of caution, so I took PS1 and it's basically a rehash of AP Chem, except AP Chem was a much better class. I just decided I'm not pre-med anyway, so basically I didn't really have to take either of these. So, if you're not sure you're pre-med or at least going to concentrate in a hard science, think twice before enrolling in this class. However, PS1 fills the Gen Ed for Science of the Physical Universe, so I won't be losing sleep over my decision to take this class.
Professor Aspuru-Guzik tries quite hard to be a good teacher but sometimes he struggles with gauging difficulty and his lectures are a bit inconsistent. Don't get caught off guard if you have taken AP Chemistry before. The material isn't that different but it's easy to lose points if you're not careful.
I actually really enjoyed this class. While people complain about it being a tedious pre-med requirement, I really enjoyed everything about it, especially compared to the pure madness of LS1b. This course is taught in a way that makes sense, the lectures and section handouts always correspond to the material on the problem sets and exams, and the labs are actually really fun, and never take the full three hours which is great.
If you have a strong background in AP Chem (or equivalent), then you'll do quite well with minimal effort (though do make sure not to slack off too much). If you have a decent background in AP Chem, then with the straightforward nature of the problems (what you see on the psets is what you see on the exams) and the abundance of resources, you'll do just fine. If you're completely new to Chemistry though, the course can be a bit overwhelming because it does move through a lot of material quite quickly, and without decent familiarity with the concepts, can be challenging.
for a student who has taken AP Chem, this course is a refresher rather than a chance to deepen understanding of chemistry topics.
This class is very easy if you stay on top of the P-Sets and lecture notes. Make sure to attend section because the TFs are very helpful. The course material is only hard if you get behind and don't do practice problems. The mid-terms and final look just like the practice tests the course heads put on the iSite. Just practice, practice, practice problems (especially Acid-Base problems when you get to them) and you will have NO problem with this course. The readings, I felt, were completely unnecessary. Avoid the readings entirely unless you actually get something out of them. This is more of a problem-solving class (the way I feel this type of class should be) than a concepts-teaching class. This chemistry class seems more like "Chemistry through the lens of physics" than anything else. Overall, a great course. I highly recommend it for pre-meds.
This course has helpful TFs and well versed professors, but the material becomes difficult quickly, and requires a substantial amount of work.
this is not a representation of chemistry. its just 2 professor making majority of the class focus on parts of chemistry to do with research. that is why majority of it is physical chem and theoretical chem. do orgo or something. this class needs to be improved.
The class is difficult the way it is structured. Take the class if you have to for requirements, but not if you can avoid it.
The teaching is sub-par (except for Sirinya) and the material is dry. Also, the exams only have 4 questions, so if you don't get one, you're screwed. Not too much work, but I didn't gain too much out of the class or enjoy it.
best way to prepare for this class is to practice solving problems that prepare for the exam.
Definitely keep up with the lectures and at least skim the textbook each week. The textbook is actually really helpful in explaining the concepts and uses a lot of examples to help with problem-solving, so definitely use it as a resource.
This class was a terrible experience. The content was not well-explained, lectures were painfully bad, and I only memorized enough to get through exams. Lab was pointless and did not help with material at all.
it's a necessary evil.  form a study (or prayer) group and you'll be fine.
Once again, introductory level science classes at Harvard insist on being boring and tedious. Sorry for anyone who is forced to take this class
I didn't enjoy it at all, but I'm also not a fan of chemistry. I didn't think it was very well taught but labs are easy and graders are generous with partial credit on exams.
If you have taken AP Chem and have any intention of learning anything in your intro chem class, DO NOT take this course.  It is entirely a review and a waste of time.  Go with another chem class if you can.
It sucks, but do lots of practice problems, read the textbook, and you'll get through it. Tests will often be pretty different from the practice tests and practice problems. Lecture's not very helpful, but you ought to go anyway.
don't take unless you have to. go to sirinya's review sessions. go to tf sections. go to PSLs for psets. get tutoring if you can afford it and need it. start studying early for exams (like 2 weeks early).
Only take this if needed for premed requirements or concentration requirements.
If you've taken AP Chemistry and remember most of the material fairly well, this class will be a breeze. Section is optional, and lab never lasts more than 90-120 minutes. If you're a pre-med looking for an easy A, this is the way to go.
This course gives one a more solid foundation in inorganic chemistry and prepares one for anything.
I honestly thought this class was very good. The exams were fair and the information was clearly presented. If you took AP chem it should be a breeze.
Great class, you learn a lot
You're probably only taking it if you have to, which is the correct approach (no one should ever take it for fun).  Stay on top of your shit, do the practice problems, go to section, and go to the exam reviews.  Practice, practice, practice, and don't try to learn it all at the very end.
I heard a lot of not so great things from people before I took this course, but I was pleasantly surprised by the class. I liked the lecturers a lot and both my section TF and lab TF were pretty fantastic. Everyone was so willing to make time to meet with you in and outside of office hours. Lab was actually helpful for learning concepts and I remembered them on tests. The exams aren't easy but they're really really fair, which both rare and fantastic. If you need an inorganic chem class for pre-med or something like it, definitely take PS1 and don't be afraid of it. I am so happy that I have taken this course.
It's a decent class, not great, not terrible. Definitely study on your own, as some of the lectures are far from comprehensive. Go to section.
Not a terribly interesting course, but good for requirements
Attend ALL of the exam review sessions. Even if you just read lecture, it is absolutely imperative that you attend these sessions because they go over all the information needed for the exams. Also, do ALL of the practice problems, more than once if you have to. This class is very problem based, and though my initial exam score was not good, I drastically improved (by at least 20 points) after I began to do all of the practice problems. Do them! Believe me, you won't regret it.
Utilize office hours with Sirinya to prepare for the tests.
Read the textbook!
If you took AP Chem and are willing to go to lectures, pay attention, study for tests, basically do everything like you should, you will do fine. The course is very straightforward---the don't try to trick you. The problem sets are not that hard and the exams are the same format as the practices exams, which you get a lot of to practice. Highly recommend it!
The course materials are interesting, but i found the quality of instruction on the whole to be less than ideal.
Regular introductory chemistry course. Boring because the stuff is so dry sometimes.
the class gets hard at the end
If you're ok with having weekly work (psets) and busting your *** for exams, you should take this!
Don't go to lecture
PS1 is a pretty standard chemistry class, but it is well-organized and you generally know what to expect. I would definitely recommend going to section, unless you took AP Chem in high school, as this is really where you learn how to do the problems (if you took AP Chem you already know almost everything this course covers). Overall, the class isn't easy, but it could be worse, and it doesn't really frustrate you throughout the semester.
Great for the gen chem portion of the MCAT!
It really teaches you what you need to know in order to safely and confidently move on to more difficult courses.
This class isn't very difficult at all if you have any background in chemistry. The lecture component of the class was terrible, I learned nothing, but section was really great and helpful. The exams and psets were never too tricky
PS1 was very well organized and well taught!
Study hard and hope for the best
Took this class as an upperclassmen. I think its harder for freshman because they don't know what they're doing in general. But I'm glad I held out until now.
It starts off pretty terribly but improves.
If you've taken AP Chem, consider taking PS 1. If not, you'll be bored out of your mind.
If I could go back and do it again, I would have taken greater advantage of problem solving sessions/reviews and office hours. Also, I probably would have waited and not taken this course as a freshman.
As a general pre-med or life sciences concentration requirement, this course does a good job of preparing you for future courses. It covers a lot of general topics and is probably meant to just lay the groundwork for what you'll be studying later on.
Alan's lectures are really confusing, but if Sirinya's teaching, take it!
They really prepare you to succeed in this class, with problem-solving sessions, review sessions, sections, PSL sections, and office hours. If you aren't doing well, it's your own fault. Just go in and sit in on one of these, and they tell you how to do all of the problems. Basically none of this class is conceptual. It's all just doing simple math problems and plugging things in to your calculator.
This course is a basic AP Chemistry course- there are a few topics about Molecular Orbital Theory and Entropy that are new, but that is about it. A good review nonetheless of basic inorganic chemistry if you are Pre-med.
It was pretty much an overview of AP Chemistry, so it wasn't that bad.
In anticipation of other comments, the course is not that bad.  Psets are easy.  Office hours with professors, TFs, and PSLs exist all over the place.  Lots of things explode in lecture.  Exams are straightforward but uncurved and there's three of them.  The course is more complex than AP Chemistry and moves faster, but it's not that much more in depth.It's pretty simple to do well:Go to lecture. Do the practice problems. Do the pset. If you have any questions, go to office hours.  Study for the exam.  Now you're done.
Be sure that you understand the material, as lectures have a tendency to not explain themselves clearly
Do lots of practice problems-- skip most of the text book.
I felt it was a great class structurally(psets, midterms, sections . etc) and it was very straightforward. But, I feel like the quality of the lecturers was lacking.
If you took AP Chem in high school you might find yourself bored with the material.
It is a difficult class if you do not have a lot of chem background. I found the sections to be generally unhelpful because of the time restrictions. In addition section was often taught with the perception that we were already comfortable with the material and chemistry. The first half of the lectures were difficult to follow, but it did improve in the end.
This class is both interesting and very straightforward
PS1 is a great introduction to chemistry and will allow you to see real-world implications of chemistry, which I think is crucial when deciding whether you want to continue with chem.
Exams are hard
It helps to have an AP Chemistry background - I did not come into the class with one and therefore, had to learn a bit more to catch up with my peers. Alan is hard to understand in lecture sometimes and it was quite annoying that there a lot of typos in his lectures/powerpoint slides. Sirinya is a great - this course provides a lot of help for those who need it. I would highly recommend going to the exam reviews. The exams a graded a bit harshly; each problem is worth a lot of points so it's easy to lose points. Overall, it's a decent/good course.
If you've taken AP Chem already and have the time and energy to take a harder chem class, by all means do so. You will learn nothing new. If you have very little background in chem you'll probably learn a lot. Don't bother with lectures if you don't have to.
The class is fair. The preceptors are wonderful. If it weren't for them, I probably would have dropped the course. At times, it is hard to connect what goes on in lecture with what you are asked to do on psets and midterms, but if you read the book and have a good study group, you should be ok. A background in AP Chem definitely helps too!
Don't take it unless you absolutely have to. It sucks. Definitely go to section! I didn't learn anything from the lectures, except when Sirinya taught them, I learned everything from section.
Not too hard, but lectures are poorly taught and uninteresting.
take it only if you have to
AP Chemistry is more than good enough for this course. In fact, unless you didn't quite understand AP Chemistry, I would suggest that you consider PS11 or Organic Chemistry 20. PS11 is more rigorous with more math. I heard it's well taught and creative in its applications. I also think it fulfills the same requirements as PS1. Take it if you want the challenge.Chem 20 is extremely well-taught and though it makes your second semester much more difficult, it will probably be more intellectually rewarding than PS1.The only reason why you would take PS1 is if you have not yet taken AP Chemistry. If you got a five on the AP Chemistry test, don't take PS1. If you got less than a 5, PS1 is worth considering. I got a five on the AP Chemistry test. PS1 was easy for me. But it did have its upsides:1. I got more downtime to focus on other classes. My social life was much better and more balanced than last semester.2. I THOROUGHLY understand general chemistry at a much higher level. I understand why molecular orbitals are shaped the way they are. I know what quantum physical assumptions drive their shapes. Basically, I realized that this was a general overview of AP Chem with more depth. And I took advantage of that depth by reading the textbook closely, by giving the lecturers my utmost attention, by asking questions, by talking with the professors. Though it was a review to some extent, it was a good review. I have an intrinsically deeper understanding of general chemistry and that - can never be bad. If you do as I do, after getting a five in AP Chem, put your heart into the class and you won't complain about the class being "too much of a review." Take the initiative.
As far as introductory science courses go, this is a well-organized and fairly enjoyable one. If you dedicate the time to assignments, and attend the sections, there is the potential to do very well in the course.
Please just do practice problems that they give you. Not ones in the book.
This class is great - very well organized, not too difficult or stressful. The professors are very nice and so are the section and lab TFs. I had no complaints about this class.
The lectures are straightforward, and the assignments and tests are fair. There's a lot of material that's covered though, so make sure to dedicate plenty of time to review the concepts.
Painless way to complete a science major requirement
Fairly hard, will do fine if you put in the time, some lecturers were awful
For the most part this was an awesome, well-taught class! I was really scared at how difficult it would be at first. You definitely need to study, but with Sirinya as a professor next year you'll be in good hands. Angels were literally singing every time she came up to teach. GO TO HER REVIEW SESSIONS. Alan and Roberto mean well, but need to work on well... teaching concepts clearly. Also, if you took AP Chem then this should be fine for you, even if you forgot it.
It's great if you love chemistry but it IS very time-consuming so be prepared.
Lecture is minimally helpful.  Unless you have a lot of time to seek extra help from your TF or have a lot of background knowledge, you are basically teaching yourself these concepts.  Which is fine, but the exams tend to be hit or miss.  A mix of easy problems that you can teach yourself and then harder questions that deeper knowledge is imperative for to answer.
Not too painful, but kind of useless if you're doing the physics 11 or 15 swquence along with ls1a
So I was told PS1 was the "least of all the evils" in terms of physics/chem classes if you have to take one.  I don't have anything to compare it to yet, but most of the semester I tended to want to disagree with that statement.  I'm not a big chem person, though.  Anyway, it's pretty well-structured in every sense except the teaching (hard to pay attention, doesn't make much sense even when you do, hard to understand the professors, etc.).  You get lecture slides printed every lecture to take notes on, TFs are helpful, and there was a peer study leader who held OH every week in Eliot the night before the pset was due - that was a lifesaver.  Oh, and the section handouts are the PS1 bible.  Actually.  Super concise, clear, and everything you need to know.  Tests are hard and often full of curveballs, but if you study a decent amount, they're pretty doable.  Material is... eh.  And labs are pretty annoying (but not every week, thank goodness).  Overall impression is that if you need to take it and have a friend to take it with, it's not fun, but not the end of the world either.
On the whole, one of the better intro classes I've taken. Requires a lot of work, but on the whole it is run fairly and efficiently.
Be sure to attend section, reviews, and do the practice problems/exams. You'll be fine!
The course definitely do-able, especially with previous chemistry background. Otherwise, more studying than expected is needed.
Sirinya is flawless. FLAWLESS. She'll be teaching more in future years, apparently, so that's good. Go to her office hours to learn the material and to problem solve. Go to her review sessions for exams - she's AMAZING at simplifying the material and at communicating intuition. Other than that, the class is kind've a frustrating experience - Alan is all over the place and doesn't communicate theory well, and Honkun is condescending. So. Just get through it - it's really not that hard.
Please take this instead of Chem 40. Please. Do it for me. It made my life so much better and I was so much happier and it's good prep for MCAT and you will have free time to run outside or lie in the sun or do whatever it is you want to do.
The lectures are confusing and PS11 is a much better alternative if you are interested in learning chem for it's real nature.
Try PS 11 instead. All of my peers in PS 11 were very happy with their class. Also note that the course is not curved, so when everyone is struggling, everyone will get a poor grade.
Be sure you have a good background and are ready to study.
This class is very boring and dry. I might be biased since I'm not a huge fan of chemistry, but I think it could have been made at least a little more interesting than it was.
If you didn't take AP Chem you pretty much screwed from the jump.
Carefully consider whether this class is right for you.
If you took AP Chem, I would really recommend looking for a different chemistry class to satisfy your requirement.  Although new concepts are added, PS1 does not really provide a sufficient amount of new material for AP Chemistry students to be worth 1/8 of a year's tuition.  For non-AP Chem students, however, PS1 provides basic chemistry material that is useful for science concentrators and pre-medical students.
Stay on top of the material, go to section, and make use of the PSLs.
One professor was incompetent and the other was extremely rude. I am not sure which was worse. The rest of teaching staff, however, was very helpful and nice. Go to the review sessions before exams! Unlike most other intro/premed classes I have taken, I thought the tests were fair and representative of what we had been taught.
Take PS11. It is better taught.
You learn a fair amount but it is often up to you to learn the material because lecture is next to useless to sit in on and the problem sets are really hard and take a long time
This class will require a great deal of outside work and studying. Furthermore some questions will be vague and difficult to decipher.
Get a good TF (Denise is good). Go to all of Sirinya's review sessions because she summarizes everything very well and lets you do problems (you could skip all of the lectures if you just went to her reviews). Do not rely on lecture slides to get you through, but rather use section handouts, problems sets, and practice exams.
Stay in touch with the material and you will be fine. Make sure to do all the possible practice problems because that is the best way to learn the material. If you fall behind, it will get difficult during crunch periods like the three midterms and the final.
Do practice problems and you'll be fine and hope that you have a good tf.
This class is not taught well and has poor organization.  Although it is ostensibly easier than other introductory chemistry classes, it is not an effective way to learn the material.
It's pretty easy and you learn some cool, fundamental things.
Take PS11. They have take home finals and you learn pretty much the same thing.
It's terrible. The lectures are so terrible and confusing.
Take this class if you want to see if chemistry interests you, and if you want a class that is challenging both quantitatively and qualitatively.
You have to take it for premed, so there's that. I liked it more than any of the other premed classes I've taken (I have taken all but PS3).
Take PS11 instead.
It's very hard to do well in this course if you haven't taken Chem before.  Be prepared to do a lot of practice problems.  They will teach you everything.  Go to section!!!
stay on top of it.
The book readings help sometimes to clear things up from lecture. Seek out your section TFs for help and/or go to office hours. Do LOTS of practice problems for midterm prep.
If you've taken AP Chemistry, this is a very easy class.  I hardly ever paid attention during lecture and yet had no trouble finishing the problem sets in about an hour or two every week.  There's great teaching support, and the exams are very straightforward.  The practice exams are virtually the same as the real exams, so doing those can be extremely helpful.  If you haven't had a chemistry course before, don't fear because there are lots of practice problems to work through.  The only thing I didn't like about this course was how pointless the labs were.  Seven labs over the semester, and not a single one seemed worth it.  The one upside to the many labs was that each one tended to be somewhere between an hour to an hour and a half, instead of the scheduled three hours.  Overall, a great course and very easy if you have a chemistry background.
It's a class which premeds who took AP chem use to review and practice their chemistry and premeds who didn't take AP chem use to struggle figuring out what is going on. I don't know anyone taking this course who isn't premed so I can't speak about them. Also, don't review slides for the exams, just review what you did on the problem sets. It took me until the third midterm to figure that out.
It's hard
This course is not super exciting, but the workload is manageable, and the it is probably the easiest option for fulfilling the premed chem requirement. Office hours/pset help is very accessible, but the assignments usually are not too bad anyways. Overall, I recommend it for premeds/people who think they might have an interest in studying chem, because it provides a basic overview on chem without going into applications.
This is a challenging class that is pretty unavoidable if you're premed or interested in the sciences. This class relies heavily on understanding the concepts behind the problems. It's taught pretty well, and the resources available are great. Overall, an ok class that requires time outside of the classroom to fully understand.
Class is not bad overall, lots of practice problems.
I would recommend but not to a Freshman who may not be ready for the work load.
i think it's a fun class. has a great support system. so many office hours by head teaching staff, TFs, PSLs. the materials have like no flaws/almost none - i don't like when other classes keep fixing mistakes in psets and this didn't happen in this course. very well organized.
This course is hard. Not orgo hard or so hard it will make your brain bleed but it takes a lot of work to succeed in. Lecture is taped, which gives students little incentive to go aside from clicker credit. Lab is really boring. You never have to go to section. Professors Park and Matchacheep are awesome. The final is absolutely brutal so make sure to study a lot for it.
Be ready to work hard.
I only took it because I had to. Only take it if you have to.
For an easy chemistry class, I would recommend it, but not for an interesting class to take.
Midterms difficult, very time sensitive.
The exams are graded very fairly, but there is not sufficient instruction given on how to solve problems. Make sure to go to office hours/ problem solving lectures because otherwise you will not have the information needed to succeed on problem sets, tests. etc.
great class, great teaching staff, do the practice problems!
It's a very good class.
I am super impressed with the amount of help given throughout the course. There are practice problems, sections, and an extra practice session on Fridays. Labs are not that long. The course was pretty difficult for me but I do believe that there's a lot of support.
Definitely doable, but expect to put a lot of time in doing practice problems. There are over 100 of them and they are the best (arguably the only) way to really learn the material.
PS1 is a great class and I think you should take it over PS11. PSA: you must work diligently throughout the entire semester. This means DO THE PRACTICE PROBLEMS and all the PSets thoroughly and GO TO OFFICE HOURS to ask questions as soon as you have a question. Doing everything earlier rather than right before the exam is the only way to lock in solid exam scores. The exams are what really matter in this course, so don't waste time reading the book. DO ALL PROBLEMS THAT YOU CAN. The professors are incredible and love to spend time with students. TAKE PS1 :):)
PS1 is like a good machine- it delivers the goods, but without much excitement or novelty. You will get a good sense for general chemistry, and the ways in which this knowledge enriches your understanding of the world are certainly appreciated. The workload is manageable, but sometimes it is hard to get too excited about the material, especially in comparison to the many amazing courses Harvard has to offer. Likely most people are here for the pre-med credits, or to fulfill a science requirement for ESPP- as a way to fulfill a requirement, PS1 is a well-organized,  straightforward way to proceed. If one is looking to kindle a love of chemistry, or increase one's sense of wonder about the intricacies of the world, other classes will likely better suit your goals.
This course is excellent if you enjoy problem solving. Some of the material will challenge you, but the TFs, preceptor, and professors are very willing to help you, both during and outside of class. The workload is fair and manageable. It also helps that the lab meets only six times throughout the course of the semester.
PS1 is an awesome class. It's such a breath of fresh air after taking other pre-med classes like LS1b. The help resources (Friday review lectures; help rooms) are thorough and accessible, and the TFs are very good at explaining tough topics. I highly recommend PS1 to anyone who has taken AP Chemistry because there is a lot of crossover. It's possible to do well without having taken AP Chem, but it's much harder and requires much more effort.
Go to office hours and ask them to present you with the hardest questions possible because those are the types of questions that will be on the exams and psets.
I took this course as a pre-med requirement and only for that reason. It can be quite straightforward and easy if systematically learned, although it is not particularly enlightening or exciting. Also consider PS11 as another option.
Definitely one of the better intro courses for pre-med students!
Standard intro general chemistry course. Not too captivating, and covers a lot in a short period of time.
This is a great course that provides a systematic treatment of major general chemistry topics.
This course is very interesting and the professors are amazing!
It is a good course. The teaching staff is great.
it's not too hard but it's very time consuming with 3 hours of lecture, 1 hour of section, and 3 hours of lab per week
Take advantage of the many resources this course offers. They are super helpful!
Think twice if you are not especially well versed with basic AP Chemistry, and are not particularly interested in the subject.
It is a tough course to do very well in, but an easy course to do moderately well in. Keep up with the practice problems and go to Lindsay's problem sessions. Keep up with the work.
DO THE PRACTICE PROBLEMS you will thank yourself later
PS1 was one of the better big science classes that I've taken so far because it was very straightforward.
This is a solid foundational course to chemistry with lots of resources and opportunities for help if you are struggling.
Great class. Find a study group to crank out psets and learn a lot from one another as well as lecture. A lot of support for students.
If you're taking this course you probably have no choice in the matter and are taking it as a requirement, but just be forewarned: PS1 is without a doubt the worst class I have ever taken. Everything was so badly taught. My TF was great and section/office hours were the only real redeeming factors to the class, but lectures were horrible, boring and explained nothing. Sometimes PSets would consist of mindlessly copying down data from tables, teaching me nothing about applying concepts to reality. Also on the subject of reality: PS1 pretended it didn't exist. Apparently, according to course policy effective nuclear charge increases down a group of the periodic table when in reality it decreases. When students brought this issue up, we were told to just accept their false statement. Although this was one isolated incident, it demonstrated everything I disliked about the class: don't think critically, just swallow the information we (are supposed to but don't actually) give you.
This course is awesome! You need to put in a fair amount of work to do well, but if you do you'll be happy. Lectures are fairly painless. Do yourself a favor and keep up with problem sets, review sessions, and all that good stuff--you'll be glad you did when you're studying for the exams. The tests are difficult, and require a good, fundamental understanding of the material; however, I think that's what made this course stand out to me. I had to ensure that I understood the material through and through, and I feel prepared to pursue higher level chemistry.
i.	This class is very well organized. The material is dry, but well-taught and the class is structured according to a fair workload and schedule. The first two midterms were straightforward and what you would expect after having taken high school chemistry. However, the third midterm and the final were significantly more difficult, and I would suggest studying a lot more and looking out for ways to take these tests strategically (time management during the test is important!).
PS1 is a great way to fulfill the gen chem requirement. There are plenty of resources available, and the pset and exam questions are fair and straightforward.
very typical intro chem class, test questions can be hard though (same material as many other intro chem classes at other schools, but questions require you to really understand the material and be able to stretch it)
PS1 is a good way to fulfill the requirement. Previous experience and especially having taken AP chemistry will be a big help because a lot knowledge is assumed. In general the TFs are good which is rare for an intro science course and there is a lot of support for students who need extra help. By no means an interesting or exciting class but overall a fair one.
This class is very straightforward and not too in depth. If you put the work in, you will do well. And the work really isn't all that much.
You're probably taking this class for concentration or premed requirements, so you  don't have much of a choice. It's a pretty generic premed lecture designed to weed out those who aren't really committed to a science or premed track.
You should have some background in general chemistry, and while sections are optional, you should definitely attend them because they are very helpful.
The class starts off pretty easy but the material can get challenging pretty fast, from about the second midterm on. Stay on top of things, definitely go to the Friday Problem Solving Reviews! There a lot of students in this class so it may be easy to feel lost, but definitely reach out to the instructors and the preceptor Lindsay. They're really great at what they do and genuinely want students to do well.
I really enjoyed this class. It confirmed my reasons for pursuing a joint concentration in Chemistry and Music, rather than dissuading me from being pre-med, as did LS1b.
Study hard.
This course was the best introductory science course I have taken at Harvard. It is very well taught and lots of help is available. You do have to commit some time to doing all the practice problems, but it's worth it because that's what's necessary to be successful. The preceptor is awesome and incredibly dedicated. One of the best courses I've taken in the sciences so far.
A class that is well-organized and taught, good way to fulfill the pre-med/concentration requirement.
Its an okay course that if you put in the  work will be fine. Its neither super exciting or super difficult
Not too difficult on a weekly basis but make sure to do your pre-labs correctly because they can really knock down an otherwise easy lab section grade. Also make sure to prepare for the exams because they can be more difficult than the problem sets and thus require a good understanding of the concepts to do well on the exams.
If you didn't take AP chem you are out of luck because this is the intro course but it is difficult without an AP chem background
Pretty straightforward intro chem class. Not the easiest class out there but it is taught decently well, and as a pre-med requirement isn't as painful as it could be.
This class will eat up too much of your time, the problem sets you can't do with out help of the tfs, the tests are ridiculouwly hard, the lectures and sections boring. The labs are fun however. Do not fall behind in this class or there is no possible way to catch up.
The class is very well taught and organized. If you keep up and do the practice problems it's not too hard.
The class is a really good chemistry introduction. The professors are engaging and the lectures are interesting.
This course is interesting, but be prepared for tricky tests.
Take this course (especially over PS11) It's very well organized and is super fun! The classes are only one hour long (so there's no fear about getting bored and falling asleep by accident) and the in-class demos make the class very enjoyable and exciting! The material is fun and the professors are SO adorable (especially Prof. Park and Sirinya!!)!! Their enthusiasm makes the class! Very good if you've already done AP Chem (there'll be a lot of repeat material). Also, if you're trying to fill a pre-med requirement you should go with this option which will be easier and more enjoyable!)
It's relatively easy content but is construed by some of the lecturers.
Just do a bunch of practice problems.
GO TO OFFICE HOURS. If you put the time into this class, you'll be fine. But if you rely exclusively on other students to help you with psets, you won't do well. DO the practice problems!! They help so much and really give you good practice so you know how to do questions quickly when it comes to the midterms. First 2 midterms were fine, 3rd one was hard.
This is a very well-organized chemistry course. I was deciding between PS1 and PS11 at the beginning of the semester and ended up choosing this one because I had heard it was more straight-forward. I am really happy that I chose this one, because it did end up being a course that was well organized, well taught and with a helpful teaching staff. Lindsay (head preceptor) is wonderful. Definitely having a high school chemistry background was helpful.
PS1 is a good course to take. It's not too difficult and it's a rewarding experience especially when you realize that you are deepen your understanding of chemistry. Many other courses put focus on making their course extremely difficult but PS1 puts a greater focus on making sure students understand the material. I feel better learning something from a course rather than just coming out with a grade. I learned a lot in PS1.
It's a premed requirement. Most likely you have to take it so just suck it up and grind it out. Not many other options if you are premed and they have no incentive to change their ways even if it's bad. However, I would say that if you stay on top of your work and study frequently, you will get through this course and get the grade. Don't expect it to inspire you; just get the grade.
I was recommended to take a higher level course based on placement exams, but peers recommended I take this class. I found this class to be really easy and it makes me pause and think that maybe I should have taken the more advanced class.
This class is challenging, but definitely manageable and fun to take! You will learn a lot!
Keep up with the material by practicing it. It is so easy to go to office hours--go to them!
This class is pretty difficult if you did not take or do not remember things learned in AP Chemistry. The lectures do not prepare you for what you need to do on the problem sets so it is almost necessary to go to or watch the "optional" problem solving lectures. Lectures are also boring and Hongkun is very smart but not a great lecturer. This is most likely a concentration/premed requirement so everyone just has to get through it but it is not fun
I love chemistry, but I feel like my biggest problem with this course was that it seemed like they were teaching for the psets and exams and not to actually understand concepts.
PS1 is a very well structured course. The lectures and the material are presented in a straightforward manner, and the class provides a lot of resources for you to do well. However, it is a fair amount of work and three midterms are no joke.
This course is well-taught and the assignments aren't too bad, but the midterms are difficult and it is by no means easy.
Its a requirement, so you kind of have to take it
Practice problems on practice problems. Success proportional to amount of practice problems
Do not take if you do not have to. Seriously. This course is the worst.
Take this class... they want you to do well and learn the material.  Do the practice problems with the psets
This class is pretty easy if you've taken AP Chemistry in high school. The exams and problem sets can have some tricky questions, though, so it's still important to keep up with lectures. Sometimes I found the problem solving reviews were more beneficial and worthwhile to attend/watch than the lectures.
Although this course "assumes" to prior knowledge of advanced chemistry, it is quite difficult if you don't have the foundation. The psets are pretty fair, but be wary of the Acid/Base titration pset... That can take up to 9 hours.. The tests are fair and reflective of the material, but you have to have a very good grasp of the subject matter. The practice tests are great, but your lowest practice test score is probably most reflective of your test grade. Also, do well on your first exam (pretty easy and reflective of the practice tests exactly), because the class only gets harder from there!
This course simply does the job of teaching concepts necessary for a degree in the sciences, but don't expect much more than that.
If you've taken AP Chemistry or have a very solid background in inorganic chemistry, I would recommend taking this class. The class itself is interesting and very well organized. However, the psets are hard and the exams are even harder. Also, the class is not curved, so it is very difficult to get a good grade in it. I felt like there were so many calculations and so much emphasis on units, that they did not test the knowledge of the material, but they tested how well you could put your units. Also, it seemed to me as exams were meant to trick you, as most of the questions were very tricky and the ones that were straightforward had a lot of calculations to go through.
The class isn't too difficult; the resources to succeed are provided for us. My main issue with it was that it had little application to the real world. Although that is probably because it is an intro course, it would have still been nice to be able to see more of the functionality of chemistry (like how PS11 is heavily applied to energy & the environment). If you want a more "meaningful" chemistry experience (i.e., why it matters in the world) and you have some background in chemistry (Hon. Chem, IB Chem SL/HL, AP Chem...), I would recommend PS11. From what I heard from friends who took PS11, they learned a lot of the same material and it wasn't much harder than PS1. But if you want a more straightforward class on gen chem, PS1 is probably the class for you.
Be sure to keep up with the material in "real-time" and clarify questions as they arise. Otherwise, be warned that only attending lectures and no sections will only really suffice if you or someone that you study with has taken AP chemistry in high school.
This is an excellent intro class that will restore your faith in introductory science classes. It's engaging and interesting - nearly every lecture has a demo, and they are all short lectures so it's easy to stay focused. Definitely go to section, it's very helpful!
This class is great, but start psets early and take them seriously because they are great prep for the exams.
It's a great class. Prepare to be challenged in exams.
Take it. You and I know you have to you premed you. Just take it and do the practice problems. It would be nice if they had the solutions to the practice problems but like worked out so I could actually tell what I did wrong.
Sirinya is bae. Hong-Kun is not. Lindsay is somewhere in between.
Yu probably have to take this course if you're looking at the feedback, so may as well get it over with
This course was frustrating and harder than it should've been.  Lectures were poorly taught, and I had to learn the material on my own time after class.  I came in without much of a chem background and definitely fell behind because of it.
This course is an easy way to satisfy physics/SPU requirements.
This class gives a lot of chemistry. If you work very hard you will not do badly, however it requires a lot of work.
This class at first seems really easy, but it gets much harder as the semester continues.
This class is great and fun!
Hongkun is hard to understand. Go to lecture.
This course has been one of my favorite classes yet. It is extremely well structured and organized. It is extremely frustrating when you feel that you are not learning much from certain assignments or sections. This can feel like "busy work." However, with PS1, every assignment, lecture, section, and lab have a clear connection to the overall goals of the course. Three sections sounds like a lot, but I can assure you that if you take advantage of these resources, you will enjoy the course and succeed.
It's not awful, but you have to be really disciplined about doing the practice problems each week. It really is too much to save until the night before.
Be prepared to memorize.
I recommend taking this over PS11 just because from what I have hear, this is the more straightforward class. (I am an MCB concentrator & premed) Also, more people take it so there are more peers with whom you can collaborate.
It is easy to write off PS1 as an easy course throughout the semester in between exams and not put as much time into it as should be done consistently; however, when it comes time to exams, the difficulty of the practice exams and actual exam tell you exactly how much more time you should have been putting into the class.
Go to your sections and to the Friday review sessions. They are almost more helpful than the lectures.
Not incredibly interesting but not too painful.Exams were fair.
It's a fair class, but don't expect it to be terribly easy.
This course was really enjoyable. I'm not the biggest chem person, but it's fairly well taught and not ridiculously demanding/difficult as other courses you will likely be required to take. For a Gen Ed SPU class, it's also a good chouce.
This class is enjoyable, but still requires a lot of work.
This course was well organized, had a great support system, and was interesting to boot. I was deciding between this and PS11 and definitely don't regret choosing this course. If you put the work in you can do great.
If pre-med and deciding between PS1 and PS11, you can't go wrong with PS1, although if you are a strong chemistry student, then PS11 may have more to offer in terms of intellectual enrichment.
This course is good as an introduction to chemistry, but be prepared to do lots of work on your own outside of class because what is asked on midterms is often different than what is taught in lecture and what is asked on problem sets.
Work on as many practice problems as possible before the exams.
Takin AP Chem in high school will make this course a whole lot easier for you - unless you are willing to devote serious time to doing all the practice problems, practice midterms and practice exams, and going to office hours to make sure you understand everything. In reality - ain't nobody got time for that, but if you do, you're guaranteed an A my friend. Although I'm kind of biased since I never liked Chem since high school, I think there was a huge difference in the difficulty in practice problems and lectures vs. problem sets and midterms. It was a pain and I'm glad its over.
Really consider PS11 as an alternative. I heard great things from that course,a do although, PS1 isn't bad, it's not great.
If you're interested in chem beyond a high school level, take this class! It was incredibly well structured and I learned a ton. I really wish I'd taken it before Thermo (ES 181), because there was a great thermo intro.
Really enjoyed this class.
This course provides a fascinating foundation to the physical sciences, and is enjoyable as long as you put in the necessary amount of hours to work through problems.
Do not take this course if you don't have to.
This is a pretty inane class if you a) took AP chem or b) are an upperclassman. It's easy, but at what cost? Don't waste one of your classes at Harvard if you can avoid it.
good gen chem option
Do the practice problems every. single. week. If I had done this I would have killed the class. Instead the class mauled me.
Make sure you understand the material as you learn it. Don't leave questions or confusions for last minute before the exams, or you will not perform well.
I would recommend PS1 only to pre-med students or to other students for whom it is required.PS1 was a disappointment following LS1a, another intro chemistry course that constantly pushed students to think about exciting real-world applications of chemistry -- for example, in the development of targeted drugs for HIV and chronic myelogenous leukemia. In contrast, the PS1 course topics were much more basic (similar to those covered in AP Chemistry), yet the lectures were harder to follow. Moreover, some of the exams in PS1 were surprisingly difficult. I felt like the course rewarded memorization of specific conventions, rather than encouraging students to truly understand the material. With all that said, though, the grading in PS1 is reasonable and there are many great resources available for help if you are struggling (e.g. problem solving review sessions and other help sessions). And as far as I know, there is not a better alternative for fulfilling the second half of the pre-med general chem requirement. Based on what I've heard from friends, PS1 was more enjoyable and more manageable than PS11.
For someone who did not enjoy chemistry in high school, I went into PS1 cautiously optimistic that I would enjoy it more, and I did. The lecturers explained the concepts so well and often provided real world examples that related to a wide range of fields. They're all very kind and accessible outside of class if you need it. The optional sections were very helpful, as were the problem-solving reviews--it's all about repetition, and PS1 provides plenty of practice problems to prepare for exams. I thought three midterms would be overwhelming, but they actually break up the material really naturally and make it easy to study for the final. Labs are the only thing that I did not really enjoy, since they're rather long and don't add that much to the course, but there are only 6 during the semester so it's not that bad.
DO PRACTICE PROBLEMS
Exams 2 and 3 are difficult.. PSR sessions are helpful, but to do well in this class is definitely a time commitment.
Actually practice doing problems like they tell you to.
This class does a good job of teaching general chemistry. If you go to all of the lectures and do all of the practice problems, then you will succeed in this class. However, doing all of that takes an enormous amount of time, and if you want do well this class will take up the workload of two normal classes. Also, be aware that the midterms do not leave you any room for error. There is barely enough time to finish all of the problems, so make sure you go in prepared answer questions rapid fire, and don't expect to have any time to think through a question if you don't immediately know where to start. Overall a decent class, and if you have to take it just be prepared to work hard.
PS1 is a well-organized science course. (much better than ls1a and ls1b). If you have some chemistry background, you will like this course drives ideas home and gives you a clear understanding of chemistry. If you were an all star chem student and want to advance your chem knowledge, take PS11. PS11 seems more interesting. If you feel like you need a stronger foundation for Chem, take PS1.
Take this class if you're looking for a straightforward introduction to chemistry. I thought about taking PS11, but I'm very glad I chose PS1. I came to appreciate the way that PS1 was a simpler chemistry course, which I didn't have to worry as much about when my other courses were much, much harder. If you've taken AP chem, you are more than prepared for this class.
If you are pre-med, this class is kinda a given. I took this class out of order of the usual pre-med timeline (took Orgo, then took physics along with this class), so I was well prepped for this course. I would recommend that Freshmen actually put this class off a year and take it as sophomores after having a bit more exposure to Harvard science courses if you can.
Only take if you need to; be prepared to put in a lot of work
Take this course. It is easy to follow and provides a great tool kit for future classes in chemistry.
Make sure you seek extra help if you have not taken AP Chemistry before.
don't go to class. it's pointless
This was a good general chemistry course - you learn a lot and if you have taken AP chem before, you will definitely be prepared (though it's not necessary to have this prior experience). The exams were a bit challenging, though.
This was a good introductory chemistry class. The problem sets were short, but they adequately covered the content in lecture that week. The exams were fair and really assessed whether or not students understood the relationships between different concepts in chemistry. Hongkun is hilarious, Sirinya is a good lecturer, and Lindsay really knows how to teach. If you're debating between PS1 and PS11, take PS1.
If you have taken General Chemsitry or AP Chem. this class can be very boring and it may be difficult to be motivated to do well in this class.
This class is basically a more in depth version of AP chemistry with random quantum mechanics at the beginning. It was fairly graded, but be sure to study for the midterms.
So glad I took this over PS11.  I took AP chem in high school and so was debating which PS to take, but this was much better.  My PS11 friends are constantly complaining, and PS1 is difficult for sure too, so I can't imagine trying to manage PS11.
This is a good class to take for a pre-med requirement!
I would tell future students that this is a typical introductory chemistry class and I would tell those who are interested in chemistry to take this course.
Do the practice problems in preparation for the midterms, very helpful!
Great intro course. Not much work outside of problem sets. Go to lecture and take notes. Don't need to go to OH.
Very doable. Might not be worth it for a Gen Ed, and it's definitely not a repeat of high school chemistry if you're looking for an easy A.
This is a class where hard work will be rewarded. If you are willing to put in the work to do well in this class, you probably will. It doesn't have anything to do with background (I hadn't taken chemistry since 10th grade and I could still understand the material). Make sure you go to problem solving reviews, or at least watch them before you take the exams. Peer study leaders are an excellent place to go to when working on your psets--they are not there to give you the answers but they will help you walk through the thinking so that you can understand how to solve the problems (also, other students will usually be there with whom you can usually check your answers). Make sure you do practice problems before an exam and take the practice exams, which are a very good indication of what the exam will be like. It is a very fair class as long as you put in the effort.
I really enjoyed PS1 because of its teaching staff. Although the subject material can be dry at times (especially for non-science concentrators), the professors made it a great experience.
Take this class as a freshman. I took it as a junior and felt it was mind-numbingly easy and really regretted not having taken it earlier. That being said, don't get behind in class. Go to all  the lectures, watch the problem solving lectures, and understand the psets. Then when the midterms roll around they are a breeze.
It is so hard, psets are barely worth anything, and the exams are so difficult. One good thing:The professors are awesome and funny!
AP Chemistry is very helpful to this class. The PSET's are reasonable although a bit tricky sometimes, and doing the practice problems really helps with problem solving!
If you're pre-med then you don't have much of a choice but to take this course, otherwise avoid.
This is a class you have to take! It's a struggle but you have to take it.
do tons of practice problems, pay attention to the rules (there are some you won't realize til it's too late), talk to lindsay
be prepared to learn most of the material by yourself, the lecturers are not really helpful
This class is only worth taking if you have to. It is not taught very well at all
This is very much a premed class, but you can also get a lot out of it if you put in the work; do as many practice problems as time permits throughout the course
At a disadvantage without AP chem already, but the class is taught well so you can still do pretty well! go to office hours!!!
This class is great! Lindsay and Sirinya are both amazing lecturers, and all of the course staff is accessible and willing to help if you need it. I chose PS1 over PS11 because this is a more traditional chemistry class than PS11, and I am very happy with my decision. The more work you put in to this class, the more you will get out of it.
PS1 is very organized and there is always help available. The exams do get tougher as the semester goes on, but practice problems will help out. Also, the Friday PSRs are incredibly helpful.
It is really poorly organized and run. The lectures are mostly boring, lab is pretty terrible and rules are too strict because it is filled with premeds
PS1 started off as an okay class. The material presented in lecture was fairly clear and the problem sets and first midterm went well. The psets never got terribly difficult. The midterms however got trickier. I'm not sure I would say that they got extremely difficult but on the last two midterm and the final, it felt like certain questions were intended to trick people. This made me dislike the class because I felt like my understanding of the material was not being reflected in my test grades.
This is a great class! Definitely stay on top of the practice problems.
If you've taken AP Chemistry, then sure take the class. But if you haven't, but wish to be a pre-med, don't take this course for it will hurt you. Instead take a basic chem course in the summer to be prepared for PS1 during another year.
good class, not too hard not too easy
This class is very straightforward in terms of its material, as long as you put in the effort to understand and keep up with the lectures and sections; although sections are optional, it is really in your best interest to go to them
very straightforward and lots of support
Chose over PS11, but if given the opportunity to go back I would choose PS11. PS1 is supposedly better organized, but this organization makes it harder to do well. Exams, psets, etc revolve around memorizing (stupid) tricks, and are designed to make it hard to get partial credit. More important to do practice problems than to pay attention in lecture.
Great information, most of the professors are awesome
The teaching staff is great and willing to help you as much as you want to learn. You just need to put in the effort of asking and genuinely trying to solve problems with them. Do the practice problems!
PS 1 is a pretty easy class, fulfills the premed requirement, and is also quite fun!
PS1 is a very easy class if you have prior chemistry knowledge. There are a lot of resources available if something does not make sense, which is nice.
Understanding the material and doing all the practice problems and exams doesn't guarantee you high exams grades.
It is a great course to master introductory chemistry!
This course is AP Chemistry again.
do all of the practice problems, question the material until you understand its components, and you'll do well. Also, Lindsay is the most valuable resource in the course- take advantage of her review sessions/OHs/email availability.
stay on top of things! do the practice questions on a weekly basis and directly ask for things you do not understand rather than waiting until exam times
If you are a premed or a biology person, this is a great chemistry class because you learn the necessary information without too much technical chemistry.
I would recommend this course because it is a fairly straightforward chemistry class, but my reservations would be that you should only take it if you are willing to put in a considerable amount of time outside of lecture and section to learning the material on your own. I think I would have had a more favorable experience in the class if I had devoted more time to doing practice problems outside of class, etc...
To be honest, this class is still giving me nightmares. While labs are okay and problem sets are manageable, and lectures are fair, the exams are NOT. The exams do not reflect what you learn in class AT ALL. Most of the problems in the exam are being done by students for the first time ON THE EXAM. Problem sets and lecture examples and much easier than what is presented on the exam, making the exams incredibly unfair. Srinya is the best lecturer and her lectures are clear and understandable and she helps guide students through the concepts presented in her lectures, Lindsay is good, too, Hongkun is a very sweet man but his lecturers are unclear, as he brings in random equations and their derivations and I end up leaving his lectures more confused than clear. That being said, what is presented in class, section, problem sets, and lab is not what is tested. The class requires a lot of work, not as much as some science classes (LS1b) but the exam does not reflect what is taught making it even more frustrating than it should be.
It is a very good intro class to physics and chemistry.
This course is easy if you're great at memorizing.  If you haven't had chem in a while (and particularly not AP chem), and you are used to tests that make you think and tests where understanding the material is enough to derive all the answers, you will not do very well.
Go to reviews on Fridays! Or at least watch the videos. Also try to find a buddy to work p-sets with and a group to check answers with. These things make a difference. The practice midterms are not necessarily harder than the midterms, so don't have that mindset if you struggle with them. Instead, STUDY MORE. The midterms got trickier as the term progressed, and time became more limiting. Be cognizant of this!
This is one of those pre-med classes that you have to take even though you are not at all excited to take it. A lot of your friends will be talking about their cool classes that you would not find in high school and you will be sitting at your desk solving introductory chemistry problems. The weekly problem sets are not too much work but the exams are pretty difficult so make sure you start studying for them early.
Don't fall behind on psets and don't procrastinate on studying for exams.
The course is laid out really well and particularly, has a policy that allows you to be exempt from the final if you do well in the three midterm exams. Alan really knows his chemistry and generates enthusiasm for it. The teaching staff also inundates you with material to help you prepare and succeed in the course.
It's very important to stay on top of everything in this course as it's very easy to fall behind if you're not careful. The material takes a certain amount of time to adequately learn and understand; it's highly recommended that that time is done evenly and with the resources the class provides. The course is cumulative - would be wise to properly learn the material one step at a time as opposed to attempting to learn everything two days before the final.
This is a challenging but very rewarding course.
It's a good class. Make sure you go to all the lectures and understand the problem sets.
Do the practice problems. Read the textbook to answer your conceptual questions.
Take it over, PS11. It is taught way better and it is very well organized. An overall fair class.
It is a good class for developing an understanding of general chemistry, and you spend a lot of time working on chemistry, which is helpful for developing this understanding.
As a pre-med req, this course was relatively painless and the professors/TFs exceeded my expectations
This class is really not too difficult if you are willing to put the effort. Like most classes, you don't have to go to everything (i.e. Lindsay's Problem Solving Review, office hours, etc.) to do well. The most useful thing in this class is probably the practice problems. They are quite challenging (in fact more challenging than the actual exams), but it really prepares you well for the exams. Also, please do yourself a favor and score above 90s on all the midterms (which will exempt you from the finals) because the final exam is many times harder than the midterms.
Great course. Good lectures and fair exams/evaluations. Plus the test policies (resurrection and exemption) are very nice.
Great class, great teachers. Definitely take this course.
Great, not too painful intro chem course. Material is very well organized and they really want you to do well in the class!
Builds a foundation.
You have to take this or PS11...can't really escape.  This is essentially a high school class with high school test questions that can trip you up if you don't read carefully (smallest vs largest, absorbance vs emission, (g) vs (l) ).  The final was so much harder than the midterms but the exemption and resurrection policies are great.  Labs are tedious but fine otherwise.  Homeworks are annoying but never took more than 3 hours to complete.  The tests resembled the practice tests more than the practice problems but the practice problems are definitely worth doing.
The course is very good at familiarizing students with chemistry concepts and gives them ample practice in mastering many problem types. However, it is not very engaging, as there are few instances in which the material is shown to apply outside of the course. Also, the two professors who taught this year were not very good at explaining core concepts to students, even though they were clearly very intelligent and leaders in their field. If you have almost no chem background, taking this course would be helpful, but if you have taken even regular high school chemistry like me (not AP or honors), PS11 may be the better option. There is more work but the material is very similar and has more explicit real-world applications if for interested students.
This is one of those classes that you shouldn't take unless you have to but it is much better than the other sciences classes I have taken so far that fall under that category.
Very comprehensive and course/review materials prepare you thoroughly for the exam...just take the exams seriously and try to knock out the three midterms so you don't have to take the final!
If you had a good AP chem teacher, you probably won't learn much in the class. With that said, it's still a fantastic class, and it fulfills a gen ed requirement--so, like me, feel free to go ahead and take it anyways!
This class is great!!! Chemistry is sooooo cool! It just makes sense! Professor Aspuru-Guzik is a good lecturer as is Jacob, the head TF who gave several lectures (yeah that annoyed me a little too, but still worth it). Professor Amador is not as good a lecturer, but he only gave a few so not to worry. The psets and labs are interesting and helpful. The exams are fair. What with practice problems (do them) and the assignments and the office hours, this course is designed to help you succeed. Just put the time in. Take this course.
DO PRACTICE PROBLEMS. They are extremely helpful because they are treat material like the exams do. Don't put them off until right before the test because they tend to be harder than pset problems, so that will stress you out! Also, GO TO LINDSAY'S PROBLEM-SOLVING REVIEWS! They are very helpful for exams and problem sets!
Best part about this class is the office hours and outstanding availability of help. Way better than other premed courses. Parts are reasonable for the most part. Exams are fair.
The course is interesting and well taught. The exams can be a little tricky, but the practice problems help with that.
This is basically AP Chem, but college version. And make use of section! Just because it's not required doesn't mean it's not helpful. It was often the most useful thing for the psets.
The preceptors are SO. NICE. They are so available and open to questions, so you aren't afraid to ask for help if you need it. Besides, what other class has free Mexican food every week?
Collaboration is essential to understanding the material and doing well.
Very good class, very strong support network, so many resources for students to seek help.  The tests are very straightforward and are not meant to trick you.  So many policies to try to help you get a good grade (if you do well on all 3 midterms, you don't need to take the final/if you don't do so well on the midterms your final can be scaled higher to make up for it) And Jacob is the best lecturer/TF ever.
This is a really good class that takes difficult topics and turns them into something understandable and fun to learn.
If you haven't taken AP Chem then this class will be really hard. If you have then it probably won't be.
THis class is a well oiled machine and is a straightforward class with a strong support network. If you're a pre-med looking to fulfill a requirement, this class should provide less stress than the alternative. I would recommend you to try to make the over 90 requirement for the midterms so you can save a lot of trouble for the final. Otherwise, really utilize the support network here if you need it. The professors are very friendly, go to VIP lunches!
Take this class! The teaching staff is top notch and I can't recommend it highly enough. Although it is a pretty large class I always felt like there was help if I needed it. The professors and Tfs are very approachable and beyond nice. Alan is one of, if not the, best lecturers I've had. Jacob is hilarious and a great teacher. Lindsay's problem solving reviews were great. Take this class!
Take PS1 over Ps11. PS1 is much more straightforward and they give you a clear indication of what you are expected to know. GO to Lindsay's Friday Problem Solving Review sessions. She summarizes everything you need to know and explains everything so clearly.
The class itself was not bad but there were few things that annoyed me. The teaching staff had access to fully worked out practice problems (all 100+ of them) yet voted not to give students access to them. This makes no sense to me seeing as the point of the class is to teach us how to be problem solvers and it would be great if we can see how we are supposed to work out problems on the exam when they leave us in the dark. Problem sets are easy but don't prepare you for the tests.
The more practice problems you can do, the better you'll do on the exams. Lindsay is amazing- definitely get to know her if you can.
I will say that PS1 seems easier than PS11 (at least from what my roommates taking the course have said), but I would not recommend this course to anyone as an elective. It is an introductory course that is a Pre-Med or Concentration requirement and nothing more.
Do the practice problems!
It's a basic chem class.
It's AP Chem all over again and done faster. Teaching staff is energetic and helpful, and tons of practice problems are provided. One of those classes where if you practice, you do well.
You can do well provided you are willing to put in the time.
It's a great way to get your Pre-Med requirement out of the way. If you enjoyed LPSA you will likely enjoy this class!
This class is very straightforward.  It is very clear what is expected of you.  I would take it over PS11!
Go to lecture, do all the practice problems
The course can be difficult to keep up with because it moves quickly and expects a level of understanding and experience you probably won't have if you haven't taken AP Chem. However, the challenge can be a constructive experience and you will leave feeling very knowledgable about thermodynamics, acid/base equilibrium, and quantum chemistry.
Make sure to watch all of the PSRs and complete all of the practice problems. Definitely take advantage of your TF and the teaching staff and don't be afraid of reaching out for help. It would be helpful to review AP Chemistry prior to taking the course.
If you are someone, like me, who never took AP chem, this class will prove to be difficult.  Don't let the first unit fool you into thinking it will be a breeze.... definitely go to all of the extra lectures, do every extra practice problem, and go to section.  In order to succeed in this class, you have to put in a lot of time and effort.  And try your hardest to get exempt from the final because it SUCKED.
The teaching staff is awesome.
Good, straightforward classI went back and forth between PS1 and PS11, and am very glad I chose PS 1.
I just didn't like PS 1. It was not fun, and I felt like by the end, I didn't have a grasp on the material. It wasn't horribly painful, it just wasn't my favorite.
This class was quite manageable coming from an AP background -- a lot of review actually and one or two new concepts -- and definitely doable without one.  The preceptor, Lindsay, is incredible and Jacob, the head TF, does a lot of the lectures and his lectures are really really good.  It's a very solid course and a great way to hit your chemistry req. if you're premed.
PS1 is an incredible class. I am NOT a chemistry person, but I really enjoyed taking this course and by the end of the semester I feel like I gained a strong foundation in inorganic chem. The class has an awesome support network for students (like myself) who don't have a good background in chemistry. If you're reading this post then you're probably deciding between PS1 and PS11. Unfortunately I don't know enough about PS11 to comment either way. But what I do know is that PS1 was super fun, interesting, not too difficult, and really worthwhile (about 20 times better than LS1a as a point of reference).
TAKE THIS CLASS!! Painless way for gen chem requirement/premed requirement. Seriously, material is easy to comprehend, and the teaching staff is WONDERFUL!!!!  They really do want to get to know you, plus they give you fantastic food! TAKE THIS CLASS.
PS1 is a fine course. If you had a good AP Chem class, most of the stuff covered you have already been exposed to, so it can be fairly simple. If you don't like Chem, then it will be pretty boring, but it wasn't an unenjoyable class. It is very straight forward, so if you are looking for a way to get the requirement out of the way, and don't care for the application based curriculum of PS11, then definitely take PS1.
If you took AP Chem this should be a breeze. I did not learn a single new thing. STUDY FOR THE MIDTERMS. They have a policy (At least this year) that if you get As on all the midterms you do not have to take the final. this is literally the best thing ever, and doable. They have a lot of resources, USE THEM.
Take it over PS11 (which seems unnecessarily difficult) but it's not a good course at all. The instructors are incompetent lecturers and it seems the rest of the teaching staff cares little about the students' success.
This class is the worst at Harvard college. The head TF is completely helpless and rude. Don't take this class. DON'T TAKE THIS CLASS!!
honestly it's a good class but seriously keep up with the work if you want to do well. HUGE incentive to get a 90 or above on all three midterms so you dont have to take the final. it'll be a few extra hours of studying spread over the semester vs a whole final at the end which is able to put all the material together. trust me.
Everything you'll ever need to succeed is given to you, you jus have to know how and when to use it.
The midterms and finals are no joke- reserve lots of time to prepare and study
You really want to look at whether you would like to take this course of PS11. This one covers a lot of rudimentary techniques and such, which can be somewhat challenging.
Very difficult class. If you don't have a background in chemistry from high school or another class, good luck
I would tell students it is very well organized and well-taught.
You will do very well in this course if you've had all the material before. But if you haven't, you will be competing against people who have, and will have to put in a lot more work to do well against the curve. There is a weekly problem set, but I'd definitely recommend doing the extra practice problems that they provide. Take advantage of your TF for help with problem sets! The problems on the exams are harder than the ones on problem sets, unfortunately, so the only way to do well in this class is be good at chemistry+lots of practice. Take this class if you want a solid foundation in chemistry, but not if you want an A (for an A, take PS11).
Go to the PSRs!!!! And office hours!
Be prepared to put in work! it's not easy but if you give it time you have the opportunity to succeed.
Work hard and don't fall behind
This class is an excellent one to fulfill a pre-med requirement. It is organized, well-taught and has enough practice for you to thoroughly master these concepts for future use. However, it is also very time intensive in terms of class time with three lectures, one section, one lab, and a problem solving review most weeks. You do not want to fall behind on the material. If you are considering a chemistry major, I would recommend something more conceptual than PS1.
The course is very doable as long as you put in time to learn the material.
Keep up with work, do the practice problems and you should be fine.
GREAT Class- definitely the best class I took this entire semester!
Take it over PS11, much more support in this class. BUT if you're not pre-med or don't need it for a major, their are easier ways to fulfill the SPU gen ed
Not too much of a hassle.
this class was great! the enthusiasm of all the teaching staff, tf's and lab tf's made the students want to learn and understand. this is the best pre-med class i've taken yet at harvard (it's my 4th semester here) and i recommend this to everyone choosing between ps1 and ps11. i love this class and wish i could take it again
This course is so well organized, effective, and clear. The course is very well taught, too. Even the lab components were great. I actually really enjoyed the course. You do have to put in the time, but it is enjoyable. They want you to do well.
It's manageable if you put in the hours, but you can't slack off in this class.
Going to section, office hours and working on practice problem is the best way to do well in the course. The Friday problem solving sessions are also incredibly helpful
Utilize all of the course material and do really well on the exams so that you will not have to take the final! Beware of the FInal Exam!
PS 1 was a great class. There's always a lot of discussion about whether one should take PS 11 or PS 1, and I had heard that PS 1 was poorly taught. However, I ended up loving PS 1. For many, it's a pre-med/concentration requirement, but the problem sets were very reasonable and did not take a long time, the staff is incredibly helpful, and the exams were fair and had no surprises. The lecturers, mainly Alan and Jacob, were great and effective. The practice problems were helpful but were actually harder than the psets and the exams; they're most useful for testing how well you know the concepts. Basically, as long as you are willing to dedicate <10 hours per week to the class, you will be able to do well in this class.
This class is great, but if you don't have a pretty strong background in chem, it could be pretty difficult. There are a lot of resources to help you, though.
Honestly, I was on the fence between this class and PS 11. and both are inherently the same class. but this year this class was fantastic. There was never a dull moment in class and it was reasonably paced. Definitely take this over ps 11.
Do lots of practice problems
Be prepared for lectures which are difficult to understand not because of content but presentation method- that has a waterfall effect that makes much of the class a "catch-up on your understanding" session
This course is great. I am so glad that I took it instead of PS 11. It is much more straightforward and you know what to expect.
The lectures are super informative while often being very entertaining. The teaching staff have a great dynamic with each other and with the students that definitely gets reflected in their teaching and the interactions that they have. The course does assume you have basic chemistry knowledge, but it's really easy to catch on just because there are just so many help resources available for the course!
This is a good class if you need to fill a requirement. The professors are great and mostly teach all the material in a clear way. I would recommend it. You get what you put in. If you don't do any work outside of class, or don't practice for the exams, it will show.
This is a well taught class, but the disparity between the problems you learn to solve and the problems on the exam is unreal. Its ridiculous how hard the final exam was in comparison to what was actually taught. I think PSL's are a mandatory component of the class if you want to succeed. Overall a great class, that i was interested in and knew the course material in, but probably didn't get a great grade in, so take that as you will.
PS 1 is extremely well taught. The staff and course are well designed.
It's an awesome class. If you just do the practice problems, the tests are nothing out of the ordinary.
Take this class, not PS11. Unless you're all about "application" and the idea that some introductory chemistry course will give you the tools to change the world.  This class is very straightforward. It's just science. It's very well taught; the professors are great (and hilarious), the PSR (taught by Lindsay) is extremely helpful, and the TF's are adept.
This course felt like a family.  Even without knowing any of the preceptors/section leaders particularly well, I felt very comfortable approaching anyone to ask questions and felt very supported throughout the entire course.
Go to the problem solving reviews and get as much help from the TFs as you can. Lectures are not very helpful. Carlos and Alan are obviously brilliant, but I know from talking to other students in the class, I wasn't the only one who felt like lectures were a complete blurr.
Don't get caught into thinking its too easy. I came in having taken AP, didn't do much for it early on, and performed poorly early on because of this underestimation
The PSets will teach you a lot about the material. Lectures are mostly good- but more importantly, the Friday problem solving reviews will get you through this class. Lindsay is a poignant and effective educator. Always go to her problem solving lecture.
If you can learn on your own and will put in the time to extra problems, you should do okay in the class. However, the lectures are difficult to understand.
If you're engineering this class doesn't take much effort. That being said, I cant' say much about its teaching, as I went to class very little.
It's difficult and a lot of work and not always well taught but it's the best option in terms of fulfilling a chemistry requirement in the spring
This class is the best science class I have taken at Harvard so far. The staff actively wants you to succeed and is very present. They learned from their mistakes in previous semesters and reworked the class in a way that makes it way better for the student. The material is taught in a great way and they are always open to questions. The material is manageable and with office hours and use of the practice problem book success in this class is very possible.
Ultimately, I chose PS1 over PS11 because I felt like it was going to be more manageable for me personally. I hate chemistry with a burning passion, so the idea of constantly having to do application-type problems really stressed me out. I went to the first few lectures of PS11, and found Anderson to be very boring and hard to follow. While the lecturers in PS1 aren't super fascinating, they're to-the-point, clear and extremely kind people. They are very accessible in office hours, and have a genuine desire to see you succeed. I also didn't choose PS11 because the thought of reading 60+ pages out of a chemistry textbook every week made me want to vomit. PS1  *technically* has a textbook, which I bought. Big mistake. I think I opened it once.
As a senior taking this as a pre-med requirement, I felt it was the easiest of them.
This class can be tough but the teaching staff are so helpful and really there for you if you need help.
Be prepared when they ramp things up in the second half of the course, and try to do a little every day so as not to get overwhelmed by trying to do 50 practice problems before any exam.
PS 1 is so great! The teaching staff really care that you learn the information, and are willing to meet at any time to help you along the way. Make sure you do the practice problems and you will be fine!! This class was basically AP chem with a few new concepts, but it was great!
The class is much better than PS11 in my opinion and the information is much more digestible. The professors are also really great.
PS1 is a great course.
This class is a great introduction to chemistry. Sirinya and Hongkun are some of my favorite people! They are really funny and make sure that the 10am lecture every other day is enjoyable and exciting. It is a lot of work to keep up with the material, and the material is not easy, but the teaching staff is there to help and is very accessible.
The exams are incredibly hard although he course staff are AMAZING
This class was extremely well taught. In the huge debate between PS1 and PS11, I would go with PS1 for sure, and I am glad that I made the right choice. For those of you deciding between the two: if you want to go over more theoretical chemistry, go for PS1 (this may be more useful for pre-meds or bio majors who are taking the MCAT); if you want to go over more applied chemistry, go for PS11 (this may be more useful for chemistry majors. However, I found that the class was quite doable and probably not different from PS11 in terms of difficulty.
This is fairly painless if you do it right. It's very much a freshman style science course, but teaches you some important things and will get you where you need to. Be prepared for some crazy characters, especially the head lab TF and professors.
This class is great. The teaching staff is incredible and you should definitely go to office hours and reach out for help. The first midterm material is a lot easier than the second midterm so be ready for the course to ramp up super intensely. Exams are challenging.
I'm not really sure if PS 11 is any better, but I do not recommend this course. The teaching staff, particularly Professor Park, is subpar. (Underlining the text in your own powerpoints is NOT teaching.) The first midterm is very easy and gives you a false sense of security for the second midterm--which is incredibly difficult and totally ruined my grade. I was fooled into thinking I had a wealth of practice problems to study from, and I did all of them, but the exams were still more difficult than the practice. Not an easy A by any means if you didn't take AP Chemistry in high school. Only take if you absolutely must.
Many reviews that I read before taking this class said it was a very difficult weed out class for freshmen premeds. I found that was not an accurate representation. The lectures were very straightforward and reflect the material on the psets and exams very well. While there is a lot of material the concepts are never impossible to understand. If you go to lecture and pay attention, this class is not difficult. Also, it has less out of lecture requirements that PS11, which is why I took it.
The professors are absolutely amazing! Section leaders are also amazing! I would highly recommend attending office hours because it is really great getting to know the staff of the course. Definitely is a lot of work. First half of the course is a lot easier to understand than the second half.
Like many people, I was deciding between ps1 and ps11 at the beginning of the semester.  This class was so great, and I highly recommend ps1.  The staff is so friendly, and since there were few people in the class, everyone got a lot of help if they wanted it.  The exams were fair.
PS1 is an absolutely amazing class! PS1 is very interesting, and you learn a lot. In addition, every member of the course staff goes out of their way to make sure that you have a strong understanding of the course material. The professors, preceptor, and teaching fellows really get to know you and help you understand the material well. The course material, such as the lecture notes, section handouts, Friday Problem Solving Review sessions, laboratory manual and assignments, practice problems, and practice exams really help you practice skills and apply concepts important in the class. There is so much practice material and so much help in this class. PS1 is an excellent class, and you will truly learn a lot. I recommend you take PS1!
If you look at last year's Q guide, you will be terrified, but the course staff has worked really hard to improve the class. I was miserable with the PS1/PS11 decision at the beginning of the semester, but I am so happy with the choice I made. This is class is wonderful. They want you to succeed, they want to see you learn. The psets are fair, the exams are just like the practice exams, the teaching staff is wonderful. If you are scared of chemistry, take this class, PS1 is honestly a community.
Professors are great, and are beyond willing to help you!
The staff is super friendly and willing to help you, but the lectures are very hard to understand, and for some reason nobody did well in this course. It was better this year than previous years because of all of Mike's hard work.
The course is well organized, but it goes way too slowly to be exciting and the labs are generally uninteresting. You are better off taking a higher level class.
The teaching staff is incredibly helpful and supportive in this class. They are there with resources and want you to succeed. If you take the course, I would take advantage of office hours, review session, and section.
I very strongly recommend this course to individuals who have an interest in chemistry as well as those who are deciding between premed chemistry courses. The material can be challenging at times, but the course staff are all very helpful, and the material is definitely manageable.
Do not save this course til senior year if it is a requirement. Save your senior spring from a lot of pain.
Although the Q scores are low for this class, they made a lot of changed to the course which must have made a big difference because I really enjoyed this class. The homework and tests felt really fair and there was always so much help available and the teaching staff is super nice. I am definitely glad I took this over PS11.
Only take this course if you have to or if you love chemistry
Take PS 11.
Make sure you take advantage of the staff and their office hours they're SOOOO helpful if you seek them out. They really have your best interest at heart. The other thing I would say is to TAKE the midterms very seriously. Since there are only two of them it's really easy to end up with a lower grade than you probably deserve just because the midterms are short so if you don't know how to do one problem you're kind of in trouble. Definitely do the practice problems and practice exams so that you can ace the exams because although they're harder than what you will probably see on the exam the psets don't prepare you for the exam. The psets are definitely just for basic conceptual learning. If you are choosing between this class and PS11 don't get swayed to PS11 just because the first couple of classes seem super interesting and fun. Overall PS1 is great if you like straightforward teaching and material as opposed to PS11 which I heard from friends is more application based. If that's more your speed then definitely take this class instead of PS11.
Very straightforward class, if you do the work, you will most likely do fine
PS1 has made strides in the past year to better the coarse following especially harsh comments for the 2016 spring. Although the coarse has gotten better, it is still not good. Take PS11, you'll do better in the coarse. Although it seemed like Srinya really pushed towards bettering the coarse, in the end she is just a professor. Mike, the preceptor, as amazing as he is at explaining concepts seems to enjoy challenging students a bit too much. Although this is fine in coarse work, it becomes a bit frustrating on exams. Additionally, the second half of the coarse is much harder than the first. Make sure to do well on the first exam, because your grade will most certainly go down on the second one.
Sirinya is a great lecturer, but you have to ask questions and be engaged with the material to really learn it.
Find the meaning behind the material and how it is truly useful, and the class will go much more smoothly.
This class was amazing! The teaching staff is awesome! Get to know them and go to office hours!!! Definitely go to Friday problem solving reviews.
lectures are not great and very difficult to understand; made take ps11
It will be easy during regular weeks and then ridiculously stressful during test times because the tests don't match the usual difficulty of the class.
This class is well structured and well taught. Doing the readings, going to lecture and section, and doing practice problems really help you solidify the material. The class is pretty difficult though and takes a lot of work.
Great, straightforward class to fulfill requirement. Faculty members and teaching staff are very accessible and eager to help.
It's really individualized, a lot of times people aren't open to discuss or form study groups and it's so, hard doing it on your own at like 1 AM in the morning with no idea of how to begin. I wasn't prepared for the loneliness, the almost coldly independent atmosphere of the class.
I think this is a fair, straightforward course on general chemistry with something for future chemistry concentrators, biology concentrators, or even engineering concentrators. I recommend paying attention in lectures, keeping a list of questions, attending sections, and taking advantage of all of the resources available to you to get the full potential out of this course. Exams can be challenging, but they are fair, and I'm sure many did well on them.
I really loved the class. It was difficult and challenging, but I was able to learn so much with the constant help of all the staff. The workload is also very reasonable and the practice problems/problem sets are very helpful when preparing for exams.
TAKE THIS OVER PS1. At the beginning of the semester, I was switching back and forth and did not know which one to take. A lot of people decided with PS11 (which ended up as a large lecture class like LS1a) so PS1 had a lot fewer people (about 70). Personally, I find PS1 a lot like AP Chemistry and the material is very similar as well. PS11 was more applied, which I did not like. If you like learning the foundations of chemistry much like for the AP exam, PS1 is much better. If you like learning more applied chemistry to the real world energy crisis, then PS11 is better. Having said that, the PS1 teaching staff is beyond amazing. Hongkun and Sirinya are AMAZING. Both are great at giving lectures and are engaging. Mike is great as a preceptor, the exams are relatively similar to the practice exams, theres tons of practice problems to do, and Chris as a TF was pretty decent. Overall, it wasn't as bad as I thought it would be.
Takes time and practice to get familiar with material- make sure to do the practice problems consistently throughout the year and do not cram them before exams. Really great course staff, office hours and Friday reviews were very helpful!
Take this class! The teaching staff is amazing. Sirinya, Hongkun, Mike, and everyone else are truly invested in your success and will make an effort to get to know you if you try to get to know them. Their office hours are amazing, and they just make a great team in lecture. They are funny but also clear in their instruction.
PS1 is a superb course! Most students will take it to fulfill the pre-med requirement, but the upsides of PS1 appeal whether or not you are a pre-med student. The course covers second semester general chemistry, and Hongkun and Sirinya present it in a very interesting manner. Crucial to one's success in this course is doing as many problems as possible, and engaging with them thoroughly. Most important are problem sets and the practice problems booklet, with section problems and problem solving review question also providing valuable resources throughout the term (and obviously practice exams leading up to exams). The teaching staff is very accessible and eager to help you with the questions, including in office hours and in the problem solving review. I recommend leaving the 11 AM-12 PM hour on MWF open to be able to take advantage of regular office hours with the professors and preceptor. If you are committed to getting as much as possible out of the course, I also encourage you to making a point of attending the preceptor's problem solving review on Friday. Mike was phenomenal in these reviews; he was in general awesome in helping in any way possible throughout the course! Overall, the teaching staff's dedication makes this standard general chemistry course an excellent experience!
DO NOT TAKE PS1. It makes sense in lots of ways (I took it as a premed requirement and as a gen ed), but it is not worth it. Its primary goal is to weed out potential premeds by intimidating them with tricky, uncurved, unexplained assignments that do not translate at all to the field of medicine. While PS11 is imperfect, if that's the only alternative in future terms then take that instead!  PS1 was a constant grind with people who were equally uninspired and confused. The lectures were scattered, and  the exams were unfairly difficult.
obviously this class is a requirement for most people and it is very doable. When you are looking at courses/deciding between PS 1 and PS11 make sure you look at more than just difficulty. PS11 may be more difficult, but the content seems more interesting and you get cheat sheets for midterms, and the final is take-home. important to consider. BUT PS11 didn't have Nikita- the real homie
PS1 is the best way to fulfill the pre-med general chemistry requirement. I really enjoyed this class, even having taken it as a senior. I found the lectures clear and easy to understand, the problem sets relevant to what was tested. Section was the best part of the class by far. Nikita Artomov was able to explain things so clearly that his office hours were a joy (shocking for pre-med reqs) to attend. It's definitely not a cakewalk but this class can be great if you're willing to put in the effort to learn the material.
hard
I've always been intimidated by science classes at Harvard, because I didn't take AP science classes in high school, but I felt that the course heads, professors, and PSLs created a really helpful and supportive work environment in PS1. Definitely don't be afraid to go to office hours and ask for help. PS1 is not a thrilling class, but it's probably the best way to fulfill the general chemistry requirement for pre meds.
This class is definitely challenging but if you're willing to put in the work and go to office hours and really try to understand the material you will be successful.
This is a difficult, but do-able class. I chose this class over PS11 because I heard that a lot of the environmental things covered in PS11 aren't really touched upon in Med school. But I don't know how the courses match up difficulty-wise. As long as you do practice problems and review the material, you'll do fine. But I can't stress enough how important doing problems outside of class is. The exams and final are all calculation/problem-based, so you need to be comfortable doing the problems. Go to the Problem Solving Sessions as well. Those are really helpful in getting the Psets done.
Consider taking ps11
Keep doing the practice problems, and MAKE SURE YOU HAVE A NON-GRAPHING CALCULATOR. They are weirdly strong against TI-84's and the like.
The content of the course wasn't difficult, but I feel that it could have been taught more clearly. People tended to struggle in the class not because the material was tough, but because often times it wasn't taught clearly. I generally learned what I needed to know for exams/problem sets in section rather than lecture. If you need PS as a requirement for your concentration/pre-med, I strongly recommend looking into PS 11 in addition -- from what I heard, PS 11 was more structured than PS 1, something PS 1 was definitely lacking in.
I'm probably in the outgroup here, but I highly recommend you take this course after Chem 17/concurrently with Chem27. Yes, orgo. Not only does 17/27 introduce to higher-level concepts that sometimes appear on PS1 exams, but in my opinion orgo did a much better job of sparking a love of chem in me than PS1 did. If I hadn't enrolled in orgo concurrently, PS1 would've totally killed my interest in chemistry and possibly the premed track as well. The fact that the class isn't curved fostered an unpleasantly intense atmosphere during office hours. In addition, the class is deceptively easy for the first third - after the first midterm, it gets exponentially more difficult. Lastly, WHY WERE THERE NO DETAILED DERIVATION OF ANSWERS TO THE PRACTICE PROBLEM PACKET? As someone who had to work 10 hrs/week this semester, it was impossible for me to get my questions about the packet answered during office hours. Exam "help rooms" felt extremely chaotic with the TFs being continually monopolized by one or another student. Again, I'm comparing this to ORGO. Take orgo. It's harder, but much more interesting/fun.
Go to Friday review sessions and do all the practice problems
It is very hard, so make sure that you have buddies in the class that are willing to help you with your psets and available to study with you for tests.
If you can, DO NOT TAKE PS!! This class sucks! They rush through the material and then expect you to understand it very well during exams. The three exams are brutal and will start easy and then get VERY hard (so beware). Also, if you're not forced into taking this by premed requirements or your concentration, DO NOT take it! Friday reviews are amazing and you should go to all of them or watch them online if you need to study for a test. The Lab component will kill you, not because it's hard (it's very easy) but because it is so so boring and silly. If you have to do it, good luck!
PS1 is a very doable course, especially if you have a decent background in high school chemistry. Sirinya is an excellent lecturer, Park not so much. There are many resources in place to clarify concepts and learn the material however, so if you put a small bit of effort into the right places you can succeed.
PS1 provides good background to other physical science classes. The lectures were well-structured, and the labs were interesting.
If you keep up with the work, it's interesting to look back at the material from start to end at the end of the semester. It reads through like a book. Go to the PSL's on Friday and make OH appointments with Joann
Basic pre-med course format. 3 midterms and a final. Practice exams are key.
The course is really well done. The teaching staff really cares and helps the students.
meh. material is dry, but not hard
Entertaining class, great lecturers, not too difficult and a good way to get a pre-med requirement out of the way.
This is class is very doable if you put in the time to do the problem sets and go to office hours! Take advantage of all the PSL's office hours! The practice problems are helpful; try to do them as you go along, and not the night before the test. I loved my TF Jenny!! Everyone really cares and tries to make sure that you succeed.
TAKE THIS OVER PS11. PS1 is simple and straightforward and lets you actually in depth learn the concepts before applying them.
Prepare yourselves. These midterms suck. DO ALL OF THE PRACTICE PROBLEMS. Psets don't help. Lectures aren't helpful either. Hongkun goes way too fast and often focuses on material that's not important. Sections are better for learning important material. Stay on top of this class or it will burn you. Labs are pointless.
You just have to suffer through it for the pre-med requirement.
PS1 is a pre med requirement to get done, and is not particularly intellectually stimulating, but isn't too difficult and isn't too much work. The lecturers make do with the dry introductory material, but sometimes gloss over the actual significance of the equations and concepts they explain. Taking it at the same time as LS1b wasn't bad at all this year!
This class is not easy. Definitely do all of the practice problems because they are the best preparation for the exams.
If you have to take this class, then take it. If not, I would not recommend.
Its a good followup to LPSA.
practice problems and tests are key
The Psets were manageable and the workload was reasonable throughout the semester, but did not like the heavy emphasis on mid-terms and finals in this class, with mid-terms counting for 30% of grade and finals counting for about 40% of grade (or vice versa). Psets did not count for much even though they were assigned on a weekly basis. Take this class if you need it for a concentration requirement. I would not recommend it as an elective unless you love chemistry!
Challenging but you learn a lot! Go to office hours
The lectures are interesting and engaging.  The problem sets directly relate back to the lectures and are fun to work through!
If you came from LPSA, had AP chemistry, or feel comfortable with the material, you will do well in this course. However, be prepared to do a lot of independent work outside of class in order to fully understand the material, as not all of what you need to know will be taught to you in class.
This class was fantastic.  The lectures are quite useful, but some material is best learned on your own as there were times when topics were explained to an extent that was unneeded.
This course was pretty good. The exams are inordinately difficult. Hongkun is not the best professor, but Sirinya is about as good as it gets! I really hope they eliminate the materials section. This section did not contribute to my knowledge and was totally useless in the course. This section should absolutely not be taught again. Overall, the course was pretty easy and did not require much time. Looking back, I think I should have taken PS11- the exams are reportedly easier, and though it requires a bit more time, it would have been a better choice. That being said, this class was not the absolute worst and is pretty easy.
Be aware that this class is NOT CURVED!
Do a lot of practice problems in order to fully grasp concepts that even seem very easy
The last two exams are much more difficult than the first so be prepared.
You probably have to take this course since it's a pre-med requirement. You will do a lot of learning outside of lecture. Go to section; it says recommended, it should say required. Watch or attend Friday review sessions. Go to office hours.
PS1 is a very standard general chemistry class. It's much more straightforward than PS11. Kind of similar to AP chemistry but more in-depth and covers a few more topics. The workload is pretty light, but the midterms are A LOT HARDER than any of the other problems you do in lecture/section/homework. It's not a bad class, and I personally enjoyed the course material. Hongkun is really funny but not the best at explaining everything, and Sirinya is also a great lecturer.
May recommend ps11 instead
Stay on top of the coursework and ask many questions if you don't understand something
The lectures get harder and harder, and the last test and final will be super tough, so make sure you stay on top of things. DO THE PRACTICE PROBLEMS and make sure you understand the problem sets. Don't be afraid to reach out for help, as all the TFs and teachers are very willing to provide help.
This course is difficult. Having three midterms is very irritating, but at least it means the last third of the course makes up less of the final.
The instructors were horrible and the class was way harder than it should be for a relatively simple topic.
lectures are often very confusing. defintely go to friday review and meet with tf outside of class. tests are generally very hard
Consider taking PS11 -- same material but they don't try to screw over pre-meds
This is a good course which does teach you the fundamentals of basic chemistry, and if you weren't able to understand chemistry in high school, then you'll likely have a much better grasp of the subject after taking this course. However, if you have taken AP chemistry already, it may be a better idea to take PS11 instead of PS1 since you learn the same things in both courses, but PS11 involves much more real world application than PS1. Even though I know now how to do chemistry better than I did in high school, I still think I could've gotten more out of the semester if I had taken PS11 instead.
A good grade is easily achievable if you are willing to put in the work. It means spending time on psets, going to section, going to the friday reviews sessions, and studying practice exams before tests.
The only curve in this class is the titration curve.
Beware, the course is not graded on a curve, and the cutoff for an A/A- was a 90 my year. If you are a pre-med, you may find that slipping up on just one exam can ruin your grade for this class. Otherwise, it's just a repeat of AP Chemistry, but with a bit more difficult problems.
This class is extremely hard. The midterms are much harder than the p-sets and section questions so you will have to prepare A LOT for the midterms. Study early and do the practice questions!!!! I would recommend getting a tutor from the BSC and going to lots of office hours. The midterms get progressively harder so stay on top of things throughout the year.
Take this class only if you have to, it's easy at first but picks up difficulty entering the 3rd midterm and final. Professor Park tries to be funny the whole lecture but does not teach well at all he just underlines his own lecture notes the whole time. Section and teaching staff were great but instruction was lackluster.
This course is quite easy at the beginning yet does get more challenging as the semester continues. Be prepared to sit down and study for at least a few days before the exam and don't underestimate the difficulty of the exams, as they are often more challenging than the PSets. However, in general this is a good course that is moderately paced and you should be fine as long as you are willing to put in the effort for it.
If deciding between this and PS 11 take PS 11! I regretted this so much this semester. Greg Tucci is an amazing lecturer and its better to have a seemingly harder classes with a better teaching staff than vice versa.
This class really isn't that bad. It is well structured, the lecturers are entertaining and it gives a good base to move further in the chemistry world.
For the most part, the course was only moderately difficult (labs, problem sets, and following along during lecture and section were very manageable). However, the exams were very unexpectedly difficult, so even though you may be doing well in the course so far, do not underestimate the exams. Hongkun is hard to understand sometimes and not very good at explaining things, and you'll be thankful for when Sirinya lectures. Make sure you go to section (technically optional) if you want to get your graded problem sets back and for helpful tips on how to do the kind of problems that will show up on your next problem set and/or exam. There are practice problems online but those don't show you the steps to get to the answer, only the final answer at the very end, so I did not find those helpful.
This course overall is poorly taught, requires a huge amount of time and is extremely difficult if you do not have background in chemistry. I know this is a pre med requirement but avoid it if at all possible. PS11 is a much better taught course, the final is a take home exam, and you get to bring your own formula sheets into the exam. Even though it may be considered a hard course it is not, take PS11 100%
This course requires a lot of constant outside work and diligence with practice problems in order to succeed.  Unless it is necessary to take PS 1 for a premed requirement or concentration requirement, I would recommend a less time-consuming and difficult GenEd course.
PS1 is extremely straightforward and is not that time-consuming on a weekly basis. The psets are extremely easy, but be warned that the exam questions are very difficult in comparison to them, even the practice problems provided. If you are deciding between PS1 and PS11 and you have taken AP Chemistry (even if it was several years ago), you should take PS11. It will be more interesting in PS11. PS1 can get very boring at times (lecture goes slowly and doesn't integrate as much application into lecture as PS11 does) and may not be challenging enough for you. The labs are a waste of time and don't contribute anything to learning. The teaching staff on the whole is fantastic (especially Joann)!
This introductory class can be very tedious at times. For people comfortable with chemistry, I would recommend taking a different class.
Do the problem set early and review the lecture material regularly. You can only do well by doing a lot of practice problems.
Honestly I wouldn't have taken PS1 if I didn't have to. It's pretty boring, not taught well, and is so preoccupied with being an introductory course that doesn't have math prereqs that we were always just were skimming the surface of topics without really learning anything substantial about anything.
So the information is great and having a good TF can be very helpful but some of the lectures can be tough to understand so you will spend a lot of time in office hours which can be very helpful and spend time teaching yourself the information.
This was a great chemistry experienced for me compared to AP Chemistry in high school.
This is great class if you enjoy general chemistry. Do not take this class if you are looking for an easy science Gen Ed. The lectures can be quite confusing and move fast. Be prepared to struggle through some material. This class is worthwhile to take, however. I definitely learned a lot and did not feel like I was wasting my time in class.
A pre-med requirement that isn't that bad. Stay on top of the work, do practice problems and you'll be fine.
Lecture in not very helpful, most learning is done in section.
The Friday reviews held by Joann were extremely helpful! The material was a bit more challenging and unfamiliar to me compared to my peers who took AP Chem but not too difficult to master. There was a third midterm on the last day of classes in addition to the final, so that was a bit rough.
Take PS11. Seriously. The lectures by professor Park were so difficult to follow that it made concepts that I had already learned in LPSA more difficult. Do not recommend this course at all.
This course is not very greatly taught, and you will spend many days being frustrated at various teaching staff. However, if you have no good background in chemistry, then this class does a good job of starting at the basics. If you have a better background, however, then PS11 is probably a better choice for you.
I would not take this course if you don't have to.  If you don't like chem and physics this is a tough class to take and can be difficult
This class is well organized and well thought out. The lecturers are mostly engaging and there are many ways to get help. The labs and problem sets aren't that bad and the way the midterms are structured -- 3 per semester plus a final -- is great, in my opinion.
If you just need to fulfill a requirement then this course is not bad; however, expect to put in a lot of extra work and teach yourself a lot of the material. The hardest part of this course is dealing with the disorganization and poor teaching. The material itself is really quite simple.
Whether you've taken an AP Chemistry course or haven't taken a chemistry course at all, you can learn something from this course.
Just do all the practice problems and homework.
Go to section, it's very helpful.
Good class. Has a lot of exams though.
It is deceptive and may seem easy but the questions are tricky and you need to really know how to apply the material
It's straightfoward!
The course is doable, but you need to put in the work. Some of the material is hard to grasp but there are many resources you can use to help you clear things up.
Professor Park is sometimes vague and the midterms are very difficult
The instructors and course assistants are poor at best. They will actively try to deceive students and are hesitant to explain many concepts. In some cases, they will approach the material from such an advanced level that few students have the background to understand the concepts. Other times, they leave out core information from a concept to avoid confusing students, ultimately leading them to lack a basic understanding of the mechanisms at play.
Go to office hours and watch the Friday review sessions
It is an okay class.
This was the absolute worst class I've taken at Harvard. Take PS11. Take PS11. Take PS11. I really wish I would've picked PS11 instead.
Make sure you do practice problems from the very beginning because the mid terms only get harder and harder!
The class is difficult, and does require much practice, however if enough effort and time is put in then the class will be rewarding.
Very straight-forward no-nonsense chemistry. Do the practice problems, and you will do well. Help is always available to those who ask.
This course is easy and straightforward... that is, as long as you actually do the work.  I slacked off a little bit and then catching up was a pain.  Also, go to Friday Reviews, or at least watch the video later (2 times the speed).  I did that and it was SUPER helpful.
Do the practice problems.
The psets and labs are easy but the exams are unreasonably difficult because you are not prepared for them. Take ps11 if you can; this is a weed-out class and will be very annoying.
very well organized and straightforward. 3 midterms and a final exam. clicker questions in lecture. lab every other week. not graded on a curve. if you took AP chem, you probably won't learn much in this class.
Good class if you need to take a chem class.
PS1 is a good introductory chemistry course. It comes with the usual pitfalls of a large intro course, but is managed well.
Definitely watch out for the lectures about P-N junctions and materials.  Although the content is interesting, it wasn't conveyed as clearly as could have been, and was stressed on the midterm without previous practice problems.  But overall, a fairly solid introduction to general chemistry and less of a time commitment than PS11.
Well, you need to take it unfortunately.
course was like AP chem except moved twice as quickly
Class with fair assignments and reasonable workload
Competence in chemistry and physics is definitely recommended; many foundational topics are only glossed over. Nonetheless, the teaching staff does an amazing job of providing review and study resources beyond lecture. If you study consistently, you will be fine for the midterms and they will provide great study material for the final.
If you are a pre-med, please take another course to fulfill your inorganic chemistry requirement. This class is not for anyone who cares about learning. Please save yourself the trouble of taking this course because you will be consistently frustrated with how little you learn and need to know about concepts in chemistry in that class. Instead, you will learn that you need to regurgitate the most useless facts from the material in order to perform well in exams.
If you're premed and are looking for the general chemistry requirements and struggling with a heavy course load, I would recommend this course over PS11. I took five classes this semester, but I would have taken PS11 if I were taking 4 classes. The course is instructive but not interesting, especially for people who have taken AP chemistry class before. If you're here to learn about chemistry because of genuine curiosity and have preparations (AP chem, etc), take another class. If you're here to fulfill that premed requirement but don't really care about learning per se, take this class.
The exams can be wildcards. Be sure to review in depth everything taught in the unit as the exams are only one hour long so there's a lot of material to cover in that short test. As a result, some things are tested in depth while avoiding other topics completely.
This class is a standard pre-med requirement. The material is pretty boring, but is not too difficult. It can be hard to really get involved with the class material, which can make exams hard, but if you pay attention and are willing to keep pace with the material, everything should be straight forward.
This class is difficult and requires a lot of time in order to do well.
Do practice problems to learn the material, also ask a lot of questions because there are a lot of little things you have to know that they don't straight-up tell you
do well on the psets to help boost your grade. Get help.
Some of the later material seemed to be rushed, preventing it from being taught as well as it should have been.
This class has a lot of interesting material for someone who is interested in chemistry and physics. If it is being taken begrudgingly to fulfill a requirement, you will get through it eventually, but for me was a painful experience. The tests are something hit you out of nowhere and leave you hating your decision to participate in the class.
Go to section! The weekly handouts are very helpful.
This class will be a fun class to take. You will have a great support system!
Do well on the first midterm. It all goes downhill from there.
exams are tough but good course overall, lots of opportunities to get extra help
I would tell people to not half ass this class
The course is very manageable & a great way to fulfill the pre-med requirement for chem.
It is extremely difficult to do well in this class. The midterms are significantly harder than anything you've seen in the class and therefore it is nearly impossible to feel prepared, and the course will not tell you what the class averages were on said midterms.
PS1 was a very good class!  The assignments were reasonable, and help (through my TF) was always readily accessible.  The exams were not as straightforward; there always seemed to be one or two questions that just pushed our level of understanding of a particular topic.  But overall, the class was definitely worth taking.
Run like the wind. I hear PS11 is poorly taught. But it has to be a thousand times better than PS1
Not a very hard class.
AP Chemistry background is very much recommended for this course! If you don't have the background, be ready to do a lot of independent studying and catching up!
This class is quite well run and the teaching staff are very good with answering questions. The material can be somewhat dense and difficult to understand, but overall is interesting. It's very pre-Med and freshman heavy, so it's taught towards getting a good grade and less toward understanding the concepts (this is especially the case with section).
It's pretty much what you expect an intro chem class to be. It is definitely difficult, and takes a good amount of effort, but gives a good basic understanding of chemistry.
essentially AP chem
It's your average pre-med class. But there are so many resources to make it worth it. With LPSA or strong AP chem background, you'll be fine.
PSETS are relatively easy. The midterms are sometimes awful.
This is the Ec 10a of chemistry.  You'll do all the "hard" stuff from AP Chemistry like kinematics and electrochemistry with a sprinkle of new higher level stuff like super basic quantum mechanics.  With only 2-3 hour long psets due weekly, this is a great class to add as a 5th class if you're a sciencey person that needs this requirement out of the way.
I would not recommend this class unless you absolutely have to take it (for concentration or pre-med, etc.). I hated every second of this class.
Great class, great lecturers, and great preceptor!
Difficult course but fair and worth it
It's a good class.
do the practice problems seriously
This class was super well run. Lectures, labs, psets, evaluations--everything was very fair and manageable.
It is a good class and the exams are good but the problem is that sometimes exams will have obscure things on them that will make them hard.
The class was deceivingly easy at the beginning of the semester.  It became much harder which I was not prepared for but overall it's a good class! Just keep on top of your work and make sure you continue to make sure you understand what's going on throughout the semester.
Much of your learning will be last minute during the psets.  Topics are covered very briefly  in lecture and then you're tested on these in much more depth that you're unprepared for.
Really review the semiconductors for the test. They destroyed a lot of people - some did not even know they would appear on the test. Hongkun will put random things from the slides on the test, so really review his information. Sirinya was great, Hongkun is obviously extremely smart but presents more difficult information less in depth than Sirinya in my opinion.
Make sure you do as many practice problems as possible and ask questions when you have them. If you are confused about something, go to office hours before you try to read the textbook (in fact don't even use the textbook, it will likely just confuse you more than help you). This class has a very manageable workload and if you are worried about taking this class with LS1b at the same time, it is doable, but just beware of midterm week because both midterms tend to be in the same week. Hopefully they will change that. Overall just make sure you devote plenty of time to this class and you will be satisfied.
You know when you were in fourth grade, taking Social Studies? And your textbook had the "main" part in which the important stuff was written, but it also had those small little boxes with Fun Facts and photo captions? If you want an A in PS1, you need to read all those little boxes (in a metaphorical sense).
