This class is great because it has a global component (i.e. climate change, energy, etc.) So you will learn a lot about how the chemistry dictates these processes. Nice twist and unique from PS 1.
Pretty good general chemistry course. Make sure to take it seriously all the way through till the end of the semester
If you must take a general chem course, this is not a bad option. Relatively painless with an interesting focus on global energy and the environment. However, lectures and readings sometimes seemed like a waste of time.
In this course, you cover a number of topics from the macroscopic level, looking at different types of engines and other thermodynamic systems, to the microscopic level, looking at the formation of bonds in molecules. The course also utilizes a number of case studies to supplement the material covered in class. The case studies are definitely interesting, but are not greatly emphasized in the course. The textbook is also a great resource if you are having trouble with the material and I do not feel that enough people took advantage of it.
Take PS1 unless you are genuinely interested in the globally relevant aspects of this course or are very strong in chemistry.
Tucci and Anderson are great professors and genuinely care about their students and the material they're teaching. However the class can be frustrating when it seems like lectures focus on very different things than the psets cover, and labs are a waste of time (but that's how i feel about most labs in intro classes).
Great introduction to chemistry! I highly recommend it. If you have an AP Chem background, you are almost guaranteed an A if you do the required work.
Take PS1 instead.
The grading scale is very good, and it is a chill way to fulfill a pre-med requirement. Take-home final!!
While I would certainly recommend this course over PS1; however, students with a desire to get more out of the course than just their pre-med requirement fulfilled might want to take Chem40, or another chemistry course, as this course was disorganized and taught in such a way that it encouraged short term learning over deep understanding.While the course wasn't overly difficult, it was frustrating at times.
For pre-med requirements, I needed to take either PS11 or PS1, and it seems as though the PS11 staff are really trying to help you do well, and they make it relatively easy on you (lots of A's).  That said, the lectures were not the most interesting, and Anderson is not very good at explaining/covering relevant topics in lecture.  Tucci was great though.
This is a very good class. Though sometimes lecture theory material will go over your head, it turns out that the only material you need to know for tests is what you go over in problem sets and section problems, so you know exactly what you need to practice.
it's a great physical sciences class to take! lots of application, and very interesting
This course is good, but take it with the purpose of taking it because you like the way it is taught. They use case studies and real world applications throughout the entire course. Because of Q scores last year I think a lot of people who were not interested in the actual course material took it and it ruined the feel of the class and how people viewed it. For engineering or applied sciences people this is the course to take! Beware that the lectures sometimes do not prepare you for the task at hand and reading the book is nearly necessary!
I honestly don't know whether this class or PS1 is a better option for satisfying a general chemistry requirement, but I had some issues with this class overall.  The lectures were generally not very useful or interesting, problems sets were often really hard, and the whole "globally relevant calculations" aspect of this course, while a good idea in theory, was poorly implemented.  This class goes into significantly greater detail on certain topics such as quantum mechanics and theories of bonding than PS1, so be prepared for that if you take this class.  PS11 also seems to have a much more generous curve than PS1, so that is a consideration as well when you're deciding which one to take.
This class is fantastic!  It has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard!  Professor Tucci is amazing!  Anytime you have an opportunity to take a class from him, I highly recommend it!  Learning the material can be a struggle at first but the faculty does a fantastic job on making sure it becomes concrete.  You will leave this class with a solid foundation in chemistry.  The best thing I liked about this class was the depth in which Quantum Mechanics was explored.  This class goes a lot more in depth behind the concepts and theories that are briefly addressed in AP Chemistry.  For me personally, chemistry made a lot more sense after this course because I began to understand the actual mechanisms behind and purpose for certain equations and ideas in chemistry.  Overall, fantastic course!
If you are deciding between taking PS 1 and PS 11, take this course. It is better taught, the material is better, and the real world applications are phenomenal.
Although this is primarily a chemistry class, students should understand that this is a relatively demanding course that requires an open mind, familiarity with current events, and a sharp eye to see and fully understand connections between various global calculations and concepts. Though and AP level background in chemistry would definitely be helpful, this course still requires 100% effort throughout the term.
PS 11 is an alternative to PS1, and although last year's Q-Guide clearly seemed to suggest that PS11 is much better/easier/etc than PS1, from what I saw this year with my friends, this is less clear now. I really like the idea behind PS11. The course is supposed to start out from the "larger" concepts and move in to quantum mechanics. I also liked the global questions component of the class, although I think the incorporation of these could have been much better. Sections were REALLY helpful, I definitely recommend Mykyta's sections.
Best part of this course is energy and applications focus. It was great to engage in constant discussion of alternative energy and world energy consumption from a scientific point of view. It is not just theoretical but real life. You learn chemistry but more importantly, you learn about relevant applications.This class also did not curve or focus on grades, which is refreshing.
Tucci is a fantastic lecturer; take the course so you can learn from him. The final is take home, but don't let that delude you into thinking that it's going to be easy. Overall, if you have a great TF this couse can be enjoyable and it's not too difficult, especially if you have taken AP Chem. For pre-meds, definitely take this course over PS1.
As long as you go to class and section, you'll be fine. Go to the problem solving lectures and actually read the book if you definitely want to be good. The class is not difficult, and you've most likely seen the material before. The lecturers are pretty good (Tucci is awesome, Anderson is slow and verbose, but you've gotta love him). They are both enthusiastic and really want you to understand/be able to apply what you learn to everyday life. The labs are fine and the tests/p-sets and fair. From what I hear it's a lot better than PS1. I had essentially no chem experience in high school and had only taken LPSA a year prior, and I didn't have too much trouble.
the most stress-free premed class you'll ever take; don't miss out
This is a challenging course, but the faculty is fantastic. They are committed to helping students understand the subject material. Be prepared to work hard. It is important that students have a strong interest in physics and chemistry and are prepared to think on a new level about how these concepts relate to global issues.
If you've taken AP Chem, this class won't be too hard and has some good new concepts to offer you. The global calculations felt sort of random in the context of the material, and while I think this is a great idea, this should be improved upon in future years. The teaching staff, overall, is great; Professor Anderson is very hard to understand and lectures on material that flew WAY over everyone's head. The final exam was WAY too long; honestly, if you think you are going to have a very busy reading week, it may be worth considering this class twice.
Take this course, you will love it. It is very easy. Do not take this course if you are an annoying Pre-med, because you will ruin it for kids who are the course out of interest.
This has been by far my favorite class at Harvard! Professors, lectures, and all materials are engaging and exciting!
The Global Calculations part of this course, which is touted as what makes it unique from PS1, is actually the least organized component. I would honestly choose PS1 if you think you can best the PS1 curve. The 85 is an A- for PS11 just isn't worth the struggle of irrelevant problem sets, etc.
Ask questions, take advantage of office hours.  The problems are probably more important than the readings, but you should still know the theory. Also, "control F" will save you if the readings are still online next year.
Take this class, don't be worried, Your chem knowledge will be solidified.
This class is great. I took it as a medical school and concentration requirement. I ended up learning a great deal about the application of physics to alternative energy and the future wellbeing of the planet.
james anderson blows shit up
It's socially relevant and relates scientific knowledge to our world in a way that means something to everyone, particularly given the climatic challenges we now face. Whether you are a pre-med or not (personally I am not one), this is a course that is worth-taking and
There are a lot of positive aspects of this course. The professors are very passionate and inspiring. The material can be very interesting, and section is very useful. However, the treatment of globally relevant applications is not well done. It sounds like a really neat aspect of the course but in practice is actually really tedious.
Great teaching staff and if you put in the work, you will succeed!
The course is very fair and the professors are incredibly enthusiastic. The material is clearly presented and easy to comprehend.
This class is not well taught and not curved. If you want to do well, you better already know the material or be willing to go to office hours a lot. If you have another option, do it. This class sucks.
Take PS11 over PS1! It's much more applicable and Tucci is amazing. The midterms aren't bad at all and the take home final is a blessing.
I was very excited to take this course having really enjoyed LPSA the previous semester. I was disappointed. While I enjoyed and learned from Tucci's lectures, Anderson, who lectures for the majority of the course, did not present the course material in an effective way.
This is a great course if they can hammer out some of the kinks. much better than PS 1.
Try to find a team of people to take the course with, so you can collaborate on psets etc. It's useful to have other people to talk to about the course material without having to reach out to teachers all the time. It's not as difficult as I originally thought it would be.
This class was terrible. I loved chemistry and physics in high school but I hated this class. It's poorly structured and will leave you with gaps in your general chemistry knowledge. (What chemistry class doesn't cover kinetics?) While easy to get through and very possible to get an A, it is not a good class to take if you actually want to learn chemistry. If you have the option to get out of this class, take it. If you have to take this class for pre-med requirements, good luck and get ready for a rough semester.
This class is very education on both a technical and a global scale.
If you have taken AP Chem, this course (and any other intro Chem course at Harvard) will probably be fairly easy for you. Don't let this affect your performance! Go to lecture, crush all your psets and exams, and walk away with that solid A.
Definitely take this class over PS1!  The grading scheme is much better in this course (everyone with a grade over an 85 gets an A) and Jim and Gregg are legitimately the kindest professors you will meet here at Harvard.  The lectures can seem to wander sometimes, especially when Jim is teaching about the case studies, but most of the lectures, especially those in the second half of the course, are very interesting and the material will be taught to you in a different light than when you've been taught it before.  The midterms are generally not too bad, and the psets will take a few hours every week (don't start the night before they're due!), but the amount of work per week isn't exceedingly bad.  The final exam is take-home, which in part was nice because we were allowed to use our notes, but it was extremely long, taking me and many of the people I talked to afterwards upwards of 9 hours to complete. That said, it may be shorter in future years, so definitely don't take this class because of that...ultimately it is a WONDERFUL class that I am so glad I took.
Not too time-intensive and appropriate for fulfilling several requirements.
This course is not difficult for any science concentrator, but it is pretty boring. If it isn't a requirement I'd find something more interesting.
PS11 was such a unique and cool course! You will learn a lot about chemistry, especially the real world modern applications of science. The instructors really love this course and care about the students and are so willing to help anybody who needs any special instruction. I highly recommend this course to students who are considering a degree in the natural sciences.
This class is interesting, but it can be difficult to figure out what material you are going to be tested on. The book can be a little confusing, as it is not a general chemistry textbook, but written specifically for this class. Lecture was generally helpful, though Professor Tucci's lectures were generally more clear than Professor Anderson's. Both professors are very nice and approachable.
Take this class if you have a strong chemistry/physics background. Don't be fooled-it counts for chemistry but is strongly physics-based. It's great when Tucci's teaching but TERRIBLE when Anderson's teaching it (literally don't go to the last few lectures if you don't have to). He is really, extremely nice and I'm sure he's extremely knowledgeable about global issues but he doesn't really get how to lecture effectively. Take with caution. The take-home final sounds nice, but it's actually quite difficult.
Great pre-med class to take to fulfill chemistry. The professors were a lot of fun, and the material is interesting and informative. They teach it well, and you definitely have an opportunity to succeed.
Make sure that you do the readings.  Everything will make so much more sense if you can take the time to go through the online textbook.
If you have taken AP or IB chemistry and/or organic chemistry, expect the majority of this class to be review. If you're looking for an easier chem class to take to fill in your semester or want to breeze through a premed requirement, then this is the class for you. If you want to challenge yourself to learn new concepts or theory in chemistry, I'd recommend trying to skip into a higher class.
The course is a lot of work, but you learn a lot of information
Take it over PS1. The beginning is going to make you think you chose the wrong one, but stick with it. Once Tucci lectures, you're going to be happy.
This course is a new course and on its way to being an amazing course. There are still some kinks in the class but this course definitely provides a unique perspective on physical sciences. Take this course over PS1 if you've had AP Chem before. Professors and TF's were extremely available outside of class for questions or just to talk.
If you have to take PS1, PS10, or PS11, take PS11. It will be the least painful and it is not curved so you won't have to worry about competing with all of the crazy freshman pre-meds.
PS11 is probably the most painless way to fulfill the inorganic chemistry requirement for pre-med. The class is very straightforward, and general chemistry concepts are consciously applied to real global issues. The material can be interesting at times and dry at others, but overall the class was informative and insightful.
Do the p-sets and practice problems rather than read the book.
Lectures definitely need improving, DEFINITELY...however, on all other counts, the course is definitely doable and also one of the very few FAIR Harvard pre-med requirements.
I was debating between this class and PS1, and I could not figure out a good way to tell the difference. I still don't know what PS1 is like, but DEFINITELY TAKE IT OVER THIS CLASS.
Take this class for a good basic understanding of science in today's world, but not as a gateway to a serious hard science.
Take this over ps1. Take home final and next year it will be due during finals period to give mire
Read the textbook, as painful as that is
Take this class before Orgo! Take this class over PS1!!! You will be so happy that you chose this class for so many reasons. Anderson and Tucci are great! Go to office hours, just for the experience and because there is no way you won't do well if you do! This class makes quantum mechanics seem easy! The staff make it so easy to learn such difficult material. This class is an awesome intro to chem and great way to fulfill a concentration/pre-med requirement.
This course does a great job defining the relevance of basic chemistry and physics, on macroscopic and microscopic scales, to current global issues in energy efficiency, global warming, etc. Tucci give AWESOME, clear lectures. Anderson provides the global backdrop for the material. An interesting class overall.
Future PS 11er: This course seems like a nice alternative to PS 1. Am I right? Take home final exam. Not as 'life-sciencey.' Topics overall seem more interesting. I mean hey learn about the causes and consequences of global warming? Global energy crisis? Seems pretty legitimate. And I agree with you. PS 11 does seem more appealing than PS 1. But, here's the thing. Unfortunately it is not taught in the most effective manner. Half of the lectures are interesting and easy to follow, while the other half of the lectures are confusing at best. For that reason, I would strongly discourage you from taking this class, which I feel is a shame because this class has such potential to be great.
THe workload is manageable but some parts of the course are not well-taught.
It's still a little rough around the edges, but it's a great course. It's not just an alternative to PS 1--you really learn about sustainable development, renewable energy, and climate change issues. You leave the course a more educated citizen.
Unless the course becomes more organized and structured, this class is one to avoid.  It does have rather easy homework assignments but it just is a waste of a class block.
This is a great course and Dr. Tucci is definitely an amazing professor. Dr. Anderson is one of the sweetest professors at Harvard; however, he can be a little hard to understand at times. The PSETs definitely require some group work, but overall a great course.
You don't have to spend too much time but be prepared to struggle on at least  one or two concepts despite AP Chem
You will learn, the three midterms aren't bad, the take-home final can take more time than expected, but the resources provided will allow you to learn much without the pressures that come with the other science classes here. That said, you still have to work to do well, and working with others for the psets is definitely advisable.
Only take it if your chemistry is really strong.
Be prepared to learn about a great deal of material in section as opposed to lectures.
Need to work hard because psets don't match with conceptual understanding at all.
You need to learn how to do problems and go to every section
I really enjoyed this class.  It was taught really well and the applications were a lot more interesting than I thought they would be.  I would definitely take this over PS1 if you're deciding between the two.
Be prepared to have very little resources available to learn the material in this class.  Lectures are terrible, after the first week of Professor Anderson lecturing we were already over a week behind and I remember a lecture on "electrochemistry" where we just went over everything from the first week of class again.  The textbook is very difficult to understand and learn from and there is an extremely limited amount of practice problems.  My saving grace was section, however I know many people that had terrible TFs and did not even have that resource.  Unless you already know the material that you will learn, don't take this class.
This class covers very interesting material, but if you're looking for engaging lectures or useful explanations, think twice.
Dr. Tucci is great.
If you've taken Orgo this class is very easy and gives you some good global perspective that doesn't make it completely tedious. I'd suggest taking higher level classes though.
Wait until teaching staff grows to sufficiently address the needs of the student body. Tips on how to survive this course: you may skip lectures, but make sure to watch problem solving sessions! Go to TF office hours for p-sets. You may want to look over p-sets as soon as they are released, but wait until section to actually start working on them (necessary formulas are all listed out during section). Go to Dr. Tucci's and Dr. Anderson's office hours for fun talks about the materials in general. They are super friendly and engaging (though they prefer not to talk about p-set-ish stuff then.)Also, Dr. Tucci is an awesome lecturer, but Dr. Anderson had some bad days (especially when trying to teach us about wavefunctions - I am still confused about how important those mathematical formulas actually are!). I hope his lectures improve in the future.
This course is a great alternative to PS1. Labs go pretty quickly. Lectures are entertaining as Anderson and Tucci are both incredibly personable and intelligent. TFs can make a difference in how much work you have to do outside of the course so be sure to try to get a good TF.
Prepare yourself to learn how your behaviour affects the entire world.
You need to have taken AP chem
The content is really worth it. If you actually learn what they want you to learn and don't just learn the core concepts, it's totally worth it.
If you haven't taken AP chem, DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE. Take PS1. Don't let the take home final fool you, it was HORRIBLE. The cuoff for an A is an 85, which is good. The material is interesting and you learn a lot, but honestly the course could use some serious improvement. Disorganized/illegible lecture slides, bad textbook. Psets/tests are fair. Honestly I learned a lot but it was a badly taught course. I don't regret taking it, but if I had to do it again, I would take PS1.
If you took AP Chemistry, this class is good to take.
This class is probably better than PS1. Tucci and Anderson are both really eager to help, and they want students to do well. That's one of the reasons the final is take-home (so nice!). It's a good class, which will definitely overlap with some AP chem, meaning it isn't too stressful. The hardest part for me was the quantum mechanics stuff, but if you're familiar with that the class will be a breeze.
In this course an 85 is an A. Very helpful.
This class is a great way to complete a pre-med requirement; you'll learn about the concepts as well as a number of real-world applications. There are reading quizzes and the chapters can be pretty long, but you don't need to know every single detail. Make sure to read the case studies though, as it won't be fun to have to go through them for problem set answers or rush through them when studying for a test.
Take home final; from what I've heard, a much better class than PS1 so for those who need to take one of the two, PS11 should be the way to go. Anderson and Tucci are also great!
The course is easy to follow. Neither the material nor the work load are overwhelming. Sometimes the lectures get off track, and there's more focus on global energy issues than the foundational material. If you're considering taking the MCAT, though, the course covers everything you need.
This class was very well organized, and you learn a lot from all parts of the course, but in particular reading the textbook and going to section were really helpful. I really liked the applications and relevance to the energy problems of today; this was a great introduction to basic chemistry with the context of energy.
Lectures are pretty unhelpful, book is terribly written, rely on google and section to learn material
Think carefully as you choose between PS1 and PS11. Both are great, but serve two different types of people. PS11 has many advantages, but you need to be prepared to put up with new-course growing pains and unclarity. However, this is made up for with your relationship with Jim Anderson, who will write you a letter of recommendation simply for being in the course, and the take-home at the end, which is better than having a real-life final IMO. Ps1 is not new at all so they have a lot of these things worked out and the course operates like a well-oiled machine.
It's what you'd expect from a chemistry class. It's not always straightforward, but give it the time it deserves and you'll get the questions right.
It is a refreshing style of teaching chemistry, the faculty and fellows are very wonderful, understanding, caring, and fair people. And you will come out more knowledgable about the connections between chemistry and very pertinent topics in other aspects of the US and world. You will also leave the class wanting to by a Tesla Model S.
PS11 overall was a solid course and from what I have heard a good alternative to PS1. It is a very doable class, especially if you take advantage of office hours when you do not understand material and for help on psets. Before exams just make sure to do all the practice problems. Also, they say the take home final exam will only take 6 hours, but it really required much more time to complete this so be prepared and keep your schedule open during the time you have to work on it.
James Anderson is a pretty boring lecturer and you won't learn much from him. Greg Tucci is effective. Not much too this course. Labs are boring. Plug and chug problems. Not a great course.
Until this course is improved, I think you may be better served taking PS 1 instead. It seems fine at first, but once they get into the actual material lectures become a pain and psets irritating. Labs are generally fine as they usually allow for all work to be done in the 3 hour time-span.
To be honest, I don't know what to say yet because in the next few weeks literally 50% of my grade will be determined. Based on how I've done so far I would say it has been harder since I didn't take AP chemistry but I heard people complain about PS1 but I think they curve while this class doesn't. I would say talk to people who know what they got in the class after the semester is over and ask if they got the grade they deserved. I did super well on the first midterm and just ok on the second one. So we'll see how the last midterm and final are.
I am very glad that I took Physical Sciences 11 instead of PS1.  I found it quite pleasant and refreshing to take a freshman introductory science course that did not have the overt goal of weeding out premed students.  Lecture, section, and problem-solving section were all effective; problems sets do not take an inordinate amount of time to complete, so you can gain a more thorough understanding of the material and have time to focus on your other courses; and, most importantly, exams are fair: they test your knowledge of what has been taught in class.  Pre-lab assignments gave a good understanding of what would happen in lab, so most labs ran smoothly (although some labs did not align with lecture and section material).  I think having taken honors and/or AP chemistry in high school was important for this course, but do not feel that you can't succeed without that experience.  Overall, PS11 was one of the best courses (and certainly the best science course) of my freshman year.
You should come in with a chem background and find a good study group!
Awesome class. Tucci and Anderson are great, and I had an awesome TF. Some of the quantum for the class was confusing but for the most part, as long as you work hard, you'll be fine.
Know other students who are taking the course who can be helpful resources to you if you do not understand the material
Just keep up with the work and you'll be fine. All concepts are not explained in their entirety, so identifying your problem areas early is key.
This class is an awesome alternative to PS1, which I heard is not that great. The psets for this class are manageable, the tests are predictable, and the labs are relevant and do not happen every week. Anderson can get a little confusing with all the calculations but Tucci is extremely clear in all his lectures. The only difficulty was the take-home, which took over 6 hours to finish.
I don't have much to go on, but I can't imagine that PS1 is a better option...
if you have to take either ps11 or ps1, take ps11. honestly it's just better. I wouldn't consider myself a chem allstar in the slightest, but I've managed well in this class (and the tfs and professors are really, really willing to help you understand the material)
This class is pretty bad. Lectures are disorganized, slow, tedious, and not really related to the Psets. The idea of the class, an integrated approach to chemistry that involves real world examples, is an excellent one. The execution is terrible. Anderson is not a good lecturer, and is unable to effectively communicate information in a 50 minute class. However, it is pretty easy.
This class is interesting in that it addresses very in depth chemistry topics that other classes glaze over, like the dynamics of why some atoms prefer a molecular state while others remain as free atoms. I would be prepared to be confused after lecture often, and that section and reading the textbook are really the only way you're going to gain full understanding. Tucci is fantastic, but Anderson's lectures might leave you more confused for a while than before the lecture.
Just stay on top of the material from by reading the summary in the textbooks and going to the problem solving sessions. Reach out to your TF if you need help.
The applications are interesting, but the class was very poorly organized. Lectures got behind schedule and didn't always cover everything they needed to, chapters were posted late, and answers on the practice tests were sometimes wrong.
You should attend the office hours and prepare to spend a lot of time understanding the material if you do not have a strong background in chemistry. The tests are reasonable but the topics can be difficult to understand as the lectures do not cover everything and sometimes are not very helpful.
Take it if Anderson isn't teaching anymore. Still take it if he is (especially over PS1), but know that his lectures will be rambling and you'll have to learn the stuff in section.
This course is EXCELLENT! Don't listen to the people who have complained a lot about this course. The professors and TFs are very generous in terms of grades. The materials we cover in class and psets may be confusing at first, but the midterms and final are very reflective of the problems we have done, and they make sure that similar problem types are covered before the tests. So as long as you review the section problems, psets, and problem solving sessions, you should be all set for the tests. Cruise along!
I would recommend it over PS1. But beware that just because the final is a take-home, does not mean it isn't difficult. I was told that it would take 8-16 hours, but it probably took closer to 20 especially if you want to check your answers.
pretty painless way to fulfill chemistry premed requirement
It's cool to learn about modern applications in addition to getting a solid foundation in chem.
To do well in this course, do the work, take your time on the psets, and go to office hours to get help with some of the concepts that you don't understand. Doing all of this will really help ensure that you will do fine.
PS11 and PS1 satisfy most of the same requirements for concentrations and pre-med. This class is very much revolved around "modern chemistry" which is really nice because you learn so much about the actual applications of the concepts in addition to understanding the concepts themselves. If you've taken AP Chemistry or the equivalent, this class goes much more in depth and you'll understand better the reasons behind certain concepts you learned only superficially in high school. The professors are also great. They are really passionate about the material and are entertaining lecturers. The class is basically set up for you to do well and as long as you put in the effort to do the problem sets and study for the exams, you'll be able to do well.
Although it's not that well organized, this course definitely seems better than PS1. Tucci is awesome and so are the TFs and overall it's not too painful of a premed requirement.
Go to section and do the psets and you'll be perfectly fine for all the tests.
the most unorganized class ever. The worst lectures I've ever experienced. Terrible readings.
It's a little unconventional but great at the same time.
You will spend weeks learning about the Carnot cycle and exit the class unable to explain what a Carnot cycle is.
PS10 might be a more interesting class if you've already taken AP Chemistry; it's actually a pretty easy class if you have, and it focuses a bit too much on the application side of things rather than actually learning straight up chemistry.
The idea behind the class is fantastic: mixing chemistry and some physics to understand how they really are one in the same and that together they can be used to solve large application problems from environmental issues to energy. However, lectures aren't always very organized and effective because they sometimes focus on the global piece and on derivations of equations and ideas more than how to use them (section because very useful in learning how to actually use everything); this is more with the physics based parts but the chemistry based parts of the class are extremely well taught. Also, exams aren't usually very difficult but if they do a take home again, this year it took SO long so do not wait until the last day to start it.
This is a very interesting class, but it can get pretty tough.  The grading is very fair, and they give you many chances to get your grade up.
PS1 and PS11 seem to switching back and forth as far as which one is better. For '13-'14 school year, shop PS1 I think it's going to be a lot better. Not a great class. If you've taken AP Chem and LPSA this class is very easy but still frustrating because they don't teach what is on the psets sometimes. ALSO DONT TAKE WITH CHEM 27. Or else you will have all 3 midterms for both classes on the same days!!
This was a great class.  It was well taught and had a great staff.  It really got you to think about real problems.  However, the first day was the best day of class.  Not to say that it all went downhill, but it is not as fun as the first day.  Also it is surprisingly easy.
Having chemistry at the AP level will greatly benefit students in this course. While most chemistry topics were covered clearly and explained well in Professor Tucci's lectures, some complicated topics--boning theories, for instance-were "skimmed" over and not fully explained to those who had never seem them before. The course is solid, and doe not require that much outside work. The material is a bit dry, however, and the integration with global energy or other problems or innovations was not as exciting or relevant or even easy to understand as the course initially indicated.
Only take this course if you have to for a pre-med requirement. I like the idea of the class, but the execution was not the same.
The take home exam was very difficult, don't underestimate.
This class was really large this year compared to last year and I think they struggled a bit with organization.  Great teaching staff.  Professor Anderson and Tucci are fantastic!  Labs usually didn't take 3 hours.  Take advantage of office hours.  Meet with your TFs.
From what I have heard, it is a better class than PS1 and will give you a little extra knowledge without being too much more difficult than PS1.
there is plenty of grades that go into this, so don't freak out about one assignment!
PS11 does a satisfactory job trying to link the concepts of physical chemistry with their place in the world.  Tucci is an good lecturer, and the course is not overburdensome if students expect to spend the bulk of their time on the course independently learning material.  It is held back by its focus on 'global questions' and case studies which fail to engage students with academic rigor on the problems of global energy and climate change; this element of the course quickly becomes an exercise in rote memorization and figure-hunting within the textbook.  Lab does not contribute meaningfully to the course material.  Ultimately, PS11 highlights the need for a well-organized and engaging course for students looking for more rigor than PS1, but shy of Chem 40, for filling inorganic or physical chemistry concentration requirements.
If you're not a fan of chem, I wouldn't take it, but it's a great intro course and a much better alternative to PS1.
I really hated this class. I took it because Greg Tucci taught part of it (and he was great, as always), however, the connections to "Real World" concepts were really confusing, and Professor Anderson DOESN'T MAKE ANY SENSE. When he lectures, many people just don't attend class, or spend the class period looking up concepts and teaching themselves the material instead. I'm sure Anderson is a smart guy, he just cannot teach. I would NOT recommend this class-- stick to PS1.
This class made learning chemistry awesome. Tucci and Anderson are great teachers and really care about teaching. There is no curve to the class, but that means that the tests are very fair. No trickery and no nonsense. Everyone is capable of getting a 100. Seriously. If you're worried about not taking AP Chem in high school, don't be - I didn't and did just fine. Don't even think about the others, take this one.
REading is necessary; DON'T BE LATE TO LAB; This class goes at a moderate pace, and is manageable.
I think I would've preferred PS 1 - I hear there's more structure in that course. By the time I wanted to, it was too late, as their first midterm is relatively soon.
Class is really fascinating but moves very fast and lectures are sometimes difficult to follow. However, the essentials of what you need to know for exams are covered well in section, so use lecture to probe big questions (the "global" part of the class). Really puts chemistry and physics in perspective of how they can be used in the real world. Good way to fulfill SPU requirement!
this class still has a few kinks (problem sets were pretty difficult, and problem solving lectures are extremely, painfully slow) but overall I HIGHLY recommend this course. The professors are wonderful, accessible, and engaging; they really care about your success in the class. DEFINITELY go to office hours with the professors. They are extremely caring will take as much time out of their schedule as you need to help you succeed in the course. Lectures are interesting, the labs aren't bad, and you learn a ton of interesting material. Also the professors are very open to critiques of the class, textbook, etc, so if you have a problem with the course talk to the profs about it rather than stewing in bitterness.
It's not too difficult of a course. The psets are really manageable and the tests are similar to the practice exams.
PS11 is the alternative to PS1 for many students. It is still a difficult course. The problem sets are challenging and the global calculations involve a type of thinking that most classes do not teach. The book is very good and is written just for this course.
The course is not very well structures and Prof. Anderson's lectures are unhelpful and redundant. The practical application of course material is very interesting and helpful, however. Prof. Tucci is a great lecturer! There was a major blunder with the take-home exam, which left me somewhat disappointed overall with the accountability and commitment of course staff and professors.
Kids take this class just cause the grading was easy. If you are taking it because you think it will be more advanced or go into greater depth than PS1, you're mistaken.
Anderson loves to ramble but Tucci is a god walking amongst mere mortals. Take your pick honestly. It's a good course and it's difficult material in some respects so may be hard to grasp at times.
This class doesn't require AP chemistry as a prerequisite.  As long as you go to lecture, section, and problem solving lectures you will be able to understand the material.  Labs tend to be fun and never take the full three hours allotted for them.
Take this class. Professor Tucci and Anderson are amazing.
The class is interesting but sometimes hard to follow. It is difficult to figure out where the information for the case studies is, and lecture can make the material seem more complicated than it is. My suggestion is to watch the PSL's and go to section, because these resources are what helped me pass the class.
After spending 8 hours in lecture, lab, and section, it is hard to force yourself to want to read the text book.  The book is actually really helpful though, so I would recommend that.  The take home final was really hard and i think that the course was a lot harder this year in general than it was the first year it was taught.
Not a bad choice; better than PS11. Assignments are totally reasonable and the exams are not impossible by any means. The take home final is a blessing though don't underestimate it.
The final take home exam was ridiculously long and tedious.  The rest of the midterms were fairly easy, and overall, the course was graded fairly.  Labs were easy, although sometimes not the most informative/educational.  I think a lot of how the course goes depends on who your TF is - their review of the lectures can be really helpful.  Its definitely more physics-y than PS1, so be forewarned that the discussion of boning and electron shells gets somewhat mathy.
This class was the biggest waste of time in my life. Material was an insult to my knowledge as everything was basically covered in AP Chemistry. Teachers were nice but also clueless. Everything about this class sucked.
Anderson does a ton of unnecessary repetition and gets behind on his material. Tucci then catches him up but must do so quickly in such a way that our understanding of the material is ephemeral. Use all the helpful resources they give you to get through this class.
Take home final; manageable work; better than ps1 apparently
It's great! They really try hard to make you do well and help resources are everywhere.
The class requires a fair amount of time, and sometimes feels tedious or irrelevant. However, you can do well if you study for the midterms, and the take-home final certainly helps. Some of the lecture material is interesting for a global perspective, Anderson's experiments are always fun, and Greg Tucci is fantastic.
This class is great. Tucci is an awesome lecturer, and the material was all very relevant. The PSETs are challenging, and the take home test was more difficult than I thought it would be. If you are choosing between this and PS 1, it is really a toss up. This course is more globally relevant whereas PS 1 hammers down the fundamentals.
This course would have been better if the textbook readings were more focused and less lengthy. The material itself is not too difficult as long as you can keep up with the course, the readings, and the lectures. However sometimes lectures can be unfocused as well. While it's nice to have a take home final, it does take more effort since the final is very long.
It's a pretty solid pre-med class, and would be a good one for freshman to take as one of their first ones in college.  The two hours provided for the midterms, which were supposed to be designed to take an hour, helped reduce stress during them a lot, and the take home final did allow for open notes and being able to do it at your own pace to some extent.  The global questions that are used to try and make the material more relevant to day to day life are a pretty interesting feature and definitely make the class feel more than just a pre-med stepping stone.  However, the quantum mechanics part of the course dragged on a little bit, so be wary of that.  I would also look at it with a little hesitation though  because despite being a pretty good class, three midterms and a final could be seen as a bit much if you aren't taking it because you have to.
Lectures were the least useful things ever and on top of that the book is really bad. Be prepared to learn by yourself or ask a crap ton of questions.
It is a REALLY interesting class, but readings are so long. Lectures are not particularly helpful, unless Tucci is teaching.
Make sure you have some sort of physics background. It doesn't say on the course website that a physics background is necessary, but it definitely helps.
This course is a great alternative to PS1. The teaching is much better (both lecturers and TFs), and the class was enjoyable and laid back. The exams are fair and the material interesting and worth-knowing. The weaving together of the material with global contexts was very nice and made us see how what we were learning was applicable outside of Harvard. Overall, great job to all of the people involved in this course! My only suggestion is to form study groups because the problem sets range from easy to very time-consuming. And get Katherine as a TF - she is amazing!
I really enjoyed this class and think that it will only improve with time. The material we cover is quite interesting and it is great how we are able to apply it to real world problems.
It is worth a try.
I would recommend this class in the future even though my experience with it wasn't fantastic.  I think next year will be MUCH better than this year because many of the kinks will have been solved.  The class is taught by great and committed professors who care very much about the quality of teaching.  Unfortunately, the class was quite disorganized and the materials were not great.  However, the material that the class attempts to cover is very interesting and is a great alternative to the generic PS1.  I would recommend this class, hoping that some serious changes are enacted.
this class is still working out the kinks.  we were behind schedule all the time, the textbook is too long, and the textbook is written at a higher level than what is expected in class. the bright side of this is that tests and assignments are easy
It was a bit rough around the edges, probably just because it was the first time the class was taught
This class has a lot of potential, but since we were the first year, they still have to work a lot of the kinks out. Make sure you learn how to solve problems in section. The lectures are usually really bad for conceptual knowledge - try to read through the textbook on schedule, even though it's pretty dense.
This class is fairly easy and very well-taught. Definitely take PS11 over PS1. It fulfills the same requirements and all my friends who took PS1 wished they had taken PS11 by the end of the year.
Like many in this class, I was deciding between taking PS 1 and PS 11. Thank god I chose PS 11. I spent the whole semester hearing kids complain about how poorly taught and annoying and unfair and blah blah blah PS 1 was. In the mean time, I felt like I understood the material in PS 11 very well (which is really the same material). So for me, there is no comparison between the two courses. Tucci and Anderson are great lecturers and people. You won't regret taking this class.
This is probably as good a class as you'll find for fulfilling your physical chemistry requirement for either your major or pre-med. It's easily much better than PS1 (both as far as grading and teaching goes), so unless you really love organometallics (Chem 40), this is the class for you. It's not perfect (it could have been much better organized), but it's interesting, the professors are entertaining and friendly, and overall it's a painless way to fulfill your requirements.
If you can get through the course organization and bureaucracy, you will get a pretty good introduction to chemistry and how it relates to global energy issues.
I decided to switch out of PS1 after the first week to this course.  Best decision I could've made.  The instructors are so helpful and receptive to student needs.  Plus having a take home final was a gift!  The teaching staff was just so supportive.  From what I have heard it may be a little more challenging than PS1, but the course in general makes it so worth it!  I feel like I came out of the class knowing more than just chemistry and physics... I came out with a better understanding about the social, political, and global frameworks surrounding energy consumption.
I would definitely take this course if you have to choose between this and PS1, but I would not take this course if you aren't required to take one of the two.
I don't think this is a class for science people. It places much more emphasis on facts for politicians, social scientists and so on, rather than doing actual science. A lot of equations are just given without proof. It also deals a lot with number instead of equations.
Pretty manageable class. Basically a more advance form of AP Chem with way more emphasis on Quantum Mechanics (Which I liked). The application of these principles was particularly enlightening.
The course did not seem very well put together this year, but I know that the professors will take feedback very seriously to improve the course, so I would expect next year's version of the course will be better.
Have fun!
Great alternative to PS1. Tucci and Anderson have been the best science professors I have had at Harvard. The entire teaching staff works to make the class as fair and accessible as possible.
The professors and teaching staff REALLY want you to learn the material and to have a good introduction to science, they care a lot about the class. Lecture is more about the applications of the science you learn in section, the readings and the psets. Take home midterms and finals!!! PS1 may be a tiny bit easier, but this is better taught and a better choice, and you will probably do better in it.
A great alternative to PS1.  It fulfills the same requirement and is a lot less stressful!  Also, if you are afraid that you won't be learning the same level of chemistry as PS1'ers, don't be.  I know from friends who took PS1 that we learned al the same material.
It's basically an intro Chem class and the stuff they teach isn't too hard to grasp. However, I feel that Prof. Anderson's lectures overloaded the course with way too many "globally relevant" facts that I was often so busy cramming/looking up that I didn't really have time to sit back and observe their significance. He was enthusiastic though. Prof. Tucci is an excellent lecturer, and his lectures usually contain the really concrete pure-Chem information.
Wastes a lot of time teaching things that are cool but are not intro chemistry (global energy stuff, specific case studies and applications). I am coming out of this course with much less knowledge of chemistry than I would have liked. I had a hard time focusing on the class when I knew that 90% of lecture would not be spent on the actual material that we needed to know for the homework, the tests, and future classes, ie the stuff that is usually in a freshman chemistry class. I did enjoy the other stuff we learned, but wish I could have had a different experience in an intro chemistry class.
Class could be hard at times, but the whole teaching staff seems to genuinely want everyone to do well and is willing to do whatever it takes to make that happen. Exams were pretty tough.
Admittedly, PS11 is a new class, so maybe things will change next year. That said, I found PS11 extremely unhelpful and I'm probably going to spend this summer learning all the material on my own. Lectures tend to be disproportionately focused on mathematical derivations of formulas -- information which will never help on a single graded question -- and discussion of global applications. The global application questions are always simple calculations that require only basic math skills to solve, so half of the lecture is extremely difficult to understand and unhelpful while the other half is inordinately easy and unhelpful.On the positive side, labs are fairly interesting (and graded easily) and section was really helpful -- Corey was a great TF. But labs don't teach you anything you need to know in the rest of the class, so section is really the only place you're learning stuff that will affect your grade. And it's hard to learn the material yourself, as the text is pretty dry and you have to wade through lots of unhelpful material to find the few helpful sections.If you do take the class, my strongest advice would be to go to section and office hours -- in particular, talking to my TF after section was incredibly useful and the best thing I did all year.PS -- Professor Tucci's lectures are really really good, and a perfect mix of clear concepts and problem-solving application. But they're really rare; though Tucci is amazing, Anderson teaches most of the course.
I really enjoyed this course, but be aware that it takes a lot of time out of your week. The psets took very long to complete, and the readings were time intensive as well.
Some parts of this class feel like a waste of time, but the problem sets and exams are extremely manageable and the labs are cool
It gets much harder about a month in.
If you need to take PS1, take this class instead! You will learn the same material, but in a smaller class and with a focus on climate change and global energy. You will not only learn about chemistry, but also leave the class able to explain why electric cars are better than gasoline-powered cars even if they are not powered by renewable energy, or why a heat pump is more efficient than burning gas for heat, or which countries control the world's fossil fuel reserves. Jim Anderson's passion about global energy is contagious, and Tucci is a really great professor as well. The dynamic between them is really funny. This is not a very hard class, and if you put the effort in you will be rewarded with a good grade.
This was a really interesting course that was made so much better by how clearly Professor Anderson and Professor Tucci were invested in their students' learning. They are both so helpful and friendly--use their office hours!
Great course and professors!
This is a fantastic class!  TAKE THIS INSTEAD OF PS1.  The professors (Tucci and Anderson) are fantastic professors who care about you, want to meet you, get to know you, mentor you, and write you recommendation letters!  :D  This is a very well taught course, does not feel like the usual pre-med weeder class...
Great professors, very fair exams.
The class is pretty fun and you will find yourself learning quite a bit about how chemistry and  physics is actually used in the world around us. Jim and Greg have great philosophies on teaching and so you will find the class is not terribly difficult but rather meant to engage students and get them to actually care to learn the material rather than learn it simply for an exam.
So, you're probably asking yourself: "PS1 or PS11"? Well, I've got an answer for you: PS11. Here's the deal: as a sophomore in the course, all of my friends had gone through PS1 last year and thought it was okay...and it is okay--just okay. They learn things at a reasonable pace and don't go very in depth, BUT the grading curve is as hard as any. This means you work really hard, understand EVERYTHING, because it isn't so hard to understand, and still do poorly grade-wise. PS11 is the exact opposite: the material was way over my head, half the time I never felt like I could get through a pset or practice problems, and I struggled more learning this than I ever have here at Harvard (Chemistry/Physics is NOT my strongest suite), BUT the professors really love teaching you the material and they LOVE the material itself, so they WANT you to learn and do well. In the end, I learned more in PS11 than in any other class, and even though it was very very difficult for me, in the end I was virtually tutoring friends in Ps1 and ended up with such an amazing foundation in chemistry and physics. Take Ps11, because even though it is harder, it is better-taught and more rewarding in the end. Also, it's a new course, so it will only get better!
I cannot think of one reason not to take this class. Even if you aren't a science concentrator I would take this class. This class also gives you the same credit that you get from PS1 and they meet at the same time so you have to decide between one or the other. TAKE PS 11 over PS 1. If you ask about the difference between the two classes it does not seem significant at all but besides the difference that the professors will tell you in whatever advising sessions you go to the difference is that PS 11 is a much better course. The professors are better, the class size is better, the environment is better, and the material is presented in a more interesting way than in PS 1.
This semester was PS11's first time being offered, so there were some bumps along the way, though it was a pretty good class overall. I felt that many of the lectures involved Dr. Anderson going over complicated derivations of different quantum mechanics equations that, while interesting, were ultimately not useful at all. And because so much time was going over that (and facts and figures about the current state of the energy industry), we didn't cover the actual problem-solving concepts as well. Both Dr. Anderson and Dr. Tucci are super-dedicated to helping the students, so I think that next year the course material will improve.
Get the psets done as soon as possible, just in case you have questions.
TAKE HOME FINAL AND MIDTERM Enough said. Th PSets arent bad either.
DO NOT TAKE PS1. This class is FAR better in terms of what you will learn from it. Also the professors have a way of calming your stresses about grades in this course. You will have the wonderful opportunity to learn from case studies about real world energy problems and solutions. Jim and Gregg are a wonderfully dynamic duo and care so so much about the class and their students. I had such a great experience in this class and I hope others will too!
The professors in this class are so understanding of the fact that you probably have a ton of work to do aside from this one, which made the class much easier to bear despite the difficulty of the material. If you're looking for a painless way to satisfy a chem requirement, take this class!!
PS 11 was wonderful. It put all material we learned into a more real-world context, and I got a much broader understanding of how the universe works. It's advertised as more difficult than PS 1, which it probably is, but it's made easier by the quality teaching, the awesome material, and the more laid-back attitude. But, prepare to be challenged.
This a great class to take if you want to understand the applications of chemistry.
Really awesome, maybe a little harder than PS1 but the two take home exams we got made it less stressful and guaranteed a good grade.  Take it over PS1, better professors and a lot more interesting
it's not much work
Dr. Tucci is great and goes over material very well with a good balance of concept vs examples. Dr. Anderson however spends too much time going over energy/concepts
Sometimes hard to keep up with disorganization and difficult with unrelated tangents.
This is a great class if you're interested in knowing the science behind going green.  It also does a great job at exposing the costs of our current environmental policies.
the material is really interesting, but the course rambles forward in a sort of random way
When faced with the decision to take PS1 or PS11, here are the reasons you should take PS11:-Tucci and Anderson are super nice, accessible, and genuinely want you to learn the material-The class is smaller, so you will feel more comfortable answering questions. -The class also has a cool-sounding environmental focus. This turns out to detract somewhat because Professor Anderson tends to break out from discussing quantum mechanics or acids and bases and instead chooses to have you calculate the ration of US fuel consumption to Chinese fuel consumption-The class has a slightly wider margin for an A / A--There is no need to buy a textbook AND Tucci and Anderson wrote the textbook for the class-The class meets all the same requirements as PS1 and runs through the same syllabus.-The final is take home (that's a plus / minus though)
If you remember a lot of AP chem, this class will be a breeze.
Definitely take this class instead of PS1! Everyone I know had a much better experience in PS11 than in PS1! The class just felt a lot more personal because of the class size. Furthermore, it was so much more interesting to learn about science in the context of real life problems. Professor Tucci is just an amazing lecturer, and Professor Anderson is hilarious. They both came across as really dedicated and they were open to criticism throughout the entire semester. They improved lots of things within the few weeks of class, and I have no doubt they will continue to strive to improve this class in the future. This was the first year this course was given so, understandably, things did not go as smoothly as they do in classes that have been given several years.
The lectures aren't very useful, so going to section is crucial. The labs are fun but also informative. The book isn't always helpful; Wikipedia does a better job of explaining most of the topics more clearly. Tucci's lectures are more informative, so you'll definitely want to go when he's teaching.
For me it was very badly taught (except for Tucci, he's a boss). It's easy if you took Chem AP, otherwise it'll be difficult because they don't teach very well.
PS 11 was great! The material was taught as case studies with real-world applications. The two professors are a great balance. Tucci makes the material clear and Anderson applies physics and chemistry to interesting political and scientific problems. The teaching staff overall was very committed to making the experience positive for every student. My TF was very poor, but there were always other people to go to. It would have been helpful to have the Sunday night help sessions for p sets, which were tough, but overall I would highly recommend this course over larger, less personal pre-med courses.
You cover a lot of material. True. But you don't cover it well, and nothing is rigorously treated. The class is new so there's still a lot of kinks to be worked out. The topics covered don't seem to be linked very well. Because of this, there's really not much to long term take away from the course.
This class requires very little work, but that also means you don't learn too much. Problem sets aren't always directly related to lectures, and the textbook is sometimes hard to follow. This is a good class to take for those not too interested in physical science, but not for those who want to delve deeper.
This class is an excellent continuation of a foundation in chemistry following LPSA. The concepts are difficult, but explained so that they are easily understood. You do not need an extensive background in chemistry, although it does help. Professor Anderson is fantastic, and you will be very fortunate to take a course from him.
Psets are frustrating because they don't go over everything in lecture.Tucci is a great lecturer but Anderson sidetracks a lot.The instructors advertise the course as a special class that will open your eyes to the global state of everything.  However, their idea of doing this tends to revolve around memorizing global consumption numbers.  I think it has a lot of potential, but I wouldn't take it until some changes have been made in organization.
I took it in it's first year.  It had a few kinks, like some problem sets had questions that did not follow class material, and we spent too long at the very beginning of the course discussing why the course solved flaws in academia.  But overall, I'm glad I took it in lieu of PS1.
This class will teach you about the fundamentals of chemistry and how they relate to concepts in physics, but it will also allow you to engage those fundamental concepts with the frontiers of modern energy development and consumption.
If you didn't take AP Chem or AP Physics in high school, stay away from this course - take PS1 instead. I made the foolish mistake of doing so, and it killed me. Certainly, I enjoyed the curriculum, but it was extremely difficult to keep up and learn at the rate that everyone else was acquiring information, as I had a lot of catching up to do.
Great class with awesome professors who are willing to put in as much time as needed to help students learn. Also, they manage to make the physics/chem interesting.
It's a great course for those who're looking to take more chemistry. It's the fundamentals to everything. Best for freshmen who've done AP chem and AP physics. Do take it if you're looking into Chem17/20 or Chem161/Physics143a.
This course is excellent--taught by really kind, supportive professors who care that their students do well. You will always have help if you ask for it and the material is more interesting than your typical PS1 class.
Professors Anderson and Tucci are the most passionate people about their subject that you could find. Because it was the first year offering this course, it was a bit disorganized, but I think this will fix itself in the future, because the professors are so open to suggestions, which is fantastic. I was really glad to see application of principles to real-life phenomena in energy (which is Professor Anderson's specialty), because it's so relevant today, but the means by which the professors approached this was sometimes frustrating - memorizing statistics, etc. Then again, I do think that internalizing those statistics has given me a sense of scale regarding this field. I do recommend this class over something like PS 1, because its relatively limited size (100 vs. 300+) and enthusiastic professors mean that the experience is less frustrating than it could otherwise be, and I only expect this course to get better over time.
This was the first year of the course, so there were bound to be some bumps. But just judging on this first year; Professor Tucci is fantastic. He gives great lectures, is enthusiastic, and fits a lot of information into one hour. Professor Anderson is very knowledgeable and quite cool, but he is not a good teacher. We spent most off is classes going over concepts from the previous classes, and we were always rushing to get through the important topics in the lsat 5 minutes of class. The case studies and applicability of what we learn is worthwhile, and then pedagogy behind the course (emphasis on learning, not testing) is how it should be.
The professors are hilarious and engaging, but Anderson can be hard to follow.  The assignments are great, and the lectures are online.  It's a much more interesting class than one that just teaches the material--this one teaches the material and integrates it into a global viewpoint.
Way better than ps 11..... 85% is an a. Take home final.  Great tfs. Great professors. Office hours are good, small class.
This class was great at connecting the material to real world applications.  The actual material was occasionally presented in a convoluted manner and psets and tests often included poorly written questions and material that was not fully covered.  However, the periphery information was really interesting (eg how solar cells work, how fuel cells work, global energy data).  In another year or so as this course because more organized it could really turn out to be a gem.
This class is much better than PS1
This class is very difficult, especially if you have limited background in Chemistry. The class seemed to be much more difficult than PS1, which many of my friends took. I learned a lot about chemistry and about the world, but put a lot of hours into the class and still struggled.
PS11 is my favorite course at Harvard so far. It teaches you a lot about the world through interesting and important calculations. Even if you're not interested in energy policy, environmental issues, and the like, it's a great foundational course in chemistry/physics. Far more engaging and exciting than PS1.
People will tell you that PS11 sucks. That's probably because they took it at least two years ago and did not put any effort in. Literally, Anderson has gone through loops to modify this class and make it enjoyable. I think he's succeeded at that.
This is a fun way to fulfill a Gen-Ed and you'll get to drive Prof. Anderson's car!
I took this as a requirement in senior year.  I recommend taking it when you have a lighter load of work.  I do think that the labs needed to be improved and that the exams were a bit unfair at times.
You're probably reading this because you're trying to decide whether you should take this course or PS1.  Take this one.  The lectures are fun, Professors Anderson and Tucci are incredible, Lu and the TFs make sections and labs super informative and enjoyable.  The PSets aren't the end of the world, and the midterms were all fair.
I really cannot recommend taking this class enough. If you're deciding between PS1 and PS11, consider the following things: PS11 is a smaller class with a larger support system; they do take the time to review the most basic chemistry concepts in class, and you can easily seek help if you're confused. The applications are definitely engaging and come together nicely at the end, and will be useful to know for future professions. The take home final is also really refreshing (no, you do not need to memorize any global calculations). The first week's lectures seem a little daunting, but it is much easier than it seems. Lastly, the PS11 team is really great and is a huge reason why the class is so enjoyable!
PS11 is a fantastically taught chem/physics course! It puts concepts into context that is very relatable to life and solving some of our world's biggest challenges, especially in relation to  climate change and global energy demand. I highly recommend it if you have any interest in climate change and environmental sciences. I've never had a chem/physics course that really put things in context before; when things make sense/are relevant, the course is so much more interesting and enjoyable! I found the course somewhat challenging, but that is probably because I had not taken AP Chem in high school. It is definitely still doable without this background though as long as you are willing to seek out help and go to office hours.
if you are a pre-med and would prefer a more thorough version of the class, take PS11 over PS1
The material is interesting, and it's taught in a useful framework. Professor Anderson brings up electric cars whenever possible, so if you don't always want to hear about that, this may not be the class for you.
In the grand debate about PS11 vs PS1-- I don't know all that much about PS1 but I will say that PS11 was my favorite class this semester. Hard work pays off, the course is small and more intimate, which means that you can get more individual attention if you need it. It's the kind of course where the professors know your name and that's pretty awesome. The course is designed to make sure you understand concepts, not turn you into a formula-memorizing machine, so you're allowed cheat sheets on exams and the final is take home. The course applies the chemistry taught to real world problems/issues, and the fifty questions component is really very well done. I learned more chemistry than I thought was possible in a few months-- it was the highlight of my freshman spring, academically speaking.
Great option- covers all the premed reqs without making you feel like you're only taking this class because you're premed. Interesting and smaller than PS1. Better exam policy (take home final, longer time to take exams). Not very difficult and the professors and TFs are great.
This course definitely improved my chemistry and changed my view on the world. Anderson and Tucci have very different lecturing styles. Anderson clearly emphasizes the global problems and solutions more heavily, while Tucci explains the chemistry clearly and thoroughly. I personally enjoyed Tucci's lectures and he was by far the best chemistry teacher I've ever had. This class is especially perfect for anyone interested in engineering.
This class can require a lot of work, but it is very much worth it.  Be prepared to learn a lot, and enjoy yourself while doing so.
Great alternative to PS1 and actually a good class. Smaller and better taught. Slightly harder but you're smart and can handle it.
If you enjoy Chemistry and don't want to take just a general chemistry course, but a course that applies Chemistry to the world around you, then this is the course for you. I think PS11 is a really great course because it frames what you learn really well, making it clear why the concepts we're learning are important in the larger global context.
The professors and TFs are great. They made the course an amazing experience and I am glad to have had the opportunity to get to know them. This course is very applicable to the real world and I would recommend it to any future engineers who need to fulfill their chemistry requirement.
An easy course for people with a strong background in chemistry. Good if you have a hard semester and want an easy course, but not very enriching.
This class is very well organize and they really set the students up for success with this course. If you need to fulfill a physical science requirement for a Gen-Ed or as a concentration requirement, this is a great way to take care of that and learn a lot. The class involves a lot of application to current events, so it feels like the material is practical and meaningful.
It was a good base of chemistry. The labs were not so good and need to be improved.
This is a great course. The material is very interesting and the coursework is definitely helpful for learning. The workload is also fair
This course is decidedly the best I've taken so far here at Harvard. The professors are enthusiastic about your success and the TF's are helpful and understanding. You will succeed in this course if you work hard and go utilize the office hours and problem sessions the TF's provide to a copious extent when you realize you need more help with a concept. Do not take this course if you want an easy A, but PLEASE consider this course if you have a passion or interest in chemistry and are willing to work hard to learn the materials. This class truly fulfilled my expectations for a science course at Harvard.
Lolz a cool class but be prepared to do more work than your PS1 peers. There are lots of resources but I was put off by the amount of work you had to do so I didn't try that hard. That being said the energy and environment applications were WICKED COOL and I learned so much about it from lecture and I feel like a more competent world citizen. Anyway, the teaching staff are all pretty good (Profs Anderson is super accomplished and dedicated/patient and Tucci is very excited about interacting with students. Dr. Lu is amazing and so invested in making sure you learn. I think the TFs are hit or miss. Section might not be necessary. Also the problem session material was tested which I think is unfair because that's basically 4-5 hours of class a week instead of the normal 3.
Take the class
SO MUCH BETTER THAN PS 1 IF YOU LIKED FEELING GENUINELY LOVED AND SUPPORTED BY THE TEACHING STAFF!!!
The single most important class you'll take in your life. Changes your perspective on world problems and clears the air of the misconceptions of climate change.
The lectures can seem a little dry working through calculations, but that's about the only negative of the course. The subject mater is extremely pertinent to our generation, is taught through interesting case studies, the problems sets are applicable and not terribly long (though they do take a decent amount of work), and the professors really care about the subject and about the students. Great class!
A great course if you want to be inspired to fight climate change.
Gregg Tucci is the only saving grace for PS11 (and the only reason I took this course). Otherwise, I did not enjoy attending lectures taught by Jim Anderson. He makes too many mistakes that make it very difficult for students to know what is right and what is wrong. He assumes that students already have a basic knowledge of the concepts and can keep up, but this was not the case for myself and for others that I know who took this course. I didn't understand the point of all the complicated derivations we did in lecture and often found myself more confused than to start with. To make matters worse, my section leader was unprepared to teach the concepts beyond a surface level comprehension, which only compounded the difficulties of learning in lecture, since we did not really have an alternative source to turn to for questions. Additionally, the global calculations grew extremely tedious after awhile, and I was generally confused about their relevance to the course. Overall, the course was far too confusing to enjoy, and as a result, I would not recommend it to future students. This course ruined my interest in the environment and alternative sources of energy.
I definitely recommend PS11 over PS1 if you are on the fence. The smaller tight knit community is very refreshing, and the teaching staff is really invested in the class. If you need to fill a premed requirement, this is the way to go!
The course is both interesting, fun, and well taught.
It can be frustrating at times because lectures are difficult to understand and you feel like you are falling behind.
PS11 was a very well-organized class with a great teaching staff. There are a lot of people (teaching staff, TFs) who are very accessible to help you do well in the course. A lot of material is taught, and in a very detailed manner, which is great because it emphasizes understanding rather than memorization (but you don't have to completely understand all of the complexities of what is taught).
This class is AWESOME!! I loved it all the way through. Honestly just give it the little time and devotion it needs and not only will you excel but you'll learn so much about energy, the climate, chemistry, and the possibilities regarding clean energy in the future. Anderson, Tucci, and Lu Wang are literally the dream team, especially Anderson and Lu. They work their butts off for this class as well as the whole teaching staff including the lab tfs, section tfs, and PSLs. Use all your resources!! My biggest mistake. Also DON'T LET LS1B TAKE AWAY YOUR TIME FROM THIS COURSE. It's not worth it. not only is this class way better but you'll do WAYYYY better. Trust me. Overall this class has been a wonderful experience with pretty chill yet engaging lectures, good supplemental sections, an energetic and devoted teaching staff, and a fabulous way to learn about energy and chemistry :)
This class is not necessarily meant for people who have already taken plenty of chemistry in high school, though it can still be confusing even if you have. This class was difficult at times, even though I never felt like I was learning a lot of new things or truly being challenged.
Take advantage of all the office hours and make sure to stay on top of your PSets. I think that it's really important to get your PSets done early and definitely check over answers with a TF.
moderately challenging and rewarding class.
Don't take this class. Take PS1. After signing up, anytime I told someone my class schedule they said "oh no I'm so sorry" regarding this class.
I really enjoyed this class. You get to learn more about current, relevant issues, such as the impact of climate change as well as possible energy alternatives. A lot of the problem sets are geared towards potential applications of what you learn, not just covering concepts. The professors and TFs are incredibly accessible and willing to answer questions - this is probably because the class establishes a small community that feels a lot more close and personal than other large science classes. Definitely recommend this class. If you're trying to choose between PS1 and PS11, you should consider whether you'd be interested in the energy applications of what you're learning, and which sounds like a better fit for you - but my vote is on this class.
very interesting and relevant to current global issues
Easy Pre-Med Class
The teaching staff is so enthusiastic and they work hard to make sure the material is clearly understood whether that means in class demonstrations or meeting with you outside.
Prof. Anderson, though he seems knowledgeable, was not effective at making lectures engaging. Oftentimes I wasn't too sure what he was talking about in lecture. Somewhat monotone. And used a somewhat complex vocabulary that didn't communicate that well with an audience struggling to learn his material.
PS11 does a good job of teaching you foundational chemistry. If you took AP Chem, you may find yourself relearning a lot of concepts you already know, but there is also a lot of material that you haven't learned yet. The teaching staff is very accessible and helpful.
I was debating between PS11 and PS1, from what I have heard of ps1 I think ps11 is a much better course.
This course is a fair amount of work, but with the take home final it is quite within reason to get a good grade overall in the course. Also, you get a great foundation in chemistry and also get a good grip on how it applies to things like the global energy crisis.
Bear through Anderson's lectures and you will be okay.
If you want to apply chemistry to globally relevant topics, then this might be the class for you. However, you definitely should have an interest in the global applications of the topics because that is a major focus of the course. It is a lot of work, so it will be a much more enjoyable experience if you are legitimately interested in the subject matter. The teaching staff is definitely very passionate about the material and they genuinely want to help you do well, so be sure to take advantage of office hours and the problem solving lectures if you are having trouble with a concept.
Overall it's a good class. The lectures aren't always very useful, but the psets are much more helpful in prepping for the exams. Also, the global calculations can be pretty annoying, but it's something you probably just have to put up with.The psets are much harder some weeks than others, and you never really know when that's going to be the case, so I recommend at least looking at it before Thursday night so you know when to start working on it.
Take this class if Dr. Anderson is no longer the head lecturer but more of a course godfather of sorts. Take PS1 instead of the courses teaching system remains the same.
So here's the deal, if you have to take either this or PS1 for premed, take PS11. The lectures for PS11 are annoying, especially those by Anderson, and the textbook is terribly written. But at the end of the day, this class is way better. The exams are only 6 questions long, but you get two hours to do it. You'll find that the psets are doable in a couple hours on Thursday nights (due Friday), especially if you have a group of friends. The exams are way easier than they could be. And you get free points from clickers and from the reading quizzes (sounds annoying but you get two tries and they are super easy). The take home final is an absolute god send. Everyone I know got above a 96% on the take home final, and with the grading schemes that they offer, it is almost impossible to not get an A, especially with the cutoff for an A- being an 85. Take this class. You will do well. It is certainly annoying at times, but at the end of the day, it is way easier to do well in than PS1.
If Professor Anderson is still teaching, do yourself a favor and don't take this course. I feel like I didn't really learn anything from the class. Material that I had seen before in AP Chem was just made more confusing by his lectures, and material that I hadn't seen before was just confusing.
If you take AP Chemistry, the class should be relatively easy if you aren't too careless on exams and homework. However, that being said, Professor Anderson really likes to include applications to real life, global energy, and other "global problems." I suppose if you enjoy learning about this stuff and doing dimensional analysis and looking up case studies from the textbook, you'll really enjoy the class. Personally, I am more interested in the theoretical aspects of chemistry and did not enjoy these concepts. Lectures can also sometimes be difficult to follow depending on who's teaching, but knowing how to solve the problems from problem sets should be mostly sufficient.
great course!
Do not take this course if Professor Andersen is teaching it - take PS10 instead. Greg Tucci is awesome but Professory Andersen runs the show and is obsessed with stupid calculations and is a truly ineffective teacher.
It's a very good class. It can be difficult at times, but the class is structured in a way to ensure that you will do well. Professors are more concerned with you learning well than getting a good grade.
This is a good class with a strong teaching staff. If you do the work, you can get the grade.
PS1 is probably easier and teaches you just as much of what you need to know so take it since it is less work and better professors.
If you are interested in improving your foundational knowledge of basic chemistry topics I would recommend this course, but be warned that it is a good deal of work for the lower difficulty of material being taught.
Find a different general chemistry course if you have taken AP chemistry. The global calculations seem interesting but are really a matter of simple math and can be explored on one's own. The class is arranged in a bureaucratic, frustrating manner.
Brace yourself... Jim Anderson is the worst lecturer I have ever had. This course has the potential to be good but it's destroyed by his horrible teaching and awful textbook (which he wrote). The psets and exams are manageable if you can get around all the stuff Anderson messes up for you and if they actually give you the information you need. That said, the other teaching staff members are good, so just rely on Tucci and you'll make it! Grading is fairly easy so it makes up a little for the horror that is Jim Anderson.
Try not to take it if Anderson is still teaching it. Honestly, it was difficult to understand his rants and really the 50 global questions were a total waste of time.
This class if very much a solid course. It will give you a nice foundation in chemistry without breaking your back.
PS11 is branded as the alternative to PS1 for both pre-med students and other science and engineering concentrators given its supposed real-world case studies and different progression through topics.  However, this "alternative" proved to be a nightmarish way to get through a general chemistry pre-med requirement.  Professor Anderson, who lectures for the majority of the semester, is brilliant, but is not a good teacher.  His lectures wandered through case studies that, while they may be interesting to read independent of the course, detracted from learning actual chemistry concepts.  On the other hand, Professors Tucci and Matchacheep were captivating and good lecturers.  Regarding assignments, problem sets and exams were fair in terms of expectation and grading.  However, there was a real lack of attention to detail paid to writing the problem sets.  Oftentimes, an email would be sent mid-week explaining an error in a question and expecting students to revise their work.  One time, this severely negatively impacted me as I had already submitted the problem set and had to re-complete an entire problem to re-submit.  The preceptor Dr. Wang appears to care a lot about the students in the course, but it doesn't manifest itself in her actions.Overall, I would not recommend PS11.
if you want to learn about how chemistry and physics connect to global issues, you need to take this class.  It's also great to help you determine which fields of science actually spark your interest
Interesting class, not too much work, good teaching staff and lectures.
PS 11 covers a lot of really good material, but is not an easy class. Great for learning more about the many intricacies of chemistry and physics and the relationship between the two.
I learned a decent amount of chemistry in this class, but I found the lectures very boring.
This class is exceptionally well-run.
This course is okay. I don't consider myself a strong science person but I was able to do fairly well with some pain along the way. Problem sets are pretty long and definitely require some office hours and collaboration. There are three exams (one on the last week of classes) which cause some anxiety but don't end up being that bad, especially because the professors allow you to bring a review sheet with you. I did not hear of very many good TFs in this class, but the preceptor, Lu, is so sweet. Anderson's lectures are rough--he rambles a lot and does problems without showing calculations so it's hard to know where his values come from. As the year goes on you will pay less and less attention. Tucci is really enthusiastic and better. Professor Matchacheep is so sweet! Nevertheless most of the lectures to me were a blur but through psets, labs, and Lu's reviews I was able to figure things out. There were only six labs total and the ones toward the end were pretty short and not painful. I also found them effective and beneficial in understanding some of the material. The textbook reading is really long and confusing to follow at times but, again, you will be able to get by without having to feel like you really read and understood it all.
Take PS11! It's a great way to fulfill your chemistry requirements. The professors are awesome, the material is interesting, and you'll get to see Professor Anderson do all sorts of crazy experiments in class. The take home exam is a gift from the gods and the midterms are nothing to stress about as long as you make sure you understand everything on the problem sets.
Anderson is not the best lecturer and this class requires you to put in a lot of time. Not sure if it was worth it in the end.
If you are interested in chemistry and have a strong background, then this could be a good course for you however, I would still be hesitant to recommend it. The lectures are not very effective in teaching the material so the problem sets and exams can be pretty tough. If you don't have a strong chemistry background, I would not recommend you take this course.
This class treats chemistry different from any other class I've taken, and I think it's great. You'll get to really see the world around you through chemical reactions and calculations. Don't get annoyed by dealing with real-world examples - enjoy the chance to see these real-world cases. This is a very cool class.
If you are interested in learning chemistry, but don't want to take the plunge with Chem 20, I would say this is the course for you. I don't know very much about PS1, but was happy with this class.
Although the teaching staff were very nice and accommodating, the heavy emphasis on hunting through the textbook for figures and numbers that students realistically won't remember after the course made this class feel like it a huge waste of time. And although Professor Anderson is very enthusiastic about the topic, I honestly learned almost nothing from his lectures. Only Lu's weekly reviews were quite well structured and informative. I took this class thinking that using PS1 to count for inorganic chem would be a cop out as I came in with a good chem and physics background and I am a junior, but looking back, I regret it as PS11 was one of my most unpleasant experiences this semester to put it mildly.
When Anderson lectures, I hope you already knew the material. Lu's review sessions are great and lab is fun. Don't take PS11 unless you have to.
Take this class if you'd like to learn some chemistry.
Anderson's lectures are hard to follow, and the global calculations are annoying, but really talk to your TF to reinforce information. Tucci is also available all the time to help you.
I came into this class with high expectations - it had received high Q scores before, and I was excited to explore the real world applications of chemistry concepts as advertised. However, I found most of the lectures to be far from engaging and the material to be 90% a rehash of AP Chemistry, though taught with less clarity and more busy work, with reading quizzes on two separate websites, clicker questions, and labs on top of psets. Greg Tucci was a fantastic lecturer and my TF was absolutely amazing, but Tucci lectures less than half of the time. The labs were also almost all repeats of AP Chemistry (and sometimes triple repeats after LS1a too). Furthermore, on midterms and the final, we were responsible for knowing 50 globally "relevant" calculations that used data from random sources to calculate the efficiency of cars, for example, or the solar power potential of the US, which seemed interesting at first but ultimately turned into wild goose chases for the correct numbers and failed to impact me long-term on real world approximations about these energy concepts. Overall, for people who enjoyed AP Chem, the course was easy but unfulfilling, and for people without lots of previous chemistry background, the course was confusingly taught and stressful throughout the semester (three midterms and a take-home final).
The course was great. Period. I truly enjoyed the implications of what we learned. We weren't merely learning science for science's sake. We learned so that we can solve world issues.
Some of the lectures are a bit boring and the global calculations will seem annoying. But stick with it and you will probably do fine.
If youre deciding between PS 1 and 11, PS 11 is probably more interesting. Is is especially good if you have some background (I had taken AP in high school), but not unmanageable if you don't. The topics covered are more or less the same, but are more in depth and involve more physics concepts. Also, the the global calculations are pretty interesting, but it is sometimes unclear as to how they relate to the material presented in class. The lectures overall are pretty good, but a bit disjointed in moving from one day to the next. One day you will understand everything perfectly and the next you could be completely lost. Greg. Tucci is phenomenal and Sirinya is pretty good as well, but Jim Anderson doesnt really stop to explain what or why he is doing something, he just plows on with you along for the ride, which is actually not too bad once you get used to his lecturing style. Go to Lus problem solving lectures if you want all the material from the week nicely summarized and tied together. The fact that you can use a page of notes on each midterm and have a take-home final is live-saving. The labs arent too bad, there are only six of them and usually they dont last the full three hours. Overall a pretty good class.
If you have taken AP chem you'll be fine. The take home final may seem like it's an incentive to take this class, but it has a third midterm exam on the last day of classes. Also, the class gets impossibly boring after add-drop. Be careful what you are getting yourself into. One plus is that 85% is an A-/A so you have a bit of wiggle room.
Lots of annoying work, but probably better than PS1 because of how it is applied to the world, making it less about the mechanics of chemistry and more about the applications of chemistry to real world issues.
If you have a real interest in science and its role in major issues of the world, this is a great course for giving you a very broad, shallow understanding.
Take it over PS 1. Fairly straightforward course, although lecture lagged behind material at times.
Might as well take ps1
While the choice between PS11 and PS1 is hard, I think that I would chose PS1 if I could go back and do it over again. I think that the globally relevant questions could be edited to make them more useful; however, too much time is wasted in PS11 with the globally relevant problems (which are pretty much just searching the textbook and lectures to copy down a calculation and then regurgitating it verbatim on the exam, it's mostly a waste of time and I didn't learn too much from it). Moreover, the take home final took a huge amount of time and I probably would have learned more if I had to study for a final exam. The instructors for PS11 are great. Anderson is a wonderful teacher, but he is sometimes hard to follow in lecture. He is great in office hours. I would definitely recommend going to office hours from the very beginning of the semester until the end. The other instructors only teach a few of the lectures. Also, you definitely need to go to section and actually pay attention, because you'll learn most of what you need there. Finally, Lu Wang is amazing. Definitely get to know her and don't be afraid to ask her questions since she knows absolutely everything about PS11.
Anderson's lectures are impossible to follow. He's super nice--awesome person! Just incorrigible. Tucci is fantastic. He should teach the course. P-sets are not always on the info taught. However, not too hard to get a good grade if you go to office hours. Fantastic preceptor.
it is a lot of work. but if you do all the work you can succeed.
It is an amazing class! You learn so much! It was my favorite class this semester and the instructors are all so awesome.
It is a class where you will meet some of the most amazing and passionate staff of any course.
Great class, the teaching staff is AMAZING!
I would definitely recommend this course over the other option PS1. Though it may be a bit more difficult for someone who had very little chemistry background it was definitely doable!
This course is more difficult than your standard introductory chemistry course. The psets also require a lot of time to complete as well, but they are manageable to do. This being a large lecture course, the lectures are a bit dry except for when Tucci lectures. The course also emphasizes a set of global calculations that I found to be poorly integrated into lectures and the course material. Also note that there are 3 midterms for this course in addition to a final. And even though the final is a take home final you should not underestimate it because it takes a long to time to complete and the questions are just as hard as regular midterm questions. But I would still recommend this course for people who feel comfortable in chemistry because it is still possible to do well in this course.
I really enjoyed the material and lectures.
While the reputation is that it is similar to AP Chemistry, some parts are but some parts aren't. Be ware of the global calculations.
This class literally disillusioned me regarding my relationship with science, and I will proceed from PS11 with caution and with a tightly-clutched hope that other science courses will not be this way. Though I feel like I struggled this semester, I feel like the material covered was basic and that I learned nothing new, and that my struggles revolved entirely around useless grunt work.
The class is a bit unorganized at first, but it gets progressively better through the semester. The professors are all engaged and clearly care about the students- Anderson maybe isn't the best lecturer every, but it's clear he wants you to do well (also his lectures always have the most fun demonstrations). The take home final is a huge plus because it's so much less stressful, and the grading system is such that an 85 is an A-, so you can worry less about your grade and focus more on actually learning- you do learn a lot. Overall, it is an interesting and relatively painless course.
ugh just take PS1
Consider taking PS1, the midterms sound much easier.
Manage your time well.
PS11 is not that great but it's much better than PS1 and if you need one of the two you're better off taking PS11. Lecture can be pretty boring at times, but it's good in the sense that the exams really reflect what you've seen in class; there's nothing on the tests that's harder than what you've done in PSETs or lab and oftentimes the problems are easier. Lu is an amazing preceptor and Dr. Tucci is awesome and they definitely make the course worthwhile.
I think that PS11 was a very fair course and you really do learn the material well through lecture, section, and problem solving lectures. The integration of global calculations into the course was also super interesting and also helpful in learning to appreciate the material more. The expectations of the course from the students, however, was unclear at times.
If you're a pre-med who wants to learn chemistry for the MCAT, I wouldn't recommend this course. This course required us to apply a lot of chemistry globally, not necessarily at the molecular level. Nevertheless, you work hard, you get good grades.
The lecturers were good and try to incorporate a more global view, although that pursuit is not very successfully. The material and global view are pretty separate, and for a pre-med especially PS1 may be better.
This is a pretty easy, generally stress-free gen chem class. I'd highly recommend it. It's graded easily and the TFs are great.
Take if required; be prepared for lots of work
You really can't go wrong with this course, so take it! I have never taken a class that was able to tackle modern and global challenges like this class. When we solve a chemistry problem, we aren't just making up obscure facts that don't mean anything; rather, we would solve chemically how Cambridge treats its water or how the Harvard science center conserves energy through the revolving doors. There is a huge level of applicability to this class, and it has made me really interested in climate change and energy resource management. I feel like I can apply the concepts that I learned in this class to solve questions of global perspective. The only frustrating aspect of this course was that it was a little heavy toward the end of the week. Psets are due Friday, you often don't learn all necessary material until Wednesday's lecture, and section is on Thursday, so it is kind of a mad dash to finish the psets on Thursday night. They aren't overly hard, just keep in mind when choosing your classes not to take too many classes with psets due Friday. The teaching staff is pretty great overall. Professor Anderson can sometimes go off on tangents and get a little too excited about derivations, but it is an honor to work with such a famous name in climate science and atmospheric chemistry. And Dr. Wang and Professor Tucci do a wonderful job of setting up this class so that it is enjoyable for the students.
This class is a lot of work, but you definitely learn a lot. There is a lot of reading, but lectures are good and interesting.
It's much better than PS1 for a number of reasons: I really liked the way the course was organized, it's not as difficult (though it is less straight-forwards), and the professors are great and really seem to care about how the students do. Also, Lecca is wonderful!
Don't take it. Take PS1 instead of PS11, which teaches more material in the better way. I honestly don't even know why there is a PS11. I was tricked into thinking PS11 would be more challenging, because of its higher number.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. PS11 was a total waste of my time - I could have definitely gotten another Gen Ed out of the way and spent less time and gotten more out of it. The PSETS are sometimes so hard because Prof Anderson does not explain the material in the class well. You learn nothing from the Case Studies (they are absolutely pointless). Do not come into this class thinking that you will get an extension of the material learned in AP Chem because you won't and if you come into this class without having taken AP Chem, do not expect to learn the material well because they don't teach it. Prof Tucci is the only professor that generates real enthusiasm for the material being taught and the only one that actually cared about teaching the mechanics of chemistry. Prof Anderson is a brilliant person and his achievements are amazing, but Harvard really has to learn to differentiate between someone that is smart and someone that can TEACH.
If you like cut and dry calculations, you may enjoy this class. However, the lectures are very dull and not engaging at all, especially when Prof. Anderson lectures; his lectures tend to go off on tangents which leave everyone confused. The textbook is no help at all. That said, the exams and problem sets are extremely easy, and it doesn't seem very difficult to do well in the class.
The core teaching staff is great. They make it possible to get through this course and learn the material well with or without the chemistry background.
I would like to give future students an insight to this terrible class with a letter that I will not send to the professor whom I trusted who encouraged me to take it:Dear Dr. Tucci,I didn't mention this during any of our meetings and I don't think I will even when I walk past your office in the future, but I'd just like to say that I am angry with you. I am disappointed that you, perhaps in order to prevent insulting your mentor and co-worker, encouraged me to take PS11 though you knew the awful quality of Anderson's teaching, the textbook, and the course in general, and most importantly, my background in chemistry. After all, you were the one who taught me in LPSA, a class that "assumes no prior knowledge of chemistry," which was also a lie (so I guess one can say shame on me for letting you fool me twice). I was an eager freshman who looked to your advice, naively trusting his enthusiastic chemistry professor. I'd like you to think twice before letting the same sad fate happen to your future students. I cannot say that I gained anything from PS11 other than the fact that Anderson is a terrible person and you cannot be trusted. During the two times during the entire semester that you taught (once right before the 5 week mark so as not to lose students to PS1 and the second several weeks ago when we were very much demoralized by your lack of response to the fact that Anderson was getting us absolutely nowhere), I hope you noticed how students no longer saw you as a professor passionate about chemistry but one who would passively sit through the confusing lectures and despite our pitifully confused expressions did not lift a finger to stop Anderson's atrocities. I have been told repeatedly not to base the chemistry at Harvard from my experience in PS11, but it's hard, you see, because you are the Chemistry Concentration Advisor who recommended to me a class that resulted in tearful nights, tortuous "lectures," and endless hours of frustration. Please show your students some decency and get rid of this class.
PS11 was a solid physical chemistry course that most will take as a requirement. The material is basically a rehash of AP Chemistry with some depth added to it. Lectures and the textbook are honestly useless if Anderson are teaching because he tends to ramble on and make absolutely no sense. The other lecturers are okay, but most of your learning will happen in section or the problem sessions (which are run by Lu and are great). PS1 or PS11? Honestly, it's up to you although a lot of people who do start off in PS11 end up dropping back to PS1 though the material is pretty much the same.
This was my least favorite Pre-Med class. I took it over PS1 thinking it would be better and more interesting because it has applications to real-world. However, this class was so poorly organized and bad at teaching students, that it made it a frustrating class all semester. I have taken AP Chem, LS1a, and Chem 17/27, and taken the MCATs, and I was still confused by the basic chemistry they were trying to teach. It is not the chemistry that is hard, it is the way they want you to apply it to things. They are not clear about what they want on the PSets, and often the TFs were not able to help with problem set questions. The lectures are horrible and not helpful. Halfway through the week they would often remove a problem from the Pset because they realized that we were not prepared to do it (which was frustrating if you had already spent time trying to do the problem). The sections also did not help. From what I have heard from people about PS1, it is much more straightforward, and I think I really would have preferred it. Some of the applications we did were really cool, but not worth it to me because I was so frustrated with the class and the teaching staff. The labs in this class were not bad, and in terms of Pre-Med labs, one of the best.
Take this course over PS1.  Don't let the first week scare you.  I took LPSa before this class, and still got an A.  So did the homies (and they're not so bright).
I chose PS11 over PS1 because I heard that PS11 applied concepts more closely to the real world. I liked these applications. They helped me understand the material better. It was more similar to the way I had learned science in high school. I also liked the take-home exam. It was not unreasonably long, and it gave me a chance to think carefully about my responses and check over my answers.
I started out in PS1 and switched to PS11, which I feel overall was a good decision.  I feel like I learned the concepts more in depth than my peers in PS1, and was able to more easily apply them to real world issues.  Make sure to stay on top of lectures and start problem sets early because they are quite difficult.  Also, the best part of this course is most definitely the teaching staff who are more than willing to help you! Use them!! Lu Wang especially is an amazing instructor and will clear up any questions you may have.
The teaching staff is really supportive! I think if you want a challenge, you should take this course, and the teaching staff will be willing to help along the way.
The problem sets are long.
Its great but tough.
You end up teaching a lot of the material to yourself, and spending an annoying amount of time on assignments. Even though this is typically a "freshman class," it's strangely frustrating, especially if you didn't take AP Chem before, so the lectures aren't helpful. Lu's Problem Solving Reviews and office hours are life-savers, as are office hours after lecture...
A great class. Make sure to keep all your notes, psets, and labs, because they help to study from for midterms and the final.
Even though this is a classic pre-med requirement, its still very interesting and the professors are great.  Most of all, it is graded fairly and your input will equal the output
Don't take this class if you want to actually learn concepts
While Anderson's rants can get very frustrating, this class really has character. If you just care about fulfilling a pre-med chem requirement, take PS1. If you want a slightly more in-depth understanding of the same basic chemistry concepts and are willing to put up with Anderson's annoying tangents about global energy issues, then take PS11.
The work is super manageable, and you'll learn a few more things than you learned in your high school chemistry course. You also learn a bit about energy and its relevance, but if you're not interested in that you might find it a bit boring or irrelevant.
Very interesting with a lot of real world application
Make sure to find a good pset group!  The questions can be very confusing sometimes but work it out with friends.  Midterms are always easier than psets, so don't freak out too much.  I will say having a good section TF can be very very helpful - mine didn't really teach that well so I ended up not going much if ever.  Anderson is really smart but unfortunately I think doesn't realize that most of what he's saying doesn't make sense to most people.  I didn't really get much out of lecture but the clicker grade is really important, so just go and do other stuff.  If Tucci or Matchacheep are lecturing, pay attention!  They make concepts very clear and understandable and its great.
I am now more confident in my chemistry background, and maybe even more confident in my global energy demand background.  (Sometimes there was unnecessary time spent doing global calculations.)
Sometimes not as advertise, globally useful though
Some lectures are very difficult to follow, as is the textbook, but generally fine since problem sets, labs, and exams are straightforward. As a required class, it was ok.
Seriously consider PS 1, same material without so much unnecessary weekly tasks that don't help at all. You get a lot of resources which is nice though
I think this is a really good course, and if you are sciency you should take it. If you are not too into the sciences, you may not necessarily enjoy this course so much. It has very interesting concepts and ideas that it teaches you about, but the work can get a little old about halfway through the semester. Anyways, the teaching staff is all so good, and the material is pretty fun to learn.
If you are looking for a chem class to take, take PS 1 if you have not taken AP chem before, take this class if you have.
If anything, take this course for Henderson & Tucci (the dynamic duo)
Lectures and textbook are very wordy without much content. You learn a lot about electric cars. Not about how they work, but how amazing it is to drive one. It uses quite a bit of paper for all the emphasis on energy reduction it tries to indoctrinate into our wasteful minds. If PS1 was an increasingly verbose meme, PS11 is its final product. Shop both if you want to make your $65k worth it.
This was a really great course. The professors are great lecturers and bring energy to the class. The TFs are amazing and so helpful. This has been one of the better sciences courses I have taken and I would definitely recommend this class to anyone. I would recommend this course especially those who want to learn 'useful' knowledge as the professors really try to make this knowledge as useful as possible.
It's a lot of time but it's manageable
Be prepared to not really understand things when Anderson teaches.
Go to section - section is incredibly useful and working through the section material and friday problem solving reviews gave you a really good foundation of understanding
Anderson's lectures may feel sluggish, but when it's time to calculate/derive formulas, he would speed through it. Tucci's lectures are livelier, but they are also much faster in pace.Try to be in Josh's section. He's a great TF who explains things well and will give you extra handouts/cheat sheets/review guides to ensure that you really grasp the material.When I was taking the course, there were times when I would say that I hated the class (mostly when I'm stuck on a problem). But now that it's over, I'm actually going to miss it a lot. Take it!
The teaching staff for this course was absolutely fantastic. TFs were approachable, and enthusiastic.
problem solving techniques are not adequately taught
This class is interesting and has cool subject matter, but doing well on exams comes down to who your TF is for section. Exam topics are not covered in depth in lecture, so be sure to go to section and OH.
Not as moving or intellectually stimulating as I initially thought it was going to be
This is a very good general chemistry class. The material is very interesting.
This class is not difficult. Definitely take it (I'm looking at all you pre-meds out there). If you study well for the exams, you will do well. This class involves a lot of plug and chug with equations and the discussion sections help a lot if you have no idea what is happening in lecture.
This course is very interesting and fun! However it is a bit difficult because Professor Anderson does not take a lot of time explaining the concepts in class.
Do not take this course unless you are good at chemistry or good at teaching yourself
Easy class but boring af and you're punished immensely for not going to lecture -- I did very well on exams, etc. but learning catalytics is 5% so there goes my grade
Although I found thia course difficult, I found that the instructors and TFs really care about helping you understand the material. The application aspect made chemistry more interesting and less abstract. This is not an easy course but a much more interesting approach to a gen chem requirement.
Jim and Gregg are both great lecturers. Jim's lectures are very interesting and focus a lot about global impacts. Some people complain that he gets off topic, talks too slowly, and has messy handwriting. The only one that bothered me was the messy handwriting. Gregg's lectures are very clear and easy to follow. Both Jim and Gregg are really fun people and show true enthusiasm for the material.
This class was very informative and engaging. I enjoyed it a lot and feel like I am better prepared for future chem and physics classes and also better prepared to be an active citizen in the midst of a changing climate.
Take PS1 over this class. It feels like the global application of the material is emphasized over the basic concepts themselves. If you don't have a relatively extensive chemistry background you'll have to teach yourself most of the concepts.
It is really hard if you have not learned the material before.  The focus on energy and the environment is awesome, but sometimes distracts from the very difficult concepts you are trying to master.
Take this over PS1! The professors are incredible and you can still work closely with the faculty
Gregory Tucci is definitely a better instructor and allows you the opportunity to understand the material. But, the otehr instructor, Jim Amderson does not explain material very well and I found myself struggling more in the units he taught than the one Gregory taught.
This class is really interesting and very very applicable to the real world. The professors are so fun, engaging, and keep the class interesting. Exams are pretty difficult, but problem sets are fairly straightforward if you pay attention in lecture. Almost all the kids in the class are pre-med.
Do not take this course if you have taken AP Chem.
Ok I have several mixed feelings for this class because the first module is more physics than actual chemistry which I strongly disliked about this course, however once you get past the first midterm things really pick up in this class and it gets very interesting. Psets were fair and manageable if you take advantage of PSL office hours, reading quizzes are kind of annoying, but overall the material is really interesting and definitely made me see chemistry from a global/environment perspective. Also, Jim is a great person but can be dry and slow during lecture, but Gregg Tucci is ABSOLUTELY AMAZING and really made the class worthwhile. I personally felt that the class gets easier as you go along in the semester so don't be discouraged if the first three weeks seem tough. The midterms are overall very fair if you do the practice exams. If you are debating between PS1 and PS11, take PS11 if you are really interested in chemistry and want to see it's applications, otherwise take PS1.
course is very energy focused. a lot of time will be spent on discussing climate change, how we can help alter the course of climate change through the various things we learn...etc
100% take PS 11 instead of PS 1. Professors Anderson and Tucci and their involvement with the class are not to be missed.
Lots of work and time needed to be put into the class but the class itself is not too hard as long as the time is put into the class.
PS11 is an awesome class! If you're interested in sustainability, the environment, AND natural science, I can't recommend this class enough. Jim and Gregg are amazing lecturers and the material is super engaging. It may take a couple of weeks to get used to the flow of the work of the class (there is a substantial amount of it), but it's otherwise pretty manageable. The tests are straightforward, and the class has great resources if you need help on psets.
This course provides a great way to learn general chemistry as it relates to climate change and energy systems. However, students not interested in either of those topics should probably look at PS1 instead. PS11 enrollment was way up this year, and the course as a whole felt very understaffed. If you're premed, the support system is not as strong as you might like. Exams were difficult but never too unfair, and the take-home exam is a plus. Greg and Jim are fantastic professors and make the course bearable.
This class was a struggle - only got through it because of section. Lecture is a complete waste of time, only went because of the learning catalytics questions. The midterms are doable if you put enough time into studying.
This class is just a waste of time, and the teaching is extremely slow. Tucci is wonderful, but the material is boring and the class was a drag.
Get ready for an interesting ride. Jim anderson + greg tucci = GOATs.
So much better than PS1 (from what I've heard). The course staff genuinely wants you to do well and for you to learn not like some other intro science courses that aim to cut people out. The tests and psets are reasonable, except for the fact that you have 3 midterms.
This class turned me into a Chemistry concentrator. It does a great job of merging the science with the real world so you know why it really matters, and the work feels like it's actually meant to help you learn rather than to waste your time.
The class jumps from topic to topic almost randomly so it can be hard to really consolidate all the knowledge you have gained at the end of the semester. However, they have a Take Home Final Exam that really relieves the burden of finals during the end of the semester. Sometimes it is just hard to follow along during lectures, especially Jim Anderson's lectures.
It's a great course and very manageable! You learn a lot about chemistry and the material about global warming/climate changing is very interesting (but also terrifying). The course staff is fantastic (especially Josh Cox as a TF) and labs are short but engaging.
The material was incredibly interesting and applicable to the real world. However, it the pset are very time-intensive, the midterms are difficult, and the lectures can sometimes be relatively ineffective.
PS 11 is the best. I'm interested in chemistry and environment, so this class was a perfect fit for me, but I can see how those looking for pure chemistry might not be satisfied. I really liked the fact that everything we learned was put into global context - I found the "50 Questions" (calculations for how much it would cost to switch over to solar energy, the rate at which ice is melting in the Arctic, etc.) to be a valuable exercise, and it felt like all of the chemistry we were learning was important and relevant. Exams and assignments are on the easier side, so it wasn't a huge time sink, but I still felt motivated to do readings that I realistically didn't need to do simply because the material was interesting and explained well. I think this class has been my favorite at Harvard so far. Take it!!!
They're really excited about this course, and lecture can be pretty fun. One of the lecturers is better than the other, though, so at times you'll need to take more initiative to understand the concepts.
This course is amazing. The professors and the teaching staff are all so helpful, supportive, and enthusiastic about the course. I really enjoyed it and learned a lot. If you are just worried about the difficulty of the course I wouldn't worry too much and take the course because as long as you put in the effort and seek out help there are so many people who will support you.
This course is relatively easy, but the lectures are a bit confusing. The way they tie chemistry concepts to global events is what really makes this course worthwhile.
The class has a lot of work, but it is easy to complete.
You will probably have to take this class for some sort of requirement - pre-med, life sciences concentrations, etc. Given the choice between PS1 and PS11, I chose PS11 because I heard PS1 was absolutely excruciating. To be perfectly honest, if PS1 is that much worse than PS11 I feel sorry for whoever takes PS1. Because this class is pretty excruciating as well if you don't like chemistry or it isn't your passion. It's basically AP chemistry re-done in college form. Jim Anderson likes blowing things up so there will be a lot of that, but otherwise don't expect much from lectures because they're pretty unorganized and unhelpful. (You'll still have to attend them to get learning catalytics points though.) Labs don't meet every week so it's not as bad as it seems; also, if you've ever been in a high school chemistry lab the lab component will be a piece of cake. Be warned: you might think a take-home final is much better, but it's not. It's very long and covers material not well discussed throughout the course.
PS11 is a fantastic class. A lot of the chemistry taught in lecture and on the problem sets is completely doable and easy to pick up on if you come in with AP Chemistry knowledge. In fact, problem sets could often be completed on prior knowledge alone. There are a few units that are tricky but nevertheless manageable. Professor Anderson's enthusiasm for the class is palpable, as is his concern for the environment and what he is teaching. Professor Tucci is great at teaching chemistry and making it an approachable subject.
For a large lecture class, this class was surprisingly engaging. It was very well taught (Tucci is great, you have to bear with Anderson a little more) and easy to follow. There are a lot of smaller weekly assignments in this class but if you can keep up with it all, there are very few nights when you'll feel overwhelmed with PS11. The exams are fair and grading is too. Also, this class will teach you a *lot* about our global climate and how we can apply basic principles of chemistry to understand it.
This class is not easy especially if you haven't taken AP chem like I hadn't. Thankfully Greg, Jim, and the TFs make this class manageable.
This class and the professors is the reason I am considering a concentration in chemistry, something I never thought I would do.
Take this course if you need to complete the premed requirement for chemistry!!! You will learn a ton about chemistry and it is actually really interesting material
This is a physics and chemistry heavy course, so I would recommend a background in at least one of these but it was also very nicely applicable to the real world and therefore interesting.
A great class to fulfill the requirement. Tests are very fair and the staff wants you to do well. The professors are great. Sometimes Jim does not cover all the material you need to know...definitely watch the videos of section if you are confused. The workload is quite manageable.
If you have to take physical chemistry, then this course is probably a reasonable option. It is not particularly difficult, but it has many annoying, busywork assignments and the lectures are pretty boring.
If you study practice problems then you will do fine
The professors are so approachable, and if you enjoy real-world applications of chemistry you can actually apply after leaving college, definitely take this class!
Take it! TFs and staff are amazing, so are professors!
Greg and Jim make the class so much fun despite its being difficult for a non-chemistry concentrators like me. They just want you to learn well, as is very possible.
I highly recommend this class! You don't need AP Chem background to do well in this class. I'm not a huge fan of chemistry, but I really enjoyed this class because it focused on connecting textbook concepts to current issues on the global energy scale. The course leaders genuinely care about the students and want the students to do well. There are lots of opportunities to get help (office hours, PSLs, help rooms). Midterms and assignments are fair. This is a great option for knocking out a second semester of chem for pre-med.
Take this over PS 1. There is no reason why you should not be able to succeed, and the midterms are much more low stress than what I have heard from peers in PS 1. The grading is nice in this class, especially within lab.
PS11 is by far one of my favorite courses that I have taken at Harvard. The lectures were very engaging, and the TFs and professors are very knowledgable and willing to help you succeed.
Great introduction to chemistry, but if you already have a background in it like I did, the class can be very boring.
If you can understand what the heck is going on in lecture by studying on your own, you are set for a great grade.
The lectures are awesome and material teaches you how applicable chemistry is to daily life.
This class was very interesting. The homework and exams were  manageable but the lectures were at times confusing. Having section really helped out in this sense and making use of office hours or having pset buddies is a must!
Take it
Hard but interesting
This class is a lot of work, but is worth it in the end. It is very interesting and you learn about both chemistry and its applications. The tests are also very fair, and the teachers want you to enjoy the subject matter and truly understand the material. There are also so many resources available to help you if you get stuck on problems or don't understand a particular concept.
This class is interesting, but not easy. I hate chem and physics, but this class gave me a reason to care about it.
I think that this class did the trick, but I hesitate to say that I feel like I really learned everything that we covered in this class. I think in some ways the material wasn't the most accessible to students; the lectures often didn't feel like they had much relevance and I didn't find myself really understanding the content unless I did the problem sets and had someone help me. However, I think that the two professors do a really good job making the material seem interesting and encouraging students to succeed. The application part of this class is intriguing; the numbers that come out of certain problems are really surprising and make you think about the subject in an environmental context. Psets can be pretty hard, but it helps a great deal to go to office hours. Sometimes lectures were VERY interesting, with real-life demonstrations that really had me captivated. I think that while the take-home final exam is convenient in some ways, it was substantially difficult and that just like any take-home assignment, had no way of maintaining the honor code, which at times made it difficult to turn in an assignment knowing others may have an unfair advantage over you.If thinking about taking this or PS1, I would really give it thought, as the reconstruction of PS1 seems to have made the class much better than students from past years have made it seem.
I would probably only take this class if you were interested in science or the environment. I'm not sure if this is the easiest gen ed class.
It's easy but super boring
The general chemistry is neither painful nor exciting, but the things you will learn about energy usage and the environment are fascinating and engaging. For that reason, PS11 is highly effective as a "Gen Ed" (but do not take it unless you are interested in concentrating in science, as it is still primarily a rigorous -- and time-consuming -- chemistry course). It will keep you busy.
This class is a great way to fulfill the general chemistry requirement if you are premed, or for any of the life science concentrations. Well it is fairly introductory level chemistry, the teaching staff relate it to important, relevant topics, which keeps the course engaging. The 50 Questions are quite interesting to learn about as well.
If you think about taking PS1 or PS11, take PS11.
Take this class over PS1. It is so much more interesting and worthwhile!! The class is hard. Make sure to study for the midterms and keep up with the problem sets. Go to the student study network they are so helpful.
HIGHLY RECOMMEND this class for anyone with an interest in chemistry, and environmental, energy policy. The teaching staff is great and knowledgeable and there are some really cool experiments awaiting.
This course is very interesting, but if you don't enjoy chemistry, it can be annoying and a bit difficult at times. I had to self-teach some concepts because I didn't understand them from lecture.
Put in the work! It won't require too much if you don't get behind, but try to keep up. The problem solving lectures are also phenomenal so go to those!
Good class. Take over PS1
Lecture material often felt very disconnected from the material evaluated on Psets and exams. Great class, but make sure to keep up as the pace is very fast and it can be very easy to fall behind.
You will enjoy this class, especially if you've taken AP Chemistry. The course is a more in depth AP Chem course with modern applications. Pretty decent course with a very good teaching staff.
The instructors are enthusiastic, and some of the calculations are insightful, but the material is not terribly interesting.
The assignments in this class are very fair, and there are tons of resources for you to get help if you find yourself struggling. Success in this class is not a matter of intelligence, I would say, but motivation.
Keep on track with your 50 questions, and be sure to complete the practice tests for the exams. The Friday problem solving reviews are also very helpful.
This class is hard and the psets are hard. Full of pre-meds who have to take it (meaning there's no curve on exams). Though the things we learn are hard they're taught in context which is nice because we center on the environment and climate systems.
Don't take this course unless you love chemistry and physics. This course showed me how much I really don't like chemistry. It is just a totally different way of thinking about problems than biology which is my strong suit.
PS11 was an interesting chemistry course with a focus on renewable energy. The work is not especially difficult, but there is a lot of it (prelabs, reading quizzes, and problem sets each week). Since there is a large volume of work, this class does require a fair amount of time, but the applications of the chemistry to renewable energy technologies are interesting.
Drive the car
Very reasonable science class at Harvard. Problem sets and exams mirrored each other (which is nice) and the professors are the sweetest (although Jim is honestly not a good teacher). I highly recommend.
While the applied part of this course is nice in theory, you don't actually learn much chemistry. The first third of the course is mainly physics. One of the professors spends almost every one of his lectures going through overcomplicated derivations of the same formulas again and again, and it's just not useful. Would definitely not recommend if you haven't taken AP Chemistry, or if you took it a while ago. A lot of chemistry knowledge is assumed.
TAKE THIS CLASS. If you have to fulfill your SPU gen ed requirement with a class, let this be the one. It's likely quite challenging if science isn't your thing, but I strongly believe everyone should get exposure to environmental issues & scientific problem solving skills at some point in higher level education, and this class does both those things well. The teaching staff is incredible and there is plenty of support in terms of office hours, review sessions, etc. I can't stress this enough--TAKE THIS CLASS!
Do not take this class if you don't like Chemistry!  The number of students increased a lot this year because students only looked at the Q guide scores.  However, PS11 is MEANT to be more rigorous.  Please consider your options before enrolling.  That being said, PS11 has an infrastructure that is in place to help you succeed.  Take advantage of the numerous office hours, PSLs, sections, etc.
Better than PS1
Great class - a little bit of busy work, but far more interesting than PS11. Didn't have any AP chem background, didn't do that well in LS1a, but still loved this course.
It is not difficult to do well in the less and you learn so much about the issues we are facing today and how we could potentially find solutions to them.
This class is great for teaching students the fundamentals behind climate change, and concrete ways in which we can fight it. The application of topics that Dr. Anderson and Dr. Tucci encourage makes this class among the most interesting I've taken here.
It's chill.
This course is a really interesting way to look at basic chemistry principals. The lectures are really interesting and the printed note packets are helpful. The online textbook was designed for the course, so it ties in really well with the course material. The problem sets are very doable, and there are a lot of office hours as resources. That being said, I think attending section and the Friday Review Sessions are necessary to fully understand the material.
Great class, one of the best intro science courses. You learn a ton and the course staff is excellent. Take this class
This class was really interesting and relevant to the global world.
Take this course!
While I though this course fulfilled a great purpose, and the teaching staff was excellent, I thought it was very hard especially for a course that is supposed to be more of an introductory course.  I would encourage people to explore all the PS options available.
For majority of the course, I had no idea what was going on. The lectures are not the best, and I constantly left class feeling confused. The exams were tragic, as I left as if I had to teach myself everything and my TF was not very helpful. The only upside of this class is Gregg and the takehome exam.
This is a good introductory chemistry class to take. It covers a lot of material that is widely applicable, including a lot of clean energy. It's probably a much more pleasant class than PS1 and features a more logical progression of material. It's also generally a very manageable class in terms of workload. However, the text is very dense and section is much more helpful than lecture (which you have to go to to answer in class quizzes).
I loved this course so much! If you like actually learning material for learning's sake (beyond just for exams, concentration/premed requirements, etc.), you will love this class. It really is designed with real-world application and actual learning in mind. That said, you may find lectures sometimes frustrating because they're so focused on real-world applications or on the concepts behind the chemistry. I enjoyed this, but if you're someone who really likes to just be give the facts/formulas, etc. you may not like it.
This is a good intro chemistry class with real world applications
I only took this course as a freshman for pre-med requirements, but I ended up actually liking it a lot. The take-home final took me all of reading period, but it wasn't bad in terms of the difficulty. The midterms were fair, but I feel like I had to study a lot on my own to prepare for them, because I didn't get much out of lecture. Also, Professor Anderson lets you drive his electric car on the weekends, which was the first car I've ever driven in my life. It's great.
PS11 IS SO UNDERRATED. IT IS AWESOME. I loved this course and honestly wish I could take it again. I love that they put chemistry in the global context--it really makes you think of the problems with the way the world is handling things and makes you want to take action. Professors Anderson and Tucci are a hilarious duo and I loved their lectures. Labs were also lowkey and super fun. Also this course is just really well organized and run overall, and has a lot of resources and help. Don't waste your time taking some other boring chem course when you can take this one, which is so interesting, lively, and important/relevant.
PS11 is a really great class. It will ask a lot of you, but if you really engage with it, the professors will change the way you think.
Definitely take this class - the professors really care about the students and our success. Also in addition to learning the fundamentals of chemistry we learn about some of its implications on the world and it's very educative and helps us see the world in a different way.
Take this class over PS1 - workload is manageable and the exams are very very fair!
This class is a great one. While psets and exams can sometimes be a little tedious to complete, you will learn a lot and it will help you think about applications of chemistry in the real world. Jim and Greg have a great dynamic, and the alternation between the teachings of the two have been quite enjoyable. Lectures are usually made fun with many simulations and quite a few explosions. The take-home final was quite long, but I thoroughly appreciated it over actually having a final.
The beginning will be a little rough, but the course is incredibly rewarding!
You are going to work very hard in this class to earn a B, let alone an A, especially if you have a particularly weak background in chemistry and physics. If this is your reality, ask for a tutor as soon as possible, go to office hours and build a great community of study partners!
PS11 our year had an unusually high class (about 300, when usually it's 100), which potentially contributed to the fact that the course was rather poorly structured. Lectures seemed to be detached from problems that we were solving in discussion sections, which were much more relevant to weekly problem sets. The material that is covered is wonderful - molecular orbital theories provide a very fascinating framework for understanding reactivity and the constant reminder of global relevance was a great addition and informed everyone a great deal.
No background needed really, although some math background is helpful because there is integration and some calculus involved. Anderson is a wonderful person, definitely get to know him and test drive his car!
It is ridiculously hard and [MAKE SURE I AM ANONYMOUS] stressed me beyond belief
Although I feel like this is a pretty easy and harmless way to do a pre-med requirement, I wouldn't get too excited about it. It's not a really inspiring class and I don't feel like I really came out of it with that much, but it wasn't hard or time-intensive by any means.
If you have never taken a chemistry class before then this is a great class for you. If you have, then this will be completely review. I hadn't taken chemistry in four years when I took this, so was a bit rusty, but not so rusty that I didn't get bored in this class. Topics are not explained in depth, which can be confusing and frustrating because you end up having to just accept that things are true without fully understanding why they're true.
The material is quite hard, but do not worry: the exams are actually enjoyable.
If you like chemistry and the environment, this is a great course.
You learn a lot from the class but at times it is difficult to follow, so be prepared to put in effort outside of class. Also the professors are amazing.
PS11 is definitely the course to take if you are looking to meet the inorganic chemistry requirement.  The course staff is extremely helpful, there's a variety of office hours and sessions with peer-study leaders, so you'll definitely be able to find a time to reach out if you need it.  Course staff is extremely friendly and willing to help.  Professors hold office hours 4 times a week!
This class prepares you well to think in the manner they want for the exams and problem sets, as well as more broadly. However, people that think more step by step may prefer PS1.
I would not recommend taking this course unless it is restructured. The teaching staff seemed frequently disorganized, grading was tough, and much of material on the problem sets was not discussed in class. I found that I had to teach myself material in order to complete the homework. While working on problem sets, I spent much more time on the internet than I did looking at course material. From what I have heard, PS1 may be more dry, but it is more straight-forward. Take that.
This course material is sometimes presented in a very confusing manner but exams and PSets are fair and there is ample help provided should you need it. Start on PSets early and go to the help sessions. Lab is very manageable and the reading quizzes are pretty easy. My biggest problem with the course was the amount of busy work, for example, the 50 Questions. It was important material but the way it was presented was not beneficial.
This is not the typical chemistry course you would imagine. It makes connections with the environment and energy all the time. Most of this class is taught through doing problems rather than clear explanations of the theory.
Take this over PS1, while some of the work can be tedious, it is the better alternative.
PS11 is GREAT! I took this class after reading Q guide reviews that said to take this over PS1 as a premed. I can't speak for PS1, but I definitely had a great time in PS11! (Then again, I am personally interested in learning science for science's sake and not just for pre-med requirements, so I really appreciated the real-world applications and how much we talked about current issues, such as climate change.) I know a lot of people may not like Jim's lectures (because he might tend to ramble sometimes and he gets really excited/into the material--after all, he wrote the textbook--to the point where it gets a bit esoteric), but I really appreciated the enthusiasm that he brought. (He loves making things explode in lecture & lighting things on fire!! It's honestly amazing!) You also get the chance to drive Jim's car (an electric BMW), which is cool and super fun. Gregg is also very nice and helpful! I also had the best TF (Josh), who was super helpful, excited about the material and teaching, and helped to make my PS11 experience infinitely better! But yes, I do feel like I learned a lot from this class! It is hard but worth it, so take it!
Start psets and exam prep early. Go to section and lecture. Jim is really sweet and enthusiastic, but isn't often the most effective lecturer. Gregg is more straightforward. Sign up to drive the electric car!
This class is relatively interesting, and both professors are very nice (although Greg is a better teacher). The grading scheme is nice, and there is also a take-home final which can definitely be a grade saver. Also, apparently this class is better than PS1
Expect to be given a lot of material thrown at you but do not expect to understand all of it.
This course is really interesting because it contextualizes the pure science concepts that need to be covered in a gen chem course.
PS11 was great. The teaching staff was awesome, assignments were reasonable, exams were just the right degree of difficulty.
It was a fairly easy introduction to chemistry.
While this class requires a lot of work and going to office hours to finish psets, it's incredibly interesting and will make you feel like you've learned a lot of calculations/material to be able to understand how energy is used and conserved today. Very interesting, even if you're not planning to study the sciences or environment.
The course material is interesting, but you must organize all of the materials and topics on your own. Nothing is centralized, and studying is basically a scavenger hunt.
A good way to fulfill general chem premed requirement in a more interesting way than just a plain chemistry class, as the energy and environmental applications were relevant and provided other angles to look at the problems we were solving.
PS11 is a good class. You will learn chemistry (or review if you did a lot in high school) in a way that begins to explore how the material is applicable to real world problems. That said, I do feel that the class falls slightly short of this promise that Jim so eloquently phrases in the first few lectures. The course feels a bit disorganized, and more often than not, it was unclear what real world applications the material we were learning were. This is a good chemistry course, but if you're like me, an ESPP concentrator who's strong suit is not chemistry but is looking for a way to apply chem to environmental issues, I'm not sure how much better this course is than PS1. Gregg and Jim definitely care about their students, however, and the course can be rewarding - just not necesarily in the way that I (and many of my friends) expected it to be.
Really interesting class. Great way to learn chemistry with an environmental focus. The only thing I didn't like about it was that it was really big this year and it's usually much smaller in the past. 3 midterms and a take-home.
This class is very involved but rewarding.  It's clear, from the lectures to the readings to the psets, that the physics and chemistry we discuss has very relevant, current applications to real life.  Some concepts are not as well-explained as others and you might find yourself not understanding them, but overall, you will learn a lot about a broad range of topics.
This class is a really fun time, especially if you put in the time and effort. Make sure to take advantage of the PSL hours because they are often the most chill and enjoyable times to work. They also prioritize learning and success and it's a great way to stay on top of your work. Make sure to start work early, especially the take-home test, which is fair but just takes a lot of time to do well. Jim and Gregg are really nice people (maybe with not the best handwriting), but definitely check out their office hours and driving lessons if you are interested in science in general.
It's better than PS1 at least!
I mean all thing considered the course is fine, it's no cakewalk but it's not particularly hard. In fact, if you did well in AP Chem, then the course should really be no trouble at all. The environmental stuff can either be cool or feel really shoehorned in. All in all, it's a fine intro chem class to take, but it's not going to rock your world or anything.
The TF staff was very helpful.
Good review of AP Chemistry with a few topics in more depth. Psets built upon concepts but the 50 Q's were not very effective in improving understanding even though you get a general gist of how it applies in the real world. Jim is a sweet and enthusiastic professor but doesn't have the neatest handwriting; Greg doesn't lecture often but he has a good pace and engaging voice. Overall reasonable course although ending (molecular orbital theory, VSEPR, kinetics, hybridization) was very rushed. I had to learn a lot of that by myself from textbook; lecture notes helped but didn't give much background leading into the final concept.
Its a really interesting course, but has some work to it. Just make sure to study for the midterms, and you'll do great and finish the course happy you took it.
This class is very interesting and well structured, and the course staff is vey helpful. The midterms are quite manageable, as is the take home final. Make sure to go to section!
Tucci is everything a teacher should be!!! This class is everything a premed course should be!!! Clear lectures, tons of support available during TF/PSL office hours, sections were super clear, etc. I had no Chem background from high school (also pretty much no science background because I went to a poor public school) and still managed to do really well. Take this over PS1!!!!
The class is overall a good intro class but can sometimes be tedious, and often lectures are poorly organized and don't cover the necessary material for the problem set. The focus on climate change and real-world applicability is nice.
You don't have to read every page of the textbook chapters, especially if you did well in AP Chem. Do practice problems and take the problem sets very seriously, and you should be fine for the exams.
This class takes a lot of time and at times feels like it could be much more straightforward than how it is presented. However, you do learn the necessary gen chem skills and the teaching staff is very approachable. Also, the knowledge gained about climate change has already been very useful.
Exams and psets are pretty fair in their expectations of you.  The textbook is dense, though, but hopefully they tell you suggested readings by next year.  This class has a lot about sustainability and global applications of chem, which is all pretty cool.  Might be difficult if you've never taken a chem class before though.  Overall great class.
So. Much. Busy Work. Probably only bothered me because I took in senior spring and wasn't used to having all the tiny little assignments all throughout the week (prelab, lab, reading quiz, pset, 50 qs, etc etc), but lots of intro science classes are like this. What you do in lecture is not super relevant to the psets and section can be useless if you have a bad TF. Go to problem solving workshops if you can.
If you don't have a strong physics or chemistry background, be ready to put a good amount of time into learning the material.
I remember how tough of a decision it was to decide between this course and PS1. As a pre-med, I wanted to pick the course I would have the highest chance of success in. I ended up choosing this course and do not regret my decision, mostly because I think there's not one right answer. I can't tell you how this compares to PS1 because I didn't take PS1. What I can tell you is I majorly messed up the second midterm and having a third midterm gave me a chance to recover. I can also tell you that while you might choose this based solely on the take home final, it's a harder than you might think, so make sure that actually sounds better to you. This class was tough for me (I didn't take AP chem in hs) but manageable. But, I remember reading that pre-meds would be amazed at the super easy grading in this course and I definitely don't agree with that. Also keep in mind that you will hear A TON about the environment in this course. It's not a bad thing, but be prepared. Overall, I think you're fine taking either, but I know this course is survivable.
This is an amazing class! You get so much out of it! Problem sets were really helpful when learning the material outside of class and they are a good resource for studying for exams. The professors are awesome!!
I strongly recommend this course to anyone who is trying to decide between PS1 and PS11. The professors are really engaging and a pleasure to talk to outside of class. The tests are really reasonable and you have more than enough time to complete them, and there's a take-home final.
Having previous chemistry background will help a lot because this course does not spend time going over the basics.  The TF office hours are essential in helping get the psets done, if, like me, you didn't really know any chemistry coming in.
The lecturers are engaging, enthusiastic, and accessible, however sometimes the material seems a bit scattered. Problem sets do not always necessarily reflect what's covered in section or lecture but are very doable. Can be repetitive or unclear at times.
The way Tucci and Anderson try and incorporate real world applications of everything we learn actually makes the class a lot more enjoyable than a normal PS class would be. There is a large emphasis on applying what we learn to energy/climate change situations, which is especially relevant in the time we live in! Tucci is a very enthusiastic/exciting/engaging lecturer which is nice as it prevents the class from getting super monotonous with a bunch of equations. Anderson is very grandfather-ly and can sometimes get off track but he's a super sweet guy and his in-class experiments help keep class exciting. Overall you can tell that the prof's really care about making the course fun/engaging/relevant which is super important. The exams all properly reflect the psets/sections/practice exams so to prepare for exams you just have to do all those problems. If you're super lazy you can essentially get by by just copying all of the problems onto the cheat sheet you're allowed to use. Tl;dr course work is reasonable, real world applications are interesting, and profs are good. Take the class!
Take this class! It's like "applied" basic chemistry--you learn the same things as PS1, but then you also learn how they're relevant to today's society through climate change, the energy crisis, etc. It's completely fascinating. I thought I hated chemistry until I took this class! The teaching staff are incredible and are totally dedicated to making sure that you understand and appreciate the course material. Also, it's totally fine to take this course coming in without a super-strong background in chemistry. I never took AP chem in high school and I took LPSA instead of LS1a first semester, so I was worried it would be too hard, but while the material was challenging, it was well within my reach. This is one of the best courses I've taken so far--highly recommended!
This is a solid course to take for any premed student seeking to satisfy an inorganic chemistry requirement. The faculty are phenomenal and very inspirational teachers. The course preceptor and TFs are also very supportive and dedicated to ensuring every students' success. The course does a great job tying in concepts to a bigger global picture and equipping students with skills to address challenges in the world around them. There can be a lot of work at times, so it is important to stay organized in this course. The first two weeks seemed to be the hardest in retrospect, so stick with the class even if you are having reservations early on.
If you are choosing between PS1 and PS11 and you already have some background in chemistry, definitely choose PS11. This is an incredibly class that will really let you see what the Harvard experience is. I feel like, thank to this class, I am now a more informed citizen and am capable of understanding arguments related to the future of our planet's climate as well as our planet's economy.
Theres a lot of resources available to help you learn the material and the lectures are interesting
Tucci and Anderson put in a lot of time for this course and trying to connect with students which is great.
I enjoyed this class.  The teaching staff is kind, passionate, and helpful.  Overall, the course is do-able if you're willing to put in the work.  There is a lot of material and the expectations are somewhat unclear at times (ex., you're given a complex derivation in lecture and never remotely tested on it).
If you are looking to take a general chemistry class, I would recommend this one, but if you want to take this class for your gen ed  requirement or just as an elective, I would suggest otherwise. Some members of the teaching staff are truly phenomenal and teach in a way that makes the content easy to understand. Unfortunately, many of Jim Anderson's lectures were a bit all over the place and difficult to understand. Additionally, most if not all of the "optional" work was actually not optional, and you needed to complete these assignments or attend these lectures in order to do well in the class (and sometimes to even understand what was happening at all).
Honestly I thought I would hate and do very poorly (because that was more or less my high school experience) but PS11 was one of my favorites this semester! The teaching staff is all really invested in the course, it's clearly been very well thought out structurally and in terms of support. And it's awesome that everything is taught through environmental applicationsit makes chemistry so much more interesting than your standard intro chem class. It is a fair amount of work (though I wouldn't say more than PS1 from what I've heard) and has the inherent tedium of intro level classes. Finally, I'd say don't necessarily trust the perception that PS11 is harder than PS1obviously I didn't take both classes, but I had nearly no chem background (besides the aforementioned non-AP chem class three years ago) and found the pace and difficulty of PS11 fine. Plus I was much more excited to learn the material because I could see how relevant and applicable it was. I wasn't just balancing equations for the sake of balancing equations, and that made such a big difference in my motivation/interest.
This class is an extremely important class to take. It effectively teaches students chemistry principles while also bringing them to life with incredibly important real world examples. I absolutely loved this class. The teachers are amazing!! It is also set up in a way that is difficult, but not stressful. Absolutely take this class!!
This class is a great way to fulfill your second semester Chemistry requirement for pre-med, as well as SPU, but it would also be an awesome class even if it weren't useful for those purposes. It teaches you a great deal about Chemistry through the lens of globally relevant issues like climate change, which is really fun. The teaching staff is fabulous(Professors Anderson and Tucci, as well as Preceptor Lu Wang) and the class encourages you to learn from your peers. The material is challenging at times, but it's definitely worth it.
the course is interesting but it's hard to keep track of in some ways. make sure to be organized!
Great course, FINAL IS SOOO LONG
This course does what you need it to do (pre-med requirement that covers gen chem) but it was not incredibly fun or exciting. If you're okay with that, you're good.
The structure of this course is super conducive to learning - though there are three midterms, they relieve much of the stress from students because there are so many opportunities to make up lost marks.  Also, the final is a take-home!  Opportunities to tour Harvard's energy infrastructure and drive Jim's electric car are amazing.
It feels like a high school class.
Appreciate the class for its content.
Provides a comprehensive treatment of general chemistry. Course materials provided online are well-organized. However, much of the work (on problem sets) seemed to not require much creative thought, and was very oriented towards "plug-and-chug" techniques. With this being said, the instructors were definitely very, very kind, and they generated enthusiasm for the material. The teaching staff was most definitely interested in helping students have the resources to succeed in this course.
PS 10 is probably better.
As far as classes that fulfill the Gen. Chem requirement go, this is probably the best. The environmental focus can get a bit tedious.
People take this class because it's a requirement, not because they're interested in the material.
It requires a lot of effort in problem sets and going to office hours, but the TF's and course staff genuinely want to help you and and see you succeed!
This class is so much fun! It's less time than PS1, despite what your peers might tell you. It's occasionally a little bit of busywork, but lectures are fascinating, problem sets and tests are easy, textbook reading is pretty optional, and everything is worthwhile for the sake of meeting Jim Anderson and Gregg Tucci.
PS11 is a classic intro class. It requires a lot of work, not all of it useful. However, the class's focus on applied chemistry (versus PS1) makes it significantly more interesting. Definitely not worth it as a gen ed or elective, but a solid class, especially if you need it for concentration credit.
Take PS11, if you're debating between PS1 and PS11.  I would say that PS11 psets may be a hair more difficult than PS1 psets, but there is a great student support network.  Additionally, I thought PS11 midterms were very fair and similar to practice tests, while some of my friends who took PS1 suffered with infamously difficult questions on midterms they've never seen before. Finally, the professors for PS11 genuinely care about the material they're teaching and about getting to know students individually despite the large lecture format, and I can't say the same about PS1.
This class can be tedious, but at the end of the day the professors are very nice and want to see you succeed.  As long as you put in the time, it isn't too hard.
Much of PS11 is a review of AP chemistry. There are some good applications of chemistry/physics to real world problems (global energy crisis) that I found interesting. Attend section and pay attention, this is probably where you will learn most of the information. Also, talk to Lu. She is an amazing preceptor.
PS11 is really an amazing alternative to PS1, if you need that requirement. Jim and Gregg are awesome lecturers, Lu the preceptor has a phenomenal knack for explaining things, and all the teaching staff is really tight knit and cares about the students. Also you get to drive Jim's electric car. Just do it.
PS11 is a great class! It's very reasonably/fairly graded. It is well organized and there is a strong support network whenever you need help. It is not too difficult if you have AP Chemistry background, but it is not exactly like AP Chemistry and you will definitely learn new material.
PS11 is the best intro science class I've taken at Harvard. Superb teaching class, learn basic chemistry, and utilize real world applications. Psets and exams were interesting and fair. Work hard, learn lots, great class!
Jim Anderson is the best! So enthusiastic about the subject. The class overall is a great way to fulfill a chemistry requirement for whatever reason.
This class had a lecture during reading week when classes are supposed to be over. In return they promised to serve liquid nitrogen ice cream but that promise was never fulfilled. Sad!
Understand that it's going to be a difficult class, and understand that at times, you'll be steered toward what to think as opposed to how to think regarding the environment. That being said, the general chemistry is taught well, and Profs. Anderson and Tucci are both great lecturers.
This class is too contrived. The applications to climate change and energy feel forced, and the lectures are not useful and are full of clicker questions that involve just guessing numbers. Considering there aren't very many good inorganic intro chem classes, there might be no other option, but PS11 was not enjoyable.
I'll focus mostly on pre-med students: TAKE THIS OVER PS1. It gets that gen chem requirement out of the way in the most pleasant way possible. A lot of non-premeds are in this, and you'll be blown away by the generous, very lenient grading as compared to most science courses here. They want you to succeed, so, if you can get through all the busy work (there is a lot of this, but it's easy) then without hesitation take this.
This class has a very kind staff, but it involves a ton of busywork without much payoff.  I found it to be pretty frustrating overall.  If you have the ability to take a higher level chem class, I would.
A much more applied look at chemical concepts than you'll get in PS1. Tucci is fantastic, Anderson is very good. Lectures are reasonably engaging but always helpful (very unlike many survey-type science classes!). Not a difficult or demanding class if you stay up with the psets and put in a few hours of studying before each exam.
While the material is straightforward, there is so much busy work like the 50 questions, the reading quiz, and other lab assignments. Also, while Tucci is a great lecturer, Anderson is hard to follow and rarely explains himself.
Don't freak out even if you haven't taken AP Chemistry! PS11's staff does not compare to PS1's staff. Everyone is so willing to help out and are very good at explaining concepts. The staff are also just very lovable people - they care about you actually learning, and the course materials that they design are fair and actually conducive to learning.
This class, while very interesting, is very dependent on the quality of its teachers. I found myself increasingly frustrated throughout the semester as it was impossible for Anderson to make progress through the materials in his lectures. That being said, the material is much more interesting than PS1.
Would recommend over PS1. There is so much support and the entire teaching staff cares so much about you.
This class is really easy if you've taken AP Chem, but is also a bit of a waste of time in that situation. If you need to fill a chem requirement but don't want to take Orgo this class is good, but be prepared for a lot of busy work. I would recommend something like Chem 60 instead.
It's a time suck, and it's chemistry. But take this instead of ps1
For those of you who want to learn a lot about chemistry and physics, the underlying connections and their applications - this is the course for you. You don't even need a very STEM-filled background beyond say LS1a level chemistry and high school physics. Definitely take this class over PS1 if you actually care about the material. Professor Anderson can get long-winded at times and sometimes has trouble finishing the lecture on time, but his love for the material is endearing. Prepare to spend a lot of time watching problem solving lectures and reading the textbook - there seems a disconnect sometimes between what's covered in class and what's on the homeworks.
This is a great class and an amazing way to learn chemistry. Very well taught and applicable and interesting.
This course is a lot of work, kind of annoying busy work. If you put in the effort though, you will be fine.  Lab is a bear, Ariel is just such a stickler for rules it is annoying. The renewable energy lab was THE WORST.  Take home final was really long, but better than doing an in-class.
This course just had so much going on and so many assignments that I was more afraid about forgetting an assignment than I had difficulty actually doing them. The material was useful and accessible, but there was just so much of it.
This course is amazing. I was initially debating between PS1 and PS11, and now I'm really glad I went with PS11. I was worried that the course might be "too applied," which can make concepts confusing, but that's not the case. The course do apply what you learn to real world situations but it provides a good balance with this. The application parts are more for your knowledge rather than being the center of the materials learned. PS11 is by no means "hard." The workload is not heavy and definitely manageable. As for the tests, they design it to be relatively straight-forward, so there's no problems designed to trick you or contain information barely covered in class. They prepare you very well. The professors and preceptor in the course are amazing. They are always willing to help and really want to get to know you. I learned a lot from them. Also, if you take the course, definitely go to or watch Lu's Friday problem solving session. They are extremely helpful and will help you really understand the concepts.
This course places basic chemistry knowledge in the context of real world problems, especially climate change. The integrated approach is interesting and helps make sometimes boring topics interesting. However, lectures are sometimes slightly difficult to follow, especially because the topics are presented in this integrated way. Taking AP Chemistry can help, but is by no means a requirement.
Good way to fulfill the physical sciences requirement! Not any more difficult than PS1, and maybe even more straightforward.
Not a good gen ed class due to the sheer amount of busy work. However, for students who require this class for their concentrations, would definitely recommend because the class is relatively easy.
This course is very well thought out, but I wouldn't recomend it for those who did well on the AP Chem test easily/ are confident in their chemistry. The class covers many of the same topics as AP Chem, just through a different lens. You will relearn Acid/base chemistry, equilibria, free energy, electrochemistry and kinetics. Everything is taught in terms of energy, with a big focus on how that energy can be harnessed and used for things like cars and heating. New topics are carnot cycles, which you spend about two weeks on, maybe energy of light in a slightly new fashion, and some aspects of quantum mechanics - You do lewis structures, vespr theory, and molecular orbitals. WIth a strong AP chem (but no more) background, I only felt like molecular orbitals were really new, though my understanding of VESPR theory did change a lot. This class is a lot of hours of class time, and a lot of sheets of paper. Concepts are more taught through equations for the first half of the course, and all tests and problem sets depend on you referencing your notes and practice problems to get the answer. Jim is not a good lecturer, though he is so enthusiastic about the course you feel bad saying that about him. Lu and Greg are great.
This course was overall really great. The professors show a lot of interest and care towards the students and clearly want us to succeed. There seems to be a lot of busy work between the reading quizzes, pre labs, and psets but overall they do help with your learning and preparing you for exams. One of the best parts of this course is the flexibility as well. If you can't go to your section for a week you can arrange to attend another one and if you need more help the PSLs, TFs, and professors are willing to arrange personal office hours. From what I have heard about PS1 versus this class, PS11 focuses more on application problems while PS1 is a little more straight forward. Regardless you still learn a  great deal in this class and there are a lot of exciting opportunities via this class (i.e. touring Harvard's underground tunnels).
It's an interesting way to learn chemistry and a solid way to fulfill a SPU or concentration requirement.  That said, it can be a lot of class and a lot of work, so if you're looking to do minimal work steer clear.
This course is really spectacular, I definitely recommend taking it. If you study a lot, and are even a little bit stem-inclined, there is no reason you shouldn't get at least an A- in this class. It's a fair class with spectacular professors. This is my most favorite class so far in college. (I'm a freshman, though)
You are probably reading this because you have to take PS1 or PS11. I would say PS11 is better because at least it is rooted in practical examples and applications to real life scenarios and issues. Don't be put off by the first module being very physics-y, it gets to more interesting chemistry soon.
This class just didn't do it for me. The lectures amounted to a bunch of random worked problems and arcane derivations that didn't connect to the problem sets or exams very well at all. If you do take this, watch the Friday sessions with Lu online. They are so, so good and will help you understand the material so much better than the lectures.
The material is tough but the take-home final and tests were not too difficult. I didn't learn as much from lectures as I did from section and Friday problem solving sessions. The course experience depends on your lab and section TFs and how good they are at teaeching/encouraging discussions. Gregg Tucci and Lu Wang were great, Jim Anderson's lectures were a little more dry. They are clearly care about the course though and there is a lot of support for the students.
It's so, so great. Accessible to students with a range of chemistry backgrounds, but focused on real-world applications.
GREAT CLASS!
This class is great! I would recommend it over PS1, especially if you have a strong background in chemistry.
Great teaching staff and very fair course as long as you put in the work!
For most of the semester I regretted taking this course and hated all of the things I had to do for it.  The work is very tedious and there are on average 3 assignments per week (pset, reading quiz, which is short, and pre-lab).  It's just so much useless work.  Also, I feel like I barely learned anything about energy and the climate.  Going in, I thought this course was taught with a few main "case studies" that we went into in great depth.  You'll find out these case studies are just tedious annoying problems in their weird textbook thing.  Jim is great.  He's charismatic, funny, and just a likable guy overall.  Very grandfatherly.  Greg is terrible.  He is the most annoying professor I've had so far at Harvard.  I hope I never hear his voice again.
Better extension of AP Chem than PS1 because of energy & environment application.
This is overall a great class, that has even made me consider studying environmental science. It does however have some flaws at times which makes it difficult to understand what is going on.
Great course! Relates every scientific concept you learn to a real-world application. Highly dedicated teaching staff.
Awesome class that teaches you about science and global problems
This is the best course you can take to be a global citizen whilst learning chemistry and if you are going to take just one science course at Harvard, let this be it. Professors all care deeply our Earth, and I (along with many others) are greatly moved by their aspirations. Assignments are very fair, lectures are engaging (sometimes we have some really cool demos too), labs are cool, and exams are very fair as well. I came in, taking this course because I have to, but now that I'm done, I can't be more glad that I chose this over PS1. I am life science oriented, and I have no problem with this (over PS1). Take it for the great people and take it because we can make the world better.
PS11 more resembles a gen-ed than a chemistry class.  If you want to learn the chemistry of reactions and molecular structures, this is not the class for you.  If you want to learn about advances in sustainable energy sources, this class will be great.  If you're a premed who doesn't want a course numbered 1 and also doesn't feel like taking Chem 40, which you probably are, then you don't have any other options and will be taking PS11.
Everything we learned related to the real world. Would highly recommend taking over PS1, if you want a more enriching learning experience with application of subject materials, not just memorization.
This is a very interesting class! Many of those reading these comments will be deciding between PS1 and PS11. Based on my own experience in PS11 and my friends' in PS1, choose PS11! The real-life applications taught in PS11 make the learning much more interesting. PS1 is more like AP Chem (useful but dry material) while PS11 has connections to the real world
This course was my favorite of freshman year. In this "applied chemistry" type course, I was able to unite core chemical principles to issues of great current concern -- the global energy crisis and climate change. This is what I imagined Harvard courses to be like -- combining core concepts synergistically to understand current global issues. The teaching staff is extremely supportive and encouraging. No energy is wasted in this class! (i.e. all work is uniquely designed to help you understand material (and the world) better and to prepare you for the exams).
This is a course you'll need to devote a lot of time too. Don't take this for a gen ed. That said, there are a lot of resources and if you put in the work, you'll be fine.
