This class is awful. They should just label it a WGS course instead of English. All you do is listen to the professor prattle on about things not even related to the books. Arguable this is one of the worst classes I have ever taken at Harvard. A huge waste of time.
This course is so unlike any others offered at Harvard College in the sense that you get to study monsters for an entire semester! It is such fascinating blend of mythology, romance, and psychology that I would recommend it even to a Pre-Med student!
Very fun and satisfying class, I loved the readings, definitely go to Professor Lynch if your struggling with anything, or just for fun, because she is awesome and sweet and incredibly understanding and supportive
This is a really cool class that enables you to learn a lot about a genre of literature that you wouldn't expect would be so complex and culturally relevant. Diedre Lynch is a really intelligent and capable professor. Grading can be tough depending on your TF.
This class was amazing. Professor Lynch is a great lecturer, and all the literature and films are super interesting to read/watch. It's really actually not a silly topic at all - it really makes you think about our own culture as well and what "monsters" exist today.
TAKE THIS COURSE!!! I know students say this about a lot of courses, but I say with complete honesty that this is one of my favorite class at Harvard thus far (I'm finishing my sophomore year). The teaching staff are phenomenal and they absolutely love the material they are presenting to you--and it shows. I have never met a teaching staff so enthusiastic and phenomenal before, and the material is amazing. If you like monsters and monster literature (or any of its derivatives), this is the course for you. Engage with the teaching staff. Really think about the material. Actually work on your assignments with care. If you put in the effort, you'll love this course and the people involved in it.
This course was a joy: great books (and movies), fascinating insights in lecture, useful feedback on papers and in section, and a manageable pace. If you like the genre or like English in general, I can't recommend it enough.
This class is a fun and easy way to fulfil a gen ed requirement. The focus on films in the last month of the semester is really helpful and means you're able to keep up with the class better than if you had had to read another novel every week. Professor Lynch is one of the most eccentric teachers I've ever had, and really works to generate enthusiasm about the material.
If you like reading monsters stories, take this class!
Good course, I really enjoyed the readings and the professor, who is very knowledgeable and very kind. Some issues typical of Gen Ed department - large sections that were awkward, for example, maybe would have gone better if they were smaller. But in general, really enjoyable way to complete this requirement.
You think you know the stories we will read in class, but popular culture differs vastly and does not to justice to the true meat of these narratives.
This course is incredibly interesting, and you get to read some classics which you otherwise might not, which makes it a valuable experience.
Professor Lynch is great! She really contextualizes the texts and films, and brings genuine enthusiasm to the class. I don't like gothic english literature and also didn't like early film, but it counted for both English and CB, which was I took the class. I'd say if you're interested in gothic lit or monster culture or early film, definitely take this class. Even if you aren't, you'll probably still be interested because Lynch is great, but it might not be super captivating.
Take this class! Despite not being an English concentrator, I thought that this was one of the best classes I've taken during my time at Harvard. In this class, you get to read many of the classic monster stories that have made such a big impact on pop culture like Frankenstein, Dracula, and Jekyll & Hyde, and in the second half of the course, you also have the chance to see early versions of the movie adaptations. Additionally, lectures with Professor Lynch are great! She's clearly very excited about the material she teaches and will instill in you the same enthusiasm for these stories as well.
So fun! The whole course is spooky. Unlike anything I've ever taken! Homework feels like... not homework.
Professor Lynch is eccentric but a fantastic lecturer. The subject matter is engaging and the workload is totally reasonable. Definitely one of the more stimulating lecture-based English courses.
This course provides an excellent grounding in the monster literature tradition of the 19th and early 20th centuries.
It's a lot of readings every week, but it's actually a super interesting and relevant class.
Take it for the readings and for Professor Lynch! A fantastic set of readings and a great lecturer to present them to you.
This was such a fun introduction to Gothic fiction and I got to read so many fascinating things. I loved this class and would take it again in a heartbeat. Professor Lynch is my favorite Harvard faculty member, and I'm saying this as a science concentrator.
Overall this was a very enjoyable class. Professor Lynch is a very engaging lecturer and you can tell that she's very enthusiastic about the material, and the readings were all very enjoyable.
The texts are the most interesting part of this course...if you're looking for an excuse to read these books then take this course but if you can just read the books on your own you should do that.
You will find much worse reading loads in the English department and the course is very cohesive in terms of the connections of everything you are reading. The books are also really good! I basically read Phantom of the Opera for pleasure. Not life-changing but a very solid course you'll be happy you took.
A great syllabus, but Professor Lynch is unfortunately not an engaging lecturer and the assignments feel like busy work more than actual assignments.
This is a really awesome class -- it has very interesting readings (that are manageable, as long as you commit to them), a great professor, and very helpful teaching fellows. It's clear that the faculty really care about the students and making sure that everyone is not only understanding the material, but also enjoying it (i.e., bringing food to screenings, being really enthusiastic and engaging students during lecture). I really enjoyed many of the aspects of the course, and it was one of the first times where I was excited to go to lecture to hear Professor Lynch's perspective on the texts. I also appreciated how she would orient the text in a historical context, and in relation to one another. As far as workload goes, I think it is very manageable, though of course it is always easy to get behind on readings, but with only a few papers throughout the semester, it isn't a burden of a course at all.
