If you need a seminar or a Shakespeare class for your English major, this is a very solid option - just good luck getting a straight answer out of Professor Shell.
It's very unfocused and no one really ever knows what's going on. Shell is absolutely brilliant, but you may go an entire lecture without opening a text. I never received a grade on anything or had any indication of how I was performing. Take it for the stories - not for Shakespeare.
Shell is one of the most fascinating people I've ever been in a room with. I am not sure whether I am coming out of the class able to do the kind of work he can do, but maybe I'm on the road towards that. I'm not sure this is a class in literature, actually. It frequently felt polemical. It seems to have been a class, to some extent, in skepticism  (small "s") and Socratic-style poking at notions and in the instability of categories and the pliability, like 2-ply toilet paper, of language. It got at some pretty serious problems as well, skirting the boundaries of political correctness, and at one point in the semester the discussion got pretty heated in a way that I don't think has ever happened in one of Harvard's businesslike 'seminars' to me before. 

All that gushing aside, though, there are caveats: poor email communication, and virtually no feedback on written work. 

Take it, because it's weird and fun and anxiety-producing. I'm not exactly sure what you should expect to come out of it with, though. Trouble, and a thought stuck like a song in your head.
This is not your traditional Shakespeare class - you will learn about Shakespeare via very unconventional routes like kinship, race, economics, etc.  The workload is light so it's a very manageable course, but you have to be willing to participate in discussions and it can be an interesting class if you want to study Shakespeare beyond what you'd learn in a typical English class.
You won't get any feedback on this course, which is both disconcerting and mildly reassuring. Discussions are digressive but interesting. Most of them center around how unstable language is, which was fascinating. Shell is a genius, and you should definitely talk to him about him outside of class.
If you are interested in Shakespeare, this is a really good class to take. The Professor has a very interesting, thought provoking take on Shakespeare, and only studying five texts during the semester allows for depth of study, rather than shallow readings of a large number of texts, as in many other English classes.
The course is interesting and will make you read interesting material. The conversation is frequently unfocused.
Professor Shell is a very nice guy, but compared to other courses here, the manner in which the course was conducted wasn't at all what I'd expect. Especially from a Shakespeare class. I was so excited to explore the scholarship that had come beforehand, and to look at the plays that I'd read in a new way, hoping to come out of the class with lots of learning, but frankly I don't think I learned anything except that Shakespeare can be potentially read in 10000000 different ways, and it's possible to find a way to substantiate ridiculous arguments
The discussions can be difficult to follow and they often center around incest, which is interesting at first but becomes repetitive.
This class will let you see Shakespeare in a new, unique light. Having said that, it will be more helpful if you have prior knowledge of Shakespeare.
Prof. Shell's somewhat esoteric lecture style ensures that students will have to spend the first one of two sessions of class adjusting, but the time spent is well worth it.  By the end of term students will feel that their understanding of Shakespeare has been expanded.
It is great to have a view into Shell's way of thinking about Shakespeare, but given the enormous body of criticism on Shakespeare, it was underwhelming and insufficient.
Pros: not terribly intense or frightening, doable and enriching assignments; con: discussions sometimes a little formless and confusing. Definitely a course for advancing one's preexisting knowledge of Shakespeare, not an intro course. Discussions aren't competitive or hyper-intense, but they do call upon a wide breadth of knowledge, both of Shakespeare's plays and of the surrounding issues/ideas of his day. Professor Shell's knowledge on the subject is incredible, the plays are well selected, and if a little scattershot, discussions certainly provide a wealth of interesting considerations and lenses through which to view the works.
Professor Marc Shell can be a Little difficult to understand at times, but you will leave with a different understanding of Shakespeare.
Marc Shell's brain is... insane. He knows so so much.  Sometimes it's hard to follow everything he is saying... but if you let it just wash over you... you'll get something from it.
Learning from Professor Shell was a great experience, and I recommend this course to anyone who genuinely wants to think about these issues. Do not take this course if you want to simply BS your way through it--it is not worth it if you are wasting your time and the professor's time.
The professor is very engaging, thoughtful, and pushes you to develop your thoughts on all matter related to the readings.
I don't think I would recommend this as an introduction to Shakespeare, but as an additional course to read Shakespeare in a new way.
Not your usual shakespeare class. prepare to have your ideas on how to approach a text turned upside down.
A fun, interesting class.
You hardly ever know when things are due because Professor Shell does not let the class know. The main focus of this class is the final project to be honest.
Read the plays. Go to class. Be confused. Laugh.
Just soak in what Professor Shell says, some of it blew my mind. Don't expect structure or feedback.
Prof. Shell's reading of Shakespeare's plays will challenge and enrich your ideas about language, social relationships, religion and state, money...etc, with a touch of cynicism humor.
This class is great if you want a low stress Shakespeare course in which you actually get to discuss the plays instead of being lectured about them. HOWEVER, you will not receive a lot of feedback in this class and discussions can be all over the place, so be prepared! I personally did not like the Shakespeare lecture courses offered at Harvard and am glad I took this class instead but I have no idea what my grade is and didn't read some of the plays. So take my recommendation with a grain of salt!
One of the very best classes I have taken at Harvard, but not for the faint of heart.  Marc Shell is probably the most provocative and brilliant professor in the English Department and uses some of the most insightful pedagogical and intellectual methodologies you will find anywhere.  His personal anecdotes are uproarious and strange.  However, if you are (a.) a student who likes clear guidelines for how to succeed in the class (read: care about grades more than your intellectual pursuits) or (b.) disinterested in seriously questioning your notions of "human," "language," "identity," "literature," "money," and other related terms and concepts or (c.) you cannot handle explicit treatment of seamy thematic material, often involving sex or violence and sometimes the confluence of the two (which, by the way, the plays of Shakespeare are rife with), you will probably be either uncomfortable or bored in this class.
Professor Shell is one of the few truly unique Professors I had at Harvard.
Professor Shell is super quirky and the discussions are kind of hit or miss in terms of how much they actually cover what you were supposed to read for that day, but if you like Shakespeare or are interested in reading more of his work it's a pretty harmless way to fulfill the requirement.
Professor Shell doesn't teach in a way that is amenable to everyone. I would be sure to tell future students that his sense of self factors into his teaching style in a heavy way, and if you are uncomfortable with an intimate and demanding class setting then that might not be your ideal.
I have no idea how I performed in this class because I didn't receive any feedback. Professor Shell is great, this course could use improvement.
The professor only cares about whatever he finds intellectually stimulating, which almost exclusively includes whatever he happens to be thinking at the moment. Sometimes this is related to a Shakespeare play.
You have to keep an open mind about this course. It's not your typical English class and you have to be comfortable with a lot of self-directed learning.
Take this class for a new perspective if you already have a pretty good grounding in Shakespeare and his plays.
Definitely interesting perspectives on these plays. There is not much close reading and discussions often go off on strange tangents but Prof. Shell is fascinating.
I want other students to know not to take this class. I did not realize, because Professor Shell chooses to hide the q scores and reviews, which I think is a bit unethical.
This is a mysterious course. You won't receive any written feedback or grades during the entire semester, so it's a little nerve-wracking. I guess it's like a grad seminar. I have no sense of how I did in this course. Shell is a polymath and brilliant and thoughtful; however do not expect him to ever respond to your emails.
A difficult course, but if you put in the work, you will get back everything. I regret that I was not able to devote as much time as I would have liked.
