This is a great class, and the course load is not overwhelming. The readings are manageable and interesting. You will get more out of the class if you do all of the readings!
Great course to take if you have interest in Asian American Literature! Class is well taught and developed so that it is both manageable and interesting.
Professor Kim is great and all the works are interesting.
This is a really great course with a fantastic instructor. Engaging, thought provoking material and small class size. Really makes you think. It's a lecture-based course so there's not quite as much discussion as in a seminar but still really good
Take this class!!  Professor Kim is fantastic, and the reading list is very interesting.  Don't feel like you have to be an English concentrator to take this class.  I'm not, and I got a lot out of the class!
Professor Kim is warm, genuinely interested in her students, and incredibly insightful. Take a class with her! Especially if you're interested in ethnic literature, discussions of race, and theatre.
This class is AMAZING. It was my favorite class this semester. Professor Kim is absolutely fantastic! Lectures were insightful and informative. She's so creative with her analysis. Discussions and assignments were always a lot of fun. I learnt so much about Asian American literature because of this class. Definitely take it if it's being taught!
I came into this class not expecting much, as I wasn't a huge fan of Asian American literature, but I ended up enjoying it so much. The course addressed a lot of the issues I had with Asian American lit and I loved exploring works that broke out of my expectations. Professor Kim is great and the readings are very engaging. I loved the structure of the course. Definitely recommend!
I took this class because I wanted to read the books on the syllabus, knowing I wouldn't get a chance to otherwise due to my busy schedule. It's a wonderful class, and I now have a greater knowledge of Asian American Lit authors. I also learned about the backgrounds and government policies of these works. Professor Kim is wonderful, and my class was amazing as well.
If you are a non-English concentrator thinking about venturing into an English class and are interested in Asian American Literature, take this class! Take it if you're an English concentrator as well. Professor Kim is such a nice, encouraging, and helpful professor who is willing to go out of her way to help you with assignments as long as you put in the work yourself. While this depends on personal preference, I found most of the readings to be engaging and thought-provoking, while not being too difficult. Her exams and grading seemed fair, as long as you paid attention in class. My advice if you take this class (which you should) is to participate thoughtfully in discussion, discuss you paper ideas with Professor Kim ahead of the due date, and pay attention in class. If you do, you will thoroughly enjoy the class.
I loved this class! I learned so much about Asian American Lit.
A really great way to learn what Asian American Literature really is. Professor Kim is also a really sweet and nice person, always taking what you say into consideration. The reading isn't difficult to get through either.
If you are interested in Asian American lit, take this class! It is very good and the readings are all so interesting. It is one of the few classes that I have enjoyed doing every single reading for. The readings are not painful either and most of them are quick reads (although they are all very complex). If you are not an English concentrator, this is also another reason to take the course. Professor Kim is very friendly and understanding, and she teaches it in a way that is appropriate for non-English concentrators as well.
