You get to write about anything you want, and get real feedback on it so that your ideas go from good to great!
What an amazing class. Claire Messud is simply a phenomenal instructor that infects her students with her contagious personality and convictions. I gained such great nuggets of writing wisdom from her and overall I feel like my writing improved so much. The structure of the class was great and the assignments all had a unique place in making the class more effective. Strongly, strongly recommend.
This is a wonderful class in that it teaches you mostly how to evaluate others' work, which gives you insight into your own flaws as a writer, and how you may improve upon those flaws. But, since this class is centered around group feedback, you lose many opportunities to do your own writing. Know that you will do much less writing than you think.
Claire is a fantastic teacher, the opportunity to work with her is one I wouldn't pass up if you have any interest in writing fiction.
Claire gives honest feedback and expects the best from her students, so don't take this class if you're not willing to make it a priority.  That being said, this class was an incredible experience.  The workshop atmosphere lends itself to learning a lot from both your peers and from Claire.
Claire is such a wonderful, knowledgeable, and generally lovely individual--an incredibly respected presence in the literary world, but also so easy to get to know and spend time with. Workshops can vary widely depending on who else is in them, but it is always such a joy to hear from Claire, who gives fantastic feedback and helps everyone make the most not only of their own writing, but also of their time as workshoppers. I'd recommend Claire's advanced workshop for people who feel as if they have a good structural foundation in story-writing already who want a place to push themselves a little harder (the class requires 2 stories, a revision, and a presentation) beyond their comfort zone. If you have any interest in fiction at all, though, definitely try to take a class with Claire before you graduate. As she would say, it's a real treat.
Professor Messud is an incredibly kind, thoughtful professor. You would be missing out if you graduated without taking a course from her.
This class is wonderful. Claire leads class well and creates a comfortable workshop environment, and offers wonderful insights along with facilitating class discussion. Absolutely take this course if you have the chance.
You get what you put into workshop, so put in the effort! The class is a rare gem at Harvard: it gives you a built-in (valid; school-sanctioned) reason to write and a weekly opportunity to discuss fiction in a meaningful way. Claire truly cares about each and every one of her students, and is committed to actualizing each storys potential.
Wonderful opportunity to learn from the very best. You're bound to improve as a writer. Also, I think the class experience would be enhanced by reading some of the instructor's fiction before or during the course. Youtube video(s) of her reading/discussing fiction was likewise thought-provoking and enriching.
Giving time to reading/commenting on the other students' stories is as useful as hearing the feedback for your own. annotating and writing feedback can take a good amount of time, so split the stories over a couple of days.
I would say that it is more work that I expected but the interest and commitment of the students is high, which is motivating and enjoyable.
Claire is fantastic--assigns really interest, important readings and gives very detailed, helpful feedback
This class is amazing, but you will only get out of it what you put in. Take it during a semester when you have the time and energy to dedicate seriously to producing new fiction. It will be an awesome experience if you dedicate time to it!
This class is boring. If you have taking any other class on fiction writing, you will find this one repetitive and a bit dull. Take a different creative writing course, at least it will be more useful to you.
Claire is fabulous, creative writing is so fun, and it is such a refreshing way to think and write that is so different from the rest of academic work.
Professor Messud provides really detailed feedback!
This was the Harvard that I expected to find when I came here for graduate school.
A great class to actively practice and discuss the craft of writing with people and a professor who will push you.
Claire is a great teacher and gives really detailed and well thought-out notes. The literature you are exposed to in this class will also challenge your notions of what fiction is.
