A great course for both Shakespeare beginners and those who have been thinking about the plays for years. Professor Greenblatt's lectures not only cover basic groundwork for those new to Shakespeare, but also dive into complex and interesting interpretations of the text. To top it off, Greenblatt is an outstanding lecturer.
This class was very fun! The assignments were well-designed, and the class was not too stressful.
This class is a great choice for students interested in Shakespeare. Professor Greenblatt's lectures combine intellectual rigor with an enthralling presentational style; do come to office hours, at least once, because it's not every day that you get a chance to learn from such a renowned scholar. Sections are good, though sometimes it would be nice to discuss the plays more fully; part of this stems from the fact that this is sort of a survey course of the tragedies, which means that some plays don't get as much time as might be desired. For students interested in the theatrical aspect, the Dramaturgy assignment and the film screenings are a fascinating opportunity to explore Shakespeare in performance.
It's great! Tons of readings but it's Shakespeare so it's great. Greenblatt is an incredible lecturer and literally wrote the book.
Prof G is one of the best lecturers at Harvard. Seriously revelatory. Go to class even if you're behind on readings. That it'll enrich your understanding of the Bard goes without saying, but it'll also lead you to think deeply about the deepest and most disturbing aspects of the human experience.
Iago is da man
You will love Professor Greenblatt, Misha, and all of the Tfs. They all know their Shakespeare, and you will be enlightened numerous times during the course! The lectures are insightful, and a lovely element of the history of each play we read and Shakespeare's life are integrated into the discussion elegantly.
Great course, definitely moves quickly though so make sure to stay on top of the readings. About one play a week.
I highly recommend studying Shakespeare at Harvard, but Greenblatt's class may not be the best way.  Although he is certainly a very qualified teacher and an unquestionably impressive scholar, he may not be quite as inspiring as other Shakespearean professors in the department (Marjorie Garber)
This class is a great introduction to a large list of Shakespearean tragedies. If you haven't read these works, this class is a great way to do so (if you're the type who does readings for class). Greenblatt's lectures were not that argumentative, and section was hit or miss due to my classmates' apathy and/or section leader's inability to ask the "right" questions.
Be prepared to read about a play a week. The assignments for the class are interesting and manageable, and Professor Greenblatt is a wonderful lecturer--not to mention one of the most knowledgeable and famous Shakespeare scholars out there. I would recommend this course to anyone who wants to take a Shakespeare class before graduating.
Greenblatt and the TFs are all wonderful, and they make discussing the complex nuances of Shakespeare even more fun. The workload is extremely manageable, and it's very well organized. I definitely recommend it!
Great overview of the themes and eccentricities of Shakespeare's famous tragedies.
This class is a gem. Greenblatt's lectures are fascinating and incredibly engaging. The workload is not bad at all (one play a week, and a short blog post that takes like ten minutes), an in-class midterm, two essays, and a final. Greenblatt has such a genuine interest in the material, and is so passionate, and that all shows not only in his lectures but in the way that the class is run. Such an interesting, wonderful class, and super reasonable expectations. The work was never just busywork, and the essay prompts were always interesting and even fun to write.
This is a fun course, and it's great to become familiar with fantastic and important plays. Don't, however, take it for the ideas, because you won't find too many exciting, overarching ones here. It feels like Professor Greenblatt is done with serious scholarship and is kind of messing around and just having fun -- which is cool, but frustrating, seeing as you're giving an entire course credit to it. That having been said, though, it seems to be one of the most appealing Shakespeare classes offered at Harvard - so go for it.
This course is a wonderful way to fulfill the Shakespeare requirement for English! I also suggest it to anyone with an interest in Shakespeare. Greenblatt is a genius, and his lectures are incredible. The chance to hear his thoughts on these timeless characters has been the highlight of my year. In addition to the plays, there is very minimal secondary reading, so don't worry about workload. Excellent class, excellent choice for anyone.
you should definitely be prepared to do a lot of reading quickly. some knowledge of shakespeare in nice because there are so many references made to other works, but not necessary.
If you love Shakespeare and really want  a chance to look through his lens at the human psyche, take this class. Also, did I mention it's taught by Stephen Greenblatt?
The course is good if you're looking for a chance to read Shakespeare. You can't beat the text selection. However, I'm not sure how enjoyable or necessary the lectures were. The sections were great, though.
If you really want to get an in depth understanding of a few Shakespeare plays, this might not be the course to take. However, if you want a broad background on the plays, enough to understand references to Shakespeare works in other literatures, you'll want to take this one.
Greenblatt is a genius but I don't think he puts that much time into the course. His lecture were sometimes great but sometimes all over the place. Misha was a phenomenal section leader that gave this course the depth and structure it lacked.
Take this class. The reading and assignments aren't light, but you will learn a ton and be engaged throughout.
This course is amazing and Greenblatt is incredible and not someone to miss. Go to his office hours for sure. Don't start the dramaturgy assignment the night before unless you hate yourself. Really enjoy lecture and listen because the readings he does are brilliant. Not much else I can say about this course but that you should take it and you will really like it.
Greenblatt is hands down the best humanities lecturer I've ever had.
This class was a lot of fun! I finally learned why people rave about Shakespeare.
Greenblatt is brilliant and a shakespeare rock star. Everyone knows this. But I hate listening to him. I'd much rather just stay in my room and read his criticism. He likes hearing himself talk and it's as if our presence has no bearing on how he conducts this class. He doesn't engage students at all in lecture. I just really dislike his pedagogical style as it's just straight-up lecture, not engaging. feels very top-down.
It's an excellent class with the best Shakespeare professor you'll ever meet. There is a lot of reading (difficult shakespeare that can take a while to get through like King Lear and the critical readings) and the assignments take a while.
Don't assume that you'll enjoy the course just because you're interested in Shakespeare. It's very historical and has surprisingly little direct discussion of the plays themselves.
Greenblatt is a prince, knocks it out of the park every Monday and Wednesday. Should be a required class, filled in a gap in my knowledge in the best way.
This class is a great way to get acquainted with some of the most celebrated classics in English literature.
If you're going to learn about Shakespeare, you can learn from no better than Greenblatt.
This was a solid class. Obviously the reading was great. Misha was a knowledgeable, attentive and dedicated TF. I was underwhelmed by the lectures, or perhaps just Greenblatt's lecture style - he's an entertaining speaker, but I often found the content meandering and loosely organized, and would have liked to delve more intensely into the text itself. I feel like the unconventional types of assessment in the course were at times both a strength and a weakness. The dramaturgy assignment was fine, but was met with broad confusion, and seemed to be worth disproportionately little given the amount of work. The film exam was kind of odd. The film screenings were a cool idea, but I was frustrated when it seemed that this requirement had been inconsistently enforced. Overall, this class was by no means unmanageable, and although I often find reading Shakespeare difficult I'm glad to have been made to read a good assortment of the tragedies (and a couple of the comedies) during my time at college. Whether you take this Shakespeare class or a smaller seminar is up to you. Also, we had a birthday party for his 450th.
It was an amazing class with an incredible professor. It's nothing like reading Shakespeare in high school. The level of engagement of the text is much more interesting.
This course is a great introduction to some of Shakespeare's tragedies. Having the opportunity to hear Prof. Greenblatt lecture is also a once in a lifetime opportunity. However, since we read a play a week you can't expect to go very in depth into each play.
I took this class as an elective completely outside of my concentration, purely for interest's sake, and it was definitely one of the best decisions I have ever made. Professor Greenblatt's lectures are very insightful and engaging--this is one of the rare classes where I was actually unhappy to miss. Sections were interesting and worthwhile, and we had extra opportunities to see the Tempest, watch film adaptations, and overall get a solid introduction into (scholarly) Shakespeare. Take it and have fun!
This is a really fantastic class with a dynamic professor. Only real Shakespeare lovers should take it, though, because there is a lot of reading and many interesting but unusual assignments (memorizing a speech, interpreting a film version of the text, etc.). I really enjoyed these assignments, though, and learned a ton about how the written word and spoken word can explore the human condition.
This is one of those classes at Harvard that makes you feel like a truly well-educated individual upon completion.
It's a solid Shakespeare course that you won't regret taking.  The only thing I'd warn of is that the course's overview is rather broad; if you want to delve really deeply into a certain aspect of Shakespeare, there are better ways to do it.  As is, this class feels a bit generalnot that there's necessarily anything wrong with that.  If you try, and go to lecture, you'll have an excellent literary experience.
Greenblatt is excellent as a lecturer: enthusiastic, sharp, and funny. He opens up Shakespeare's work and puts it under a whole new light, giving a unique perspective on some of the most famous passages of all time. All the tragedies are obviously great reads, and there's no one better to hear discuss them than Stephen Greenblatt.
