Professor Burt is a brilliant and endlessly dynamic professor -- if you are an English concentrator or are interested in literary studies, take a class with him before you graduate. This class was a TON of reading, but from everything Professor Burt has said it sounds like they are going to adjust this for next year. The TFs graded the first papers pretty harshly all around, but my TF Michael provided really helpful feedback and helped me to improve immensely. I also learned in this class how to discuss queer issues and topics that I didn't always know how to approach before taking this class, which is something I am very happy to have learned.
If they cut down on some of the reading and make lectures more focused because there is not as much to read then the class would be great!
This course does require a great deal of reading, often with some emotional investment. The instructors are engaged and committed.
If you're looking for a Gen Ed that you'll get a lot out of, take this!! It's a great overview of different pieces of literature that cover a wide range of sexualities.  If you're looking for a painless, easy way to fulfill AIU, there are much easier courses out there.  There is way too much reading required, and the section component and final exam make it difficult to skip any.
This class had a lot of readings, but the lectures rarely seemed to go over the important parts of the book. The class was a little disorganized, and the grading was really harsh.
Great broad survey class. We read a ton of really interesting stuff from old poetry and literature to blog articles to bleeding edge modern literature. Included a number of fun author visits etc. Professor Burt is energetic and very accessible.
Lecture is a little unstructured and it's hard to recount many concrete things which you've learnt, but the readings are cool. Set aside plenty of time to do the readings and you'll be fine
This class had a lot of readings this year, but that will be reduced next year, so don't worry! Still, even with all the readings, I would recommend it for sure! Burt chooses really good texts, nothing boring, and you'll learn a ton. The written coursework is light, only three short papers over the semester, so don't worry about that.
Expect huge reading assignments. Reading more than a novel a week is the norm. Essays and exams aren't terrible, but they're nothing to scoff at either. Try to do as much of the reading as you can.
This is a fun, exciting, and engaging class that probes deeply into questions of sex, sexuality, desire, relationships, and culture. Readings can be long and tough, but are always excellent; the kind of texts that stay with you for a lifetime. Take this course if you're interested in popular culture and the future of culture more broadly. You will grow as a person by taking this course; it is what a liberal arts/general education course should be. It will change your life.
A very cool subject and teaching staff with a lot of energy. The materials were very interesting. Lecture was all over the place and pretty hard to follow.
This class isn't very "friendly" for individuals who wish to learn more about the LGBTQA community, but don't have a base level of knowledge.
Three short papers about any of the readings and a final that could best be described as an extended reading quiz.  This was the perfect amount of work for a gen ed; not too much that you're dying, but not so little that you feel like you are getting nothing out of it.  The course material is also very interesting, regardless of your sexual orientation or background.
This class is not very demanding, but the papers are really important. The content can be interesting, but the reading load can be overwhelming if you try to do it all.
It was a thought-provoking class, but some of the material is sensitive or readers might feel sensitive about it.
In the future, I think the class will be better structured than it was this year. Prof. Burt is really a joy to watch in lecture, and some of his lectures were awesome (throwing candy out into the class and explaining Twizzlers connected to a novel we read). However, the structure of having some weeks with extremely heavy reading and others with light reading was odd (I think Prof. Burt and the TFs will definitely restructure in the future). Overall, pretty engaging material, especially if you're an English or GWS concentrator.
It's a good class. This was Burt's first year so I imagine it will only get better.
Do not recommend. Although Prof. Burt is very enthusiastic about the material, class is extremely unstructured, grading is very arbitrary, and the teaching staff can be very harsh, or at least have very high expectation for students who have not taken English or literature courses. Reading is hit and miss, a few are very interesting, a few are very difficult to get through. I think there are far better classes offered at Harvard, and perhaps one would have a better experience taking a seminar with Prof.Burt
Make sure you do the readings and you are pretty confident in your writing abilities.
This was a great class. There were definitely some kinks (lol. pun intended.) to work out, but Professor Burt was so receptive to improving it for future years so I think the aspects I didn't like- there was way too much reading- will be properly addressed, since this was his first year running the course. We read some awesome literature that I would never have thought to pick up, but past the novels, we got into poetry, performance, short stories, movies, etc. I think it was a really great way to touch upon a whole bunch of fields of study that I don't often access as a science person. Lecture was often disorganized, so don't go in expecting polished powerpoints, but that made it way more engaging and allowed Professor Burt to tailor the class to students questions/comments. Also, we had a few guest speakers, which was so cool. I've never gotten to hear directly for authors on a book I've studied in a course...what an amazing opportunity. Highly recommend!
I really enjoyed this class. It taught me a lot about sexuality and gender issues and categories.
-It's a lot of work but very engaging and informative.-The professor is super approachable and informed.-The course teaches important, diverse texts at the intersection of literature and sexuality.
It's really fun, sometimes uncomfortable, mostly in a good way. Prof Burt is amazing, really brilliant and he really cares about his students and the material.
Do the readings and go to office hours. Professor Burt is such a great resource, and he genuinely enjoys discussing anything with you!
Every teacher should be required to take a course like this.
Lots of readings but not all need to be read, know a few texts well
There were too many readings, and as a slow reader and math/sciences concentrator, it was very difficult to keep up with the workload
Although somewhat unorganized, you learn so much about aspects of sexuality and gender that you won't encounter in many courses especially if you come from non-humanities background. The professor is great and the readings are superb. The class is manageable.
Great class, interesting readings and very enthusiastic professor. A bit too much reading in this iteration, though.
Lot's of reading! Keep up with the reading if you want to be able to participate in section and not have to read a bunch of the readings write before the exam. Not all that easy of a Gen-ed--only take if you are interested in sexuality and reading a lot of literature!
This course is a great way to look at a number of different literatures and how they engage with questions of sexuality and gender.
Hopefully the next time this is offered it's set up a bit differently-- the readings are wonderful and sections felt very productive, but the teaching style of Prof Burt is very engaged and active, but this unfortunately doesn't work with a large lecture class. He loves students and is always extremely encouraging about them coming to his OH etc, it's just hard to get the engagement he's looking for in a large class. Material covered is really good though, and really accessible to anyone, whether they have a background in WGS/LGBTQ+/English/etc or not
I really enjoyed this class, even though the reading load was quite heavy and the grading was a little bit harsh at times.  The readings were genuinely enjoyable though, especially if you're someone with an interest in sex/sexuality/gender.  Lectures were entertaining but not the most well-structured, but the discussions in section were always great.  Overall, I think this is a good class that with a few improvements next year could be really great.
Readings are everywhere as are lectures. If you manage to get through it, the reading is damn good. The final is annoying but I kind of get why we had one since the material was everywhere. You need some way to just sit down and make sense of it and a final makes you do that.
It's really interesting but be prepared for hard grading.
