If you have a chance to take a creative non-fiction class with Darcy, take it. Such an amazing environment for people who love to write, and it's an experience that'll be unlike most other classes here. Plus, Darcy is SO enthusiastic and kind - a great facilitator in class and mentor outside of class.
It's a lot of work, and not the kind of work you can rush through if you have a busy week, but both the class and the work outside the class are really fun, and it's so worth the time.
This class is what you make of it: if you put the time in, you can get so much out of it, but only if you are willing to make that commitment.
This is a great course for someone looking for intense and honest feedback about their work. There is not much coaching on how to choose a topic or write about it, but your pieces will be thoroughly discussed
one of the most important classes at Harvard
Darcy is a committed instructor with an excellent teaching manner and a genuine interest in his material and students.
This class will challenge you to be both a better reader and writer.  More than anything, you will learn how to assess what it is that other writers are doing to achieve specific effects-- and will have the opportunity to use these tools in your own writing.  Rather than always reading for content (as most do in English/Lit courses) you will learn how to read for technique. Ultimately you will be left feeling inspired to stretch the bounds of what would typically constitute nonfiction writing.
The class is great. Darcy's a fantastic teacher. But I'd recommend doing some reading in the genre before signing up for it to make sure that it's your kind of thing.
Darcy is a very knowledgable and steady guide on your path towards being a serious writer.  He's passionate about the subject matter but pushes you to be measured and intentional about crafting your prose, which was really the guidance I needed this term.  Take risks with your writing, because this is a great space to experiment with what you can do as a writer!
An amazing class- worth taking for anyone at all interested in writing abotu the world around them.
Take it if you are interesting in reading and writing nonfiction. Darcy is wonderful and cares about his students.
This class has introduced me to a wonderful genre  how to write about the world through stories. It also introduced me to 12 other young writers, and taught us how to edit each others work constructively. I found it both useful and inspiring.
You will get so much out of this class. Take it!
If you've ever had an interest in writing about something true (whether within yourself or out in the world), then definitely consider applying--there is quite literally nothing to lose.
Take Darcy's course! It will open your eyes to the possibilities of nonfiction as well as expose you to very influential pieces of writing.
I learned more from this class than I could've ever expected.  Be prepared for a lot of thought and writing, but know the work will benefit you in all your courses.
This class is one of the best I've ever taken. Darcy's an awesome professor: kind, knowledgeable, a wonderful reader and advice giver, a skilled discussion leader. My classmates were similarly insightful; I loved talking to them. I feel as if my writing has improved dramatically, and I also feel as if this class has provided me avenues for doing more writing (which is basically all I want to do now).
Great opportunity to work on your writing while also improving your editing skills by workshopping other student and professional writing.
This class is fantastic!  It fosters a great working community, it is relaxing and entertaining, and the practical advice is abundant.  You will be pushed to your personal best but you will want to do the work because it is so fun!  It is a good fit even for students who have not taken the introductory course.
If you get into a workshop with Prof Frey, definitely take the opportunity!
Take this course! Not only do you get to learn amazing strategies and approaches from Darcy, you also receive invaluable feedback from your peers.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. You will grow a ton as a writer.
English Cnnr is one of the most personally fulfilling classes I've taken. You spend the semester reading excellent non-fiction pieces, receiving feedback on the piece you're writing, and critiquing the works of others. It's a wonderful round-table discussion that is open and non-exclusive. You are exposed to a wide array of writing techniques (more at a macroscopic, structural level than at a microscopic, sentence level, although both are covered), and you are given an entire semester to write and hone your own work. Cnnr is a fantastic opportunity to write in a supportively critical environment.
Darcy is awesome!!! He really is! He is a great professor and writer that young writers can relate to. He listens!!!
It is a great way to write about things that interest you personally, outside of the regular papers and assignments.
Even those of us to love to write sometimes need a push to produce quality and quantity work. This is the class that provide the push. And you're being taught by someone who has been around writers for thirty years.
This class will make you both a better writer and a better communicator. Not only will your peers motivate you to produce some of your best writing to date, but you will also learn to deliver sensitive but constructive feedback.
If you are interested in creative non fiction, by all means take the course. It's a great way to practice writing and be inspired by other talented writers.
With this workshop, as with others, you get what you give to it.
Verlyn was an absolutely amazing professor - I learned more than I could have imagined, and this course changed how I think about writing and is the best class I've ever taken.
If Verlyn ever teaches at Harvard again, you would be an idiot not to sign up for his course.
Great if you want to transition into longer pieces of writing, and want to understand how to grip a reader over several pages.  Not great if you're allergic to college students waffling in section.
Done right, this course will take up much more of your time than you probably anticipate.  And it will be time very well-spent.
Seize the opportunity to work with a brilliant teacher in a supportive and lively workshop environment. You'll learn from Darcy and from your peers. And you'll also have a lot of fun.
An incredible way to learn a very important skill -- writing creatively, reporting, etc. Useful for academics, journalists, everybody.
If you enjoy writing nonfiction (or even fiction), this is the class for you to take.  You meet many wonderful people, you learn a great deal about writing, and you come out feeling like you passed some writing boot-camp.  I've learned how to write better critiques, as well as engage in editorial-style discussions, too.  In addition, I took this class as a graduate student, and I hope to apply the skills I've acquired from this class in academic writing.
darcy is an excellent teacher, and everyone in the class was very enthusiastic about improving their writing.  i really enjoyed hearing what they had to say and reading their work, as well as learning from an expert like Darcy.
That this class will improve their writing and will improve their reading. That this class will teach them (or remind them) how to respond sensitively to a piece of writing, and that it will teach them concrete strategies for taking those responses and using them to shape one's own writing. Also, that they should be prepared to be a bit tough -- the critiquing can be personal, and the effort to make one's voice heard can be a bit daunting.
Don't be intimidated by this course! I was at first but am so glad that I had the opportunity to be challenged in such a safe and nurturing environment.
Darcy is a great teacher and workshop facilitator, as well as extremely generous and encouraging as an editor.  Writing two pieces makes this much more intense than the introductory workshop but also allows you to experiment more as a writer.
If you get into this class, take it. It offers an unparalleled opportunity to write and to be critiqued by both your smart, thoughtful peers and by an excellent instructor. Darcy is fantastic and really takes each piece of work seriously - in addition to taking each student seriously as a writer. Given that this is a non-fiction workshop and many will choose to write about personal experience, a high level of respect is really necessary, and luckily at least this year's group succeeded in this. You'll come out of the class with at least one solid, revised essay, along with a host of tools, advice, and new ways to think about your writing.
Darcy Frey is an amazing advisor and editor, and if you're at all interested in improving your nonfiction writing you should be looking at this course.
The assignments in this class are very very open-ended, which is great and leads to a lot of diversity in the kinds of work produced.  This course required more work than I was expecting because every week requires reading and writing page-long single-spaced responses to two 10 page pieces, as well as a page-long, single-spaced response to the week's official reading assignments.  The 3 typed pages that must be submitted each week make everyone accountable for the work in the class, which leads to better discussions.  The workshop setting was really great for getting feedback about specific pieces, but the structure does get a bit repetitive towards the end of the class.  Overall the class was really helpful for improving my writing and really enjoyable, just more work than I expected.
definitely take it if you have the chance - it's an excellent way to keep writing and Darcy has some great tips and suggestions.
The best class I took at Harvard. You can't improve your writing in isolation. Keep applying to the class until you get a slot, even if it takes more than one attempt.
This class was a great way to finish up my time at Harvard. I am not an English major, and the class gave me a new medium through which to think about my studies. I think good writing is hugely important, and would recommend the class to anyone.
This is an amazing course and the things you learn from your classmates will only be rivaled by what you learn from Darcy.
If you are thinking about this course, then you should probably take it. Darcy is an excellent workshop leader, which makes the course more useful week in and week out than the average workshop. My particular section was fantastic; full of good writers with no egos on display. The level of feedback was very high, and it was great to see how everyone improved as the course went on. Most importantly, it made my writing better.
AMAZING. If you get into the class, take it.
I loved this class. It was a ton of work, and really challenging work, but to me, it was worth it. I learned so much about my own self-expression and about the power of language that I have never found in other classes at Harvard. I think the skills I sharpened are invaluable and I am so grateful for the lessons this class taught me.
Be ready to work/ challenge yourself to be a better writer.
You'll become a better writer and reader. If you have the right people in the class, it will be really special.
It's a great class. Definitely apply.
Darcy is a great teacher.  He knows so much about writing, but also is a fantastic workshop leader.
Taking a creative writing course has been something I've thought about for a while.  It was an amazing experience!  Apply today!!  Don't let the process scare you away.
The instructor is thoughtful and measured in his responses, and the classroom atmosphere he instills is respectful.
Take this class!  Be ready to write a lot, but it is very rewarding to hear critical assessments of your work in what becomes a closeknit and very respectful environment.
Great course.  Most enjoyable and helpful if you come in with ideas on pieces you would like to write.  Workshop feedback is very, very helpful.
This class gives you the time and space to explore what you care about. It also gives you a community of writers who want to help you figure out what you want to say and what moves you.
I would say that it is good if you already know somewhat what you like to write and what you want to work on...  You have to have some direction already to benefit the most.
This class is more useful, interesting, and valuable than any expos class you'll take at Harvard. Darcy is a fantastic professor who understands the mechanics of writing, and (unlike so many great writers) understands how to communicate that to anyone willing to listen. The workshop has a great atmosphere, and the environment is really conducive to exploring writing and to working on pieces that may feel out of your comfort zone. This isn't a class of memoir writers -- it has a diverse feel, because everyone has a different writing style and way of communicating. What Darcy does is show you the different ways of writing creative nonfiction, and then lets you understand the basic craft skills for advanced writers. I can't recommend this class highly enough, it basically made my term.
Fabulous class! You will learn so much and think differently about writing. Chance to meet brilliant writers. Chance to work on that piece you've always wanted to write but never got around to. Excellent readings as well. Awesome teacher. Very worthwhile, relevant.
Take this course for a chance to hone your craft among a group of like-minded writers of creative nonfiction from diverse backgrounds.
This is one of the best classes I have ever taken. I would recommend it to anyone interested in non-fictional writing. Darcy is a brilliant teacher who will get the very best out of you as a writer.
If you have the chance, you have to take this course! Darcy is incredible - he seems to pinpoint a couple areas of improvement for each student and for each piece, and his suggestions dramatically improve one's quality of writing. And the exposure to all different styles and genres of creative nonfiction has provided me with a better sense of further ways to explore the genre in the future. The small class size and the constant stream of written critiques keeps everybody invested in the course, and class discussions demonstrate this high level of investment. Everybody seems to care and want to be in the course, and it makes for a very rewarding classroom experience. I definitely improved as a writer and could not recommend this course more highly.
This is a formative class indeed - the things you take away from this class will stay with you for life.
The best environment to work on your craft. Darcy is the man. You will become a better writer.
Oh my gosh like everything. The feedback portion of the course really stood out to me. The fact that the assignments are organized so that the work for a given week IS to read someone's writing and think carefully and critically about it makes everyone's advice so incredibly thoughtful and helpful, and it makes the reading and commenting itself such a fun task that we can afford to take time on. DO IT DO IT DO IT DO IT I WANT TO TAKE THIS CLASS AGAIN AND AGAIN.
This course is definitely a lot of work, but it helped me with my writing style enormously.
Definitely take this course if you can. Darcy is amazing and it will help you grow tremendously as a writer. Also just a lot of fun.
Everybody comes in thinking they're a good writer. Everybody leaves realizing they have long, long ways to go. This isn't because Darcy or the peer editing process destroy you, it's because the class opens your mind to all the techniques and structures and reasons for writing you haven't yet mastered. You'll cover great literature; you'll receive great feedback (a huge component of the class is how insightful your peers will be); you'll love it.
This class will increase your awareness of how others read your work, which hopefully results in improved writing (I think for me, it has).
This isn't your typical creative writing class where you can get away with fluffy prose and skate through the semester. Darcy will push you to think about what you're writing about, and you'll find out more about yourself through the process. Take the class. It's worth it.
Take a creative writing course at Harvard, and if you can, take one from Darcy. Not only will the quality of your own work (in terms of its style, how you produce it, etc.) exponentially improve, but your editing skills will as well. You'll learn so much about your classmates and what matters to them in a comfortable, safe environment. Darcy is fantastic.
Such a fun course! You can apply so much of what you learn in this course to so many other types of writing, especially in academic writing.
You get out what you put in.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard because it exposes you to extremely varied perspectives and forces you to further develop your personal voice as a writer.  I felt artistically challenged which is not something that happened very often to me at Harvard.
This is what the normal Harvard experience is missing! You've got to take a workshop while at Harvard, just gotta
What an amazing opportunity to write about something you are passionate about and get really in depth feedback. Darcy offers great in depth feedback about content and structure, and also runs a great workshop and creates a great culture for the workshop where everyone has a good time and also takes it really seriously! Thank you Darcy. I learned a lot and am very proud of what I worked on. It was so fun to read other people's pieces. People are so interesting and interested.
This course is the ideal place to push your writing out of your comfort zone. The workshop has a wonderful atmosphere of encouragement and support for daring writing choices. I learned so much from the writing and revision process, from Darcy's comments, and classmates' suggestions. If you have any interest in creative writing, you have to apply to this course. It will be your favorite of all your college courses.
Darcy is an incredible critic and writer! The outside readings for this class are all wonderfully written and purposefully assigned, and it's a ton of fun to read what others have written. You're also guaranteed to get loads of feedback on your own writing! Such an amazing class--one of my favorites at Harvard
If any of you are remotely interested in writing memoirs/essays/literary journalism, etc. do do do take this workshop! Although you're required to turn in two pieces and it does get stressful at times when you're working on a time crunch, workshop is incredibly rewarding. Darcy is great and guides conversations well.
This is a fantastic course. Darcy leads a very effective but relaxed workshop and really generates enthusiasm for talking about writing. Can't recommend more for anyone with interest in nonfiction writing; you'll walk in for the three hours every week excited and leave so satisfied.
You will get out of it what you put in!
This was a great course and Darcy is a fabulous editor!
Such a special experience to take this class. I took it my senior spring, as a last hurrah, and my first foray into the English department, and I think it was the best decision I made in my four years here. Do it if you get the chance! And if you don't get the chance, do it anyways, make it happen, it's worth it!
If you have a desire to improve your writing, I couldn't recommend this course more. The feedback of peers and professor is spectacular, and the opportunity to evaluate the work of your peers is so helpful to improving personal editing and critique skills for one's own writing.
