Best English class I've taken. The plays are great and the workload is perfectly balanced. I felt like all of the assignments had a purpose and I actually learned a lot from doing each of them which has literally never happened to me before. Professor Miller is awesome, he leads really engaging classes, gives really useful feedback on assignments, and really cares about helping students enjoy and engage with the material and become better writers. The only downside is that discussion was very free-form, which is great sometimes but sometimes I wanted a more guided discussion and more of Professor Miller's thoughts. I think this will improve in future years though. Basically, DEFINITELY take this class if you're at all interested in either literature or theatre.
The course material is fun to read. However, Derek is aggressive in his grading and paper commentary, so it feels like a middle school grammar class.
The first round grades for assignments are terrifying.
The grading for this class will cause you to have an existential crisis but the discussion and plays are well worth it. This class forces you to examine whether or not you really love theater.
Take this class if you want to feel like you have your finger on the pulse of today's theater world.  There isn't a lot of work, but Professor Miller DARES you to be a better writer, so that comes with some effort on your part.
Professor Miller is excellent. He gives detailed (and somewhat harsh) initial feedback on assignments and mandates a revision process. We also did in class writing workshops. These techniques actually helped us improve our writing. Take a class with him and he will make you a better writer. Do not be dissuaded by an initially low grade. The syllabus for this class is also awesome (though I'm sure it will change as new work is constantly being published).
Great class!
THIS IS THE BEST ENGLISH SEMINAR OUT THERE. You make the syllabus yourself, you're reading really good contemporary plays (lots of Tony and Pulitzer winners), basically just getting to talk about them, and then writing a final paper that is imitating the style of 7 diff authors all approaching the same scene. Not only are the readings great, enjoyable, and fast, but the course as a whole will make you a better writer or critic. If you like creative writing (and/or are limited to 1 CW course a semester and already taking one) this is another great way to get some creative writing practice, albeit only with the final paper.
This is an awesome course! The course is pretty freeform, since we build the syllabus, but that was an interesting experience that worked out pretty nicely. We read an interesting selection of plays, and I enjoyed our in-class conversations. The workload keeps you accountable for doing the reading, but is very manageable.
Take this course! Workload is super manageable and I found all the assignments to be fun. I got to read like 25 plays which is awesome. Derek is a great professor and very approachable and knowledgable. Definitely don't be afraid to assert yourself during the syllabus-planning phase!
A very relaxed 90-level seminar in which you have to take a good amount of ownership of the class.
Derek Miller is a great professor and very very well informed about the contemporary american theater scene. This course would be worth taking in whatever variation it is offered in the future. If you get to pick your own syallbus, know that you will read things you don't like, and you will be unenthused about at least four of the plays that make the cut. But Professor Miller is great and leads the class really well, and you should take it!
I loved this course. Professor Miller does a great job facilitating interesting discussion among the students. He's genuinely interested in what everyone enrolled has to say about the subject. He's also incredibly knowledgeable and always has something interesting of his own to say about every text we read.
I loved this course. I definitely want to take another course with Professor Miller in the future, if I get the chance
If you love contemporary theater, this course is a great, once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.  Expect to read 2-3 plays before class each week, which can be time consuming.  However, outside of reading the plays and completing a final project, there isn't a lot of work required for the class.  It was a very enjoyable experience, and you leave having read some great works.
Derek is a great professor and this class is amazing! You read some really cool plays and learn a lot about it without tons of work. Highly recommend for anyone - English majors, TDM, or honestly any department. Anyone would get a ton out of this course.
Really fun course.  Prof Miller allows the class to create the syllabus, which was a really messy process this year since it was the first time he did this, but I think by next year the process will run smoother.  Very light workload - just informal responses and one final paper.
