The breadth of readings is fantastic, as the novels, poems, plays, and essays really allow you to form a nuanced understanding of British and Irish literature through history. Lectures also do a good job of helping you understand the broader contexts and trajectories of the changes in literature through time, which is indispensable for a survey class. The freedom of choice in essay topics and modest requirements are great too, and make the course have a good workload balance between readings and assignments. However, the amount of readings assigned means that lectures are unable to cover everything in the depth often required to understand it. Prof. Burt likes to base classes on student discussion and reactions to the texts, which sounds great in theory but often results in unproductive discussions and readings of works out loud with little learned in the short hour classes, and I feel like classes would have worked better with distinct lecture and discussion parts, as we were often out of or over time to discuss everything fully.
Burt taught this class in seminar-like format, and it didn't work for me. There were a lot of newer English students, and we didn't have much to say. Burt didn't prepare full on lectures ( I wish he had), so often not much happened in class and it felt disorganized. Having said that, this class gives you a broad overview of important literature in the English canon. I was almost totally uninspired from class though, so I didn't have energy to study the material that closely on my own. Some of the poems (20-30%) I feel as if I know much better than I would have on my own, but the other 70% we didn't even discuss in class and I could have read them on my own and gotten just as far. I think it was poorly taught. Calista was very helpful and insightful. she gave great, detailed comments on essays, and her sections were fantastic. The reading list Burt could have given us so much more information if he had planned a coherent lecture. We covered so little in class, we could have had MORE MORE MOREHe should have done more, at least half of the poems. calista mcrae:  her prosody section was inspiring; detailed and empowering, gave us plenty of practice and plenty of insight into the power of prosodyburt: I understand what he tries to do: liberated atmosphere, speaks on our level, but sometimes less insightful than could be--granted a broad survey, and sometimes good information was communicated, but this could have been more organized and more information could have been communicatedcould have given us provocative assignments to make us think about the texts more--as it was I came to lecture w.o many thoughts and received some, not a ton in class.  could have used a more regular section to do close reading; calista is a gem. very kind and insightful.just too little organization and insight given to us in class overall.
The professor is incredibly engaging, passionate, and talented. Make sure you pay extra attention and speak in class a lot - it helps with the discussion and it makes the environment even more fun-filled
I would guarantee that the class would give you new authors to like, new reasons to like the authors you already do like, new opportunities to like authors you never happened to like (or new, more convincing arguments for why you still don't like them) and a sense of how all the above fits together.
