Take any and all classes with Prof Stauffer that you can.  He is truly a gem--a fantastic, thoughtful teacher and a compassionate and brilliant person.
This class was overall a good experience--nice discussion, inherently interesting subject, excellent professor.
Professor Stauffer is an incredible instructor; very accessible and enthusiastic about the class material.
Great great class. Not sure if I just got lucky, but the entire class was very captivated by the subject matter and everyone was always weirdly prepared...it made the discussions fascinating. Anyways, Professor Stauffer is also super chill, so definitely take this class if you get it ya heardddddd
I recommend this class! The readings are interesting, the discussions are intriguing, and the workload is reasonable. If you are comfortable in reading- and writing-based classes, you can absolutely do well.Professor Stauffer is very knowledgeable (and generous with his time if you seek him out one-on-one). But the class is unique in that it is almost entirely student-led: Two students conduct the two-hour seminars each week.You should do the readings for your own benefit - you will get far more out of the discussions if you do, and the readings are very interesting. Outside of the readings, the workload is manageable: four reflections (two to four pages each), a midterm essay, and a final project.
This course offers unique opportunity to consider war journalism and photography from the Crimean War to the Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. You will be asked to consider what constitutes propaganda, and evaluate the methods and strategies various sources use to depict war.
Great class! Great content!
This is my favorite English class that I have ever taken!! It is very discussion based and student led, which can be a little surprising for someone who is used to the professor talking a lot. But any input that Professor Stauffer does have is always so valuable. He is the kindest, most validating and encouraging professor I've had at Harvard, which is really refreshing after semesters of feeling nervous to go talk to my professors. I came into this class with no background on war and war literature, and now that's all I want to read and I'm writing my thesis on it. Take this class.
