N/A
If you have the opportunity to take a course with Professor Abramson, do it! She has a ton of experience in journalism and is very open with her students. You learn a tremendous amount from time with her. And she is very invested in your success -- happy to meet during office hours to improve your work, talk about life, or give advice.
Great course
The selling point of the class is getting to spend 12x3 hours with Jill. Part of that is certainly for her stories, from so accomplished a journalistic background, she has racked up quite a few. But Jill is not just an anthology of stories from decades on the front lines of reporting; she is a very thoughtful teacher, and an avid consumer of all news. Those two traits translated into quite helpful and concrete journalistic advice in the class's final portion, and exposure to really interesting excellent pieces trying to make sense of a seemingly senseless time. This class feels like what Harvard uniquely has to offer - connection with and guidance from a supremely interesting, knowledgeable and accomplished expert.
This class is really relaxed. Jill is an incredible teacher (and a really nice person) with an unbelievable amount of experience in the journalism industry (at WSJ and the NYT). The readings are great (and well selected), the class discussions are interesting, the speakers she has access to are phenomenal (Jane Mayer and David Fahrenthold both spoke this semester), and she shares some amazing/insightful anecdotes from her time as NYT Executive Editor. However, you may want to have some experience with journalism to take this class because most of your classmates will, and Jill doesn't do a lot of specific teaching about journalism (structure, terminology, etc).
It feels more like a seminar than a regular class, so it may not be for everyone. But if you love analyzing media coverage, debating from the perspective of a publisher, and writing then this is a great class for you.
TAKE IT!
It's a journalism class with Jill Abramson...enough said
This course is amazing if you are interested in journalism and politics and want to learn from someone who has incredible experience. It is a must take course.
This is an incredible opportunity to truly work in an intimate classroom environment with a small group of very talented classmates and a professor who has experience beyond compare in the field as the ex editor of the NYT. I would argue that the course is advertised to be much harder when applying than it actually will be. You will not have as many assignments as you expect. Professor Abramson is very available to help as well. I think its an exciting opportunity to engage with material that is incredibly relevant, read the best representation of that material, and then learn from it as well.
This course is a must-take! A real Harvard treat-- you will gain an immense amount of wisdom from being in Jill's presence. An unforgettable college course.
