This is a fun and relatively painless way to fulfill the arrivals requirement. There are frequently small assignments due between each class, so if that's not your style, take another section of arrivals.
You read lots of good/important stuff. Don't expect to get a lot out of it besides plots points and historical/biographical background. An easy course.
This class was alright, nothing I would rave about. But if you are genuinely interested in the texts of this time period, then I would recommend it. The way the class was set up (half lecture, half discussion) was really nice, and Dr. Donoghue and Porter White are both very kind, reasonable people.
Professor Donoghue is an amazing educator and one of the most approachable professors I have studied under here at Harvard thus far. The course is relatively painless with fun and interactive projects, and I highly recommend it to everyone!
You will get a good taste of English literature from Beowulf up through Milton. If you are particularly interested in just one period (Old English, Renaissance, Metaphysical, etc), however, this class will not be satisfying. This class is a fair use of your time, and it doesn't take more from you than necessary to engage you in the texts. The assignments are fair, and I encourage you to talk them over with Professor Donaghue or the TF to grow from the experience.
This course is a manageable and enjoyable introduction into a wide variety of old- and middle-English literature.  Professor Donoghue is a very approachable and encouraging professor who creates an atmosphere which encourages student's participation.
This class is really fun. It exposes you to all kinds of literature that will likely come up again as an English Concentrator and even if you're not planning on that concentration, it's still a worthwhile experience as anyone who loves English literature. Professor Donoghue is a really great professor so I would take his class specifically, if I were you. He's enthusiastic and really cares about the students. I plan on taking more of his classes because he's just so great.
DD is the bomb.com. So modest and clearly loves teaching and the subject matter. Take his arrivals! It's a good idea.
This is a wonderful way to fulfill the Arrivals requirement. I had been putting off Arrivals because I normally prefer contemporary literature, but I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this class. Professor Donoghue introduces the material beautifully, and I liked that section followed lecture.
As far as Arrivals courses go, I think this is a great choice. Dr. Donoghue is very kind, and actively encourages discussion and questioning. Assignments were varied, not just writing but also creative projects; we took trips to Houghton Library and to a calligraphy class that were really fun. Porter was a wonderful TF: deeply invested in each of her students, and brought tea and coffee to every section! Get ready to read quickly, and to read a variety of materials: won't go too in-depth on any particular work.
The teaching staff is lovely and the material is often interesting, however it seems haphazardly put together and without much of a shape leaving the course somewhat confused overall.
English 40 is definitely not the most exciting English course I've taken at Harvard so far, but it's an easy and okay way to fulfill the Arrivals requirement for the concentration. Definitely don't take this if not for the concentration req. While Donoghue is a nice professor and well-intentioned, his lectures can sometimes get a bit dull, and sections can feel kind of dead, despite the fact that everyone in the class should be excited about English because we're presumably all English concentrators or prospectives!
This is a good way to fill the english Arrivals core requirement, but if you're looking for a cool reading class, this does get a bit dry.
Professor Donoghue was great.  He clearly loves the material he teaches, and so does the TF Porter.  The two of them together formed an excellent team that gave character to what most would consider "boring." They brought these canonical texts to life.  I would recommend this as a solid way to do the Arrivals requirement, but it's not the best intro English class (and it shouldn't be) because of the course material.
Really good staff, material
This is a great arrivals course! I would highly suggest it for those wanting to concentrate in English and even those who want to expand their knowledge of literature!
Covering hundreds of years of poetry and prose over the course of a few months can get exhausting, particularly when the material is so far removed from what you may be used to in other English courses. If you are an English concentrator, I would strongly caution against taking this course at the same time as another Common Ground course. If it fits in your schedule, I would also recommend that you take a lighter course with more familiar material to counterbalance this one; if you are like me, you will appreciate the occasional break from medieval literature.
The professor is very knowledgeable and engaging. However, the syllabus isn't evenly balanced and the more famous works, such as Paradise Lost and the Canterbury Tales, are not given much time. The periodic focus on learning Middle English as well as the emphasis on more obscure texts makes this class feel like it has a more narrow, specialized focus than what you would expect of a survey class required of all English concentrators.
Professor Donoghue's lectures are insightful, but Old English is a difficult subject to approach enthusiastically. The works we observed in class often felt inaccessible and dull, although some were delightfully accessible. However, this is more of a problem with the subject matter of Arrivals itself rather than the professor's teaching. The class overall covers a lot of material over a long period of time. It felt like assignments were graded pretty arbitrarily and often harshly.
If you want an easy course to fulfill arrivals, this one isn't a bad choice.
Be patient with the reading. It takes a bit of time to get through all of it considering the odd language construction.
Professor Donoghue and Taylor are INCREDIBLE! They created such a fun environment to learn and I loved taking the class from them! The material was great-- was seriously dreading this course but ended up really loving it!! Take it even if you aren't English concentrating!
You'll get to know a lot about the origin of English literature, and the trip to Houghton library and the book-making class are both very interesting!
Take a class on the Bible beforehand.  While maybe not required or entirely necessary, it would provide useful context for a lot of the literature since much of it is religious.
The course is going to fulfill your arrivals requirement, so that in itself is important. Shop around all of the arrivals that are being offered in whichever semester you are doing this and be sure that you like this lecture style and this syllabus better than the other ones. I think you really have to be excited by the lecture style in order to get a lot out of this class. However, the assignment load is very forgiving and the teaching staff is very willing to help you, so I would recommend it on that basis.
I took this class to decide if I wanted to be an English major. I ended up not deciding on English, but certainly not because of the class. Really was a great exposure to older English literature. The breadth of this course is awesome. Expect to read a lot, write a couple papers, and have good discussions (depending on your classmates).
Especially if you haven't had experience with older works of literature, take this class. I was personally somewhat worried at first, thinking that the texts might have been stiff or overly difficult to decipher. By the end of the course, however, I really enjoyed most of the texts that we had read, and found the linguistic and cultural differences fascinating. It's a great way to become better-acquainted with a subset of literature that is probably not read as often as others.
Covers a fascinating exploration of the early evolution of English literature, taught in a highly encouraging environment.
This is a great course.  I enjoyed the survey of early English "arrivals," and Professor Donoghue really works to make the class interesting and accessible.
This course is not that difficult, so sometimes it's difficult to motivate yourself to do the reading when you're not really held accountable for the work.  Overall, it's a pretty good intro to the really old stuff that you might not read on your own.
For an arrivals course, this was a good option to take. The literature is somewhat similar between all courses, so that is not something that should factor into your choice of this course.
This class was fine. Prof. Donoghue is excellent and does a nice job of making even the more dry material interesting. This class is, I believe, the best way to fulfill the Arrivals requirement for English concentrators.
If the material in this course was made chronological and was changed around that way, I would be much more likely to recommend this course.
I enjoyed the material. I also think Professor Donaghue is an amazing professor. I think students must have some level of enthusiasm for Medieval texts in order to take this course, however, and not feel forced into taking it.
personally, this is not a subject matter i'm particularly interested in. it is a very well taught course, but i don't really connect to the material.
This is a very, very interesting history course and a slightly insightful literature course. I found our interpretive study of the texts to be a little superficial and scattered- a minimally explained claim here or there- but from a literary-history perspective, the study the forms literature (and storytelling in general, such as oral storytelling and playwriting) took as the English language developed was fascinating.
It is a lot more work than anticipated. Also, the professor added an additional essay to the syllabus after the add/drop deadline which was unacceptable.
Since you have to take the course anyway, I would recommend taking it with Donoghue (without having taken a class from either of the other two).  He was very fun in lecture and generated a lot of interest for his topic. He clearly has fun with the readings and it shows.
I have heard that there are other Arrivals requirements that are more interesting: I recommend seeking those out.
Don't take it... go for the Arrivals course with the most people in it. Donoghue cold calls, sets tedious assignments before virtually every class, and there are so few people in class and section that you have to talk (see cold-calling). This would be okay if the material was in any way interesting, but it is not. For evidence, Google "The Dream of the Rood". Now imagine having to read a text like that-- a text about a stupid, religious BRANCH-- two times a week, and having to discuss it, and not being able to skip class because Donoghue believes that it is very important that you learn about texts like this. From what I hear, the material in every other Arrivals class is about as boring as it is in this one (although not quite as boring). It's the price we have to pay to be English concentrators, I guess. However, this class is unique because it has so few people in it. Whereas other Arrivals courses are more like small lectures, this one is very much a seminar. Believe me-- you do not want a course like this to be a seminar. It meets two times a week for a hour and a half. The first forty-five minutes consist of Donoghue discussing the texts in minute detail, and he will often cold call during this time. Then the class splits into two groups of six or seven, and section with either Donoghue or the TF begins. Cue a ton of forced discussion and physical pain when Donoghue decides not to let out the class until 5 minutes after it is over because he wants to make one last point about The Second Shepherd's Play (don't ask what this is-- you don't want to know).Oh yeah, and Donoghue also loooooves to make students memorize and recite portions of texts, often in Old and Middle English. So there's that. It's really unfortunate that the English department makes us take an Arrivals course, but there's no need to make this situation any worse than it has to be. Choose a different 40-level class. If you don't you will be shaking your fist at the sky and bellowing, "you were right... mysterious internet class reviewer!" in a few weeks time.
A terrific way to learn about some engaging historical texts, as well as a few terribly dull ones.
This class will fortify your understanding of how modern English poems and prose developed. The material is a bit difficult to get through in the beginning, but it's definitely worth it! Professor Donoghue and Alexis are both great!
Honestly, it's not the most exciting course, but if you're not into this kind of literature no Arrivals course is going to be terribly exciting.
If you love Medieval and Old English literature as much as I do, you're going to love this class.
This course will be painful if you don't have a passion for, or interest in, Old or Middle English. You will suffer through lectures and the readings. The assignments will be painful. Find another arrivals course if you aren't passionate about this stuff.
Be prepared to spend a long time with the readings, as they are dense and sometimes not in Modern English. They will be covered in section and usually you can tell when someone hasn't done the readings. The assignments are pretty easy, however, and there isn't much in the way of weekly work, so you should have time to do a thorough job with the texts.
I came into this class with no knowledge about medieval literature, and no desire to discover it. However, not only does the material surprise you, but the way the class is taught is refreshing, efficient, and altogether, fun.
Take it for the fantastic reading material! I was surprised at how accessible, inventive, and even humorous the texts were. Most of the work is reading, supplemented by short annotation or response exercises, but there were also two 5-7 essays that were not on the syllabus. The discussions flowed pretty naturally, which was nice. Daniel Donoghue gives interesting lectures with a strong historical bent, but he's not the kind of professor who'll jump through hoops to keep you entertained. For me, this wasn't a problem, but if you're in the habit of getting limited sleep, this may not be the best choice.
Be ready to work hard. If you do, the rewards are great.
this class is a good way to dive into the english department, and specifically gives a strong overall sense of the development of the english language as we know it today.
Great course, with amazingly varied reading  I wasn't expecting to enjoy the dragons, lords, and ladies, but I did, oddly enough. Some of the lyric poetry is pretty awesome. The instructors were a bit too controlling of the discussion, but they are both wildly intelligent, so that's not a horrible thing, if not an ideal one.
A great way to fulfill the Arrivals requirement.  You'll read works most teachers don't assign, some of the assignments are fun, and the professor is a good lecturer who really knows what he's talking about.
Take this class if you love English; you'll fulfill a requirement and enjoy yourself tremendously!
A lot of the readings are in Old English without translations, but it's not as hard as it sounds to read Old English. This class is a great balance of low-stress assignments to get constructive feedback, discussion, and some really cool books. Professor Donaghue also tries to enrich the historical context of the books we read through art, historical events, and writing techniques (we do a class on writing with quills), to help us appreciate the works to more depth.
The Old English language was hard to get through and understand.
Great intro to English literature. Professor Donoghue made the materials highly accessible and the TF was very helpful/friendly!
Donoghue is great and really kind. The course moves fast, as does probably any arrivals - you have to cover so much material. Because of the pace it can feel like you're glossing over things. If you like courses that go more in depth for a longer period of time, I don't know if there's an arrivals that does that but maybe choose it?
Class is amazing. Take this Arrivals class, even if you don't need it for a requirement. A perfect college class.
Fairly painless way to fill an unexciting concentration requirement. Erica was a great TF who gave great feedback on my papers.
