This class was a delight! I thoroughly enjoyed going to Professor Lynch's lectures every week, and meeting with Eliza to discuss assignments was always fun. As a lifelong lover of Jane Austen, I was nervous that this class might "spoil" the fun of Austen for me; I couldn't have been more wrong! I was thrilled by the added perspective on, appreciation of, and joy in Austen that this class, both from Professor Lynch's expertise and the writing assignments, gave me.
No prior knowledge or experience with Jane Austen is necessary! I had never even read Pride and Prejudice before taking this class but I loved it so much. Professor Lynch is why this class is awesome. She's super helpful and so passionate about the subject and is really willing to talk to you about anything and everything, about the course or not.I would caution that there can be A LOT of reading so if you're a slow reader or are taking a lot of other lit classes, you might want to reconsider something. But it's fun reading! It's Jane Austen!!!
This was one of my favorite courses this semester! Professor Lynch is an amazing professor, and her enthusiasm and passion for Austen is contagious. She is friendly and willing to meet with students to discuss Austen. She gives thorough feedback about essays, which was very helpful since it can be difficult to write about Austen's works because so much has been written about it already. The lectures were fascinating and I looked forward to attending them. If you love Jane Austen or are interested in learning more about the history of literary appreciation (or fandoms), I highly recommend taking this course!
I wrote my final paper on a Yugioh and Pride and Prejudice crossover fanfic that I found on ff.net and it was one of the most entertaining papers to write in my entire life.
This is a great English course! Having read very little Austen before, I decided to take this course to expose myself to a new area of English - however, this isn't just about Austen, it's about close-reading literature and understanding how and why it popularized. Professor Lynch is extremely well organized and interested in her students.
There is definitely a lot of reading required for this course, but it will be easier if you think you would enjoy reading Austen's novels. I throughly enjoyed every part of the class from reading the novels to writing analytical essays and researching about fandom during the 18-19th century. It almost feels like a book club.
English 145a was my way to fulfill the Early British requirement for an English Secondary Field, and while I enjoyed reading all of the main works of Jane Austen, this class was by no means an easy way to fulfill the requirement. You are expected to finish one of her novels every two weeks or so, which becomes challenging as the semester goes on. I also was very surprised at how tough Professor Lynch and my TF were on grading the papers. I usually hit the A mark in every other English class I've taken, but I couldn't break a B+/A- on a paper in this class. Even though I met with the professor and made changes to my subsequent papers, I never improved much in terms of grading, which was really frustrating. I also felt that the tough grade was not consistent with the many positive comments given to me by my TF and Professor Lynch, and that specific things that I could improve on were never discussed as requirements for the papers. That being the case, it was cool to have the actual professor grade papers in this course.
This has been one of my favorite courses! The teaching staff is fantastic, and Prof. Lynch's lectures are interesting and encourage discussion. I came in knowing hardly anything about Jane Austen, and I left loving her novels!
This course will revolutionize your understanding of Austen and her novels--even if you are already an Austen fan. If you're not an Austen fan, this course will probably convince you of her merits. An extremely intelligent and worthwhile course. You'll obviously get the most out of it if literary analysis is something you enjoy (not sure why you would take it otherwise). Can't recommend it enough!
I loved this class. The professor is amazing and so willing to engage with students. It was such a fun experience, especially since I love Jane Austen. Not only did we read and discuss the novels, we traced the progression of literary fan culture, comparing current fandom to "fandom" in Austen's time.
This class is a must-take. The experience of reading the entire collection of Jane Austen's novels in one semester is an unparalleled one. The course isn't backbreaking, but it moves at a swift pace. You'll be genuinely motivated to keep up on the work, and the writing assignments are spaced out well over the semester (four in total). If I could take this class again 4 more times, I would!!
Take this course if you are already an enthusiastic reader of Jane Austen, or if you wonder why other people are, or if you are thinking of writing fiction, or if you are curious about the antecedents of the modern novel.  Don't take this course if you don't have a sense of humor.
Great class if you have any interest in Jane Austen (which you should!)
Prof Lynch and Eliza Holmes are wonderful. It is fast-paced and there is quite a lot of reading, but you gain so much more in class and section if you read. Also - don't be afraid of speaking up in section and lecture!
Take this class if you like Jane Austen and want to think more deeply about her novels and her life. It is very well taught and enjoyable. I really enjoyed going to lecture twice a week and doing the reading was easy because it was so fun. The assignments are not overwhelming and are interesting and fair. I'm not an English concentrator but I took this class as an elective and really loved it!
you absolutely need to have english background, as a non-english concentrator I found it very difficult to engage in discussion and follow. Further, the feedback I got was not concrete. While the lectures were enjoyable, I thought it was unfair as there was a clear advantage, and favoritism, towards English concentrators or those who had completed coursework in the English department.
Like a thrilling book club where you are excited to learn more.
If you are really interested in Jane Austen and the culture around her novels, and are prepared to dedicate time to reading most of her novels, this is the class for you.
If you are already a fan of Austen, this course will allow you to explore her works and fandom even more while engaging in some very compelling discussions. If you are new to her, this course is an incredible overview of her work and the culture she lived in and has created.
The class is really fun and informative, especially if you're an Austen fan, but fairly fast paced and graded and not graded easily. I took this as an elective and am not and english concentrator which I think most people in the class were. I'm definitely glad I took it but don't expect a super easy class. They grade fairly strictly and the prompts can sometimes be pretty complex/confusing.
really read all the books, and you'll get so much out of this class! among my top favorites at harvard.
If you are are already a Janeite, you will probably love this class, but if you come into the course having little or just some familiarity, you will enjoy it but probably not LOVE it to the extent that the superfans in the class do.
so much fun.
Whether you are a fan of Austen's books or any of their modern adaptations, you should definitely take this course. Professor Lynch and Rachel are both incredibly nice people and are super enthusiastic about Austen. Section is fun because we get to fangirl over movies. Also, the fandom assignments are really fun and interesting. In what other class do you get to write fanfiction?
This class is so wonderful! I would absolutely recommend it to anyone with a love for Austen's novels. This class takes you beyond conventional views of her works and teaches you to think about why her works still have such an appeal to today's readers. Professor Lynch and Rachel are fantastic, and their love for this topic makes class engaging and fun!
The course is reading-heavy, but the reading is enjoyable.  We had fun movie screenings as well.  This is a great course to take, even if you are not already an Austen fan.
This class is awesome whether you are new to Austen (I was!) or if you are a Janeite. The work load is surprisingly more than it seems, but it's a lot of fun, and Professor Lynch is very approachable and helpful!
So I went into this class as an Austen skeptic (had only read Pride and Prejudice, which I thought was good) and took it to satisfy my Early British Lit requirement for the English secondary. One semester later, I've read 5 Austen novels, some of which I thought were a little tiresome, and others of which I think are brilliant (P&P). Austen really is a master of irony and free indirect discourse, and the way she shifts between narrator and character perspectives is amazing. We received a lot of historical context for reading Austen, which really helped me appreciate Austen more! (cf the ha-ha in Mansfield Park)
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Learning about Jane Austen with a professor as great as Prof Lynch was a great experience! You will not regret taking this class!
This course was so enjoyable! Professor Lynch's passion really shines through, and participating is actually fun. The readings are great (Austen), and the workload relatively fair (but be prepared to read enough to get through half an Austen novel each week). Highly recommend taking this class if you're interested in Austen, and looking for a relatively chill and interesting class. Just do be aware that you read largely through the lens of Austen fans. If this doesn't sound interesting at all, know that this part of the course (roughly half of it) won't be interesting for you.
If you like Jane Austen (and you really should), you need to take this class. If you think you might like Jane Austen, you need to take this class. If you don't like Jane Austen, you need to take this class so you can be corrected.
This course was bar none my favorite class of the semester. Professor Lynch and Rachel both had such a genuine and infectious enthusiasm for their subject, class discussions were lively and challenging, and the material was (of course) wonderful. Be aware, this isn't a light course--there is plenty of work to go around (four essays and an exam in all)--but it is a delightful one.
