This has been one of my favorite courses at Harvard! Prof. Sacks is a wonderful instructor. He gave very helpful and engaging feedback on written assignments and led very rich in-class discussions. He knows so much about Eliot, his poetry, and what it draws on-- it was really an honor to be able to take this class. Be prepared for in-class recitations of Eliot's poetry, which I found helped me appreciate the work better, particularly its rhythm/sound. Work outside of the class is relatively self-directed (aside from needing to complete the midterm and final papers and a few brief response papers) but only take this class if you are willing to spend a significant amount of time to appreciate the poems outside of class. Eliot's poetry is very dense and you will get the most out of it-- and seminar discussions-- if you spend a significant amount of time time it. You should also take advantage of Prof. Sacks office hours to discuss the poems (since there is only so much that can be covered 2 hours/week) and paper topics. Take this class!!
If you can take this class, take it - you will not regret it.
Professor Sacks is an incredible professor and an exceedingly kind man. This is a superb class in every way and anyone who is interested in poetry needs to take this class, it will change your life.
I've now taken two classes with Peter Sacks, and they've been a couple of the most incredible opportunities of my life. He is a wealth of knowledge, and if you have any interest in Eliot whatsoever, he will certainly solidify that for you.
Peter is fantastic. He has become a personal hero of mine and many other stydents in the class. Hearing his remarks on Eliot is a true gift.
Whenever Professor Sacks is teaching, try your best to enroll in the course. You'll learn more about interpreting and internalizing poetry with him as your guide than during any other class at Harvard. Truly a gem.
Take this seminar if you are able to. It will really make an impression on you -- academically, philosophically, personally, spiritually...
I would take this course. Professor Sacks is very smart and his analysis of the poems is very informative. He does not give grades for his papers and says almost only good things. He does not give a lot of good criticism to help improve your writing though. Reading Eliot in this setting makes you appreciate the poet for why he is actually great not got why we believe him to be great. Depending on what you are looking for, this course is what you make of it. You can read the poems assigned in 30 mins or you can spend six hours on them. I recommend spending the time because there is a lot you can get out of Eliot and of Sacks.
Take a seminar with Professor Sacks if you haven't already-- he is one of the greatest instructors, teachers, humans that you will find at Harvard. He teaches you how to be more curious, more sensitive, and more thorough in your interactions with poetry and language in general. It is especially powerful to take Eliot with Sacks-- he'll helps you slide into the deeper workings of the poetry.
Take this class. That is all.
take this class!! and work! the more you do the more you get out of it
This class is a wonderful opportunity to immerse yourself in Eliot's poetry if you are interested in his work. Professor Sacks has endless insight into the details of the poems as well as the connections between them, and will also help you understand how these poems connect to the rest of culture and civilization. Some prior experience with poetry classes would be helpful but not necessary. I did not take an introductory poetry class at Harvard, and sometimes did not fully understand discussions about specific poetic forms and references to other poets, but I think I could engage with a lot of the ideas and formal structures with some effort.
As I walked out of this class one week, a friend said to me, "I'm pretty sure Peter Sacks knows the meaning of life." I think she might be right. If you get a chance to listen to him speak, take it. What a mind. And there's no more moving or inspiring place for it than in discussion with T.S. Eliot. I thought I knew something about Eliot coming into this class. I didn't. A total total gem of a class. Life changing stuff.
Everyone should take this course. It was one of the very very best I took at Harvard (and as a graduating senior, I feel equipped to make that statement). Peter Sacks is not only one of the best professors I have ever had the absolute joy, honor, and privilege to work with, he is also one of the most fascinating, animated, and genuinely kind man I have ever met. Meeting him and taking his class will make you a better writer, reader, artist, and person. Focusing on a single poet is an immensely rewarding and special experience. You will learn so much about poetry, about how the human mind works, about how to truly internalize and understand literature. Sacks facilitates inspiring discussion, with many people engaging thoughtfully with the texts and coming to massive realizations about the works, as well as about themselves. It is a moving, intense, and seriously intellectual experience that every Harvard student should have, were they so lucky. I cannot say enough good things about this class, and wish I could take it again.
The strength of this course (and I think of every course that Professor Sacks teaches) is that he goes above and beyond teaching us about the texts we work on. He uses poetry, in this case T. S. Eliot's, to teach his students what it means to be a careful and passionate reader and person. There is an extremely moving focus on accessing the heart in literature through rigorous analysis. But the academic work is always just a way to get to being a more empathetic and passionate person.
