Such a nice relief from the standard Harvard English class, yet there's still a diverse range of styles and mediums available within the course.
I would tell future students that if you want to understand the big picture of African American literature - canonization, critical reception, great close readings, reading against the grain - then take the class! It is fantastic
Glenda is one of the most brilliant professors at Harvard, and it would be a mistake to graduate without having taken one of her classes. Her lectures are funny, dynamic, and engaging. This course is clearly in its infancy right now, but I'm optimistic that it will be excellent once the logistical kinks get ironed out.
The novels we get to read are, alone, an awesome part of the course, but what really brings the class together is its discussion portion. Take advantage of that portion, as you are likely to find yourself in some truly engaging, interesting conversations about not just the works themselves, but their historical contexts.
I think that there are other classes of Professor Carpio's that I would much sooner take. Because this course was a survey course, it seemed that Prof. Carpio, who I know is an excellent professor, had a lot of difficulty choosing which readings to focus on and thus the readings we did often felt discombobulated and constantly in flux. I also think that because no one knew who each other was in the class--we skipped intros--that made it difficult to break the ice later and engage in discussion. The TF made an effort to get to know us individually in the first week, but it would have made more sense to spend time doing this in class or section. I didn't understand the relevance of what getting to know each other on a one on one basis with the TF was. In contrast, I definitely understand the necessity of getting to know each other as a group, which never happened. The class never really found a rhythm and the discussion was often quiet or tentative. With a more responsive and proactive TF for the class and a more specific syllabus--for example 20th C Af-Am Lit Written by Women or Political Satire in 20th C Af Am Lit, I think the class would have been much more focused and lively.
This is an incredible course if you are ready to really engage with the material and show up to lecture. You'll really get out of it what you put in. It's a lot of reading that is hard to keep up with, but you'll still get something valuable even if you just listen to the lectures.
This is a great class! Prof. Carpio is incredibly warm and engaging; her lectures fit in a ton of material but give you a few key points to take away. Her arguments reshape your understanding of American literature and culture in the 20th century, and you'll find yourself ranging from angry to laughing to sad to joyful throughout lecture. Humor is emphasized, as well as concerns with genre and publishing history/audience. English majors will likely find the reading and workload standard, but non-English majors may struggle with it somewhat. Keeping up with the reading is a challenge, but worth the effort.
This class is amazing! The reading list is great, Glenda's lectures are engaging and dynamic, and section really helps dive deeper into things that are glossed over in lecture.
Professor Carpio is a great lecturer, passionate and smart -- a lot of reading
It was an extreme pleasure to attend lecture and section every week for this class. Prof. Carpio and Ernie are an unbeatable duo that both have so much expertise to share. Yet they also open up a lot of room for students to talk. I learned an incredible amount and was exposed to amazing literature. A decent of reading, but not the worst and Prof. Carpio is very understanding.
While the reading list was too long and we had to wait unreasonably long periods (several weeks) to receive feedback on written work, this class has the potential to be excellent. Professor Carpio and Ernie are engaging and the texts we read are great and happy to meet with students outside of class. I wish there were fewer works on the syllabus so that we could actually take time to savor each author and more thoroughly understand their writing. Priced with some caution if you are considering taking this class and be sure to look at how the syllabus has been modified.
This class has so much potential, but ultimately fell short of my expectations. In part, this was due to the unwieldy class size which prohibited any true discourse during lecture. However, much of my reservation of this class comes from the lack of feedback that we received. I truly have no idea what my grade will be, which is frightening given that this class counts for my concentration.
The class is too disorganized
This class is amazing! Professor Carpio is a professor you don't want to miss. She is incredibly smart and adds so much to already great books.
Professor Carpio is a great lecturer and you should definitely take a class with her. This course has a lot of reading and writing assignments but it is worth it.
You have to take a class with Professor Carpio at some point in your undergraduate educationshe's the best. This class is sooooo worth taking. The reading can be a lot sometimes, but she knows when it's too much and will address it in class. You learn a lot and you won't regret taking it.
This is an amazing class. Professor Carpio is the best, and so is Ernie! There is a lot of reading and it was really hard for me to keep up with it, but I genuinely enjoyed skimming through most of the texts.
