Professor Warren and Julia (TF) are excellent. The class requires little to no background knowledge of poets (though of course it can't hurt), so it's a class that really anyone can take. It's easy to not keep up with the readings since you're not constantly being checked up on, but the readings are all essential to classroom discussion and are really beneficial (and of course are integral to the papers and the final). It's one of the classes where the more you put in, the more you get out of it. It wasn't too terribly difficult, but the papers are graded pretty hard so they require time and effort. Professor Warren and Julia are also incredibly understanding!
Well worth your time and energy! Uplifting and mind-expanding. My world is forever enriched by learning to appreciate the beautiful poetry of the English language.
It's great! The readings are fun and the staff are incredible.
Julia is by far my favourite TF. If you like poetry and want to go beyond the scope of a Gen Ed course but are worried you don't have the formal training to deal with more advanced classes, this is the course for you.
Great class that goes through some really really important poetry to know. Sometimes it can seem like it doesn't completely have a center and is just shifting through different poets, but that really only happens during the transitions between different eras. Overall a thoroughly enjoyable class, mostly discussion-based. If you want to make the most of it, and make the class better for other students, speak up! Don't let 4 people do 80% of the talking.
If you love poetry, you will love this class. Professor Warren always brings great insight to class and makes learning about poetry fun.
Read!!
This class is great if you are looking for a good background of poetry. Andrew does not stick strictly to narrative poetry though - you will get some, actually many, lyrics and odes in the course. The course is fairly straight forward and pretty chill overall.
Poets may seem like one of the more daunting English requirements, but - and trust me, this is coming from someone who did not like poetry AT ALL  before taking this class - this course is a great choice even if it wasn't a requirement. Professor Warren's lectures are very laid-back and engaging. Julia is an amazing TF, so warm and enthusiastic that it's hard not to feel the same kind of excitement yourself. The assignments are reasonable and the grading is fair. With the exception of a few of the longer poems, the workload is very manageable (just a few poems every class) especially if you're also taking other English classes at the same time. Overall, the best choice for completing the Poets requirement, and also an excellent choice for just a thorough education on poetry 101.
Take it. Take it with Warren. Take it with Julia. I'm a senior and this is the first time that I've felt that I've actually gained more formal knowledge of what being an English scholar is in college. It's not just about writing papers - time is really spent on learning how to look at and talk about poetry. In addition we also learned some really fun things about the poets as people (some pretty hilarious and scandalous stuff). The final isn't too bad and makes you feel cool and academic when studying for it. Attention is given to everyone - they really want to help you - you get as much as you put in - they're amazing - the poems are great - Narrative Poetry is a misleading title though, it's more of a comprehensive poetry introduction. Julia is amazing. Professor Warren is great. Just do it.
I had never taken a poetry class, read poetry, or written poetry before taking this class.  Now all I want to do is take poetry classes and read and write poetry all the time.
There is a big focus on the Romantic Era poets, though we also read Milton, Dickenson, Whitman and others.
This class is a really good introduction to poetry- I came in with no prior experience at all (might have read one or two poems in high school), and I ended up really enjoying the poems and analyzing them. Having said that, there are a lot of assignments (3 papers, 3-4 blog postings for section, 5-6 spontaneous writing assignments in class, a final paper, and a final exam, not including prospectuses for the final and midterm papers), so it keeps you on your toes. Both Andrew and Julia are approachable and great to bounce ideas off, and helpful in that they really know a lot about the poetry and are happy to help you navigate or find a starting point if you're lost.
No Common Ground course is very fun, but I think this is one of the better ones. The readings are interesting (with the exception of Paradise Lost), and Professor Warren and Julia make a good team.
This class gives an amazing, holistic look at English poetry
Everything about this class is great. Really take it if you can. Most classes at Harvard suck but you'll almost certainly learn or be inspired by something you read in this one.
Really good poetry class, get introduced to some of the great Romantic poets and really get to practice your close reading.
This class was an excellent introduction to poetry. I wanted to read a lot of different authors and learn about how to interpret them, and I definitely feel that goal was met during the course. The teaching staff is fantastic! If it's Julia and Professor Warren again, I'd recommend with enthusiasm!
This class is a nice induction into poetry, and familiarizes with all the romantic poets.
It was a great experience and overall survey of narrative poetry over the last two hundred or so years.  The course focuses on close reading, but there are a lot of other terms and applications that come up (that students are expected to understand how to apply to close readings), and this is something where it helps to understand before time but can be learned easily through some extra work.
The class seemed disorganized, and I often wasn't sure what the purpose of lecture was.  However, the readings are very good and the course is not much work. Also, go to office hours when it comes time to write the papers.
the readings are great. but sometimes you don't really get much from lecture. you just read the poems outloud instead of really analyzing what the poet is saying in each poem.
Take it!
This class is great! It's not super organized. It's just kind of "Here are a bunch of things Professor Warren likes, let's talk about them." That was really fun for me, but if you want a really hardcore, Spartan poetry class, you might want to look elsewhere. That being said, the assignments and readings are all super reasonable and fairly graded. You can avoid buying the books (the Pope especially is way more than you need) and just find most readings on the internet without too much trouble. Julia Tejblum, the TF this semester was AMAZING. She's super smart and awesome and organized and 32 Original Flavors of cool.
It's a good common ground course to take if you want something low key but I wouldn't take this course if you are looking for a poetry class.
Teaching staff was awesome!  They consistently generated enthusiasm for the material and made the poets come to life.
The readings were excellent and Warren is fun (if a bit scattered - hopefully Julia returns, as she was really essential to the class)
Professor Warren and Julia are genuinely wonderful. They love love love narrative poetry and giving feedback and just talking about anything in general. That being said, while I think the class tried really hard to give a large scope of narrative poetry and as it is a common ground course, there isn't much structure, you read a lot and may not understand much, and interest in lectures diminished exponentially. The class is super interesting but it really is a "you get as much as you put in" situation. There are 4 mini papers aside from major assignments, which I found useful but could be a pain if you forget so write those in your calendar early on. Section is interesting - we cover history of the poets, closer text analysis, etc. Make sure you have a solid prospectus; makes writing the papers easier. They are nice with feedback and grading is on the easier side.
The poetry you will discover in this class is just wonderful-whether you're English or not, its a great class to have taken.
This is a wonderful way to satisfy the Poets requirement for English. Professor Warren is incredibly knowledgeable and enthusiastic, and a great resource. That being said, the course is pretty easy, and it can be tempting not to devote to much time to it, but you truly do get out of it what you put in.
