This is a fantastic class regardless of your concentration--if you're at all interested in environmental issues/climate change, take this class. It really helps round out your understanding and introduces you to different perspectives. I was just a little frustrated at times by the small range of writers and also by the pace of class (I was hoping it'd be more discussion-driven).
Highly recommended if you already have a strong interest in nature writing. Otherwise, the course might not be for you. An appreciation for Wordsworth is also helpful.
THIS IS AN AMAZING CLASS. The topic was incredibly interesting, all of the reading taught me a lot about it, and both lecture and section engaged really deeply with the material and made us think for ourselves about it. All of the assignments made sense and were fun to do. I enjoyed everything about this class.
This course has some exciting writing assignments if you're interested in spending time in nature/reflecting on that time. The syllabus and structure could be more coherent, but I imagine in its second iteration changes will be made to that end.
be creative
This course is unlike any other. This is what education at Harvard should be like. The teaching staff is top-of-the-line: Professor Engell, I'm convinced, is a genius. Porter is such an understanding TF and leads great sections. The assignments were actually fun and enjoyable to complete, and they really stretched my thinking about not only the topics but also about what education should be like. It's a very nature-y, hippie-ish, free-thinking class, and it was wonderful. If you're into that kind of thing, I highly recommend it.
Bring coffee because it's long, but look forward to section because it's great.
I absolutely loved this class! Professor Engell and Porter are amazing. The workload is manageable too. I took it as a fifth class. You really get as much out of the class as you put into it. The readings were amazing if you like Thoreau, Wordsworth, and people of the like... I would highly recommend taking this class.
This course creatively engages with nature and the writings about it. There is a lot of freedom in topics to explore and pursue, and the work broaches a wide realm of published though, from the abstract to the concrete. I would recommend taking it wholeheartedly.
this class is a little boring, although the readings are super interesting. like a big seminar with little structure.
Do not make the mistake of leaving Harvard without having taken this class.
If you have an appreciation for nature, or would like to cultivate a better understanding about the different ways that nature can be portrayed, take this class! 10 out of 10, would recommend.
This course will likely change the way you view nature and the environment for the better.
Take this class!
There are certain courses you come across at Harvard where people in the Q guide say, 'THIS IS THE BEST COURSE I'VE TAKEN AT HARVARD YOU SHOULD TAKE IT'. Well, this is the best class I have taken at Harvard. The syllabus promises a class that is meant to change and challenge you as a student and a human being, and it succeeds in that, should you give it your full attention. Professor Engell is a wonderful thinker, and one of those rare people at Harvard that truly cares about his students. I should preface all of this by saying that the sort of people who love this class tend to be the sorts of people who appreciate interdisciplinary work, or who already have some sort of environmental interests. If that is you in the faintest sense, take this class.
The course is excellent if you are interested in nature and climate disruption, but is otherwise not very engaging. The balance of assignments types, however, caters to the preferences of a variety of students!
The reading list is stellar and Professor Engell's ability to engage with current science and climate change policy and research is unreal. Take. this.
It deals with difficult themes (perhaps because nature writing intersects with so many other things like politics and literature) and the reading material might not be the most exciting, but the content of the course is absolutely relevant and important to issues we face today (i.e., climate change). It's mainly an English course, but if you're in ESPP or EPS you would have a blast too.
This class was incredibly relevant to getting a better perspective on interdisciplinary study of climate change, and it really improved my writing. Also the reading materials were very interesting.
Take this class if the readings and assignments seem interesting to you. Professor Engell's lectures sometimes seem a bit all over the place which can be frustrating/boring.
This class is a great overview of nature writing with an emphasis on American writers like Thoreau, Muir, Leopold, and Rachel Carson. The reading and writing assignments take a fair amount of time but it's worth it. The instruction is high quality and the class has a lot of diversity in terms of concentrations (not just English majors)
Beyond enthusiastically recommending the course, I'd point out that it is unusually interdisciplinary for an English course and allows a number of opportunities for more personal writing.
This course is a fantastic approach to nature writing as well as the current issues and science behind climate disruption. Not only did I read texts that I've been wanting to open for awhile, but I feel much more informed about the science and issues behind climate change and how to communicate about it. There's also a wonderful creative element to some of the assignments that really allows you to reflect on your own relationship with and experience of nature as well as become a better writer. Readings can be extensive but are rewarding, and assignments are frequent but manageable. Would recommend this to anyone, regardless of your academic background! We had people from the sciences, social sciences, and humanities, and everyone was able to contribute a diverse range of perspectives that really added to the depth of this course. So glad I got to take this before graduating!
Do not take it. Unless it has changed dramatically, the lectures will teach you nothing, 90%+ of the readings will have little literary merit/serious intellectual power, and you will be haranged over and over and over again about how wonderful nature is and how silly people are for not voting Democratic. Should be called Environmental Writing - the focus is political/ideological, not literary.
