one of the best classes you will take at Harvard, period.
One of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. Josh is incredibly approachable, helpful, and intelligent.
The best class I've taken at Harvard. Josh is amazing and his feedback is always super helpful. It's just a must take class if you are at all serious about developing your poetry even more.
This course rocks. If you want to be surrounded by very smart and extraordinarily talented peers in a compassionate and creative environment, take this class! Josh is a laid back but profoundly smart workshop leader who heads the charge with commentary that is critical while also sensitive and extremely respectful of the intent of the work. Take it!
If you can take it, take it. Josh will make you believe in your poetry, not in an unrealistic candyland way but in a realistic, hard-won-triumphs way. Come sharpen your verbal sword. Or no, wield that sword, and learn to do it confidently.
Josh is a truly fabulous teacher and giver of feedback on poems. His comments seldom seem to push his own taste or agenda onto a student's poem; instead, he has a knack for seeing where the poem could go at its best and giving suggestions that push it toward that point. However, the other students can make or break the class, so pay close attention the first class to how people interact: class consists of talking to these people and critiquing each other's personal work, and so a bad dynamic can hinder the whole experience of the class.
This is one of my favorite courses that I've taken in 7 semesters so far at Harvard. Josh does a great job of letting you grow as a poet on your own while making sure to point out places where you might be "going wrong" in the sense that you're not achieving what you intend. "Intent" is I guess another concept altogether, so... But anyway his comments are very insightful and the format of the course makes it so that the rest of the class also inevitably produces some really important feedback for your work. Anyone who enjoys writing poetry and feels comfortable analyzing the work of their peers should take this class.
This is a very good workshop that will challenge you as a poet and make you question what you're trying to do. Or at least it did for me. Josh is a fantastic teacher who takes his students' work seriously. I'd like to mention differences from the structure of the intermediate workshop, which he also teaches, just because they don't seem to be mentioned elsewhere, eg. in the course description. The chief difference is that that course had you turn in a poem every week, such that half of your poems were not workshopped. This course has you turn in 6 poems, each of which is workshopped by the whole class. However, Josh gives significantly more extensive comments on each of the poems that you turn in. Also, in my class (this may vary from class to class), more time was given to dissecting what was going on in each poem than to evaluation/correction, and more time was given in total to each poem than in the intermediate workshop I took.
Wow! An incredible opportunity to develop your writing and meet talented students. Josh is incredible and you will grow so much as a poet in three months. Take it!
take it.
Josh Bell is an amazing professor and this will be one of the best creative writing classes you could take!
Josh is fantastic and so open-hearted. Trust me, you want to meet him and you want him to read your poems.(If you don't take this class, at least go read his poems)
Apply. And if you get it, take it. It will knock your socks off. Josh is phenomenal--such a kind soul and one of the most competent people I know. He makes you want to write good poetry by finding the best in your poems, even when you yourself didn't even know it was there.
You'd be a FOOL to get into this class and not take it. This is an advanced course in that we were all strong writers who had our different things going on stylistically, but the discussion was usually fun, low-stress, open, sometimes intense, and always revelatory. Taking this class was the best thing I could have done for my writing. Josh was an amazing workshop leader and his feedback was spot-on.
IS THS POTRY
if you're applying for poetry workshops... you want to be in this one.
This was the perfect class. My poetry was really improved, I made great friends.
This is a poetry workshop that you want to be a part of. Josh is amazing in conference, so be proactive and set up a meeting! The class works best when you make an effort to get to know the other poets around the table. You will be lucky to be a part of this poetry community.
This is a wonderful chance to improve your own writing while also getting the rare opportunity to read the new and exciting work of others.
Josh is an excellent instructor, he sets the tone for a really informal, honest workshop.
This course is an amazing opportunity to grow as a writer and start to really develop a voice and tone specific to you. I have definitely improved with the help of feedback from workshop, and the fact that there were no specific assignments each week allowed me to explore styles and topics that I was truly invested in.
Josh Bell will open you up and prepare your poetry for full bloom.
just awesome - Josh's workshops are so great
This class is amazing. Josh is one of the best professor's I've had here and I was happy to have taken two courses with him. I'd definitely recommend beginning with intermediate, because it's good to get experience submitting more poems and doing assignments before taking this more workshop driven course. Josh is lenient with absences so my biggest recommendation is not to miss class. Our schedule got messed up because of absences and it was a shame.
Josh is one of the best teachers I've had at Harvard -- relaxed, approachable, and funny, but also incredibly knowledgeable and great at understanding and appreciating a really wide range of poetry. Though workshop environment is always going to be kind of dependent on the students in the class, Josh does a good job of guiding discussions, and his comments on poems are always insightful. Make sure to take advantage of conferences with him, too. Take this class!
Josh Bell is the perfect college professor--don't let yourself get through four years at Harvard without connecting with him. The workshop itself is fantastic, and if you invest in it, you'll grow tremendously as a poet and as a thinking human being.
Josh's feedback is really valuable. He clearly spends time and energy reading your poems and his comments are always useful not only on the poem he is critiquing but in thinking about your writing in general.
If you take this course, take your work seriously. It's so easy to skim by barely any effort, especially when other classes and psets get overwhelming, but don't. Take this class seriously because you're investing in yourself as a writer.
Josh's workshop is amazing. You learn so much both about reading and about writing poetry. Everyone's work is taken very seriously and it makes for a wonderful experience. The class also has the kind of atmosphere where you can make friends that you'll stay in touch with for a long time after. Take this!
Take it. Josh is incredibly kind, and a thoughtful reader, and your classmates' work is always pleasure to read. Plus I learned that poetry may just be the best thing that's happened to me at Harvard.
This course is transformative, and everyone should take it. It is life-changing.
The students in the workshop determine the experience.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Josh Bell is awesome, and the alternating weeks of deadlines make the class low pressure and more focused on the quality of work, not the quantity.
Apply to Josh's workshops!  He gives tremendously constructive feedback and will push you to write unapologetically.  He will help you develop tools and sensibilities to deepen your practices of reading, writing, and critiquing (your own and others' work).  You'll become more daring and imaginative in your thinking and writing and your poetry will definitely improve.  He and your peers will also introduce you to AWESOME poets.  Many different styles/voices in the workshop - makes for a quirky time!!!
Write, write, write!
Josh Bell is fantastic, but the workshop is really made by your classmates. Some won't have much to say, but some will really change the way you think about yourself and your writing. If you want to write, take this course. You absolutely won't regret it, and it'll change the artist that you are for the better.
i less than three josh
Josh is amazing.
This is a wonderful course led by an amazing instructor who provides salient feedback and encourages students to experiment and reach their greatest potential. For anyone interested in developing poetic skills, I would highly recommend this course!
If you are ever given the opportunity to take a workshop, take it. You will not regret it-- the challenges of regimented creative work will pale in comparison to the benefits, and one cannot possibly ask for better alumni.
Josh is truly the best professor I have ever had, and this class is one of the greatest classes I have ever been part of. If you get in, definitely take it. If you don't get in, definitely keep applying. You will learn so, so much.
