Definitely an excellent course! Take this or any other creative writing course if you ever get the chance! Professor Messud is phenomenal!
You learn a lot about your style of writing--what you like and what you are good at. Messud is obviously a very talented writer, but I should say that she doesn't like any ventures into fantasy/sci-fi (which is odd because I would consider the point of a creative writing teacher to be someone who is open to all forms of writing, but I guess everyone has their preferences).
There is no background needed to take this class. As long as you have a passion for writing and want to learn more about creative writing.
Great course! Professor Messud is a wonderful teacher, and teaches you a lot about creative writing, going through some classic short stories, as well as some excerpts from longer pieces of writing. The workshops are also something to look forward to.
If you have the opportunity, definitely take a workshop with Claire. I can't say enough good things about her--she has an enormous amount of insight into writing, and, even more importantly, she is such a lovely person.
This is definitely a class I would recommend that anyone with a passion for writing to take
It is essential to set aside time to work creatively, if you like to write. I find it very difficult to balance class work with creative work, so this blending of the two is excellent because it allows you to justify setting aside time to think about things from a fictional perspective.
This is a great opportunity to get feedback on your writing in a constructive environment. Claire is very supportive and helpful in her reviews, and is investing in you improving as a writer.
Reading your classmates' stories and the ones given in class do take time, and writing stories (depending on your writing process) will also take time. It's best to plan that accordingly, because it really is a phenomenal class. It's a way to improve on and keep writing, a way to get feedback from a professor (who is a published author) who actually cares about your work and wants you to grow as a writer. There's also a certain coziness to the small class, because everyone is sharing their work and I think it makes everyone feel a tad bit vulnerable, but there is a sense of trust and feeling that you guys are in this together. I definitely recommend taking this course.
I feel like I should split this up into commentary on Prof. Messud and commentary on the class.PROF MESSUDShe is a wonderful educator who knows what she is doing and how to create an environment conducive to creating. She is also an extremely observant, witty person with some great stories to share. Reading your work, she knows how to cut to the heart of the story and what its issues are.THE CLASSSuch a large component of any creative writing class is the feedback of the rest of the students, which is the luck of the draw. Maybe next semester's batch will be great, or maybe it will be lacking.I will say that I was sometimes frustrated by my classmates' analytical skills and felt that some did not take the course seriously. This is obviously not Claire's fault, but it did greatly impact my experience with the class. It's true of ANY creative writing class that a huge part of your experience is shaped by who else happens to land in the class with you. Like I said, luck of the draw.
I really enjoyed getting to know everyone through the course. Manageable as a fifth class. Claire gives very useful, constructive suggestions. Readings are less contemporary and more 20th cen. Each student is workshopped on two stories, of which you choose one to revise and submit.
You get out what you put in--and you can get a lot out of this course so please don't take it unless you think you will put in the effort! There are probably other students who would be willing to put in a lot of effort! Take time to get to know Claire (classroom to table, OH etc.)
Take it, yo
I absolutely loved taking a shot at fiction writing, and I recommend you giving it a shot. I got a lot out of writing stories for this class. Claire Messud is absolutely wonderful -- so caring, compassionate, thoughtful, helpful, approachable, talented. She leads a great workshop. The other readings (pretty minimal) she makes you do are carefully selected and wonderful. Necessarily, however, a workshop of beginner fiction like this can get bogged down in weeks of stories that you don't enjoy reading, which can be a drag. But I got a lot out of reading stories that I didn't like. But I will admit that some weeks were rougher than others. Overall- would highly recommend if you're interested in trying fiction.
This was my favorite class at Harvard.
Take this class if you can. Claire is a really good teacher, and you will find yourself writing more with deadlines in place. Also, if you do take the class, don't take things too seriously. Sometimes the people who get the most out of it are the ones who try out something new and see what happens.
Really engaged and talented classmates. Claire is great about letting people share their thoughts/opinions during workshops, but she still gets her own (very valuable) advice/opinions across. Not for someone who wants people to just praise their writing up and down. You'll get what you put into it
Claire is an excellent writer and discussion leadergo to her office hours. You will work hard on your stories and your responses to other students' work not because it is required but because you will feel you owe it to your peers. The three hours pass quickly.
Claire is a great novelist, really friendly, and good at giving feedback. Highly recommend.
It's an amazing course and I learned so much, and I definitely gave this class most of my attention and care this semester. You could get by putting in very little time, but the more time and effort you put in, the more you can get out of this class.
Obviously if you can get into a creative writing class, take it. If nothing else, it's a class that forces you to carve out time to write creatively. I think it helps you identify your bad writing habits and also gives you 12 other pairs of eyes on your writing. On another level, this class is an opportunity to talk to Claire Messud (!!!) about writing  (!!!) so that's also great.
