This is a great class, but the readings are dense and tricky.
This class offers a variety of readings, so it does well to cater to students with a wide array of interests. That being said, readings can often be lengthy and dense (although sometimes reading every single thing isn't necessary.)
I am thrilled I chose to take Professor Osadetz's seminar in his first fall at Harvard. I feel like I added some knowledge of the 17th century to my English arsenal, and am pleased that we now have someone in the department who knows the period well. When you're considering 90 level seminars, know that this is a highly rewarding option even though you may be less familiar with the material at first. Highly recommend to students who believe a departmental seminar should force you to engage with material you hadn't previously encountered.
It is an extremely interesting and worthwhile class.  As a science concentrator, it was pretty eye-opening to see how science was incorporated into famous works and how the famous thinkers of their time contributed to the development of modern science.  The workload isn't stressful, which allows students the opportunity to enjoy the readings and discussions.  Discussions are also wonderful for experimenting with and fleshing out potential paper topics.
This is a fascinating class if you are interested in the literary technologies used by scientists in the 17th and 18th century and the ethical questions posed by science. The amount of reading can fluctuate, but is never way too overwhelming. Professor Osadetz is an interesting and cool person! Definitely take the opportunity to get to know him.
This class is great. It's very fun and engaging. You will learn a lot, but you really have to do the reading or you won't be able to participate in discussion. The reading is interesting, though, so don't worry.
This course has an intriguingly varied reading list and will probably be even stronger now that it's been through its first round. Professor Osadetz is an engaging seminar leader and is excited about the material. Not a life-changing class, but an interesting one.
