Great class. Prof. Miller is very enthusiastic and fosters a great discussion atmosphere. It's a rather random assortment of playwrights / plays, but it's cool to get exposure to some works that are more off the beaten track
You get to read good plays and talk about them with other people who like to read good plays and talk about them. Professor Miller is very fun and approachable and makes the environment of the class both relaxed and intellectual -- a great combination.
-Great discussion-Great material-Great comments on essays/lots of thought put into helping you improve your writing-Professor Miller is wonderfully engaging and lets the students drive the discussion (unless we got too far down a rabbit hole). His enthusiasm is contagious, and it is hard not to be happy and excited by his presence and command over the material.-Take ze class!
Professor Miller is great. He's a hard grader, but his comments are very helpful. The workload is light - the plays don't take long to read and the only assignments are the papers
Professor Miller is phenomenal. He is the one of the nicest professors I've had the privilege of learning from, and he sincerely wants each student to enjoy the plays that they read over the course of the semester. His feedback is useful, and his office hours are always open and helpful as well. The plays that we read in this course were wonderful. I had only read Waiting for Godot, but this class allowed me to read other great works from the syllabus. I highly recommend this class.
This is an amazing 90 seminar. Professor Miller is spectacular and exudes his enthusiasm for the subject matter. If you ever wanted to know more about these playwrights, this is your opportunity. Prepare to be pushed in your writing and discussion and have fun in the meantime.
If you like it when a professor boosts his own self-esteem by making you feel stupid... then take this class with professor miller.  He will preface the class by telling you that you are going to become a better writer... but he will not give you any of the tools to do so.  Instead, each paper will be heavily criticized (in a way that almost makes it feel like a personal attack).  And while your grades may improve slowly with each paper... it feels as though they would have done so regardless of whether the next paper was an improvement or not.  I do not feel like I left this class a better writer.  I got less and less confident with each paper he tore apart.  I felt stupid and degraded... and it was not motivating. We were given very little direction.  He said that an "A" paper would be his vision of a perfect English paper... but he could not tell us what that meant.  He would know it when he saw it.  Helpful...? Plus, the plays we read were not great, in my opinion... maybe just not my style.
FANTASTIC COURSE!!! I loved all of the materials, they are all brilliant and fascinating. Miller is incredible in seminar, and I would also recommend any other seminar he teaches. The readings generally do not take long at all (with the exception of Shaw somewhat) and I did not find them onerous at all. Also because I enjoyed reading all of them. The material is fascinating, and Miller makes it even more so.
Prof Miller is definitely an up and coming gem to all theatre lovers at Harvard. The class itself is incredibly fulfilling and you'll leave well versed in plays you always meant to read and plays you never heard of. This semester we also took a trip to Houghton to see some original copies of the works which is one of the coolest things I've ever done. The assignments are harmless and you get a LOT of reading done. A strong rec to all.
