It's not even worth taking. No matter how much you like, Scanlan will ruin it for you.
This class is wonderful because Beckett is wonderful, and reading all his dramatic writing in a semester is a thought-provoking and exhilarating experience.  Class meetings, however, can come to feel like a repetition of the same themes--Descartes, Beckett's epiphany on the dock, Beckett's drinking habits--over and over, so you need to bring your own intellectual excitement and curiosity about Beckett, as this class will not provide sufficient fuel for it.
Like I have stated before, this course is a really unique and personal experience. Samuel Beckett is one of the most immense geniuses of history, and there are very few people left who knew him personally on this earth. It is hard to think of a better and more capable guide through Beckett's canon, than Professor Scanlan. He is not exactly a "traditional" kind of English professor, because he is primarily a theatre director -yet he is one of the most intelligent, eloquent, responsive, and above all, kind professors I have had so far at Harvard. He is immensely witty, hilarious, and well-spoken. He has a very adept vernacular and eloquence (no doubt honed after years of working with this subject matter), able to articulate very precisely the intense mind puzzles and operations working within Beckett's art.
Brilliant - not only do you learn about Beckett but about yourself and your own capacity for creative work.
I loved this class. It felt like a break from the rest of my work. It actually seemed to be about learning.
Professor Scanlan is tremendously knowledgeable and sensitive to the works of Samuel Beckett. You will come out with a profound understanding of not only Beckett's repertoire, but the issues of the cogito, "loci of being," and the "sublation of the consciousness."
Reading Beckett is an eye-opener.
The material is dark and sometimes very depressing. Deciphering the material is difficult and time-consuming. However...if you crack the Beckett puzzles it is very rewarding. If you have other hard courses, do not take this at the same time.
Professor Scanlan brings an enthusiasm and passion for Beckett unmatched by any professor I have ever seen. He not only knows the material and loves it, but conveys his love to his students, who will inevitably leave this class (better known as an experience) changed from the way they entered.
This is more of an experience than a class. Come prepared to have your traditional modes of analysis be challenged, to reckon with how (new) historical and biographical approaches to scholarship can and must with our traditional close reading and theoretical practices. Come wanting to engage slowly--always slowly--with one of the great writers of the twentieth century and Western history. If you are open to his (and Scalan's words), your perspective WILL shift. That's something worth treasuring.
I know you're firing Bob.
The workload is VERY light. If you're looking for an easy class but one which will still teach you a tremendous amount, this is the class for you.
You really truly get to know Beckett by the end. Just be prepared for the fact that re-encountering Beckett week after week might start to weigh on you if you find that you don't really love his aesthetic. I'm not sure how (or if) the course may be structured in future, but it definitely skewed far more towards the creative than the academic, which was a bit disconcerting but refreshing.
My favorite class at Harvard. Helped me put my life in perspective and changed the way I look at art and genius.
It was one of the coolest classes that I have taken at Harvard, I'm just sad other people won't get to take it
This class is not going to be offered again, sadly. I really enjoyed the readings though as Beckett is incredible. Professor Scanlan has some really insightful ideas about consciousness, human condition, Beckett, etc, although he can be a bit of a rambler and will likely talk for most of the two hours.
This class is amazing. The reading load is only about an hour per week (if you don't re-read / read in-depth), and there are only 3 writing assignments, which are brief and pretty fun if you like literary analysis. Scanlan is the bomb; he definitely rambles, but it's great to hear him talk about Beckett, literary and theatrical history, and philosophy. Bottom line - take this class if you want a lighter course load and/or love literature and the theatre.
One of the best courses I have taken. Really made me think about various aspects of life and our (human) place in it. Sad that Prof. Scanlan is retiring.
Absolutely incredible, life changing course.  The best class I've had at Harvard, it's so much more than a class.  It's about life and art and living and being.  Taking this class was one of the best decisions I've made.  Incredible.
This class was a fantastic study of both the man and the author Beckett.  It's a shame that this course will not be offered in the future.  The fact that Prof Scanlan is primarily a director shows through his teachin style and is one of the highlights of the course.
This was my absolute favorite class I have taken at Harvard so far. Definitely the best two hours of my week every week. I could listen to Professor Scanlan lecture all day. He is incredibly engaging, intelligent, articulate, and insightful. Especially about Beckett material. He gives an incredibly unique and important perspective about the material because he has been directing Beckett plays for decades and was also personal friends with Beckett. This allows him to give insights about play production and Beckett's personality that greatly enhance the learning of the material. Even if you think you don't like Beckett, you should try to the class because he is an one of the most important writers of the 20th century and has had immeasurable influence. And what better way than taking a seminar with Professor Scanlan? I learned so much and I will never forget this class.
TAKE THIS COURSE! It was by far the most enjoyable two hours of my week, and undoubtably my favorite class at Harvard. Scanlan is an incredible resource for students interested in Beckett or even just the theater in general. It is the type of class that I imagined taking when I came to Harvard four years ago, fearless conversation abounds and the laughs are as frequent as the intense debates.
Studying this material with Professor Scanlan is an opportunity not to be missed. Whatever your field of study or interest, you will gain so much and benefit artistically and intellectually.
Scanlan is a riot and so is Beckett.
Samuel Beckett is awesome, and so is Professor Scanlan.
Profoundly non-illuminating rehash of "Beckett as Plato's Cave."Reading of the actual texts not required.
