This class is exciting, fun, and will allow you to read more plays in a semester than most of us have read in our life time. Take this class and come and talk to the rest of us about it.
It was a fantastic course! Loved the plays and the lectures and it was a reasonable amount of work! Highly recommend!
This is a fantastic class! Definitely take it if you're interested at all in reading plays.  Professor Miller gives fantastic lectures and it's a great chance to read a ton of classic plays.
Professor Miller is a fantastic lecturer and this class will expose you to a wonderful array of plays from the western dramatic canon.
Prof. Miller is a great professor who really cares about the subject and is always organized in class. The class itself is a really fun way to read a bunch of plays, which I personally enjoy more than, say, poetry or old english writings. I recommend this class, even as a gen ed; it's not too much work but you'll learn some interesting things.
The class is good, yet it will not change your life. Derek is super engaging and energetic. The material is fun, but you never need to operate beyond a high-school level.
Professor Miller is great. He truly cares about the students and is always willing to help or clarify assignments. The assignments are relatively spread out over the semester, so most of the homework is dedicated to reading the plays.
The course requires a lot of reading and so far is full of readings that highlight white male playwrights. The professor is very engaging, humorous, intelligent, and open-minded, however. If you are having trouble he is understanding and is accommodating.
I'm really glad I took this class because as I consider theater important to me I also consider it to be important that I have a strong grasp on the arc of the canon. I think since theater has been such a significant part of culture in society it is also relevant for people who aren't already interested in theater.
This class was amazing. Professor Miller is by far the most captivating and engaging teacher I have ever had. He makes you look at performance in an entirely new light. If you enjoy reading plays, this class will be very interesting. Do not need to be interested in studying performance or theater to take this class, still incredibly interesting.
Very interesting, and gets you to think about performance in a larger-world context. A fun class, with a good selection of dramatic works. Lectures are super-informative and were bright spots of my week. Loved this class, one of my favorites here.
The class moves really fast and is graded out of 100! Don't blow off assignments or readings - the class is (surprisingly?) cumulative and the more engaged you are, the more you'll get out of the class and the "easier" it'll be. The assignments don't aim to trick you, but make sure you're doing what you ought to be for the class. That said, large assignments and heavy readings tend to fall on the same day, so plan ahead. Don't take this class if you're looking to coast!
A good English course for students with little background in the subject.
It requires a lot of reading, but it's TOTALLY worth it.
good
There is a lot of work, and most students are english majors.  If you are taking it as a gen ed then be prepared to be underprepared.
It is fast paced with a LOT of reading, but it is a great venture into what drama is, and you will come out a much better informed student.
If you enjoy theater this is a great class about theater. Professor Miller has a lot of really interesting thoughts on theater and knows a lot about it.
This course is fantastic! Professor Miller is an awesome lecturer, and the plays we read were all very representative of the different periods of drama. This class is definitely manageable for non-English concentrators, and it was one of my favorite classes this semester!
Professor Miller is a professor that has not lost his high energy and love for the subject matter he teaches like some professors I have had. His enthusiasm is infectious, and you will feel like you should start a career on Broadway after every enthralling lecture! This is a painless English Elective for Pre-Med Students, and the course load is next to nothing!
Be prepared to read a lot, but you are likely to enjoy a lot of the works.
If you love theatre, this is a great course for you to expand your understanding and appreciation of art.  It gives you an expansive understand of theatre from a historical and artistic standpoint.  The assignments are repetitive and a little tedious but the plays are all amazing.
Derek Miller is a passionate and knowledgable professor who has constructed an excellent syllabus.  If you don't want to dive into theatre, then do not take this class.  But if theatre is something that at all interests you, then you NEED to take this class!
Learn to write for your TF early on
This class is a great course to take if you have any interest at all in theater either as a reader or as a performer. It is a fair amount of reading, but it is all really interesting, so worth it! Professor Miller is also a really compelling lecturer and really cares about the material but is also super approachable.
This class was a fantastic introductory english class. The work was light, the subject was captivating, and the professor and TF were very helpful. I would definitely recommend this to anyone as a first english class or as a part of the dramatic arts secondary.
Professor Miller is a joy to work with, the texts are great and this is a rare English class in which you actually get to learn as much about the historical periods as you do about the individual texts. Matt is the greatest TF and together they make this class on of the most enjoyable I've taken.
This course could be more rigorous, it is fine for a survey course, reading is light. It ought to be a gen ed.
If anything, I would say it's important to know the trajectory of this course.  This is first and foremost a lecture course, and so be prepared to hear about theater a lot.  There is some discussion built into class and a lot of discussion goes on in section, but the majority of the time, it's about listening to lectures about all aspects of theater.  The other thing to mention would be this course really does address all aspects of theater.  From acting to producing, from design to writing, from relevant historical context to theatrical law, all of it has its moment at some point or at various points in this course.
To be honest, this wasn't my favorite course; I found that the assignments didn't help me demonstrate my understanding of the material and I found that the professor often focused on the history component of the course, rather than on the course materials.
If you're looking to delve deeper into these amazing plays, take this class with Prof. Miller--he's incomparable.
