Take this class only if you are very committed to screenwriting because it is a lot of work!
Writing a full-length screenplay is an awesome experience and it really teaches you the creative work ethic. The quality of other students' comments and commitment is quite key to the class, however.
I would recommend this class, as Christine is an excellent professor who has a lot to teach. But, I would tell students that a lot will be expected from them and they may not produce the screenplay they expected.
You are incredibly fortunate to be learning from as talented and successful a writer as Danny Rubin.  Take advantage of it.
It's a great way to do a lot of writing. And working with Danny is awesome.
Danny's class is about as good as it gets.
Its definitely a fun and interesting course, but the teacher doesn't have an over-arching sense of direction about what he wants to teach his students.
Danny Rubin is a Boss. Take this course and watch yourself become a better writer. You will enjoy every minute of class and wish that you can retake it again and again.
Gets you writing consistently under the supervision of a great writer - if you have any interest in pursuing screenwriting professionally, take this class.
It is what you make it.
Take it, even if you're not considering screenwriting as a career. It will help your writing method overall. Take it; you don't regret it.
You'll understand a lot about the three act structure, but you won't necessarily leave with the ability to write a feature length script. Reading scripts is a key factor, which this class doesn't assign/encourage.
This class is both fun and challenging. You will leave this class a better screenwriter.
Rubin's screenwriting classes are probably the most helpful film classes that I have taken at Harvard. Take them -- especially if you are VES and you want to do fiction filmmaking, since the VES department does not have any course that is the equivalent of this.
If you have any interest in screenwriting, gotta take this one.
It won't be the same without Danny Rubin.
This class is INCREDIBLY fun, relaxed, and honest, so you'll really be able to improve your writing skill while getting to work with some really talented, lovely people.
The workshop is very much shaped by the instructor, so these comments are pretty much Danny-specific, but the way he ran the course was terrific: with our roundtable reading format, my work really improved and the class all became good friends. Also, was a lot of writinga short script each week is no small task. Wonderful class, overall.
Danny Rubin is possibly the greatest teacher you will ever have. He's encouraging and just great all around. The class will challenge you and change you for the better.
Danny Rubin is an absolute legend and this class is one of my all time favorites. It's a tragedy he won't be teaching it again.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. And I'm a graduating senior. Danny Rubin is simply the best. He is so passionate and fun. One of the best courses Harvard has to offer, taught by one of the best faculty members the University has.
Awesome course, probably my favorite so far, but its quality relies a lot on the teacher. Since Danny's leaving this year, I would try to get to know the new teacher during the application process or before, even though I trust the English Department to choose someone excellent.
It's a great opportunity to write every week and be creative. If you're fortunate, you'll be in a class with strong writers and learn from your peers a lot through workshopping your and others' scripts. I probably got more from my peers than the professor though, as I didn't find that the weekly assignments were all that motivated, and I wish there had been more instruction in class and a long-term project we were working on.
You know whether or not you want to take this class. If you liked Screenwriting I, you'll love Screenwriting II.
It's a great environment to improve your writing with a thoughtful and intelligent instructor and peer group.
A great opportunity to practice screenwriting on a weekly basis. Professor Rubin is very accessible and gives useful feedback.
This is a fantastic class.  My writing improved greatly and there was no sense of competition between students.  It took very little time to realize that everyone was on a very similar level in terms of skill, which really helped the class work well together.  Danny's assignments are more varied than in the intro class, which is very beneficial.  Definitely take the class if you can.
This class is amazing.
This class is more difficult than Screenwriting I, because you both have to revise the pages that you're workshopping and add new pages and instead of 5 pages every week it's 30, which is a big jump. If you're a procrastinator this sometimes means investing a ton of time in your script right before your pages are due because there isn't really anyone holding you accountable to write pages in the interim weeks when your pages aren't due. However, this class is great. I found it to be a very productive group to write with and you come out of the class with a full script, which is awesome. I would definitely recommend taking this class if you're interested in creative writing.
This is a workshop, not a class; use it so that you have time for your writing, not because you want concrete lessons about screenwriting. This isn't a complaint (ok, a little more instruction would be nice sometimes) because the best way to get better as a writer is to practice. But Poirier is great, his feedback is solid, and the time to practice is invaluable.
TAKE THIS CLASS. If you're reading these reviews you've probably already taken one of Mark's classes, but if you haven't, all you need to know is that he is like a self-described "b****y, well-read older sister" who really apparently likes Australian TV. Your writing will continue to improve, the workshop is incredibly helpful, way more than in screenwriting I, and having completed a full feature script is a nice accomplishment, even just for your own knowledge. Way more skewed towards writing/workshopping than "teaching" or analyzing other movies, which is great. One caveat: it's going to be a lot, lot more work than screenwriting 1 if you want a good script. In that class, you had an entire semester to write ~30 pages; now you've got a semester to write and polish ~100 pages, and you're going to spend a lot of time writing or outlining. This is fantastic, since it'll make you better, but just know that if you're planning to spend as much time as you spent in screenwriting I, you'll need to heavily adjust that number up.
Amazing class if you want to write screenplays
This class is definitely harder than Screenwriting 1 given that you have to write an entire screenplay, but it's incredibly valuable if the other people in the class give good notes and put in the work. Mark is Mark. He may be a bitchy, well-read, older sister, but he generally wants to help you do well.
Mark is like a bitchy, well-read older sister who really likes Australian TV. But also he's a pretty great guy who gives awesome feedback. If you have an interest in screenwriting definitely take this course -- at the very least it gives you deadlines so you finish a full draft by the end of the semester. You also get to watch some great films and meet some really interesting people who are good writers and give constructive criticism that will only make your script stronger. Watch out for direct address commas.
Mark is a great guy and very helpful! I recommend his classes! Do not be afraid to tell him that you do not believe in the direct address comma!
The only negative is that sometimes we spent unequal time on people's scripts. I blame the students for that more than Mark.
If you want to be a TV or film writer, this course is essential.
Favorite/best class(es) I've taken at Harvard.
This is a great class. Mark is a great man with a lot of knowledge. He is generous with his time in office hours and outside of class and is a funny man with some very insightful constructive criticism.
Wonderful, I don't have enough good things to say about this course. Mark is great, classmates were rockstars, and I feel like I worked my creative muscles like never before.
