Best class I've taken at harvard.
It's magic!
Everybody should have the opportunity to enroll in a poetry class with Professor Graham. She is absolutely remarkable and it was such a privilege to be a part of this workshop. More than teaching poetry, she teaches the value of it and the overwhelming beauty of undergoing the world.
It's challenging, but it will improve the quality of your poetry.
Creative writing classes are such a wonderful experience!  I felt that I not only learned how to improve my poetry through revisions of my own work but also through reading the great poems of my classmates.
You learn as much about yourself as you do about the discipline of poetry.
If you can get in, definitely take this course!! Jorie is incredible. I am so happy I had the opportunity to take it.
Please don't take this class unless you are a practicing artist. But if you are, you will have much to gain from it.
This will likely be the most rewarding class you take during your time at Harvard.
Jorie's incredible, and this class can very much change the way you look at the world. If you have the chance, go for it.
Jorie Graham's passion for poetry, immense knowledge, skillful facilitation of class discussion by demand of critical participation, and personal concern for students made this class and experience I take with me for life.
Be advised: a lot of work.
Take. This. Class. Jorie is a force you don't want to miss.
This course will probably change your life.
This course was the most important course, pedagogically, that I have taken in my four years at Harvard. While the subject matter was poetry, Jorie allowed each student to bring in their insights and perspectives from across the arts in sciences to enrich their work. My peers produced poetry that was truly spanned the breadth of human experience. The combination of Jorie's emphasis on producing our own work, deconstructing the work of our peers, and drawing inspiration from other contemporary poets created an exceptional environment that I have never found anywhere else at Harvard. I would advise any student I encounter with event the remotest interest in poetry to drop everything and apply. This course will quite simply change your life.
Jorie's insights really make you see the world thru poetry and what you have to shape of it yourself. I feel like everyone in my class would agree that we made unparalleled progress just being in this course; as writers, as people, as whoever else we wanted to be.
This is the best class I have taken and probably will take at Harvard Jorie is someone that this class has given me a once in a lifetime opportunity to get to know. Without a doubt, take this class, and put your all into making it into a community of writers, because the experience is so rewarding.
If you have a sense you could invest a life into poetry, regardless of whether you think the output of your poetry now is 'good' or what you are actually planning to make a career of, apply for this workshop. This is one of the few classes you can take at this university that are unique to here, that you cannot take 'as good as' somewhere else. Take the leap apply invest in your possibilities. If you're lucky enough to get in, you'll get out a multiple of all you put in.
This is an absolutely amazing class. Definitely take it if you have any interest in becoming more serious about writing poetry.
Incredible course--life changing. You learn a craft from a master, as simple as that--a craft that will serve you well for the rest of your conscious life.
Absolutely incredible - a class that changes you as a person.
A great learning experience, curated by one of the best instructors in the world.
This class taught me not only how to be a better writer, but also how to be a better human. To me, at least, that means being a humble and observational student of the universe. TAKE THIS CLASS -- it was the formative experience of my freshman year. Specifics on the class... Be prepared to work hard in the emotional sense. A good poem is very difficult to conjure out of thin air -- you have to craft the poem, in a sense. Also, be prepared to memorize and perform dramatic readings of verse!
Jorie is an incredible teacher and poet, as many will tell you before you take this class. The reputation that precedes her is absolutely accurate--every class is inspiring and an honor to be a part of. She gives extensive feedback on every poem and teaches you to be both a better reader and writer. She is very interested in foreign-language poets, as well as the American classics. However, don't be surprised if you write a poem that is not totally thought-out if Jorie turns the poem into one of her own (which is not necessarily a bad thing!). Also, don't take this class if you are interested in more spoken-word style poetry, Jorie is very classical in that regard.
This course will transform the way you see poetry (and perhaps the world). Jorie is a force of nature- sharp, thoughtful, expressive, but also genuinely warm. She reads every poem with reverence, but won't hesitate to tell you when it's just not working. So grateful I took the leap and took this course!
Jorie is an amazing teacher. She teaches you about poetry and life. She goes above, goes beyond what is normally expected of a professor. Her feedback on your poetry will enable you to take the next steps in your writingnot because she merely corrects you or suggests new ideas, but because of her ear, attention to detail, and that she explains her rational for revision in clear language, and applies these concepts to everyone's writing in a consistent, non-confusing way. Jorie is also just a lovely person and for that alone you should not hesitate to take this class with her.
The best class I've taken at Harvard by far. Jorie is a brilliant teacher and wonderful human being.
Anyone who loves poetry should not graduate Harvard without taking this course. You will leave the class loving it even more, and in the process of being deconstructed as a writer you will grow immensely. I went to class every Wednesday more excited than for anything else I did all week, and I was never disappointed. This class does ask a lot of you, but if you work hard the payoff is enormous. Jorie is an incredible inspiration, and a wonderfully caring teacher/reader of student work. Do not pass up an opportunity to take this class.
This class will change your life.
I feel so lucky to have gotten to take this class. Jorie is passionate and experienced and inspiring. This class gave me so many tangible ways to improve as a poet in a ways I've never experienced before, both through Jorie's teaching and the quality of the other students' work. This was the best class I've taken at Harvard or before, if you get a chance TAKE IT!!!
Working with Jorie for this creative writing workshop will change your life if you are ready for it.  If you prioritize spending your time thinking about the issues that this form of creative work and this class raises, it will be the most rewarding class you will take at Harvard.  Jorie is a one-in-a-million teacher and mentor. It is a privilege to be in her presence,  to feel her gravity.
I would tell future students that they would not regret taking this class, although not to expect for it to be an easy ride. The readings are substantial, and the effort that it takes to write poetry should not be underestimated. Jorie's love for literature is thoroughly contagious (in all the best senses) and she puts more time and energy into her students than anyone else I have encountered at Harvard.
If you can get in, you should take it. Expect to spend your semester thinking about poetry and your life and the relation between the two. The level at which the class writes was highI can't speak for other semesters, but I imagine the statement holds. Jorie is extraordinary. The assignments of the course presumably vary from semester to semester. We had midterm papers on poets of our choosing and a lot of readings. The amount which you write is up to you, and some wrote a lot while others wrote very little. This class had a profound impact on the way in which I approach my poetry and that of others and, consequently, my life.
This class will fundamentally change you as a thinker, poet, artist, and person. Jorie Graham is not only one of the most phenomenal living poets--as well as one of the most amazing American poets ever-- but she also is a phenomenal teacher and cares so much about her students. She is not one of those "celebrity" professors who will only talk to you in class. She will get much more involved, not only with you as a writer but you as a human being. I cannot possibly do justice to how amazing this class is in this recommendation alone. I would have to talk with you for hours over tea or something. It's phenomenal. It will change your life and it will WAKE YOU UP to everything going on around you and inside you. My ONE WARNING is that after taking this class you might look back on everything you did beforehand and feel like you've gone through live sleepwalking before this. TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU CAN
Jorie Graham is a gem of the English department-- it's pretty widely known. Anyone who ever gets the opportunity to study with her should take it, and should put 120% effort in that opportunity.
Jorie is one of the most incredible human beings and teachers I have ever met. If you get into this class, you must must take it. It's so wonderful, and you really walk out feeling very different about yourself and your art. Make sure you put time and effort into it, too.
See my other answers
Be prepared, and it's as hard as you make it out to be. But if you make it easy, you're cheating yourself, wasting some of Jorie's time, and doing nothing good in the meantime.
One of the most important classes I have taken at Harvard. Had a huge impact on my life, not only in terms of how think about, read, and write poetry, but also on how I live my life in general, my conception of my place in the world, my responsibilities, my emotions. Try to take this class. And if you get in, take a chance and fully commit to it.
