AMAZING whether or not you need it for a Poets requirement! Helen Vendler lives up to the hype, although she has surprisingly dogmatic views on poetry. George Herbert, one of the four poets covered in the syllabus, was simply horrible. But the Shakespeare and Keats lectures, which bookend the course, will be among the highlights of your pedagogical life. Paper assignments are honestly kind of weird and idiosyncratic but Annie is such a great TF that this didn't matter too much. Weekly assignments are totally doable. In sum, a great example of why English is the best department in this college!
Helen Vendler is incredible. She is brilliant and help you see so much more in the poems. And she is just a delightful human being--very warm and welcoming to chatting with all her students. The selection of poetry is also great. Shakespeare and Keats are more canonical, but there is great beauty to be discovered in the religious poems of Herbert and creative ones of Blake.
Take this class! Professor Vendler and Annie Wyman are wonderful, and you will come to adore poetry.
Professor Vendler is amazing and this course is very well taught. If you have any interest in poetry or need to fulfill the Poets requirement, take it.
This class was amazing!  Spending two hours a week listening to Professor Vendler talk about poetry was like spending two hours transported away to some fantastical world inside her/your/the poet's imagination. Sometimes the lecture style can be difficult to stay awake in (we were in a very warm, basement room right after lunch-- that might've also contributed), but you should try hard, because it's definitely worth it.
Take this course for the rich reading list and Professor Vendler's keen eye for poetry. Learn the technical aspects of poetry if you can -- those are the things you don't always learn elsewhere. But don't expect a comprehensive or necessarily satisfying conclusion about the poems discussed. Since it's a tour through some foundational and complex verse, it's more of an introduction to some excellent poets.
Professor Vendler is among the all-time greats, and the poets in this course are too.  The reading is wonderful, and though lecture sometimes seems long, there's always something inspiring in there.
This course is phenomenal!  Absolutely take it, even if you are not an English concentrator.  Professor Vendler is the foremost authority on lyric poetry, and just having the opportunity to listen to her speak each week is a real treat.  She really knows what she's talking about, and she made me enjoy poetry, which I had never really liked before.  Your writing will improve tremendously as well.  All that being said, it was tough to sit through the two-hour class each week, as it mostly consisted of Professor Vendler talking.  The memorization and recitation component was also difficult.  It was a challenge and kind of fun, but it could get tiresome to memorize and recite a poem almost every week. In the end though, I was glad that Professor Vendler made us do that.  Recitation is kind of a lost art nowadays.
Great class.
It's a lot of Helen Vendler reading to you and talking at you about poems. But that is great!
Thou shalt take this course.  It definitely was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard, a course that was actually meaningful to my experience.  It was an immensely rewarding experience taking a course with Professor Vendler and Annie (TF), not only because Professor Vendler is amazing at what she does (no one doubts that) but also because she is so genial and kind and an altogether wonderful human being.  I often left her classes feeling like I had just been taught something wonderful--because I had.  The course--and the experience of this class--was what I had come to Harvard for: to interact with a wonderful and caring professor in a meaningful way.  Very few courses (an existentialism course I took in Spring 2011) have been as meaningful.  Besides, when else will you get a chance to take a small course with Helen Vendler?  Don't take the course just because Professor Vendler is famous--though I'm sure you'd still get a lot out of it.  Take it if you're interested in learning something new.  I had absolutely no background in poetry before taking the course, and I was extremely apprehensive about it, but Professor Vendler understands this, and you shouldn't have to worry about it; this shouldn't at all get in the way of signing up for the course.  The workload is very manageable too.  Take the course if you want to have a meaningful and memorable experience of your time at Harvard.  You'll also get to meet a wonderful Professor along the way.  She can be terrifying when she cold calls people, but she's an absolutely wonderful and caring and warm professor.
That it is a great course with an awesome professor, but some students found that the given interpretations of the poems were very "old-school." This is not necessarily a negative comment but does change the way some students enjoy the class.
Helen Vendler is a lovely person and wonderful teacher. She will teach you how to read poetry in such a way that poems affect you personally.
You know those classes that are the classes you always thought you'd take in college before Ec 10 knocked any sense of academic romanticism out of you? Well, this is that class you've always wanted. You think, critically, about your world while reading some of the most beautiful poetry taught by one of the most poetic professors I've ever met. It's just good for the soul, and I'd recommend it to anyone who needs to re-ignite their faith in academics at Harvard.
This class covers great poets, but was extremely disorganized. The professor was very clever and his lectures were excellent (he's snarky, very quick-witted, and very bright) but the class was poorly managed. We spent 5 weeks on a single poet (Stevens, the weakest of the four, in my opinion), and the papers were assigned rather last-minute.
If you're passionate about poetry, take this class- you'll enjoy it. If you're not passionate about the subject, you'll likely leave the class with at least an new appreciation of poetry. The professor's insight into the poetry we read was very interesting to hear in lecture. Sections were a bit repetitive/boring. We had no syllabus, which was at times stressful because we only received a couple weeks notice for essays and didn't really know what our expectations were in the class/what we should be doing to perform well.
The professor is great and the class asks relatively little of you- only that you show up having read the assigned poems, ready to discuss.
Leland should have gotten tenure! Take a class with him while you can.  He's a sensitive teacher with a lot of great ideas.
Leland is softspoken, brilliant, and funny, giving the class a great ambience. He also possesses the rare ability to call someone out on an outlandishly farfetched interpretation in an inoffensive but effective way. The poetry is great and Will is a dedicated and learned TF. This course has made me change my intended major to English. My only restraint in wholeheartedly recommending this course would be that if you are someone very much in need of structure, you may be slightly frustrated by the paper schedule, although this may have been an exceptional one-semester occurrence.
If the course remains as is, be prepared for great poets, but a fly-by-night structure... expect emails with the reading assignments the night before they are due. You never know what you will get in lecture either. Leland is brilliant but the class was hard to follow.
It's a great class and it really furthered my understanding and appreciation for Modern poetry.
It will probably be a very different class with a different teacher. Leland was great, but another teacher might turn it into something entirely different.
This class had barely any structure at all, the discussions were lethargic at best, and the assignments are too open-ended for an introductory course. There's an extremely light workload, and they seemed to make up for the lack of organization with an easy grading scale, but on the flip side, you won't learn much about poetry or how to analyze it. If you want to coast through your Common Ground requirements, this is the place to do it, but if you want to become a better reader and writer, this ain't it.
You need to be ok with mystery to take this class because you are not likely to know what you will be doing during class or for assignments at any point in advance.
This is a fascinating class for those who get pleasure out of thinking both philosophically and aesthetically.
The workload varies week to week and in-class discussions are excellent.
It is a very interesting class which successfully improved both my knowledge for and passion for poetry.
Wonderful material. Terrible organization. I would recommend it if the professor could provide a syllabus with clear assignments and course requirements.
