If you have the opportunity, absolutely take this course. I really learned how to think, read, and write more carefully and what is expected of a serious humanities student. (A note: don't worry that the paper topics might begin with something like "In 20-25 pages", or, "Using everything we've read thus far..." They won't. Well, they didn't.)
If you think you're interested in pursuing English at Harvard, take this course - after the semester ends you will be able to make a better decision as to whether you are cut out for English or not. Also, take this course if you want to read the books required by it. Another amazing things about this course is that you will be taught by extremely respected and prominent academics in the field of English, in a class of only about 36 students. A negative of this class is that is can be extremely intimidating and fast paced, hence you may not be able to read all the books. This is frustrating and is disallows you from participating in class that particular week.
A very "high profile" course. Lots of hype Well, it is a great course, and it has its problems. If you are eager to BEGIN the process of diving into enormous works, but not really solve the issues, then this course is for you. But if you are frustrated by incomplete answers and moving through big topics too fast, then you will be extremely annoyed. Consider that, would be my advice.
Like college, this class is what you make of it. That is, you can sort of give the required reading a cursory glance, read some spark notes or something, and "get by" but that is not making the most of this class. If you do the reading and come to section prepared, both professors, especially Menand, will challenge the way you think about the book and will push your thinking. It really is an awesome class if you're willing to do the work.
There's a lot of reading, but it's all some of the greatest literature in the Western canon. The professors, particularly Prof. Greenblatt, let the students drive the class too much, which can lead to lectures often feeling inconsequential. Worth it for Prof. Menand, one of the greatest humanities lecturers at Harvard.
This class is a survey course, which means you will not go into depth with the texts. That said, the texts are incredible and you will be given uncommon access to two experts whom you can probe further during office hours. Another frustrating component is the Socratic-style of the lectures. A decent amount of each lecture will be taken up by your peers' own questions and answers when you just want to hear the professors, who are experts in their field, speak. Ultimately, you will get an introductory knowledge into the texts and historical/literary periods you study and access to interesting insights of two interesting professors.
A great way to get exposed to some of the most influential literature since The Odyssey with two rockstar professors! Also has a structure that allows for a lot of your own thoughts, ideas, and feedback. It's a book a week, and not easy books, so get ready to READ.
This is a fantastic introductory course. You get out of it what you put in. Try to do all the readings so you can participate in class. Menand and Greenblatt lead class conversation really well.
Amazing
This is an amazing opportunity to come into close contact with these famous professors (and they're earned that status). Don't take it if you're not willing to spend a lot of time each week reading, though. There is one book per week (two for Ulysses). As a result, it sometimes feels like you don't get to explore each book as deeply as you'd like, especially if you haven't read them thoroughly beforehand. Still, though, a great course, with some of the smartest men in the field.
Don't take this course if you don't want to read the works (which is A LOT OF reading). You will be frustrated in lecture which also has a discussion component and say stupid things that will make your classmates hate you. It will be a loss of time. People who are ready to take on the challenge about discussing these works and putting time into thinking about them should take this course and it will be amazing for them to have Prof. Greenblatt and Prof. Menand lead the discussions. But they will not be throwing amazing ideas to your face if the students don't participate.
This course was incredible and the professors were pretty inspiring.  Definitely take, as a freshman or a sophomore, for an introduction to the English department/a chance to read all those books you really should read.
English 110 is a must-take course for anyone interested English, reading, or just broadening their literary exposure, and there could be no two better professors to lead such formidable journey across these works as Professors Menand and Greenblatt!
This is an incredibly thought-proving and thoughtful course. The professors teach their own sections, and the TF is wonderful. The syllabus is chalk full of books every educated person should be familiar with, and the weekly reading is a treat. The quality of discussion and complexity of thought that takes place in sections and in lectures in exhilarating.  I can not recommend this course more highly.
This class is excellent. Lecture participation is a little annoying, if only because you'll want to listen only to Professors Menand and Greenblatt and not to anyone else. If you can swing it, try to get Menand as your section leader. He's brilliant and fascinating. Be warned: the reading list is amazing but very time consuming. It'll be more than worth your time to do all the reading but make sure there's space in your schedule for it.
If you are willing and have the time management skills for reading one novel a week (anywhere from 100-400 pages), this class is incredibly rewarding and a privilege to take. Professors Menand and Greenblatt are highly renowned in their respective fields for good reason, and this is an opportunity to debate issues in literature with the professors themselves--Menand, in his section, will treat you and your ideas seriously, challenging you to defend yourself and guiding discussion with fluency, engagement, and joy. This is also a great place to meet some of your peers who love reading books and talking about them.
Menand is awesome and interesting. Greenblatt is on another planet sometimes because his discussions get so haphazard (especially with a class with lots of non-literary folks trying to get a gen-ed with some pulitzer prize winners). I'd recommend a class where there's more textual analysis and less broad historical ideas.
This course is the BEST thing ever, definitely take it! Professors Greenblatt and Menand are engaging, brilliant, and really open-minded as lecturers and section leaders. Maria is also an incredibly kind and constructive t.f., and she gave a lot of helpful guidance and thoughtful attention to each student. Lectures are fascinating and interactive-they set up relevant context and explore intertextual connections, as well as the works we read in the context of western literary and philosophical tradition. The sections allow you a chance to get to know and bounce ideas off of one of the most brilliant minds in English academia today. You can really take this class wherever you want to in terms of history, philosophy, literature, religion, and even science. The reading list is incredible--a set of can't-miss books for Humanities students or just generally educated people. The books are also surprisingly fun--surprisingly relevant and applicable to today, which we also got to explore in section. In addition, this class attracts an amazing and beyond interesting group of students, who I feel lucky to have gotten to know.
Be prepared for unusually tough reading and discussion, but it is an inspiring and changing course.
This was an amazing class. The professors were amazing, and the enthusiasm they were able to generate for the books is second to none. If you get in to the class, you would be a fool not to take it.
The selection of readings is wonderful. If you haven't read any of these books, the class will be a personally enlightening experience. The class is very much driven by students' comments and discussion. During both lecture and section, the students will speak for the majority of the time. Definitely take this class if you want to introduce yourself to some of the greatest texts ever written. Keep in mind, however, that it will be a very rudimentary introduction, as not enough time is spent on textual analysis.
An amazing class for anyone of any concentration, as these are seminal works from history and examining them is crucial for any well-rounded student.
I do not recommend the course if you already have a serious interest in the topic. Although it attempts to cover a wide range of highly complex works, it was still the most introductory-level, superficial English course I've taken at Harvard and unsuitable for those who already want to pursue English and wish to undertake a deep analysis of literature. Rather, it's an introduction to a few of the major historical concerns of the humanities within the limited scope of the Western canon, offering a surface-level gloss of a series of famous texts--not really united by any particular formal or ideological concern, merely their chronology, and the fact that they all have something to do with Ulysses. It attempts to cover far too much material without any semblance of a logical or systematic approach. There is not enough time to do all of the readings or to discuss them in any serious way. I often felt that the cursory examinations of huge texts that were conducted did them and us a disservice in pretending we could get anywhere in such a short time. The size of the class was not quite right; too small to be a lecture course, but still too large to engage in productive discussions. The lecture/seminar hybrid with all 36 students resulted in disjointed and uneven conversation and contributed to a competitive atmosphere, with students jockeying for the professors' attention, and quieter students intimidated from contributing. Section with Professor Greenblatt was vague, disorienting, and meandering, with few real conclusions, and the aspects of the works that we did focus on often seemed arbitrarily chosen. Although the combination of big-name professors and a star-studded syllabus is enticing, I encourage seeking other opportunities in the English department for a vastly more precise and productive experience in reading, discussing, and writing about literature.
If this course isn't worth taking, then life isn't worth living.
