This class is great. The reading is all really enjoyable and the papers are really fun to write. There is a lot of reading, and it is almost impossible to finish all of it, but the reading is so good that you will want to try. This is a great intro English class or A&I gened for non english people.
This class is an amazing comprehensive introduction to science fiction! I recommend it to anyone interested in literature, science, or reading anything!
this was an extremely fun class. i took it pass fail, so the reading might take much longer than it took me. But i think that Burt is an amazing lecturer who is very passionate about science fiction
Burt gives awesome, energetic lectures, the teaching staff love literature and really guide discussion in section, the readings are great if you like sci-fi, and they let you follow your own ideas in essays
This is an awesome class! Keep up with the readings, because its SO worth it. The texts are great and Prof. Burt and the TFs have great insights to share about them, so READ and enjoy their awesome wisdom. Besides the reading load, the class is pretty laid back--3 pretty short papers, plus a few mini creative ungraded assignments. The final is annoying but totally doable. Overall such a worthwhile class--whether you're already into the genre or not, you'll get a lot out of the class.
The course is fantastic for broadening your horizons with regards to literature.
Professor Burt is the weirdest and most enthusiastic instructor I've had at Harvard (this is a positive). But know that you should be a quick reader if you hope to tackle this entire syllabus. There's a LOT of good stuff, and it's all worth reading, but it can be hard to keep up.
Professor Burt is a lot of fun to watch lecture, and Science Fiction is awesome! There is a ton of reading for this class so be prepared, but overall a fun experience.
This is an incredible class! If you love science fiction, or even if you have a casual interest and have always wanted to read more, this is the class to take. Professor Burt definitely has a big personality, and I really enjoyed that; his enthusiasm for the subject material is really infectious. The lectures cover a lot of cool material. It's not the deepest literature course if you are used to other English courses, but nevertheless I felt like I learned a lot and became a better reader and writer in this course. Definitely a fun way to read and write more!
This is a GREAT course!  The stuff you read is so amazing and it will build for you a great library of excellent works.  It also challenges your ideas of what "science fiction" actually is, introducing you to works from every crevice of the genre.  The readings are a true joy (really do all of them!), the lectures are great and relaxed (no frantic note-taking), and the sections just made sense.  Prof. Burt really does make the course - he's awesome!  The one thing is that there is a LOT of reading.  Don't take this course as a "Gem" (so I hear they're called? - i.e. a super easy Gen-Ed).  It's a commitment, but if you put in the time to read and absorb everything, you'll really, really, enjoy it.   Especially as a science concentrator, this is such a cool way to fulfill A&I meaningfully, or even a really engaging elective!
Professor Burt is a fun and engaging lecturer, but ultimately you learn more from close reading the texts on your own than from attending lecture.
TAKE THIS COURSE. IF you like SciFi. Anyone with the opportunity to listen to Prof. Burt lecture should feel blessed - he is absolutely hysterical. This may seem obvious, but don't take this course if you DON'T love SciFi (or if you think that you wouldn't). There is a lot of reading. It is all enjoyable, and there is a lot of variety, but I can imagine it being a pretty big slog if you don't like SciFi. Also, the final is very low-key, which certainly helps.
If you like SF then this class will take you on a wild ride where you will read books you love and hate and discover amazing new thoughts and ideas through the centuries. Its so cool to see how the genre progresses with time and I would suggest that you see for yourself where this community and genre that has gotten so popular today began and how it has evolved.
Great course, even if you're not a SciFi fan already (I wasn't). It really helps you think about issues of science, technology and how people have imagined the future, along with literary questions of genre and subculture. Much more reading than a typical GenEd but it's typically very enjoyable.
This course is really fun, but you will have to do a lot of work if you plan on keeping up with the readings
If you are interested in science fiction at all, then this is a great course. The reading was always enjoyable, and I got a much better idea of the history and importance of SF. Definitely a manageable English class, even for those who are averse to literature courses, as the reading and writing requirements weren't very excessive
Professor Burt is a true gem of a professor - enthusiastic, smart, and quirky.  Sometimes he throws candy at you.  Sometimes you get pie.
You will have a fantastic time in this course; no matter what you think you know about science fiction, through this course the genre's power to teach, inspire wonder, and make you think will surprise you.
There is a lot of reading but you do learn a lot about science fiction and how it has developed over the years since it was first written.
This is a great class for anyone at all interested in science fiction. Be warned that there is a lot of reading.
Great class/ teacher, too many books
The readings are awesome, but you will definitely struggle to keep up with all of them, which made this class sort of tragic--everyone would have loved to discuss everything in section, but most of the time people hadn't read everything, and so we could only have pieces of discussion.
I have had multiple people tell me this is the best course they took at Harvard. I can see why. This course really engages with science fiction as literature, and not only did I learn a lot about science and science fiction, I also learned a lot about cultural issues like gender and race. Burt is an amazing instructor, but be aware that this class is a real English class with lots of demanding reading.
This course really changed the way I look at science fiction and exposed me to some really wonderful writers. It's a lot of reading, so if you have other reading-heavy courses it might be difficult to get through all the works. But Professor Burt is a great lecturer and the course offers opportunities to explore your own writing capabilities and challenge your creativity.
If you go to the first class and find Professor Burt's lectures all over the place, confusing, and slightly annoying, don't take it. Just because it is science fiction does not mean you'll find the class fun, enjoyable, or interesting. A lot of the times it felt as if the silly things Burt did in class (bring in costumes, throw candy, have "pie contests") were compensating for the lack of substantial material and ideas the lectures actually did not contain.
It's a great time, be prepared for a lot of great reading.
This is an amazing class.  Prof. Burt is an engaging, funny lecturer and the lectures are interesting and thought-provoking.  He punctuates his points with images on the screen and throwing candy at students.  The readings are fascinating and diverse - definitely my favorite reading I've ever done for a class, and some of the most engrossing fiction I've ever read!  It is a lot at times, so make sure you start early and budget your time.  The TFs are an amazing resource for writing your papers, which have a lot of flexibility in their topics.  I would recommend this course to anyone who needs AIU, likes reading, or just wants to take a great class.
The reading list is incredible and Burt's lectures are a lot of fun. The amount of reading can be borderline overwhelming at times, but almost every text was eye-opening in one way or another and there wasn't too much writing. Absolutely take it for A&I or as an elective.
This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.  It combines wonderfully varied works of science fiction with a teaching staff that really wants to teach it, and teach it well.  Professor Burt is a really skilled lecturer with an obvious knowledge and love for the subject matter.
There's a lot of reading but it can be manageable, especially because we cover the more difficult texts in lecture and section. Otherwise, the material is very interesting and really gets you to think about the world in new ways
There are a fair number of readings, but they go by so quickly! I thoroughly enjoyed this class. I am actually a pre-med biology student and this was my favorite class at Harvard. The lectures are so fun to listen to. Professor Bert has so much energy and enthusiasm that is contagious.
This course is great! definitely one to take before you graduate! sometimes there was a lot of reading but overall manageable and enjoyable.
This is simply an interesting, exciting class about an unusual subject. Professor Burt is enthusiastic, the TFs are nice, and most of the readings are mind blowing.
This is without a doubt the best course I have taken at Harvard (disclaimer: I took this as a freshman, but I feel that the statement could easily hold true for years to come). Take the class if you're looking for a great course that will give you insights into not only the vast category of literature that is science fiction, but also human nature and the world we live in today. Take the class if you want homework that is basically pleasure reading. Take the class if you want candy thrown at you in lecture. Don't take the class if you're looking for an easy gen-ed without much homework, because there is a lot of reading (but as previously mentioned before, the reading is fun!). The final is perfectly doable if you've done all or most of the reading. Do yourself a favor and take this class!
I'm a person who's not exactly crazy about sci-fi, and I was worried everyone else in the class would be. There's a pretty even mix of sci-fi lovers, and people who are simply interested in reading more sci-fi. That said, some of the books in this course were way too weird for me to get into, but others actually made me enjoy the weirdness. For example, I started Neuromancer and was ready to give up within a few pages, but by the end of it I can now say it's one of my favorite books. Also the reading apparently got cut down this year. It's still a good deal of reading, but you can get by with not reading certain things. I would still recommend that you read almost everything because the materials were so great. Professor Burt is very lively and engaging as well, and the TFs were all great. Best choice you can make is to take this class.
Took this as an English concentration credit - was a great way to diversify my literature course load. Hadn't read any science fiction (outside of Frankenstein), and now I have over a dozen SF works in my repertoire that span over a period of more than a century.
This is a very interesting course, and worth taking if you are interested in English or are looking for an AIU GenEd.  However, the coursework is substantial - you will read A LOT.  It is a difficult but rewarding course, and Burt is a really interesting professor.
Come into this class with an open mind, do the readings to the best of your ability, and pay attention in lecture. Some readings are not going to make sense or seem relevant until you go to lecture.. That's okay. Be ready for that moment of OHHHH when you realize the work you just read is actually very important. And have fun! Most of the readings are very engaging, and even those that aren't are important in other ways, and by the end you'll be glad that you've at least read them once in your life.
This class is a great one to expose you to a lot of different kinds of fiction literature (yes, the class is called science fiction, and while the works are all sf, there is so much variety). There is a lot of reading, and especially if you are not a fast reader, the readings can take up a lot of time and it is really easy to get behind. That being said, the readings are great selections and will really help you open your eyes. A lot is expected of the essays, and there's a bit of a learning curve if you don't have much experience writing literature analysis kinds of papers. Basically, this class was relatively hard, required a lot of time, but you learn a lot from it.
This was a fantastic class. Stephen Burt is an enthusiastic professor with terrific lectures. The reading can be daunting, but you will certainly get something out of it. From ontological philosophy to feminism to historical revisionism and more, the science fiction is interestingly dense and well spread in topic. If you want a great reading class (even just for fun) take this class.
This class is phenomenal. (1) the readings are super interesting and diverse - there will be something that you like (and if there really isn't anything, you can write a paper based on a novel that is not in the class. (2) the TFs are great - they each bring their own perspectives and experiences in literature and science fiction. (3) Professor Burt is legendary. His enthusiasm and energy are contagious. His lectures are dynamic and fun but thought-provoking and intellectual. There was really never a dull moment! You will learn a lot about why you like science fiction and why science fiction is everything.
This class has a TON of reading, but is SO worthwhile. Professor Burt and all of the TFs are incredibly engaging, and you will find yourself loving sci-fi.
You get to read sci-fi novels all semester as your homework, that's pretty cool.
It's incredibly fun, and you learn a lot.
The class is really interesting, not too demanding, and the professor is really and truly enthused about the subject matter.
If you like reading science fiction, you'll like this class and this professor.
It's a lot of fun, and, though the texts are relatively easy, still beneficial to an overall understanding of literature.
If you enjoy science fiction, this class is definitely for you.  It also fulfills a Lit & Arts A core, which I really, really wish I'd known when the semester began.
The best reading list of any course at Harvard. Also, the best combination entertaining/brilliant lecturer I've had in four years here.
You don't get to study science fiction every day, especially not with a sci-fi geek as smart as Prof. Burt.
You don't need to be an SF fan to take this course, but you will become one when you complete it. Professor Burt is passionate, entertaining and extremely knowledgeable about the course material. It's actually fun to go to lecture.
Take it if you have time and interest, but don't expect it to be a meaningful center of your semester.
It has great readings, the professor is awesome and sections are fun.
I've actually recommended this course to everyone I've met.  I told them the work is actually a lot of fun because the books are so fantastic and it's clear that the professor brings a lot of intellectual enthusiasm to the lectures.
This is an amazing class taught by a brilliant lecturer and professor. Lectures are always energetic, exciting, and incredibly informative and the readings for this class are not only super interesting, but also feature a diverse set of authors and topics. Professor Burt really makes sure that the readings are not just by white, male authors, and discuss broad issues like gender and sexuality as well as all the cool sci fi stuff you would expect from such a class. In terms of assignments, there are 3 papers and a final exam (in addition to a fair amount of reading). The papers are spread out well and you are given a very large list of topics to choose from (as well as the ability to make up your own topic) and you can choose which books to write on at which point in the semester so it is a rather flexible assignment schedule, which I really liked. Also the final exam is not very difficult if you've done most of the readings, and the practice exam looks just like what you can expect on the final exam, which I thought was very helpful and fair. Definitely a great class to take for Aesthetic & Interpretive understanding or just as an awesome and fun elective. By only advice is to try your best to stay caught up on the readings and to do as many as possible because you will get so much more from the course that way.
I've gained a deep appreciation of science fiction from taking this class. If are interested in science fiction and excited by the idea of reading a lot of it, I would highly recommend taking it for your A&I gen ed. The professor is incredibly passionate and delivers unique lectures that add a lot to the works you are reading. It will take a little more time than some of the other gen eds but if you have any interest in science fiction it is definitely worth at least shopping it.
If you want credit for reading and thinking about science fiction, take this class!  Professor Burt is great, the books you read are really interesting, and you may find it to be one of the highlights of your semester.
This was an absolutely fantastic course. Professor Burt is incredible, and his lectures will always keep you on your toes, from throwing candy, to whipping out toys for everyone to play with, to crawling out of the window. I really hadn't read a lot of Science Fiction before taking the class, but I learned a lot about the genre and feel like I got a good overview of the field.With that said, it is a ton of reading. Be prepared to stay on top of it, because you won't have time to go back and catch up. Being able to read quickly will be a huge deal, because as a slow reader, I sometimes felt like I didn't have enough time, and I had to resort to skimming. You'll get a lot out of the reading, but it is a lot, so if you have a loaded semester, don't take this as an easy course.All in all, I learned a lot and had a great time. The grading was fair, though there was a final, mostly for the purpose of making sure you actually did the reading.Good luck!!
This is a GREAT class. Professor Burt is so charismatic and engaging as a lecturer, the readings are (for the most part) really enjoyable and painless, and the section always sparked really great conversation (Stephen was an amazing TF). The whole teaching staff is so knowledgable and accessible and, seriously, the readings are the sort of things that I would do for enjoyment if I had time outside of other academic assignments any other semester. The variety of the books, short stories, movies, etc. really offers something for everyone, and each really contributes to the overall sense of sci fi as a genre. This is such a great way to fulfill your A and I gen ed or just an awesome class to take if you're at all interested in SF!
The class is often taken as a GenEd, but beware. While it is a very enjoyable experience, and the readings done are all great, this is NOT an easy A or A-. You will put many hours per week into the readings, and even then, you will have to find additional time to write the essays (because the readings continue even during periods when papers are due). Even then, you have to previously great writer to have a good chance at an A. The writing style is significantly different from what I was used to, and it took a while to adjust (Paper grades were B, A-). So as you can see, with such few grades, just the time it takes to get used to a class style can be killer.
Unless the syllabus is changed, this course requires a TON of reading. Professor Burt is funny and a great lecturer to listen to, but be aware of the time commitment the works will require. If you are interested in science fiction you will definitely enjoy the reading though.
This is a great course for anyone interested in science fiction, as it presents many different perspectives on this genre and the reading list is excellent. Lectures are very engaging and sections frequently lead to fascinating discussions. The essay assignments are very reasonable, though there is a great deal of reading each week and lectures are most useful if you have done the reading.
Really is one of the best Gen Eds, perhaps even classes. The topic (science fiction) makes it even more fun.
The course is a fun and lively survey of science fiction that will be enjoyable to those who are very well-read in the genre.  Lectures are somewhat disorganized though and might be difficult to follow if you dont have as strong a background in the curriculum.  As a result, I do not recommend the course as an introductory English course / A&I gen ed.
This is a great class for anyone who likes reading lots of books. They are great books but be careful not to fall behind on your reading!
prepare for a lot of reading!
This is a very cool course. Opportunities and encouragement for individual thinking abound. Note that as much as this is a course in SF, its history, permutations, *and limits*, it's also a course in genre with SF as its case study. I'm interested in questions of genre, but if they don't interest you, maybe don't take it. Papers that focus exclusively on close reading or other standard literary analyses are somewhat discouraged, which is ironic: this is one of the relatively few classes to seriously study lit outside of big-L "Literature." Which is NOT to say that the prof and TFs don't take SF seriously. They do, very much so.
Enroll for the outrageous lectures and fascinating reading list. Be prepared for a very intense reading load.
I would recommend this course because Professor Burt is amazing. There is a ton of reading, but it is way better than your typical college reading. It was a great change of pace from some of my other classes and was much less intimidating than other AIU classes. My TF was terrible, but that's how it goes sometimes at Harvard, unfortunately? One other caveat that I think extends beyond my section: the grading was ridiculous. An A paper, according to my TF, had to be an absolutely perfect paper. I grew frustrated when I submitted drafts to my TF (a great option, by the way) and took his feedback to make huge changes and then didn't see much impact in my grade.
The readings are really fun, and I feel like they really broadened my horizons within the genre of science fiction.  It is a fair amount of reading, though, so be prepared for that.
While it's got a heavy reading load, everything in this course is worth it. Everything is absolutely fascinating and might change your life.
A great English course for a non-English concentrator like me. Prof. Burt gives really excellent lectures (which he tries very hard to make engaging) and has constructed an amazing syllabus that is especially attentive to issues of race/gender/sexuality and the intersection of science and society. while I didn't love all the books on the syllabus, I feel like I did get a good sense of the scope of the US science fiction genre and identified other sf books I'm interested in reading in the future. Prof. Burt can be hard to access because his office hours are so crowded, though.
I am a hard science concentrator and this was my favorite course I have taken at Harvard. The curriculum is interesting, Professor Burt is a blast, and section was always an interesting discussion. If you are taking this because you want to watch SciFi, you will be disapointed as it is virtually all literature, but the books are fantastic. The course covers over a hundred years of SF literature and has everything from 600 page doorstopper novels to stories told as tweets. The discussions that come about from the books touch on ethical, political, sociological, and technological questions with all sorts of interesting perspectives. I cannot recommend this course highly enough.
If you like science fiction (and instead of being 'ugh?' about its craziness you're enjoying it), take this class. Professor Burt is amazing, perhaps the most enthusiastic professor I've seen at Harvard so far, and he throws candy (and other things) at people. He always tries to engage people in the conversation, and at times I felt sorry for us being such an ignorant bunch of students that nobody would respond to his attempts to make people talk in class. STEPHEN BURT YOU'RE THE BEST! Also, it seems that Stephen tends to choose amazing TFs. My TF gave me great feedback on my papers ( and even recommended some other readings based on my interests and what I wrote about. What's more, he even introduced me to a person who does mostly math but is also a writer (which is something I'd be very happy to be one day)!!!True, the course attracts a lot of people looking for an easy and fun way to fulfil a requirement by not really doing the reading, but it also attracts some really interesting people who'll have a lot to say in section (and section was also terrific - I didn't especially prepare for it (except for doing the reading most of the times), but maybe it's a good idea to have a couple of ideas in mind). One thing you do have to worry about is the reading, but the good thing is there are many many books so not reading a couple of them wouldn't be terrible.Finally, the movie component of the course was OK, I think. There was one normal movie (an episode of 'Firefly'), and one totally crazy movie (Andrey Tarkovsky's 'Stalker'). The former wasn't anything amazing, but the latter gave me a lot of food for thought.
Like every single other class at Harvard, you get out what you put in. Prof. Burt and the TFs are extremely willing to enrich your understanding of SF and literature in general, but you have to meet them halfway, at the very least.
GREAT. This class has not fallen into the horrible trap of being a Gened that so many others have. The material is awesome and super enjoyable to read, and Burt is a joy. Burt is one of the best-if not the best- lecturer I have had at Harvard (I am a junior). There is too much reading, but it is still awesome and worth it. Definitely a fantastic way to fulfill AI. I did about one third of the reading, and still got so much out of the class. Fantastic.
Definitely fun to get in to! And the reading list gives you an excuse to sit and read books about aliens for homework. Take it!
This was the best class I've ever taken in my life, and I don't say that lightly. Professor Burt was very accessible when I came to office hours (definitely go) and his lectures were absolutely enthralling.
One of the GREATEST professors imaginable, and readings that - if you're into sci-fi - are consistently thrilling and engaging (well, ALMOST - sags a little in the middle, but then picks up strong again at the end). But the lectures are well worth attending, week in and week out.
SO MUCH FUN. Professor Burt is the best lecturer I've ever had. Phenomenal books.
I would recommend it for anyone who likes reading about new ideas and is prepared to spend a lot of time reading and really digging deep into the books.
The readings and discussions are great, but there are a lot of them, so it's a tradeoff -- by no means an easy gen ed.
Interesting and engaging texts. Some I plan to keep on my shelf for the rest of my life. A lot of reading, not really realistic to keep up, but worth it for the books you do read.
This course is a decent way to fulfill the AI gen ed. You read some interesting science fiction. But I was disappointed at the strangeness of the novel choices; a lot of really obscure stuff, including weird online/tumblr stories - not at all your standard idea of science fiction. Lectures were also almost totally worthless, as Burt's theatrics really distract from the little content that there is... There's a TON of reading for this course, so be prepared for that. All in all, it was relatively painless because the books were USUALLY interesting, but make sure you have time to do at least most of the readings, as there's so much of it that you can't easily read it all at the end of the term.
I took this class mainly for something fun and random in a semester otherwise full of concentration requirements. It didn't disappoint. Professor Burt is awesome; his enthusiasm is catching and his knowledge of the science fiction genre immense. It's also an excellent english class in and of itself with a large focus on literary analysis for the papers. This was the class I'd do the homework for to procrastinate instead of doing work for other classes.
It is A TON of reading. If you are a quick reader, then you will be fine, but if you are normal or slow, it is impossible to keep up. The papers were graded pretty difficult, and the final exam is annoying, because it is on everything you read for the course. That being said, for a science person, it was a relatively painless A&I gen ed. The papers were short, which was nice.
Be ready to buckle down in a quiet place every night/every week to get some reading done. You will enjoy it but it will take some time :)
This is an incredible class! Professor Burt is an incredible lecturer and a brilliant literary scholar. I have never so looked forward to my papers and readings. I think this is worth the time of any person interested in literature. Reading scifi gave me a new perspective on realism, and has some really interesting things to say re: colonialism, feminism, technology, etc.
This class is amazing, especially if you love SF (Dr. Burt is engaging and insightful, kind of crazy but super nice) but the grading is very hard on the essays (you're definitely in an English class).
There is A LOT of reading, and it piles up fast.  Also, this class focuses a lot more on gender and sexual orientation issues than you would expect.
There is quite a bit of reading, but it is all amazing reading. Come to the lectures, because they are fantastic.
You may be disappointed that the syllabus doesn't include "Dune" or "Ender's Game" or some other of your favorites, but this is a really great introduction to the genre.  I really enjoyed taking a break from drier readings from other classes by reading SF stories.  Highly recommend.
Interesting class that really opened up my eyes on the topic of science fiction. I learned a lot. I would not take this class if you're looking for a "typical English class" that you can prioritize less highly over science or pset classes. You have to be willing to do the reading, or at least a lot of intense Wikipedia (like DAYS on Wikipedia) before the exam.
Professor Burt is fantastic and the subject matter is fantastic, just make sure you'll have time to do the reading.
It's a fun course, if you keep up with the reading. Burt's an awesome lecturer, but the amount of material you cover comes at a cost--you don't cover any of it too deeply.
This was a very fun class. I took it as a nice break from my other pset classes. Remember, science fiction is never just about science -- it usually has some analogy for some societal problem. You also do not have to read all the books, just most of them. I didn't like some of the works, and greatly enjoyed others. Burt is also a fun, eccentric lecturer; expect lots of candy thrown at you!
Try to do the reading, they are fun and in conjunction with the lectures you take away a decent amount. Also, there is a final exam so you have to know the readings in some capacity.
Fantastically interesting classawesome bibliography of science fiction classics and contemporary works. Pushes the boundaries of what I would have considered science fiction, but in a very good way. Professor is awesomeincredibly enthusiastic, but very insightful. Be ready for a lot of reading though13 novels, 29 short stories/essays in Fall 2013. Be prepared to do most of them, as the final will test some of the obscure stuff.
Amazing professor and course.
The class is great because TF's are awesome and Professor Burt is eccentrically interesting. But the best part of the class is the books themselves. For anyone who is interested in reading some wonderful science fiction novels that people otherwise would not make time for, take this class. There is a lot of reading to be sure, but these books are a delightful introduction to a wide spectrum of science fiction.
There are some interesting reads, but there are a lot.
It's a really interesting class that covers a lot of fascinating books I'd like to read someday, but only if you have a lot of time and are a fast, adept reader.
This course is a rich, fast-paced survey of science fiction, covering key topics such as the genre's origins and definitions (multiple and contested) and uses by writers with feminist and non-Western perspectives.
Go to the lectures! Seriously, Stephen Burt's lectures are what makes this class amazing. Independently, most of the readings are good, but you'll get so much more out of them if you go to lecture. It is a lot of reading, so maybe don't take it in your busiest semester - it's easy to feel like you can blow off the reading for this class, but doing so would be wasting an opportunity for one of the best class experiences at Harvard.
This course was an absolute blast. The professor is kind, wonderful, and very easy to get in touch with. It's clear that he loves his students, and that he loves this subject matter with a deep passion (it's infectious!). The books are a wide variety, covering many genres within SF. Even if you're a deep SF reader, I promise you that you will learn something (many things) new from taking this course. This course teaches you deep reading skills, how to write a good essay, things to look for when really understanding a book, and how to enjoy a book even while you're deeply analyzing it. I can't say that I enjoyed every book that I read, but most of the stuff offered in this course (including the other media items, like shows and movies) have added value to my cultural understanding as a reader. Plus, you get candy during class, and you get to climb out of windows, and Professor Burt has a life size cardboard cutout of Han Solo, and he comes in wearing the helmet of a teutonic knight. He's absolutely hilarious, and his lectures are always a blast. I have never missed a single one, and as long as you keep up with the reading (which is quite enjoyable), this course will be one of your best.
This is my favorite course at Harvard.
a LOT of reading, too much for a casual elective
Professor Burt's teaching style makes this course extremely interesting and enjoyable.  However, there is a lot of reading, to the point that it is almost impossible to catch up if you fall behind.
Be careful to not let the reading get the best of you, since it can sneak up on you by the end of the semester. Also, Professor Burt is an awesome professor and you should take advantage of his office hours if you can't get the help/info you want in section.
If you are interested in science fiction definitely take this class, professor Burt is so enthusiastic and you get to read some pretty cool books. However, if you are not interested in science fiction I would think twice about taking it because many of the other students are really interested in science fiction and know a lot more about it, also science fiction is very different from normal fiction so be ready for that.
So much fun. Prof. Burt is amazingly fun and energetic, and he really gets you thinking about SF. There is a lot of reading, and it's really daunting sometimes, but that shouldn't be a reason not to take the class.
Professor Burt is excellent and I highly recommend going to his OHs, especially before a paper is due. I think sections varied quite a bit, and I honestly did not find going to section to be particularly helpful...but the readings were generally quite interesting, and not terribly overwhelming, when also dealing with other classes.
If you like to read science fiction, you will love this course. If you think science fiction is okay, you will still probably love this course.
great intro to science fiction in literature
The reading selection is great but it's Professor Burt's extremely enthusiastic lectures that really make the course amazing and worth taking.
Fun way to fulfill a Core requirement.
Only take if you really like science fiction
It's amazing!  You do have to keep up on the readings (unlike in some English courses), but they are all full of sci-fi awesomeness, so it will feel like a study break not a chore.
This is a great course. The readings are interesting, the professor is hilarious and entertaining, and if you keep up with the workload, you will be deeply rewarded by a wealth of knowledge about a great genre of literature.
Most of the reading is not very good, there is a TON of it, and the method of doing the reading is almost actively anti-intellectual. There are definitely a large number of better Lit-A classes out there.
Professor Burt was a great lecturer and the material was fun.
This class is utterly fantastic.  The professor is incredible. The books were interesting, and doing my reading was one of the best parts of my week.  My favorite course this semester!!
Amazingly, one of the nerdiest classes at Harvard.
fun class but way too much reading
This was a very well-taught course. As a science student I thought 'hey, science fiction sounds less boring than other literature classes' when trying to find a Lit & Arts A core. This class really surpassed my expectations; the professor is enthusiastic and wonderful, and I not only enjoyed the sci-fi reading - I both learned how to do literary analysis (it's much more fun when you have a clue how it works) and gained an appreciation for the humanities.
Unless you make a point of always doing 100% of your reading, you will dread walking into section every week. The course is an exercise in how little reading you can manage to do.
very interesting class
- great course if you're interested in scifi specifically, not necessarily if you're interested in literature in general
Though the reading is enjoyable, to read all of the works requires a substantial amount of reading.
This might be the best class I've ever taken. Don't assume the course is a joke, as I almost did. It's a serious English class that will make you a better reader of all kinds of literature, and you'll have a great time. Don't miss a class from Stephen Burt!
Too many of the books suck.
its a great class. a lot of reading but its fun and very interesting almost all of the time. burt is s firecracker, too. his lectures are really great and crazy
This really is an interesting course, and whether you are a huge fan of science fiction or completely new for the genre, it really provides a lot of general insight into literature in general and the way concepts can intersect.
A Fantastic class. I never thought I would enjoy science fiction, but I did! I am now reading other science fiction books and other books by authors introduced to me through the class. I have NEVER done that before.
Professor Burt is a fascinating instructor, and it's a great course. A lot of readings, but they aren't difficult.
Be prepared for a lot of reading; also, analyzing science fiction for papers and section can be tough.
It is a very fun class, and you do get a lot out of the literature. It is just as relevant and educational as any other English class. The professor is also amazing.
Fun material, exciting lectures, interesting professor, lectures can be disorganized, not much feedback on work
If you are a giant nerd you will love this class. If you are a medium nerd you will like this class. If you are not a nerd you will at least be amused by the professor, who is the dork lord on his dork throne.
this is a class with fun reading (although it is often a lot) but not necessarily super easy, especially for non-English concentrators who are unfamiliar with what is expected regarding analysis.
An excellent option to fulfill a core; a good way to introduce yourself to science fiction
This class is a lot of fun but be prepared to read *a lot*.
The class focuses unduly on race and gender issues, and I would say 1/3 of the books really don't qualify as sci-fi.  On the whole, though, the books were engaging, and the class overall was fun.
This class is a must for all scifi nerds! And by that I don't mean those who play D&D or are in the science fiction club here. I mean those who actually like to read. You will meet your nerdy compatriots, hopefully think more about works you have already read, or will read in the future, learn about the history and subgenres of SF. The workload is very manageable, especially if you like the reading list. Sections were interesting and fruitful, the final exam is fair. Lectures and Prof Burt very engaging!
This class may seem like a fun, light course, but it is a pretty hefty time commitment.
If you need a Lit A, or even if you don't and have any interest in SciFi, take this class.  Professor Burt is probably the best professor I've ever had - he's a great and really fun lecturer and cares about his students more than any professor I've seen. It's painless and very interesting.
This is the nerdiest class at Harvard.
It's not the kind of science fiction that you're probably used to, so be aware of that, but the reading material is excellent.
This class sells itself as introducing you to a lot of out-of-print and obscure books so that you'll be exposed to work you might not otherwise have read. While this is true, about halfway through the course you'll realize: there's a reason why these books are obscure and out of print. Most of them are just not very good. The professor is bursting with enthusiasm but the books are often so weak that the lectures don't turn out to be very illuminating in an academic sense. Take it if you want, but don't expect to learn much about science fiction in general, or even to be introducted to good science fiction if you're unfamiliar with it.
This class has some very cool reading! Don't miss out.
A good course, if you like science fiction. I didn't get much out of the lectures, though.
You need this class. If you are uninterested in English, it is the class you need to give you a taste of why people like it. If you do like English, it is the class you need to understand something about the literature that people actually read, that is actually culturally influential. Stephen Burt is an incredible professor and you deserve the chance to be taught by him.
A lot of reading material...beware!
If you enjoy science fiction and want to read more of it and gain a better understanding of it, take this class.
Professor Burt is an eccentric and fun professor. However, don't take this class unless you're prepared to speed read throughout the entire semester.
This class is great. It's super nerdy, but it is so interesting. Professor Burt really makes the class enjoyable. There is a lot of reading, but the papers are all about what you want to write about, which takes some of the reading pressure off. Be prepared to read a lot.
If you appreciate an organized set-up with clearly defined points, assignments, and an academic atmosphere, I would not recommend this course. If you have an undying love of science fiction, then that will sustain you. But your experience will not be as enjoyable as you might think. Because of the three papers, sheer number of books, and final exam, not enough attention is devoted to each book specifically. The course suffers for it.
Great reading list!  Try to keep up with it!
Heavy reading but Burt is simply an outstanding lecturer.
If you're considering taking this as a gen ed, realize that it's going to be a lot of reading. To be fair, the reading is probably more interesting than that of other classes.
One of the most fun classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Burt is one of a kind. He is so excited about SF.
Take this class! Professor Burt is a really engaging lecturer!
Great class if you already enjoy science fiction or if you want to experience it. Professor Burt is energetic and an excellent lecturer.
Very interesting professor and good course for this Gen-ed requirement
Take this class for a thorough and though-provoking introduction to great Sci Fi, even if you have no experience in literary analysis or science fiction (like me!)
Professor Burt is an extremely entertaining lecturer. The readings, while mostly great, can be time-consuming, and the majority of them deal heavily with gender issues (just a heads up for those expecting a general survey of SF). Probably better for more experienced English concentrators than those less experienced in literary studies, who might not know exactly what kind of analysis is expected on essays.
Excellent course.  Enthusiastic professor.  Insightful, helpful, qualified TFs.  Like most courses here: section, utterly wasteful, not because TFs and some students don't have good things to say; too much reading, most people aren't doing it - the usual.  Effective reading of wikipedia summaries, and occasional perusal of short passages, was more than sufficient for both section and the final exam.  Three short (5-8 pg) papers are the *only* assignments: at least with my TF, putting effort into the paper meant receiving detailed, thorough, supportive feedback, and fair grading.
Class gives a really interesting perspective on the development of the science fiction genre.
There is a LOT of reading. Stay on top of it!
The great thing about this course is that it requires the studentsThe great thing about this course is that the majority of the assigned readings are novels and short stories that most students would enjoy outside of class anyway; although it can be tougher on weeks when there's not much time for excessive reading, homework was never tedious.
Amazing class, definitely take it. Professor Burt is incredibly enthusiastic and you learn a ton.
I am a CS concentrator who has never taken an English class at Harvard before. The books you read in this class are great but expect to do a lot of reading (~300 pages / week). I found the essays very challenging as someone who almost never writes them. I found the lectures interesting at the time but at the end of the course am not sure how much I really got out of them.
Take it. Not just because it's incredibly fun, but because finding a course that treats science fiction with the respect and intelligence such a genre deserves is rare and valuable.
For a moderate workload, this course pays dividends with an entertaining curriculum. If you have any interest in science fiction, make room in your schedule for English 182.
This course covers an extensive amount of science fiction and by the end of the course, you feel exposed to a good variety and amount of each kind. But that means the readings/workload is very heavy so be prepared to keep up! If you're absolutely interested in science fiction and really want to explore the genre, take this course.
This is a fun class with a generally reasonable workload. Beware that not all of the novels are great, but discussing them in class made me appreciate them more.
This class was fun. Prof. Burt is fun to watch teach, he gives out candy randomly and the lectures bring out ideas that you likely did not have while reading the book. Basically lecture was great for stimulating thought about the novels. The novels themselves were fun and interesting
Keep up with the reading!
It's a really good course for anyone interested in trying out an English course.
Professor Burt is great, and lectures are awesome. It's a lot of reading, but a great class overall. Great way to fulfill A&I.
This was an awesome experience  Professor Burt was a lot of fun, I had a great TF, and the readings were fun. I admit that I procrastinated on completing them until the end of the semester before the final, but even then I got to enjoy myself while catching up.
Very fun class, but not one to be taken as lightly as it might be seen.  It's a great time- Burt is awesome, TFs are very on top of their game, and most of the reading is SWEET.  It forces you to do pleasure reading, but make sure you dedicate a good number of hours a week to reading it.
There is a lot of reading and you kind of have to do all to be prepared.
A lot of reading, most of it not so rewarding, it feels as though rather than being acquainted with SF you're reading marginal works to test the limits of the genre. Professor Burt, however, is a very entertaining lecturer.
It's almost impossible to do all of the reading for this class because there is so much, especially if your other classes are pretty heavy in coursework.
There is no one who lectures quite like Professor Burt.
I absolutely loved this class. The lectures, readings, and sections were all great. I regretted not knowing anyone else in the class personally to discuss things with them. My one caution is that it does require a lot of reading, and doesn't mix as well with a busy semester.
Good course. I liked the teaching style as well as the things you read.
So chill and so many good books
This class is fantastic. I highly reccommend it, even if you are not an "English person."
I think most students would assume that the class is either esoteric or idiosyncratic to other fields in English or academia. This is definitely not the case, and Professor Burt stresses this point by showing how science fiction can reflect and comment on the social, economic, and political status quo via its own imaginative spin. The course both increases your knowledge of science fiction as a discernible genre, but also incorporates it into a larger scheme of narrative fiction.
This class was fantastic. The readings are great fun.
The professor is great and the sections are thought-provoking. Most works are easy to read and enjoyable. Some of the readings are mediocre, but overall they are very strong.
The readings are pure pleasure and play. They spark all sorts of discussion and thought, as well as being truly entertaining and sometimes deeply moving. Professor Burt is one of the most dedicated, engaging lecturers out there - if nothing else, you must go to see what he will do next. For instance, there was that one highly memorable time he exited class out the window (we were on the second floor). He also makes insightful comments about and contextualizes the readings. If you take it, GO TO CLASS. DO ALL THE READINGS. It is a lot of reading.
Do all of the readings and enjoy them as they are fun and good reads.
Professor Burt's eccentricities can be a bit extreme, but otherwise it's great!
Great course!
This is a good Pass/Fail class but can be hefty on the requirements if you want an A.
This class is so much fun, whether you like science fiction or not! We read a ton of great works and seriously ponder what science fiction can offer us. I really recommend it. Sometimes there's too much reading to physically do, however the only other assignments are three papers over the course of the semester and those are pretty low-key. Also, Stephen Burt is an incredibly engaging and hilarious professor. If English 182 were a work of science fiction, Burt is the novum that makes us conscious of what we think a good professor should be like.
hard to keep up with reading
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard.  Prof. Burt is great.  If you're going to enjoy doing the readings, you should take his class.
Be prepared to read a lot or bs a lot.
To excel, you have to have a background in writing English papers coming in, which is disappointing. The drafts help, but only to an extent, as they teaching staff is just not able to provide thoughtful comments to all of the students in the class. The grading is not easy - I'd even say that it's too harsh given the audience the course seeks to attract. Professor Burt is great, but the TFs much less so, and the final exam is definitely an unwelcome part of the course, given the subject matter, i.e. literary analysis.
Interesting material, but it is a ton of reading.
