Even if you're not slightly interested in poetry going in, you'll definitely leave with a passion for it. Professor Vendler's enthusiasm for the material is infectious. Plus, reading poetry isn't that time-consuming, so if you do take this course you'll probably come to regard your assignments as a nice break from your more grueling coursework. Btw, if Annie's your TF, she's great!
fantastic class
Do not be intimidated if you're new to poetry - your work is graded fairly and you will come out having learned so much.
Fantastic class, great poets and great teachers!
You can't miss out on the phenomenon that is Helen Vendler. Also the poetry's pretty great, too.
If you do not already have a firm understanding of poetry, you will have a rather difficult time in this class.
This is an incredible course. The poetry you read is amazing and the structure allows you to engage with one of the foremost poetry critics. You will learn a huge amount and should take this course if given the opportunity.
This class is a fantastic way to fulfill the Poets requirement for English concentrators. Working closely with Professor Vendler is consistently a joy--she is brilliant, insightful, funny, friendly, and brings the magic of poetry alive in every class. Her interpretation of the poems is mixed with insights about life and art. Read the poems before class! It's easy not to, but you will get much more out of it that way. Then reread them again after you have heard her lectures. Don't be worried about the assignments, they will make you think about the poems but beyond that they are not challenging or graded harshly at all. Section can be hit-or-miss as poetry can be interpreted somewhat subjectively it can lead to a lot of digressions or people who want to talk a lot and show off, but don't be too put off by that. Everyone should be familiar with a base level of poetry and this class is a great way to go in depth in these four poets if you are interested in American poetry.
This class was fantastic. Helen Vendler has the best way of reading poetry and talking about it, and annie is fantastic. It really taught me how to enjoy and think about poetry. however, i would've liked more class discussion, there's not as much as you would think.
Professor Vendler is a phenomenal teacher and is incredibly talented. Learning from her is a huge privilege. If you like poetry, this is poetry at it's best. That said, if you aren't into very close reading and literary analysis, this class would not be a good fit.
THis is an excellent opportunity to work with an incredible intelligent and esteemed professor. Helen Vendler is fantastic, and she knows her stuff. Unfortunately, there is very little discussion in the seminar, and most of it is spent listening to HV speak, and while everything she says is wonderful, it can sometimes be hard to stay engaged.
Take this course! You shouldn't miss taking a class with Professor Vendler while you're at Harvardshe's a brilliant scholar and teacher. I hadn't known much about any of the four poets we studied before the semester began, but now I've learned to love them all. This course hugely enriched my understanding and appreciation of poetry.
If you like, or think you might like, any or all of these poets, take the course. You won't find a better living source of information on them than Helen Vendler.
Professor Vendler alone is reason enough to take this course. Her experience and sense of humor made it wonderful to learn much about these poets. The lecture format is very close and friendly -- we would vivisect poems and try to glean as much as possible from them. I think this is the perfect class if you are searching for more depth in learning about American poetry.
