This class is great. I was a little afraid of the materials, but I actually feel like I've learned something. The twice weekly response paragraphs aren't scary, but the need to speak up in class is a little. I don't talk that much in class either way so I didn't like the pressure to have to speak up. I thought the response paragraphs would sufficiently indicate my preparedness.
Professor Simpson makes the material really accessible and interesting. Although the thought of focusing on such old literature made me dread the course before I had to take it, I ended up really liking everything we read because of the way it was taught.
I loved this course and Professor Simpson and Michelle. It is the Arrivals required class every English concentrator should take!
To fulfill the Arrivals requirement, it's a good choice. Professor Simpson gets to know each of his students intimately and makes an effort to be available to each of us whenever we might need/want to speak with him. It is, however, a lot of reading and writing. The bi-weekly response paragraphs and sections keep your writing/reading skills fresh and fast, which helps for the longer papers and tests.
since you are required to take this class as an english major and there isn't much difference between the various arrivals courses, i'll focus on practical tips: it helps to read the introductions to the texts in the norton anthology; some of them are written by simpson himself, and the introductions often address the same issues brought up in lecture and section. for writing assignments, simpson really cares about counterargument so make sure you devote a lot of time in your papers, exams, etc. to opposing views. don't stress too much about memorization; it's the most overtly intimidating part of the course but it's a small part of your overall grade.
James Simpson is wonderful and this is a great way to fulfill your Arrivals requirement.
SO GOOD! Professor Simpson always provided sophisticated, beautifully expressed arguments using a lecture format that was extremely easy to follow. I learned a ton and even though I didn't have much interest in British literature beforehand, I finished the course with a desire to pursue further studies in medieval/renaissance literature. Michelle our lovely TF was so helpful, kind, and intelligent and always facilitated our sections with poise and an earnest desire to hear what we had to say.  always brilliant.
Don't be intimidated because Professor Simpson is the Department Head.  I was at first but quickly discovered how approachable and genuinely nice he is and how passionate he is about helping his students.
This class was one of the best classes I have taken yet. The level of scholarship was incredibly high, and I was challenged and stimulated the entire course, yet I never felt I was floundering because of the support and enthusiasm on the parts of the professor and TF. I learned a new way of essay-writing that has finally clicked with me, and I will continue to use Professor Simpson's method of literary criticism for the next several years of my academic career. He is the foremost scholar in British medieval studies, and his enthusiasm for the material and the time period convinced me to concentrate my studies in medieval history, since I realized I could be working with such incredible academicians as Professor Simpson. Add the fact that he is a sympathetic, compassionate person to his scholarly prowess and he is the ultimate in professors.
Take it! The professor is fantastic, and the intimate class size allows everyone to participate. Ideas are never shot down or ridiculed.
This is a great class! Professor Simpson is really passionate about the subject matter and even if you think that you hate Middle Ages literature, you won't after this class. He really is an amazing professor who is animated, interesting, and willing to think outside of the box AND encourage his students to do the same. One of the best classes I've had at Harvard so far.
I can't recommend this class highly enough.
James Simpson is an excellent, super-clear lecturer. The material is surprisingly interesting and fun. I particularly enjoyed reading the women authors who those in less complete early English classes may have not had a chance to explore.
Arrivals isn't the most fun requirement for most English concentrators, but Professor Simpson is great and really makes it as enjoyable as it's going to get.
This is the best way to fulfill your Arrivals requirement!  I absolutely adored this class; both the professor and TF were interesting, engaging, and genuinely concerned with our learning.  The readings I think might be boring in other situations, but Professor Simpson makes them all so interesting.  The lectures are fun and easy to follow, and you walk away having learned a lot.  The course will also help you improve your writing skills and your public speaking skills.  Professor Simpson places a lot of emphasis on articulate speaking, which may seem intimidating at first, but both he and Michelle are encouraging, and with some effort, your speaking should improve throughout the course.  Professor Simpson is also very approachable outside of class and is so knowledgeable that I would encourage anyone taking his class to go to his office hours and get to know him.
Remarkably enjoyable! I thought a class on early English literature would be boring, but I thought wrong. Prof Simpson is wonderful, and the workload isn't too bad.
A great way to fulfill the commonground requirement. Simpson is a delightful, funny lecturer, quite clear, though sometimes too professional about the subject matter. Moves through some very important texts a bit too quickly. If you're into Milton and Spenser, see if the other Arrivals classes spend more time on them.
Prof. Simpson's approach to Arrvials common ground course is friendly and engaging. I'd recommend this clase to any English concentrator who needs to fulfill the arrivals component. Nevertheless, this class is only meaningful and fun if you are ready to do the readings and the work required.
Never would I have learned famous English pieces by heart without this class! It's an incredible skill to have, and Professor Simpson puts special emphasis on speaking well. If anything, take the class because the lectures are interesting and Professor Simpson always mingles in a bit of humor.
This class, despite its definitionally temporal interest, is a wonderful introduction to theories of genre and mode.
This is the model English common grounds class. A great class to take if you're exploring the English department or if you're an established concentrator. Don't let the subject matter scare you off - Prof Simpson makes everything super interesting!
I thought fulfilling my Arrivals requirement was going to be a pain, but luckily, Simpson's insightful lectures, coupled with the reading materials themselves (Paradise Lost is great), made English 41 an enjoyable class.
It provides great exposure to some of the foundational texts of English literature and teaches you how to analyze texts in a thoughtful manner.
Great, engaging class. If you get lost, try asking Prof. Simpson to give his lecture on "style." Helped me out a ton.
A good course taught by a passionate professor who wants you to do well.
I recommend this as a way to fulfill 'Arrivals' and as an elective for those interested in Middle English/Old English literature.
very good arrivals course and well taught
I really loved this class. I felt that there was an environment of people who cared about the material, from the professor and TF to the fellow students. At first I had wanted to take the equivalent class that Professor Watson teaches (English 42) and was disappointed when I was lotteried into this class instead. But that disappointment faded away very quickly. Professor Simpson is an excellent teacher and English 41 wound up being my favorite class.
Take this class!!! Professor Simpson is so nice and really funny, and his lectures are brilliant. You can tell both he and the TF Sara are really passionate about teaching literature, and they are so skilled at literary analysis. If you put in the effort, you will not only learn a great deal about a very important body of texts, but also have a lot of fun.
Professor Simpson is marvelously astute and puts even the dullest arguments (our own included) into precise discourse.
Prof Simpson makes this literature come alive in its cultural and formal realms.  The lectures really move, and they work.  That said, you won't be tested much on that material, so just enjoy it and do engage it.
This is a great course for studying pre-Shakespearean texts, and a pleasant way to fill a ground area requirement if you are an English major.  I'm not an English major and I still found it very interesting and enjoyable.
It's difficult. If you don't have time to do the readings, you won't enjoy the lectures. The format also makes it difficult to show up to lecture without having done the readings because lecture and section are in the same hour and a half block (45 minutes for each) twice a week. It's a lot of work, but if you like Medieval studies you'd probably like it. If you're just taking it for the common ground course...shop around.
The professor teaching the class is an awesome lecturer. The material is very boring on the most part, though.
If you like/love medieval literature, you're going to love this course. Ample room for discussion, warm and encouraging professor and TF, fantastic writing assignments. If you're like me and start to doze off two lines into the Book of Margery Kempe... good luck.
You expect this class to be the most boring english requirement, but then it turns out that if your teacher is excited about a subject and engages the class in it, any class will be interesting and fun.
Professor Simpson is wonderful professor, as well as a great resource of knowledge on this topic, so this class- which I expected would be very difficult - was largely enjoyable.
its a great class, even if you're not a fan of literature from this time period, Simpson is a captivating teacher.
Professor Simpson took great care to get to know students; he is an engaging lecturer, and very kind.  While some find the material challenging and the work substantial, taking a class with Professor Simpson is very much worth the extra work.
Professor Simpson is fantastic. I was not the most enthused about the readings at first, but his enthusiasm and passion made learning about it interesting and fun.
Wonderful class. Professor Simpson made the Arrivals requirement, which I was dreading, and absolute delight. He's a fantastic lecturer and a great facilitator of discussion in section.
Great professor, the readings are enjoyable and the class isn't too much work. It's a great way to fill the arrivals requirement
This is a great class. It's very fun and you learn a lot. The professor is wonderful. The only thing I would say that may be even remotely negative is that the class is almost exclusively concentrators who have been in the department for a while, and it can be intimidating if you're less experienced.
Absolutely loved Prof. Simpson and Rhema. The texts were great, too. Didn't expect to like the medieval lit as much as I did. A GREAT Arrivals option!
This is a wonderful class. Not just a great way to fulfill the Arrivals requirement, but a great course in its own right. You will get the chance to read works that you would probably never take the time to read on your own, and the structure of the course is really great, with lecture and section (45 min each) two days a week. The paper topics are really up to you, so you will have a lot of flexibility to write about works that interest you. And Professor Simpson is the greatest!
great way to fulfill the arrivals requirement!
If you're looking to fulfill your English 40 requirement, this is an excellent class. Professor Simpson is amazing. You might encounter some difficulties with the texts at first, but it gets better! Professor Simpson encourages comments and question and definitely makes you feel at home in the classroom.
Do as much of the reading as you can, because you'll find it really enriches literature that came later. And try the creative paper option!
PROFESSOR SIMPSON IS GREAT! Do not be intimated by his position in the English department. He is the most down-to-earth person I've come across in the department. He's approachable, friendly, and truly cares about his students. He also makes the material interesting, even for those who don't like middle english works.
This class is really fun! The atmosphere is pretty relaxed, the work load is not too tough, and you get to engage in really interesting discussion about both famous, and also somewhat more obscure, English texts. So, if you enjoy this kind of discussion, this class is definitely a good choice! Also, Professor Simpson is awesome: very approachable and easy to talk to, and also makes great points about the readings in lecture.
This is a very pleasant class and the workload is more than manageable. Professor Simpson runs a tight ship with regards to his lectures and discussions, and although some of these texts might not be the least accessible initially, Professor Simpson does his best to contextualize these works in the history of English literature, which I very much appreciated.
probably the best choice for the arrivals options. Prof. Simpson and Rhema are fantastic teachers, but if you don't like the intimidating material, the reading, assignments, and focus on participation can be challenging and kind of a pain. I found the readings really difficult and hard to get into, which, despite great teachers, made the class less engaging. James and Rhema really do their best, which is why I'd probably recommend it to other english concentrators looking to fulfill their arrivals req. Exams and papers seem intimidating, but really are fine.
This course was really great. I loved the structure, and Professor Simpson was a really good teacher who facilitated discussion well and got to know all of his students. If you are trying to pick an arrivals course, I would definitely recommend this one!
Prof. Simpson is contagiously enthusiastic about the material, and the course is pretty fantastic. The course understands that the reading may not be to everyone's tastes, but tries hard to keep things accessible and welcoming. The workload is light, but steady, and you should definitely note that the class has some more "traditional" English-y thingsthere are some poems to memorize, for example, and a list of dates for the midterm. (Such things aren't a focus, of course, and don't amount to more than a small fraction of the grade, but you do have to do them).If you've already studied some of the material the course covers, it's worth noting that things will probably seem fairly obvious and introductory. This isn't a class to take as an elective if you're trying to really learn about the english literature of the middle ages.
I was not looking forward to taking this class, but had to for an English requirement, but Professor Simpson is great!  He makes the material interesting and is really engaging and understanding. A fantastic teacher.
A very enjoyable class--and the chance to read some of the most gorgeous texts in the English language. Some of them are probably familiar, most of them might surprise you. Not the most challenging.
Such a delightful way to fulfill Arrivals. I had been putting it off for years but realized that Medieval literature can be read with such enjoyment and excitement. Loved the class. Take it.
I was pleasantly surprised by this course.  It seems like many English concentrators dread filling the Arrivals requirement, but I honestly wish I had taken this course sooner because I left it wanting to study to works in greater depth.  My main complaint is that this course, as a survey, has to cover a lot of ground, and so there are some weeks when you may spend a lot of time reading a text and then be able to discuss only a small section of it for 30 minutes.
Good way to get your Arrivals credit. Workload is manageable and the exams are really easy. Professor Simpson is super nice, although lectures can be a bit dry. He WILL notice if you are absent.
Professor Simpson is a fantastic Arrivals teacher- really, he's an expert in the field and makes the class as painless as possible!
Professor Simpson (and at his side, Taylor) is a terrific teacher. I was never bored in this class, and the reading he selects is quite interesting and engaging (this is very much due to Professor Simpson and Taylor's wonderful teaching ability). The response papers shouldn't be scary -- they are a hugely helpful, and will make the midterms and papers a breeze.
Good class - A little too much memorization of dates and poems, but the readings are great!
It's crucial that you do as much of the readings as you can as that is the best part of the course. Professor Simpson's lectures are great and extremely different from other members of the English department. He is far more focused on historical truth and authorial intention in a way that I find incredibly refreshing.
As far as "Arrivals" classes go, I'm pretty sure this is the best one. Even though I assume most of us were there because it is an English requirement, I genuinely enjoyed the class very much and am glad to have read the things we read. Professor Simpson is very friendly and is contagiously enthusiastic about the texts. The weekly response papers can be onerous, but on the whole I think they have value. I would recommend taking this class as early as you can if you know you will be an English concentrator - I can definitely see why this class is a requirement and I think it would have lessened the learning curve for me on paper writing and other such skills if I had taken it as a freshman or sophomore.
It's a great way to fulfill your arrivals requirement.
This is a fantastic course. If you're feeling like the subject matter is going to be yucky (like I did) take it anyways! It is an extremely manageable and enjoyable English class and you'll discover that a lot of old literature is actually pretty neat! Both Prof. Simpson and Taylor are so smart and kind and un-pretentious, and it's a refreshing experience to be in a class where participation and preparation are so highly encouraged, especially in the english department. I genuinely felt that this course improved my abilities as both a reader and a writer, AND I found some new fave authors. (Marie du France, anyone?? 12th century??)
This course is extraordinary- one of the two best I've taken here. While the material isn't for everybody, Professor Simpson and Taylor made everything unbelievably accessible, relevant, and exciting. They won't coddle you on essays. That said, the assignments are completely manageable (and useful! Just start learning dates early, you won't regret it) so long as you're up-to-date on reading and are comfortable with the response paper format after one or two classes. Best Arrivals course, and one of the best English courses, at Harvard.
I was skeptical going into this - it seemed like the most boring Common Ground class by far. But together, Professor Simpson and Taylor Cowdery made it consistently engaging, fun, fascinating, funny, all the good adjectives. Both of them had impeccable conversation style and classrunning style; everyone got a chance to speak, and weirdly enough, almost everyone actually seemed pretty motivated to speak. It was just a really great class!
You should definitely take this course! Professor Simpson is an absolute joy and the work load is totally manageable. Some of the readings are a little bit difficult, but the amount of reading is definitely easy and doable. The lectures are interesting and the section is great!
If you need to do Arrivals, taking it with Simpson is a great choice. His genuine excitement brings you back to why you're learning things in the first place, and makes a requirement not only bearable, but actually enjoyable. The readings are completely manageable and the class is split up into 45 minute segments which seems strange at first but ends up making it easier to get through psychologically.
This is a very well-taught course. If you think you might have trouble getting yourself excited about the material (which will inevitably be the case for some students), make sure to take this course before your senior spring.
Don't dread taking this course, like I did. It's one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Simpson is simply brilliant and totally accessible and encouraging. The reading materials were surprisingly interesting.
Fulfilling the Arrivals requirement is something most concentrators do not look forward to; Prof Simpson makes this necessity enjoyable, education, and fun!.
Do some background reading! And make sure you start speaking up early, to give yourself a voice in the class and make sure you feel comfortable.
Professor Simpson is absolutely fantastic. Taylor is also a great TF, that really cares about the students doing well and taking it seriously. Best way to take Arrivals.
This is a wonderful course. Like a lot of people, I was worried that the material would be impossibly difficult to read and that discussion would not be exciting. I was 100% wrong. Professor Simpson is a great teacher-funny, enthusiastic, caring, and personable. He is also incredibly knowledgeable and is able to give enough context for the works we read for them to make cultural sense. Workload is very reasonable and even enjoyable. Take this course; I have a feeling it's the best Arrivals option but it's also just great all around.
Pretty much every English major DREADS Arrivals. Take it with Prof. Simpson and you'll actually look forward to going to class.
Don't be afraid by the title of the class or the material. This class is PHENOMENAL. Everyone at Harvard should take it. I've learned more from this class than any other class at Harvard, and I never felt stressed or overworked. A+ class.
It's an interesting, fun survey that's not a TON of work -- the short response papers every week are great because they will make sure you keep on top of the reading!
The section format works exceptionally well for this class, and it also makes the 3 hours per week feel much shorter. It is a great introduction to all of English literature and focuses a lot on improving analystical skills.
If you are a concentrator, this is a good way to fulfill the Arrivals requirement. But be prepared to work hard.
This class is difficult, but it is worth it. I am a much better write and a more assiduous student after having taken this class, and I would wholeheartedly recommend it.
Take this for your "Arrivals" if you want to learn about the foundational elements of the English discipline.
Professor Simpson is one of the most accessible professors at Harvard, take advantage of it! Try to do the readings, you'll need them for the exam. Great way to fulfil the 40s requirement, but it's also a good elective to take! Get in early every day, spots at the table fill out so fast and discussion is encouraged.
If you hear anything about this class continuing to do "partner response papers," don't take it.  Though Prof. Simpson has good intentions about making you write weekly response papers in tandem with a partner, it ends up being just what it sounds like: a complete nightmare. Spare yourself.My experience in this class was seriously colored by the fact that the group I was with included the highest concentration of section kids I've ever encountered.  This may have been tolerable except that they tended to be given free rein, even in lecture, with the result being that Prof. Simpson hardly ever got to finish a thought before one or multiple people were interrupting him--challenging him and/or making comments that were completely off track.  The result was that lectures often felt disjointed and incoherent (exacerbated by the fact that the syllabus is organized by theme instead of chronologically, which makes it difficult for someone like me who isn't familiar with these texts to situate herself).  The good thing about this class is that you don't need much Old/Middle English to get by, which is something I was dreading about taking arrivals. Prof Simpson is really nice, and I'm sure the class would've been markedly better if it weren't for the group I took it with. I would have liked to read more texts by women (though I know the options are limited bc this class focuses on pre-/medieval literature). More texts by Marie de France would've been nice though!
This is a perfect class for fulfilling the Arrivals requirement; the readings are enjoyable and the teaching staff makes it exciting to discuss them.
If you are an English major, this is a great way to fulfill the Arrivals requirement. Personally, this class made me realize how much I love texts like Beowulf and Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, but even if those aren't your things, I think there is a wide enough range within the texts to keep most English-prone people interested. This, however, is not to mention Professor Simpson who is an absolutely wonderful lecturer and professor. He clearly loves what he is teaching, and this makes the course exciting and enjoyable.
Excellent and engaging professor and TF
A good way to fulfill Arrivals, fairly painless
Prof. Simpson is so nice and says the most fascinating things in lecture. The atmosphere is so collaborative, but we also manage to learn so much not just about literature -- but also British history. I also learned about British history and many of the foundational texts from that era.
This wasn't my favorite course; I think that's partially a result of the nature of a survey course and partly the result of the teachers. We covered one text per day--so think one class for King Lear, one class for the first two books of Paradise Lost, ONE CLASS for all of Beowulf. I know they're trying to get through a lot but I would so much rather have read a little less and spent a little more time on the texts. I was also not a fan of the weekly response papers, which we needed to write with a partner. If I could've done them on my own then it would have been fine, but the need to try and coordinate with another student each week was both time-consuming and stress-inducing, especially since my partner wasn't particularly engaged in the work. Professor Simpson and Aparna are both kind, thoughtful, decent people who want you to do well. That said, I found their grading to be pretty arbitrary and their teaching to be somewhat subpar. Professor Simpson is funny and engaging as a lecturer but, because the discussion of each text was so rushed, I often felt that we didn't get to the real meat of its themes. Aparna, I think, really needs to guide discussions more carefully--it was one of those classes where we just talk about whatever the students want to talk about, which sounds great in theory but can sometimes mean you don't end up drawing any real conclusions or discussing the most central issues. Writing papers always felt like a game of figuring out what they wanted, in part because they strongly recommend this specific structure for your essays, and even though they say that it's optional you're always wondering about how good a job you've done in executing it. Both Prof Simpson and Aparna also seemed to have their own strong opinions about texts, which is fine; but it sometimes felt like those opinions were  fixed, and not to be challenged with evidence to the contrary. I'm not sure what the other arrivals classes are like--to be honest, I haven't heard fantastic things about any of them. But think carefully about your choices for this requirement and know what you're signing up for.
From the very first class, Professor Simpson heralded English 41 as a serious course in which you will devote quality time to reading, writing, contemplating, and discussing. Do not let that deter you from taking it. First, the workload is manageable (for starters, you don't read quite as much as some other Common Ground courses). Second, every hour spent working paid off. Professor Simpson made every lecture an engaging and compelling argument, and his opinions - combined with Aparna's probing questions - provided excellent fodder for section. Also, make sure you go to office hours; Professor Simpson's brilliance is matched by his personality and his desire to see students grow and succeed. Creative options -- a chance to write a midterm paper in verse and a mandatory poetry recitation later in the term -- spice up medieval English literature if you don't think that's your thing.
This is a really great option for Arrivals -- definitely take it if you can. Professor Simpson is very knowledgeable and approachable. He really cares about his students. Aparna is also a fantastic TF.
Professor Simpson is very engaging and very interested in what students have to say. However, this can lead to the "section kids" taking free reign over the class. We almost never finished an entire lecture due to section kids speaking out of turn. The material is fine, although it would be nice to have read more texts written by women (as there is a section in the textbook with that heading) for some balance, even if they are less influential. If you have an interest in early English literature, this course will serve that well. If you are taking this for an Arrivals requirement, it will be fine. The tests seem much more difficult than they are- they require a lot of studying but are ultimately very fair.
This class (or one like it) is a requirement for English concentrators, of course, and I would recommend taking it with Simpson over any other English faculty member.  He makes the material interesting and relevant to the society we know today, and is a tremendous lecturer and really nice human being.
Arrivals is not generally a course that people will take out of a pure interest in the subject. If that is the case, students will not be disappointed. But for the more typical case of the English concentrator who takes this course primarily or at least partially out of obligation/department requirement, this iteration of Arrivals is incredibly well taught from a knowledgeable and invigorated perspective. While there isn't as much time spent on formalized, written analysis, the groundwork in both the literature that is read and the discussions that emerged are both really helpful and, if you commit to the course in terms of doing the readings, generally engaging.
It's a required course and there's no getting around that even if Old / Middle English isn't your thing, but professor Simpson and the TF are absolutely amazing and this is the best way to get through it.
