Interesting and James Wood is great but it is hard to really engage in the class because discussions are purposely not over-analytical
It's a great opportunity to read interesting and important literature. The workload isn't too heavy- just two papers- so you can really focus on reading and reading well.
It's really enjoyable.
This is a great senior spring class.  The material is really interesting, the coursework isn't taxing, the books are interesting, and Professor Wood is absolutely fantastic.
That James Wood is very smart but doesn't structure class, but that there is very little turned in work, which is a plus.
One of the most enthralling lecturers you will have at Harvard will be talking about some of the most relevant books of the century--what's not to like?
TAKE IT! best decision you will make here at harvard.
the reading list was great and not too heavy and lectures were fantastic.
James Wood is amazing.
This class was one of my top three favorite classes at Harvard. Professor Wood was incredible and the books were all really fun to read. We had plenty of time to do the work and the assignments were only two papers.
This class is fun and low stress. It is great for non-English major folks who want to take and English class and not feel intimidated.
This class has amazing lectures about brilliant novels that most students would never otherwise have the opportunity to read.  There is almost no work for the course.  Moreover, the insights afforded by Prof. Wood are very different from the standard fare -- I really feel that this class improves the way in one reads and writes to a greater extent than most other English courses.  To put it simply, it's really hard to imagine how another English class might offer a better experience than this.
It's interesting, fun and the work is a breeze. Excellent course.
No work necessary.
Professor Wood is an excellent lecturer, his conduct is very humorous and engaging. Teaching fellows are friendly and enthusiastic about the material - this class could make anyone excited about literature.
It's like flying in a literary space ship with some alien named James Wood in the driver's seat.  I mean that in a most positive and excellent way.
If you're interested in reading and writing, it's worth it to taken any course you can with James Wood.
If you want to read great novels and discuss them with smart people, take this class.
This course is really fun, has great reading, and excellent lectures. It's not a huge amount of work, but it is important to try hard on the work you do have, and be prepared for section. The course really helps with close-reading skills, as well as with writing.
It's a great class, but if you're not confident in your writing it might not be the best choice, as only papers make up the majority of the final grade.
It is pretty low-pressure, and sometimes not very serious, but still excellent - you will get something out of it.
This course is relatively easy, and the course material is very interesting.
A must take.  As I said, it's a wonderful, easily accessible exploration of why English matters as a discipline.  The professor made me fall in love with reading all over again and really changed the way I read.  The reading load is light and wonderful.  I would warn students that although it doesn't take much time, they shouldn't count on getting an A in the class.
The books are great.  The lectures are interesting.  You should make a point to chat with Professor Wood after class.  He is friendly and engaging.
Fantastic reading list and the professor will help you get more out of it than you ever thought you could.
Not much work, good sections, some very good books and others not so good, great to have a British accent.
Its all about the section so make sure you're in a sections that suits you
Very laidback way to take an English class if you're vaguely interested at what Englis at Harvard is all about. Not too rigorous but so very rewarding regardless
It's an easy class with a low workload outside of reading, which is very enjoyable. The lectures are interesting and very enjoyable
James Wood is great and the books are tremendous fun.  Wood editorializes a bit too much about Graham Greene and neglects story on occasion, but his eye for style is excellent and I learned a good deal from him.  He and Olga revived my interest in literature.
not much work, easy elective
The lectures are terrific, but be careful of which TF you get. Some are great, but I've heard nasty things about others.
This course is very easy, but does not really fulfill a requirement. Only take as an easy class if you are an English concentrator.
fun and not demanding time-wise, though challenging in the level of analysis it asks for.
This class is fantastically fun and engaging.  The insight Mr. Wood has to offer is both witty and profound.
It's hard to get a satisfactory grade when only 2 papers make up that grade and the marks you receive depend so highly on who you get as a tf.
This class is fun. It is a discussion with a great professor about why we like books. Consequently, rather than reading for deeper meaning or focusing on plots, the class focuses on things like the metaphors and dialogue used by the author.  And by focuses on them, I mean remarks how good they are. There are no exams, just two papers. As a result, it is a great class that can be as rewarding as you make it.
Prof. Wood was great - take it to experience his lectures.
Does not demand a lot of work, lectures are worth attending. Very good elective choice overall. Just remember that there is alot riding grade-wise on those two (fairly short) papers, so really spend time writing them
James Wood is a terrible teacher who doesn't offer any interesting or engaging criticism.  Don't give in!
the lectures are really interesting and fun, the books are fairly easy to read, and the workload is great
Very little work, great lectures, a couple great books. And since there are only two papers, if you really hate a lot of the books, you don't have to read them.
It's very enjoyable and very little work.
This course will not teach you anything. It will just make you read great books, but you might as well have been reading my yourself.
You will either love him or hate him, but it's hard to be indifferent to Wood.  Even refining your disagreements with his opinions will strengthen your analysis skills.  A must for every English major interested in fiction or post war literature in general.
This is a unique class, the focus of which seems to be enjoying literature rather than necessarily learning about it.
Coursework is manageable AND interesting
Great teacher, sections are not that good.
One of the lightest workloads of any course I've taken at Harvard.
i hated the books, but the professor made me see why they were interesting and important. Good lectures
Take advantage of James Wood's office hours, as he is brilliant and a lot of fun to talk to.
I would tell other students that the lectures are very provincial and occasionally sound repetitive.  Even though each lecture is about a different topic, they all seem to blend together, since each time we discuss literary devices and the small details of the novel.
The class is interesting, but I don't know if it is the most representative taste of the English department. The books were great, and I think I learned to read more carefully, but I think you'll only get out of he course if you make the effort to put your energy in it. It is really easy to fall behind on your responsibilities.
It was a great opportunity to read books that I have always wanted to read for a class taught by an insightful professor.
The reading list is excellent and Prof. Wood is briliant, kind, and funny, but the class lacks momentum and purpose and I ultimately learned little.
It's a good elective course. Not stressful, low workload.
an excellent course that exposes you to intriguing literature -- and not just the books you might usually read in a course with such a title -- and makes you a careful reader of prose and fiction.
Take this course if the books interest you and if you want to be taught by a very interesting and engaging professor.
This course is what you make of it.  It is possible to go through the course doing very little work, or if you wanted to you could get a ton out of Prof. Woods' instruction and syllabus.  If you have a hard courseload, you may find this class taking a back seat to others in your schedule.
This class is an excellent review of books James Wood likes. The professor is intelligent and laid-back; the class is kind of just like his own personal book club. Work-load is very light, all the books a pretty short and you only have to write two papers. The class is fun and easy, but not exactly an exciting challenge. Still, if you're interested in reading some cool books for credit, it's a safe bet.
This class is incredible!  If you love reading and love listening to an editor of the New Yorker who knows EVERYTHING that could possibly be known about tremendously great books TAKE THIS CLASS.  One of my favorite classes at Harvard.  Do the reading, participate in section and class, and this will be one of the best experiences at Harvard.  I highly recommend this class to students who want to be writers or students who just enjoy reading good books and feel like they don't have enough time outside of class.
James Wood is da bomb. He loves the books he's teaching, and is friendly, welcoming and engaging. His lectures are mind-blowing, and the tfs care about the class a ton. The reading is very manageable too - the longest book is like 200 pages.
This is a great course. Relaxed, but you still have to do your work. The assignments consist of two essays, one 5-6 pages and one 7-8 pages. You might not be in love with all of the books at first, but Professor Wood will help you understand at least what is striking about each novel. Professor Wood is very personable.
Great course.  It's like a book club where you write two papers.
this class is a gem. only two major assignments the whole year, and you have the option to rewrite the midterm paper. Felt like a good way to balance out a busy schedule filled with physics/orgo, and sometimes I forgot I was even enrolled in the class.
This class is fabulous! A great way to read and learn about important books along with one of the most brilliant literary critics of our time. It's essentially a book club with James Wood.
james wood is godly. seriously, take this course and your appreciation for delightful prose and attentiveness to reading will grow tremendously
This course should be renamed "Book Club with James Wood." Although the reading list is wonderful and Professor Wood always makes insightful and interesting analysis, I didn't feel very invested in the course. There were too few assignments and too little structure.
Absolutely take this course. Professor Wood is a superb professor who understands not only the craft of fiction but also the psychology of his student. Each book is delightful and brief, making this course incredibly manageable. As Professor Wood jokes at the beginning of the semester, this class is rather more like a book club than a traditional English course. The focus is always on the pleasure of reading and reading better. Lectures often consist of dramatic readings of pleasant passages, with a few brilliant remarks on the themes and diction. This is a marvelous, enjoyable course. I cannot recommend this course enough. If you like literature at all, you must take a course with Professor Wood. He is a true gem.
Relaxed, great English class. It's not going to be life-changing, but it is going to be solid and enjoyable throughout the whole semester. Professor wood gives fun and interesting lectures and leads relaxed discussion of the books (which are great) and section is more of the same. The only requirements are a midterm and final essay, for which you are free to do as you please.
James Wood is AMAZING! Absolutely take this class. You will walk away from every lecture with a new way to look at the world.
Take this class. It has a fantastic syllabus and a manageable assignment load (so you can actually read the syllabus). Lectures are interesting, but can be a bit disjointed. Trisha is a great TF.
It's very little work and you really don't even need to read the books you aren't going to write about; however, the two assignments are just general "argument papers" and it's incredibly difficult to formulate theses.
This is a course that allows a lot of freedom in approaching recent texts. If it feels a little like book club with James Wood, that's because it is, and it's wonderful.
Do the reading.
James Wood is always a delight. Take whatever class he's teaching.
If you are an English concentrator or a student who just wants to learn more about the subject, it is a great option
James Wood is a fantastic lecturer, and the books we read are very good. Wood's focus is definitely on enjoying the works rather than plowing through them and finishing them, which is evident from the time he takes to read out wonderful passages and quotes in class. He wants his students to appreciate the language and style that these authors had which made them so unique. I feel like this course made me a better reader and appreciator of language. I loved it.
Professor Wood is an incredible teacher. The reading list consists of excellent books - this class is effectively book club - that you may have heard of but likely wouldn't have read on your own. Furthermore, the assignments are entirely open-ended, so you can write about whatever book and subject you like.
It is excellent, relaxing, engaging, educative, and stimulating for aspiring writers. It's a treat to be in Professor Wood's class.
This is a pretty good course, it's just half of what it could be. A lot of the lectures have no trajectory whatsoever, and most consist of close reading passages. Wood is clearly brilliant, and so his interpretations can be very interesting, but it can also feel frustrating to never get a bigger picture look at what we're studying. The title, Postwar American and British Fiction, is a decent description of the syllabus, but in reality the focus of the class is on close reading and considering literature in a more metafictional way. It definitely helps you think about literature differently, but more focus and a feeling of some sort of trajectory or cohesion would greatly improve this course.
Read all of the novels, and work hard on the papers because there are only two. Besides that, just enjoy.
Take it!
This course was great because, as James Wood himself said, if you really weren't interested in a book, you could potentially skip it, and hopefully concentrate that much more on the ones you did like. Postwar gives you the chance for some breathing room in your work, and moreover, the books are all varied and of good enough quality that you'll want to read them regardless. James Wood makes his lectures a comfortable, almost conversational atmosphere brimming with his fascinating thoughts and opinions.
This class is so fun and so chill. The reading is not only manageable but pleasant - 1 novel a week. You can write whatever you want on your essays, which are the only assignments besides reading for section. Professor Wood's almost conversational lectures will make you a better reader, because he teaches you to actually appreciate what you're reading.
Perhaps one of the best English classes I have taken. Lectures are incredible and they really teach on how fiction works in literature and what rhetorical conventions contribute to its function. Also shows the vast range of writing styles. Class focuses on the complex nature of Realism.
Wonderful reading list, very doable. I took a lot from this course in terms of how to read critically.
It's literally a book club.
Very relaxed class. James will teach you how to respect authors and style.
This course is a lot of fun if you take the time to read the books. Professor Wood is enthusiastic about the material and likes to get feedback from his students. It's easy to avoid doing the reading but you really won't get anything from the class if you do this. Lecture is structured loosely but Professor Wood has a lot of interesting things to say about the books and I definitely am able to look at books differently now than I did before.
This is a wonderful course!! Although it doesn't quite feel like a course. It feels more like a wonderful book club with James Wood where we just read books that he likes. It is also very low time commitment. It is not necessary to read every text every week and Wood does not even really expect you too. However, you are missing out if you don't read them since they are all fantastic books. My section was also a lot of fun actually because it was made up of people who loved talking about books and were very invested in the material. This is a good class to take as a laid back elective.
Lectures can be frustrating because they often are unrelated to one another and do not allow you to discuss and analyze the book in as much detail as one would like. Sections are better for this. The reading list is pretty great--there a some gems of novels that await you!
Students often call this class "James Wood's Book Club," a comment which sometimes has a derisive tone.  However, I found this class, and Professor Wood himself, entirely magical.  The class is very relaxed, but Professor Wood and the teaching staff are passionately engaged with the material, which makes for an incredible learning environment.
Not a lot of work. Very good senior cruising course.
Great class.  Not very structured if that's your thing, but Professor Wood is engaging, funny, and absolutely brilliant.  The books are great.
The books in this class don't bear obvious links other than having been written after World War II, but this makes it almost more interesting; it allows you to observe connections between stylistically and temporally disparate works. James Wood practically overflows with enthusiasm and makes lecture a joy; he is clearly interested in engaging closely with his students, making this course a personal learning experience for them.
Postwar British and American Fiction is a bit like the Holy Roman Empire: good chunks of the booklist aren't really postwar (Green?), British and American (Nabokov? Sebald? Hemon? Cole?), or fiction (Sebald?????). A better title would be "James Wood's Book-of-the-Month Club."*That said, James Wood's Book-of-the-Month Club is awesome. JW's lecture's (musings aloud? New Yorker outtakes?) are lovely and impassioned and hilarious and deeply insightful (they also sometimes include accents... lololol @ his Nabokov and his Miss Jean Brodie). The booklist is loads of fun... really, just take this class because it's the only chance you'll get to spend a semester gabbing with James Wood about some of his favorite books. This class was a highlight of my week, everything I'd ask of an elective at Harvard.*I'm being more than a little facetious: actually, there are a lot of really interesting things about national identity and history and modernism all swirling around in this course that are in fact very relevant to PWB&AF.
Professor Wood is a brilliant and engaging lecturer, but you have to stay focused in order to follow him and grasp the stylistic points he discusses. The books are fantastic and section was really enjoyable as well. It isn't easy if you aren't used to writing English papers, but at the end of it you know how to evaluate a book critically and with some confidence.
This is a really fun course where you can read really fun books in a really fun environment! But actually, Professor Wood is a great lecturer, and you'll find yourself feeling more like you're in a book club than a class. There are only two graded papers, so that might seem a little daunting at first, but the TFs provide really good feedback and the grading seemed relatively fair to me.
This is a great class to take if you enjoy literature. The books are enjoyable and Professor Wood is incredibly interesting.
I pretty much only felt like I learned things in section. But on that note I feel like I approach reading novels in a very different way and I liked that I had the opportunity to read books that I probably would not have otherwise. I just found lecture to be difficult to follow at times and not very rewarding.
Great books and great lecturer.
This is an engaging but not overly challenging class with a very reasonable workload and fantastic professor.
The books are delightful, and the lectures offer a lot of insight on how to consume fiction.
His teaching style is elliptical and lectures are his one big book review of the book of the week, but his enthusiasm is infectious, and he really believes what he said in the first week- good books are so good, they should "glow". Take it
While the books you read are great in scope and very well-written, I didn't find the class to be incredibly insightful and I don't know how much I really learned from the course. The lectures aren't well structured and the TFs were apparently told to grade essays "very harshly," which seemed unnecessary and arbitrary. Wood is a very kind, intelligent and well-spoken professor, I just wish his lectures were more well-organized.
James Wood is amazing, and it is a pleasure to listen to him lecture. The work in the course is very minimal, but the paper topics are also not well defined, and as a non-English concentrator I struggled with them.
It's a fair class, and if you like the reading catalog, you should take it.  There's not much that you get out of it concretely, though, and most of the learning comes down to discussion in section and thinking on your own about the ideas Professor Wood introduces in lecture.
This class is a lot of fun. Lecture is always entertaining and section is really informative. One must be willing to look very deeply into texts in order to succeed, however.
This is a wonderful class that you will learn a lot from. Take it!
This class is for book lovers. Lecture is fascinating, and section is a great way to discuss some very interesting novels. I loved that the novels were more contemporary, which made them enjoyable - it didn't feel like homework to read them. There are only two papers, which is both good and bad. It is good because there is not much stress involved in this class. It is bad because if you do not feel confident in your paper writing abilities, you could end up struggling to get a good grade. The grading was not easy - they pushed us to be good writers. I loved this class, a must take for English majors!
Professor Wood has a great sense of humor. And the books are worth reading.  Some people think that the class isnt' worth it because they can just read the books outside of class... but I ask... WILL YOU? also... Professor Wood has wonderful insight.... but he makes it clear that it is just his own reading, and he encourages us to have our own interpretations. I think this class is definitely worth taking... I really enjoyed it.  And it's very low-key.
Definitely take this course to be able to hear James Wood lecture twice a week. It's not the most structured course in the world and a lot of what happens is left up to section. But overall it's worth it to hear from Wood.
This course is a fun class that does not require much preparation or too much work outside of class. The readings are very reasonable as are the assignments. I would have even appreciated having more assignments so that my grade was based on more work than simply two papers. I enjoyed lecture. Professor Wood is a pleasure to listen to, especially when he reads passages of the books aloud. Professor Wood provides great insight into the readings and has intimate connections with some of the authors, which helps shed even greater light on the books we read. However, Professor Wood often went on tangents and focused in portions of the book that did not seem of the utmost importance. I also found that it would have been useful if the class had been slightly better organized. For example, the syllabus changed several times so I found myself confused from time to time about the assigned readings.
This class is incorrectly named. It actually should be called "English 168d: Book Club with James Wood." Which is to say, it's incredible. Professor Wood is literally THE literary critic for the New Yorker and is about as well-regarded as you can get in the literary world, and you get to spend several hours a week just talking about his favorite books (the syllabus is incredible). It's the sort of class that you should take not for an easy grade (the grading is actually fairly difficult, particularly for such a low workload), but rather because it's something you'll love and engage in. It's also a great elective for non-English people, because the work load is quite light (circa 100 pages a week of fiction). Moreover, section was amazingone of the most engaged and upbeat I've ever had. If Michael is one of the TFs, do everything you can to land that section. TL;DR: Being in a book club with the world's pre-eminent literary critic is something you can only do at Harvard. Take. This. Course.
I think they made this class a lot harder this year. The paper grading was unnecessarily harsh and that made the course really frustrating...not worth getting a mediocre grade if you are only taking the course as an elective. Great readings though and Prof Wood's lecture are interesting too.
Very easy class. Didn't like most of the books from the second half of the syllabus. No real connecting thread between the books. Lectures can be good or can be very esoteric (referring to books not assigned for the course).
Anyone who possibly can, and who has the slightest interest in either contemporary fiction or the world that contemporary fiction reflects, should make taking this course their first priority at Harvard.
The syllabus has some amazing books on it which even senior concentraters may not yet have read. However, there is a lack of an overarching theme and it feels a little bit more like an excellent book club than it does a lecture course.
It was very difficult to remain engaged with this course. I took the course in the first place because I was excited about the reading list,  but the lectures were often esoteric and difficult to follow, and there were so few assignments that it wasn't necessary to fully engage with all of the material.
GREAT pick
Some of the novels did not move me. Only one was a joy to read. This made my enthusiasm for the course diminish severely. But my lack of interest was often reawakened by Professor Wood's accessible and lax way of giving his lectures. I love his style.
Read at least some of the books. They are good. Having a good TF is also key to the work aspect of the course. Enjoy listening to James Wood
This course is wonderful. The books are excellent and short enough so that you're able to relish them. Do this and you'll get the most out of the course. Professor Wood leads relaxing lectures and this course has made me appreciate what good literature is. I've realized I didn't really know until now. The prompts for essays are very free. You have to write GOOD essays to get a good mark in this course: don't think it's an easy A. But if you truly engage with the books then you can do this and love it as you do it. I recommend this with great enthusiasm :)
This is a beautiful class- the contemporary books and James Wood's lectures are forms of living art. There are only two essay assignments which, for a non-English concentrator, can be difficult to do well on because no prompts are provided. This course teaches you to be observant of what makes a book beautiful. Overall a very enjoyable, somewhat relaxed experience.
This class was a pleasure! I highly recommend Prof. Wood's lectures, which are as entertaining as they are thought-provoking. The class feels more like a book club than a Harvard course. Since the coursework is minimal and the class feels casual, many students took advantage and attended lecture only sporadically; that was unfortunate for them, since lecture was always a highlight of my week!
This course has a relatively light workload. The books you read are very well written and Professor Wood is a good lecturer and entertaining. Section can be a bit mind-numbing, though that's no one's fault really. That being said, the course isn't incredible.
It's book club with James Wood, which means you're basically talking with a New Yorker literary critic about his favorite books. Easily one of the best classes that I have taken.
No structure but also a nice break from other types of classes if you don't usually take English classes. Makes you think outside of the box and Professor Wood and all of the TFs are extremely competent and great to hear from.
Unfortunately, I found this to be the worst class I have taken in four years at Harvard. I feel that I did not learn more than I would have reading the books on my own, and the grading seemed extremely harsh(maybe in an effort to keep the grades down this year). There is nothing wrong with having difficult grading in class, but this should ideally be justified by the value of the class itself and coupled with strong feedback. Instead, the feedback on written assignments was not adequate, as it did not make clear what was expected or how to move forward, and for me the value of the class was negligible.Having no theme for the course also resulted in a disjointed experience. Wood's lectures were intelligent but often seemed to miss the forest for the trees: we focused ad nauseam on relatively tiny stylistic points at the expense of delving into characters, broader themes, or even plots of the novels, which felt disappointing and certainly made me wish I had taken almost any other literature or English class.
This class is not as easy as the two papers make it seem. Sure there are only two papers for the entire class, but then again, there are ONLY two papers. Which means that say, if you mess up on one of them, you could potentially ruin your grade for the entire course. Professor Wood often goes off on tangents, and the lectures themselves don't have much structure or organization to them. With that said, if you are good at writing papers in the humanities, and want a class with very reasonable amounts of reading, this class could be worth checking out.
James Wood gives very laid-back, entertaining lectures, but I wish I had either taken the class pass/fail or just sat in on lectures every once in a while. The papers have no prompt which makes it very difficult for anyone who isn't an English concentrator to do well.
This class is a lot of fun. James Wood is a great lecturer and very entertaining to listen to. The reading is also fun and enjoyable, even if you are not as literary minded as some. However, James Wood does like to mention books and authors sometimes expecting students to have already read them, so it helps to have a good Literary Background in order to understand the lectures.
James Wood is a fantastic lecturer- I frequently pass almost all of class without looking at my watch. His perspective as a literary critic is a privilege to hear.
I would recommend this class to people who are looking to read interesting fiction and listen to interesting discussion about these books. You won't get much historical contextualization as the title of the course suggests. I also, however, would stress that the course should improve its commitment to standards between sections.
For anyone looking to explore a basic english course this is for you! After taking it I feel like I have gained some tangible skills of how to assess writing and "know what to look for."  And, for those who have never taken an English course, this is a great place to start
James Wood is incredible.
AMAZING course! James Wood is fantastic -- he sets an extremely fair pace for the class that really allows you to get through all the reading and take the time to appreciate it. It's really like "book appreciation hour with James Wood" twice a week, and his insight as a critic is so different from other profs in the department and really offers a valuable perspective. Plus, the reading list is phenomenal. Workload is really light, which also allows you to get the most out of the reading as well (and you'll want to put the time into reading these books!). Annie was a great TF, super fascinating to talk to and really encouraging, and the opportunity to pursue creative work in the class taught me an incredible amount about the authors we read. You won't regret taking it!
Just because James Wood is a celebrity professor doesn't mean he is all that good of a lecturer. He was definitely fun and entertaining at times but I found that he did not offer many great insights about the texts. Also, most of what he says can be read in his articles in The New Yorker or in his book. However, if you are looking for a fairly easy class with interesting enough novels to read, this would be a good class to take. If you are looking for something more serious and thought-provoking, perhaps look elsewhere.
Fun class, but you'd get most of it by reading How Fiction Works.  Good reading list though.
Awesome class, very engaging and enjoyable.
I took this class P/F and it was incredibly enjoyable - akin to a "Book Club." The reading list is excellent and Professor Wood offers incredible insight into each work. There are only two assignments and I appreciated the flexibility. Great source. Especially for Senior Spring!
Im scrolling through the comments students have left for this course in the Q, and so far not much is ringing any bells. Comment #12 advises future students to take the class if youre prepared for a 2pm naptime. #38 warns that the books are boring, unmanageable. #21 rejoices that the class for her was easy, easy, easy. Did I take the same class as everybody else? English 168d: Postwar American and British Fiction (Spring Term, 2013), right? Taught by the eminent Professor Oak?Listen up. Professor Oak is the man. He gives you six starting Pokemon and lets you out into the grass for your own adventure. On this adventure, you meet, battle with, and capture wild Pokemon. You learn to love them, to nurse them. And as you travel with them, they evolve and your heart celebrates.On this advntr, you walk through grass with your Pokemon. Swim across water. Pass whirlpools. Explore caverns. Move boulders. Even shoot up waterfalls. You learn you are a magician. You learn your Pokemon are wizards. You experience new things. You discover the lyrical, the majestic, the impossible. You expand your world. On this advntr, yes, you visit near-by towns youve been to before, for vacation or for carrying bags for mom from their supermarket. But with your new party of Pokemon, all looks different. You notice the hospital Chansey. You spy Pokeballs at sale in the market. You see hunched trainers keeping their cheeks up with the hands, breathing heavily, anticipating news, bad news, horrible news, news no parent wants to hear, as the soothing Chansey smiles at them. You begin to wonder what is behind that smile, for the Chansey must see death and disease each day. Is it a mask to disguise its own torment? When you were a child, Mom had told you stories of these towns you now go to, and she mentioned Pokemon many times. But not like this. Not like this.On this advntr, you meet other trainers. They have their own Pokemon (many, identical to yours), and they are on their own adventure. You fight with them. And you fight in gyms, too.  Whats different on this adventure is that there are only four gym leaders. Curious world. In most video games Ive played, there are 8, maybe16. Also weird is that the Elite Four is an Elite Two. (You may faint to the second one if youre not well-prepared.) Yeah, I know. But-what can you say? What can you do? New world, new rules.New rules, but Prof. Oak helps you out with them. I mean, he gives you six Pokemon. Two for me were female; the rest, male. All sort of similar. Half from Johto; the rest from elsewhere. (I preferred those from Kantothey reminded me of home.) I got dragon-types, ghosts, and flyers. They were strong Pokemon. They were Oaks favorite Pokemon, he told me. Why does he prefer DRG, GHT, and FLY-type Pokemon? Where are the electrics? The WTR? The NRM? Anyway, I got those I got, but Im not sure if youll get the same Pokemon. Which makes me think, where does he get these Pokemon from in the first place? Will he tell you the ones he gives you are his favorites, too? Will that matter?He gives you a Pokedex. This Pokedex tells you your Pokemons information. Height, weight, sex, size, cry, and spawning locationsthat stuff. It tells you each Pokemons evolutions. On the topic of who its mother is, where its parents are, and how Prof. Oak got a hold of these Pokemon, however, your Pokedex drones in silence. Professor Oak, in a way an ash-elm-maple-birch-spruce man himself, asks you on your progress and gives you advice. He congratulates you on beating the Elite 2. But he never forgets that this is your adventure, not his. And under his guidance, you remember that you had these sacred adventures as a kid, had them in home, in v. games, had them in school, had them killed by school. With your new Pokemon, you have them again.
This class is a strong and robust class and I highly recommend every student takes it before he/she graduates. Obviously Prof. Wood is a big deal (chief book critic at the New Yorker, husband of Claire Messud) in the literary world, but in class he is funny, gregarious and easily approachable. In fact, he encourages active class participation, and his students let him down a little bit in this regard.  The books you'll read are fine, fine works with the exception of Beckett, who, according to Wood, is deeply misunderstood, but who really is, according to everyone else, a real bore. The sections for this class are very light-hearted but the TFs really do want you to learn so it's not just farting around. Finally, this class, refreshingly, doesn't seek to tie the books to science, or Evelyn Waugh to international politics, as so many classes do. It doesn't need to look for fake, liberal-arts-college-brochure moments of transdisciplinary wonder. It knows, and it teaches you, that these novels are beautiful and weighty enough to stand on their own.
it's not the most directed or organized course, but you definitely learn, and the books are great
The class is a delight. Wonderful books with very little work.
Perfect class if you just want to read some interesting books and hear some interesting thoughts in Professor Wood's incredible accent.
If you enjoy reading, want a book club style class, this class is fun and enjoyable and not too intimidating for non-english concentrators.
James Wood talks about books he likes for an hour. Reads a lot of passages in appropriate accents. Charming and interesting, especially if you care about literary style.
Good books, great professor, definitely a class worth considering!
Take it- worth reading interesting books that you wouldn't ordinarily pick
This class is awesome. James Wood is one of the most widely recognized literary critics probably of our time, and it is great to be able to sit back and listen to his opinions about classic works of literature. The class has basically no structure, so if you are someone who needs to have concrete lessons to learn form a class, this course definitely isn't for you. But if you want to read some great books and have some stimulating discussions, then I would highly recommend this class. James Wood called this class book club on the very last day of lecture, which I think is the perfect way to describe it.
If you're interested in reading good books under the tutelage of an amazing New Yorker writer, and don't mind that things can be a bit freelance at times, you'll love this class as much as I did!
JAMES WOOD
This class is the best class I've taken at Harvard. It's both a literature lover's dream and also a great low-key way for science/math concentrators to take a humanities class. James Wood's insights on why a novel is good and what makes literature great has been one of the most educational experiences I've had at this school. Additionally, the low stress nature of the assignments (2 papers and 4 response papers throughout the semester) makes it an enjoyable experience as well.
Great class for writers to take.
I think your enjoyment of this class depends a lot on how much work you put into it. It is easy to get by in this class without doing much work at all -- you only have to write two papers, so you theoretically could only read two books.  There's not much accountability for doing the reading week-to-week. However, you will get a lot more out of the course and out of Professor Wood's lectures if you actually try to keep up.  And Professor Wood
Beautiful lectures, beautiful books.
James Wood is awesome, as is the syllabus, but be warned that connections between lecture/section/essay assignments are not particularly strong. It was not always clear where the class was going, but I definitely enjoyed it regardless! (The workload is also very light.)
James Wood can give EXCELLENT lectures. really excellent. He can also give some that are less than satisfactory...rarely started class on time, and I wish he would so we could hear more. The syllabus was not really tied together, and I didn't feel like I learned the important parts of each book, but it's definitely a fun class altogether.
Wood is a great lecturer, if a bit opinionated. The TF staff is amazing, and the syllabus includes books that are fun, not burdensome.
It's James Wood's favorite books. But they were also some of mine.
If you like the books, plan to read them all, and have strengths in reading and writing about the books- take this class. The lectures were pretty useless and I never felt like I learned that much except for when Wood talked about the author's lives. There is not much work required, just 2 essays, but if you don't have experience in this type of writing, don't expect much help in learning how to. I'm not sure I would take it again, I would just read the books in my spare time.
Professor Wood's class helps develop and refine your literary palate. It might also make you a better writerwhether you're interested in fiction, criticism, nonfiction, or poetryfor its focus on language and writing.
You must take this course. James Wood is phenomenal and the reading list is always amazing.Take it pass/fail if you want to have a stress-free class, but you don't really need to. It's very easy.
This is a great class to take in senior spring.  James Wood is chill and brilliant and going to lecture is not necessary.  The books are good and workload is low --what's not to like?
very manageable work load, very enjoyable, you can put as much or as little work into it as you want
Wonderful reading list and great lectures.
It is a fantastic course that teaches you how to read carefully and to enjoy and question books that are contemporary and therefore relevant to your daily lives. Not enough courses at Harvard emphasise the need to enjoy one's reading.
Professor Wood always has some very interesting things to say, and the class does a good job of teaching the basics of literary analysis.
This is a great chance to read some great novels and get a sense of what an important literary critic looks at--particularly at a sentence level--in a text. Lectures were sometimes great and sometimes a bit dull, but section was very enjoyable. Not too much reading, so it's easy to keep up--just don't fall behind.
Lectures are scattered observations and arguments about that week's novel rather than thematic discussions with a unified message--for this reason, people attend sporadically. Sections usually offer good discussions, for the three people who did the reading that week. Unfortunately, due to the fact that there are only two paper assignments, students really slacked off on reading in this class. That being said, a great English elective, good books, caring instructors. Not rigorous.
Be prepared for a lot of reading
James Wood is an excellent critic and reader, and part of the fun of this course is watching him sitting at his desk and in action -- perusing through a given novel, finding the passages he finds most stimulating, expatiating, and asking occasional questions. Perhaps that's the class's only flaw, that his lectures can feel more like story time than an organized presentation. When he's hot, though, he's hot -- and there were many wonderful classes. The reading load is fairly light. The paper load is light as well, which has both benefits and costs. If you're looking for a fine, enjoyable lecture course in English, keep Postwar British and American Fiction in mind.
If you have a busy week and cannot finish the readings for this course, it doesn't hurt you. The course is very forgiving that way. However, if you want to get the most out of this class, do all the readings. Professor Wood is extremely intelligent, and if you do the readings, the course becomes unbelievably interesting.
it's a really pleasant class. great readings, great lecturer. the only thing is that it isn't the most academically stimulating or exciting. like, your mind won't be blown, but it is a very pleasant experience to take this class
This course was just a delight to take  it seemed to have come about solely out of a desire to convey a love for fiction, and Professor Wood made it easy to grow to love the books on the syllabus. Lectures felt mostly like an excuse to hang out and hear him explain that a book, a paragraph, a passage, a sentence, or a single choice word were wonderful, and then show how so; it was an eminently entertaining master class in close analysis disguised as a laid-back lecture course.
It is an easy course, but probably won't get that much out of it.
James Wood is a wonderful lecturer, and the class has a great reading list.
Do not take this course for a love of English or the light courseload. The Professor does not take an active role outside of the lectures and your grades are completely at the whims of the TFS, which this year proved to be more than lackluster. The Head TF did not make sure that there were equal grading schemes among sections and undermined the entire experience. Do not take this course! The lectures and workload are not worth the painful sections and grade deflation. Pedantic graduate students can ruin the very best of classes.
The workload is rather low and the books are enjoyable to read.
Fun class in which you get to read a bunch of great books. There is almost no assigned work and James Wood's lectures are really entertaining.
You should definitely take a class taught by James Wood before you graduate. As a book reviewer, he has a completely different perspective on literature than most academics. His lectures were fascinating and I looked forward to them all week.
This class is not super rigorous or demanding.  But it will expand your horizons of reading.  James Wood comes in with the critic's perspective rather than an English professor's, and this is quite refreshing.  I look at literature a little differently now -- a worthwhile outcome in and of itself.  It also helps that this class is painless work-wise -- you really do enjoy it rather than stress.
It's not that much work so you dont feel too compelled to read the books all the time. But when you do read them...you won't regret it because they are incredible...and on the syllabus for a reason.
At first the class seems too good to be true. During the first lecture Professor Wood says he's kept the reading list slim because he wants us to enjoy these novels, return to them in the future with great fondness. His aim, he says, is not to fatten us up like foie gras. And this is an extremely admirable aim, and I really respect Professor Wood for walking the talk.My problems with the course lie in the format of the lectures. Close reading with James Wood is a unique privilege, and no doubt it made me a stronger, more observant reader. For this reason, I would highly recommend this course to anyone who is thinking of pursuing writing. However, sometimes the close reading felt excessive, and sometimes we returned to the same passage several times over, though no new meaning was elucidated on the third or fourth revisiting.If you are looking for a typical English lecture class with structured lectures, etc., look elsewhere. The class lost momentum when we hit V.S. Naipaul's "A House for Mr. Biswas" (a fantastic novel in its own right, but painful to slog through when classes are in session), but quickly found its footing again with Joseph O'Neill's "Netherland." However, the "Biswas" period--roughly a month long--definitely took its toll on the overall enthusiasm for the class.Also, keep in mind that there're only two essays. Two. Weigh that carefully.
Fun reading list, with a famous professor. Still felt like I could have just read his essays in the New Yorker to learn what I learned in lecture. I enjoyed learning about fiction that is more current, and the approach critics take towards it.The main topics of this course are: purpose of fiction, unreliable/reliable narrator, etc.
It's a great class that expands your knowledge to books that you may have never seen before.  Great time period to study!
James Wood is so delightful! A treasure of a teacher and lecturer, even without the beloved British accent and the earnest appealing smile with which he addresses us. Great insights and enormously subtle intuition for meaning. But there's also his wonderful love of the comic. He is very funny (and I do not mean that only in the usual, more common sense of the word, because not only does he succeed in inducing laughter during every lecture from the audience, but he also convincingly explains why a passage we laughed at tickled our humeri).
James Wood is very interesting, but the best sell of this class is the reading list. These books are really good -- but the class is pretty disorganized.
Only two papers and 4 response papers. Probably not necessary to always attend lecture, but you will get much more out of the class if you do. Wood is basically trying to make us love the books as much as he does - lots of fun.
Great professor who says stuff that's actually interesting. Fun, short books. Sometimes you feel like you don't necessarily have to show up though.
It's a relatively painless English elective. Sometimes it feels like Professor Wood isn't trying his hardest, but this course will neve really make you stressed.
There is a lot of reading to be done so it is sometimes hard to keep up with the lectures. Wood is great but you have to plan to really focus on the reading in order to get the most out of it.
read the books or the lectures won't do anything for you. You'll have plenty of time to read them the professor's pace is actually humane unlike many other classes
A lot of fun, good books and not too much workload!
James Wood is a great teacher, I had a great TF, and the books are interesting and probably something you wouldn't read on your own. There are only two assignments so it's up to you to keep up with reading and take the class seriously. It's important to put in time and effort on each paper because they compose most of your grade.
The novels are really interesting, and Professor Wood is great in showing you the best parts of them!
Good books, but lecture sometimes feels like section. Could use some more structure.
James Wood is brilliant, and his lectures are pretty entertaining. The reading list changes every year, but seems to be consistently interesting. With only 2 papers and not that much weekly reading, the course is very manageable (senior spring!). He asks you to take notes in your book, rather than a notebook; you can find a lot of what he talks about in lecture - for the older novels, at least - in his book How Fiction Works as well.
You will read interesting texts and listen to James Wood's interesting commentary on these interesting texts, but don't expect to get to any serious depth unless you want to do it yourself. The lectures are less comprehensive literary analysis, and more live book reviews - very excellent book reviews, like Professor Wood's in the New Yorker, but book reviews nonetheless. Expect to hear a lot about what is funny, what is a good detail. The reading density is laughably light.
If you like literature, take Wood. If you don't care for it but want to like it, also take Wood. The fervency of his own passion for books is impossible to avoid catching. The work load is very reasonable compared to comparable courses (think Fisher), mostly because Wood is a strong believer in quality of understanding rather than quantity of exposure. I can't recommend this highly enough; it will fundamentally change the way that you read. This is the kind of course that you come to Harvard to take.
This class is rather variable. Some of the books and lectures are great, and you will read some very important works of post-war fiction, but some of the lectures are redundant and aimless. Professor Wood is clearly very intelligent, but sometimes his lectures are not well structured. He dwells too long on why he likes something and does not spend enough time, perhaps, on thinking about why something is important or interesting.
Prof. Wood's lectures are disorganized and you leave lecture every week unsure about what he just discussed. It is slow paced and the books are not great. I wouldn't recommend this course.
This is a very solid English class, which I enjoyed despite having a pretty deep-seated hatred for the way that most English classes pick apart good literature and find meaning where no meaning exists. This class is not like that (at least for the most part). Professor Wood is hilarious, and he makes some very interesting arguments about the books on the reading list - ones that actually make logical sense. His lectures tend to be unstructured, and it's generally hard to follow the thread of his argument, but I didn't particularly mind that. Plus, he spends much of lecture reading his favorite bits of different books, and I don't know if it's the British accent or something else, but it definitely made me appreciate these books more.
Prof. Wood is very passionate about the material which is great.  However, I found that not being an English concentrator put be at a disadvantage.  Also, I found the materials to not have a lot of variety.
Great lectures, good books- a great english class to take
This class is not at all what it seems.  It appeared to be interesting with a light work load, but this turned into a nightmare.  Lectures were uninteresting at best, and it often seemed as if Professor Wood had not read the novel in years.  The section part of this class is horrible.  Do not have Nick Nardini as your TF.  He adds requirements to the class that were not in the syllabus and that the professor probably knew nothing about.  He also is a very, very, very harsh grader on the two papers, while not helping you to improve your writing.  Make sure you can come up with "completely original ideas" for your papers.  Also, beware of the 30% participation grade.  Your grade is completely and subjectively given by your TF-a major problem when you have a TF on a power trip. Do NOT take this course!
If you want to read a bunch of good novels, if you want a lecture that is basically an hour for you to listen to a great critic talk about why he likes the books he does, then definitely take this course. No complaints.
Do the reading *before* lecture!  It helps.
Take the class, even if you don't think you like to read.  James Wood can help with that.
The readings were great and the pace was perfect.
James Wood is funny and mean, and his favorite quotes sheet will break your heart if you actually did the reading, like I did.
It's like a book club with the smartest people around. Extremely edifying, not stressful. You may not learn about English as a field, but you will learn about authors' quirks and how to read into these specific novels.
you learn how to read critically, appreciate language usage, and understand how book is a product of writer and his experiences
It is more like a book club in lecture than a class. This is both good and bad. On the one hand, student participation is encouraged and we often discuss various aspects of the book; on the other hand, the lectures aren't always structured so that they get at the core of either the style or plot in a clear manner.
I learned more than in any other course, did well in the class, and enjoyed myself. What more could you ask for? take it! you will have so much more fun reading books afterwards. Even like books you already read and stuff, it will be like fun reading them again. Really! (but only if they are actual books, not the da vinci code type)
A great way to fulfil a Lit A core
Great class, great professor, interesting books, but going to lecture won't help you do well in this class so I hope you know how to write well already.
Enjoy it!  Readings are great, Wood is a genius and a great lecturer, and sections are super.
Do all the reading.  Without it you won't get as much out of the class.
The class is really enjoyable--low stress, great readings, and an amazing professor
There isn't much work but they grade hard.
It's painless, the books are amazing, the professor is great
it is a good class that is well run, has no busy-work and the material studied is really worth reading.
Everyone should read more fiction, this is your chance.
Be sure to do the reading before lecture, you get a lot more out of the course!
This class was fantastic!!!!!!!!!  I cannot stress enough how great this was.  I am a physics major who likes to read, and I wanted to take a real English class that wasn't scary - I didn't want to be expected to produce the same kind of amazing work that my English-major friends are capable of.  This course was perfect - James Wood is a famous literary critic who always has fascinating things to say about these books.  Each lecture is rapture.
Easy, interesting, insightful, worthwhile. No reason not to take, many reasons to take.
it is far more rewarding if you set aside the time to read the books; its easy to get by not reading, but you really feel like youve missed out on the purpose of the whole class if you dont
The best part is when the professor reads out loud from the novels in funny voices. It's like story-time!
This class is simply AMAZING. All it requires of you is to read AMAZING books, participate in AMAZING discussions, and write two AMAZING papers. Who could ask for more? Also, you will undoubtedly fall in love with Professor James Wood.
This class is like being in a great book club full of smart, intelligent people and led by an expert. not hard and very fun!
Easy and enjoyable...very worthwhile
Books are great, professor even better!
Wood makes lectures more fun!
It's very little work, but then again it's not much of a class.
For someone who has never taken an English class at Harvard, this was a wonderful start!
The class is very rewarding and will teach you to read in a different way.
This is a great class with excellent readings. A lot of fun and not too difficult at all. The professor is excellent.
there is no curriculum...you probably won't learn anything. but you will come out having read some good books.
It's fun and easy but I'm not quite sure how I did overall.
Great reading list, best lectures I've had, good TFs, and only two short papers with no exams. Pretty much all you could possibly ask for.
There is no catch with this course. It is awesome and easy and counts for core credit. Triple threat!
the class isn't neccisarily graded easily but its low workload is really great in a core. Despite its low workload it's a really interestingand engaging class
its a fun class with amazing books
If students prepared the reading and were genuinely interested in questions of the being and significance of literature, this course will be very valuable to their education both academically and vitally.
The reading list is great and the lectures are interesting and wonderful (although perhaps unnecessary when it comes to your grade in the class, if you're the type of person who skips lecture a lot), but sections are not very good and the course is graded harder than you would expect
Just have a good attitude and be willing to read alot, and you will truly enjoy this class. The books are fantastic, so take the time to read them and participate in lecture/section.
good novels, class lectures very interesting with many subtle nuances and facets, good experience in reading closely especially in section, but lectures and sections could be diffuse and disorganized and not much feedback is given in the course with only two papers
Talk to your teaching fellow early about what he expects from the papers and get a clear sense of the writing style preferred to be successful on assignments.
excellent course for both experts and those curious about literature, very welcoming atmosphere
This course is exactly what an english course should be. The material is fantastic, the lectures are enlightening, and the work work load encourages thought vs. stress.
You should probably be prepared to be astonished. James Wood is going to blow your mind more than once throughout this course.
Really really easy
Read the books. If you are prepared for class you will learn incredible things.
English 168d is an enjoyable course that likely introduces you to more modern works of literature (postwar fiction). The workload is fairly light, well-paced, and the material is interesting. Prof. Wood is also a great professor.
Enjoy! Get Brandon as a TF if given the choice.
This is how Harvard courses should be: interesting, thought-provoking, and fun.
THe class should be called "8 books James Wood likes" - nothing wrong with that, they were all interesting classes.
The class was a very painless way to fulfill a requirement and generally interesting.
This course provides great exposure to post-war literature, but seems to lack overall focus/themes.
Make sure to complete all of the reading, as the course tends to compare readings against each other. Also, talk thoroughly with TFs before completing a paper, as they tend to look for specific elements when grading.
The course is on great material, but be prepared to do a lot of preperation for papers on your own.
Section is more rewarding than lecture.
pretty interesting teacher and very easy
it requires very little work compared to other classes.
It's a class with amazing readings and lectures.  I would highly recommend it, even for people who don't have an interest or background in literature.
Very few requirements, but hard to get a high grade.
Professor Wood is one of the best professors in the English Department. Take advantage of his office hours! Don't be intimidated - he's very nice and always interested in discussing the course material!
Take this class if you're a fan of Professor Wood.  You'll read really great books in this class. Sometimes it's hard to follow Professor Wood though, because he just talks about what he feels like.  Don't expect to come out understanding what any of the books mean, or the messages the author is trying to convey, because Professor Wood does not touch into that at all.  As with all classes, your experience of the class really depends on the TF.
This course is a great way to explore some great modern literature at a very comfortable pace and with a light workload.
The reading is fantastic, the professor brilliant, and the workload minimal.
It was an interesting class, and I appreciated that it wasn't very high-pressure. It's a great way to fill a core requirement.
James Wood is extremely entertaining and engaging.
Great class--a fair amount of work, excellent instruction. Not hard at all. very enjoyable. Wood is the man-- great lecturer.
Do it.
Take any class James Wood teaches, whenever possible.
This class will change the way you look at literature.
Since there are only two papers, be sure to work hard on both of them!
a very easy class, you get to read some interesting books and see how literary critics approach them, but the course isn't amazing
Read the books because section is the most fun when it is highly interactive
An engaging class with a phenomenal professor who is willing to give anything for your education? It doesn't come often. Take this class.
Epically easy core.
It's just a good class.  Take it before you graduate.
This is a good class with a minimal workload, but if you're looking for an indepth, intense English class Professor Wood may not be the right teacher for you. Also, though there are only two essays, the TFs tend to grade them harshly.
Not easy to get a good grade, but if you do the readings and participate in section then the experience is great.  You'll learn a lot about some great novels, which in themselves are a reason to take the course.
The books are interesting. James Wood knows what he is talking about (though sometimes its a little over your head if you haven't done extensive close reading much in the past). There is basically no work, except two papers but reading the books is really important. There is a weekly section so you need to know the books. Read them. Some of them are really long, but they are good.
It may not be the best English class to start out in because it's so specific and esoteric.
It's not tough to earn a decent grade while only doing a little work, but it's definitely tough to get a lot out of the class without doing the reading.  Be prepared for Professor Wood's aesthetic analyses and be prepared to think about the themes and subject matter on your own time.
it is UNSTRUCTURED...you gotta be self-motivated
Probably one of the best courses you can take at Harvard. Professor Wood is eloquent, knowledgeable, hilarious, charismatic, and able to inspire such enthusiasm in his students.
This is a great way to read good literature and take a fantastic english course at the same time.
Go to lecture!! You may be able to get by on the essays without having attended any of the lectures, but the class becomes so much more fulfilling if you actually do go.
Great introduction to reading contemporary novels.
If you want to hear James Wood read comical excerpts from wonderful novels in ridiculous accents, this is the course for you.
The course is very poorly structure- if there is any structure at all.
as a non-English concentrator, it was fabulous. I loved the books we read, Prof. Wood is a fantastic lecturer and his comments (As well as those of fellow students) enabled me to see aspects of the books in new and different ways.
The course is paced in such a way that all the reading can be managed alongside other coursework.  Readings vary in their density and length, but all are incredibly rewarding, especially with the guidance and analysis of Professor Wood.  As always, you will get the most out of lectures if you do the reading ahead of time!
Take it if you like fiction. If not, you may struggle
If you enjoy English and want to hear all the great insights of James Wood, then definitely take this class. You will gain a greater appreciation for the art of writing fiction.
"Marvelous, isn't it?" - favorite James Wood thing to say. That kind of enthusiasm for literature translates into your own excitement, and before you know it you will be thinking about why you laughed at a particular passage. 2 short essays mean you will almost have no work, and the books are really enjoyable. Take it!
A fun class with great readings.  It's pretty easy to get by if you don't do all of the readings, but it's a much better experience if you do.  Few assignments but they're pretty unstructured - if you don't have experience writing English papers it would be difficult.
A great course with amazing books. A great chance to take an English class at Harvard.
Take this course! It is incredible.  Make sure you keep up on the readings as well, it might seem like you can neglect a lot of them but it is so much better in lecture if you have done the readings.
Great, but I wouldn't suggest taking it if you already have a strong background in English. It is pretty elementary.
Close reading is a big focus of the class. Sometimes it is difficult to really understand how to close read passages without guidance.
Just do the reading on your own time and there should be no problems.
It is both a great elective for those who know little about English as well as a great class for people who are concentrators or getting secondary fields. Both can get what they want out of it.
Professor Wood is great. His accent will make you swoon. His readings will captivate you. His imitation of V.S. Naipaul will make you laugh. Every lecture is exciting! Take this class! (Also: there are only two papers required. Come on.)
The most rewarding course I had this semester.  When I describe the strength of courses at Harvard to friends at home, I always tell them about how great this class is.
A fun, relatively easy way to gain exposure to contemporary fiction, with an excellent professor.
I was a science concentrator who had never taken an English course at Harvard before, and I found this course to be both manageable and enjoyable.
james wood makes this class. The drawbacks are the sections which are lackluster and somewhat apathetic.
Despite the Cue evaluations, this course did not live up to my expectations. Perhaps for illustration I could use James Wood's evaluation of the "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie", which described the book as filled with characters who do not change or evolve. I felt that way about this course, which seemed to start with a certain amount of assumed knowledge and not really growing from there. Although the books were interesting, I felt I could have just as easily read them in my own time and gotten the same, if not more out of them. The lectures seemed simple demonstrations of watching James Wood in action (or more precisely giving fleshy life to his already published reviews of the books read in this class), and really had little educational value. If you're interested in the material, or are and English concentrator, this course may be for you, but for someone looking to take it for the Gen Ed or Core credit, it was simply a snooze (and for the most part I mean that literally).
Great books, interesting lecture, great elective if you want to do some serious reading
This course is great. You will read some amazing selections of literature from within the last 100 years.  You will not be drowning under tons of papers and assignments, so you will actually get to do all the reading. I highy recommend this class.
this class forces you to read some awesome books that are actually enjoyable . the lectures were kind of pointless though in my opinion
The best english class to take for non-english majors!  You will never want to miss a lecture or fail to do the reading!  Prof Wood will never cease to entertain, his character voices are superb, especially that of Miss Jean Brodie.
It is wonderful just to hear James Wood speak.
take this course if you truly love to read novels for the sake of reading.
This class made reading fun again. Take it.
If you want Prof Wood to love you, read How Fiction Works beforehand. You'll be able to quote his lectures verbatim and to offer terribly insightful snippets in lecture. This year some kids did that. Prof Wood called them "genius."
This is a great class to take, even if you're not an English concentrator. Professor Wood is an amazing lecturer and the texts are enjoyable without being very challenging.
this is a great class if you want to read some great texts and write about them. its not overly taxing although not graded that kindly. you get out what you put in
Take if you like reading books and are interested in learning what an English class is; otherwise, it may be difficult for those coming from different academic perspectives.
If you are looking for a course with a small workload and a good reading list then this is a good course for you. The lectures are not always good, though, and it seems like most students do not enjoy section. There are also only two assignments, so there is some pressure to do well on those assignments since it will be hard to make up for a bad performance. But overall, if you are looking to try an English class this is probably a good bet, especially if the books interest you.
The rhythm of the course is relaxed, and the assignments are few. Great way to fulfill a core.
This is an easy way to fulfill a core requirement.  James Wood is an amazing lecturer; this course made me enjoy reading fiction again.
It is an incredible class.  One of the most enjoyable I have taken at Harvard.  It opens your eyes to a new way of reading and you gain a new appreciation of fiction novels.
Get Joshua Rothman as your TF!
A good easy way to get rid of a core requirement.  It has a great reading list, and was overall enjoyable.  However, it's hard to get a good grade, even if you put a lot of work into your papers.
This is a relatively painless and interesting way to fulfill a requirement.
I would say it is a great class but definitely attend lectures because they are very interesting and the professor is great!!
If you love fiction this is the class for you. It is amazing, and the opportunity to hear Prof. Wood discuss literature is one that NO ONE SHOULD PASS UP. He is just wonderful.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. I would take this class every semester for the rest of my time at Harvard if I could. I will remember this class with enthusiasm for the rest of my life .
James Wood is the best, and it's an excellent class. Just know that having only two assignments means just that. Also, it's a very unstructured course; if you're not used to reading texts from an asthetic or critical point of view following Professor Wood might be a bit difficult.
James Wood's lectures can make an already good book much more meaningful.
This is for readers that want to discuss writing.  There is very little direction so without a background in reading (i.e. being a careful reader) this may be difficult.
Some people really like it, and some people really don't like it. The Q is kind of overrated--I trusted the Q, but this course ended up being my least favorite course of the semester.
It's basically "Book Club with James Wood." For two hours each week, you get to sit and listen to a charming man talk about his favorite parts of books that he likes. Its delightful and relaxing.
Take this class! James Wood is absolutely incredible and you should seize any opportunity to take one of his classes. The books are excellent.
Perhaps my favorite course so far in college. Professor Wood is brilliant, dedicated, enthusiastic, and unpredictably, unbelievably, kind and approachable.
If you want a brilliant literary critic (and comically engaging lecturer) to teach you why something is funny or a fantastic bit of writing, take this class.
The books are great, but the lectures are hard to follow.
If you have to take one English class, this would be it. Professor Wood is the best!
Unfortunately, the TFs actually recognize BS when you put it in your paper.  Sigh.  Unlike most core classes where you can get away with anything.
Great, light class. enjoyable to read novels as homework. but not extremely provocative or challenging. didn't really change my world view
This is the course like it in the English Department.  No impenetrable literary theory or pompously opaque lecturing.  This is a course about loving words and fiction and about learning how to write.
Yea you can get away with not doing the reading. But why would you want to?
This is my senior year and I can honestly say this was one of the most enjoyable and fulfilling classes I have taken at Harvard.
Prof. Wood's insights make this course one worth taking for those interested in modern literature.
Wood is one of the most reasonable professors you'll ever have. He understands the time constraints college students are under--thus he keeps the books short, gives us enough time to read them, and only has two assignments the entire semester. He is one of the rare professors who still cultivates an atmosphere of learning for the sake of learning by encouraging reading for the sake of reading--he really loves these books and he shares the delight he experiences from small details, turns of phrases, with the whole class.
This was one of the best courses that I took at Harvard. James Wood is a great lecturing adn very humble. He loves it when you come to his office to talk about anything related to the material covered in class, or questions that you may about literature in general. Take this course.
It's not a typical English class.
This course is a painless way to fulfill a core. The workload is very, very light. There are only 2 papers - which is a good and bad thing. Some of the books are enjoyable to read, others are just alright. Section was good. Grading is a bit odd. The papers are not weighed and a final grade will be assigned based on your level at the end of the course. Basically the final paper is your final grade.
You might not get a good grade, the grading is pretty hard, but it's low time commitment, and Wood is a great teacher.
I would recommend it on the basis of the books and how the effort you put into the class is exactly what you will get out of it. I would warn students though that the class is not very structured and those who need more direction should not take it.
Fun, not a lot of work, good books
If you want a great survey literature course, this is it!
you get to read fiction. and you write 2 short papers. if you like reading books and writing english papers, this is a great/manageable class to take.
Easy course, but kind of boring/didn't get much out of it
Take this class as quickly as you can.
If you aren't comfortable with writing strong essays and critically reading books I wouldn't take it.
The books are really fun, but besides that the lectures become monotonous and the class is pretty average
Take this class to learn how to read well, laugh well, and live well. For in the end, aren't these what matter?
Easily the best class that I've taken at Harvard.  I really enjoyed it.  I wish that Professor Wood would teach a different class next year so that I could take another class with him.
You will read many great writers, some of whom are contemporary, and get the chance to see Professor Wood's mind at work.
very interesting.  Will teach you how to appreciate great novels!
This is a fabulous way to fulfill a core requirement- it's interesting and the books are great. Prof Wood has a beautiful speaking voice.
If you are looking for an enjoyable English course without a lot of work, this is a good choice.
Awesome class. Must take it.
Definitely take it if you're really interested in books and how they're written in general--Professor Wood has an infectious love of the material. The reading list is very manageable, so definitely make sure to finish all of it, because you'll get a lot more out of the course if you do.
It's a fantastic class.  Definitely be interested in critical, close reading.  It's important to be able to keep up with the interpretations Wood and the TFs explicate---that is the level expected of you in essays.
Take it.
Fantastic course!  We read a good number of books, but the pace of the course did justice to the quality of the writing - we had a chance to really savor it.
Better hope you get a good TF, because there are only two papers. If your TF is on a power trip, too bad.
The readings are great and the lectures are really interesting, and it's a great way to be introduced to English and English analysis without an overwhelming amount of work.
Painless first English class. However, don't expect to get too much out of it.
A great excuse to read some some awesome works of literature and listen to a very entertaining and charming man lecture. Sometimes the books seem a little random/disconnected and I'm not sure how much I learned about the genre of "postwar fiction" but I did learn a lot about how to approach literature more generally.
It was a interesting class led by an enthusiastic instructor
Everyone should take at least one more literature class beyond Expos, and James Wood's class is excellent!
The greatest class at Harvard! Take it!
This is an excellent course, but one may find it difficult if not concentrating in English.
This class is about the books, understanding their nuances and delving into their meaning.  Wood is a professor you don't want to miss.
This class is as much work as you make it -- no one is checking up on your reading, and much of the homework is unstructured.  It allows you to set your own pace and you get as much as you put in to this course.  I have become a much better reader after this course.
The lectures and readings are an english concentrator's idea of fun fun fun.
Very enjoyable, low-intensity. You will learn a lot!
It's hard to get a good paper grade if you are not inclined to literary analysis because there are so many people enrolled
Its great, be prepared to bullshit
it's good for fulfilling a core requirement. definitely thoroughly enjoyable. not a lot of structure but plenty of support for the papers
This class was pretty easy except for the papers. The books were great, by the end the lectures got a little boring though.
like a book club, but not with James Wood. Make sure to get a good TF. It is fun to listen to Wood summarize his thoughts on each novel, but the value of the class is really found in section.
The books you read are fantastic, and the section component is really interesting, but Professor Wood doesn't seem to come into lecture with a message that he wants to impart. It's more like a giant section with 100+ people, and you're not always sure what you're supposed to get out of it.
Take this class for elective or core or anything! It's an amazing course.
Get a good section leader, because the section discussions are the most rewarding part. Take the time to actually read the books and form opinions about them. Lectures are hit or miss - James Wood alternates between providing good insight (some of the time) and devolving into just reading his favorite passages and giggling (most of the time).
Great novels, great professor and tf's, this class is easy and fun as long as you do the (very interesting!) readings.
the course is very low commitment but extremely interesting
the books are engaging but professor wood often rambles and his lectures are somewhat unfocused; wood spends too much time focusing on little details that are pleasing and should focus instead on themes, characters, more tangible and substantive things
Absolutely go to lecture - Wood is enthralling!
Take this course if you're looking for an easy core.  Also, Professor Wood's lectures, when he is offering analysis (rather than other students) are excellent.
if you're not an english concentrator or very well read, this course is probably not for you. a lot of ties and references to other works not read in the course. also, prof woods has a very specific style that some will love and others will dislike.
You will get to read wonderful books and discuss them in a low-stress environment. Minimal workload, maximum enjoyment. Highly recommended.
great class, professor is great and fun to listen to, assignments are worthwhile
The course has great books and a light work load.  That said, it is an unusual English course in that it approaches the books from the point of view of a critic.  Though I loved the reading, I did not gain much knowledge in terms of understanding a book's symbolism, narrative and characters.  This course is more like a review of the books (which, by the way have no common themes or intertwining elements--the name is a joke) than a study of them.
Unless you hate reading - and maybe even if you do - this class is completely worth taking. It's a great way to approach books you might not read otherwise to find something really useful and valuable in them. And in all honesty you don't have to do most of the reading to do fine in the class.
This class has a very low workload and an amazing reading list. James Wood is a great lecturer and has a lot of extremely interesting things to say. That being said, because he is such a high profile critic, he is essentially inaccessible outside of class and the teaching staff is very weak. Take this class if you want to read good books and see them in very interesting and nuance ways, but be prepared to get frustrated with the redundancy of section and massive disorganization.
If you want a bs class to fill your schedule and does not academically stimulate you, I would suggest this course, but don't expect to learn much applicable or specific material.
The lectures are terrific, as expected of any James Wood class--though one does have to get used to his meandering-at-times lecture style.  The books and readings are great and almost all come in at just around 200 pages apiece.
The assignments (aka lake thereof) and section (thankfully I was in a lively one) saved this class from being a dry class with B-list novels.
This is a GREAT course. You should take it if you have the chance. It is not especially rigorous, but you will walk away with knowledge of new books and have the pleasure of listening to James Wood lecture.
Take this class if you want to take your first English course at Harvard.
Professor Wood is a cool guy and I really liked his relaxed lectures. The reading list is super interesting and there are literally two assignments all year: one 4-6 page paper and one 8-10 page final, so not a ton of work. The only problem with this was low workload was that section was pretty disorganized and there wasn't a  ton of motivation to read the books that you weren't planning on writing an essay about.
This course is equal parts book club and lullaby.  Which, with James Wood at the helm, is not such a bad thing.
Great books
Wonderful course and the books are great but essays are graded remarkably harshly, oh my god.
This class has a great reading list and it's very interesting to hear Professor Wood's thoughts on all of the novels. However, the class isn't organized and the books aren't connected by any overall theme, so it kind of just felt like we were part of a big book club.
This class has the MOST enjoyable lectures. Really wonderful attention to language and prose, so often glossed over in similar lecture humanities classes. Not hugely rigorous, but a really lovely class.
I am glad I took this course Pass/Fail. As a non-English concentrator, my primary goal was to expand my knowledge of important writers. Secondary to that, I wanted to learn how to analyze literary texts. Because I achieved the primary goal, I view this course favorably; however, I did have several concerns when it comes to the second goal.As the semester progressed, we encountered increasingly interesting books, but I found myself increasingly disappointed with the lectures. I had hoped Wood would help me see the books in a new light, but I left lectures feeling like: So what? What difference does it make if X novel is about pain, or if the brevity of Ys prose reflects some aspect of the human condition? So what if novels help us see what makes us human if we do not do anything with this knowledge except absorb it, diagram techniques authors use to transmit this meaning, and then move on? I would come in having enjoyed reading a book and leave feeling I had not learned anything new or relevant. A big part of analysis is finding the so what? For me, the lectures did not model well enough about how to find the so what? when analyzing a text. Maybe I am describing the purpose of section. Section quality probably varies, but my section TF was not an effective instructor, and writing feedback was extremely limited (we received no feedback on midterm essays before turning in final papers). Much discussion degenerated into pushing around literary tropes: In literature, water means life, and rebirth, and baptism, and paganism, and etc., so the author used water in this text to mean one of those. Again, not enough so what?The people benefiting most from this class are aspiring writers. Wood highlights distinctly clever prose in lecture and explicates in a way that might help writers identify and demystify the writing process. Additionally, since the syllabus highlights authors with distinct voices and styles, writers might enjoy referring to these works while finding their own voice. I am glad to have purchased the books for this reason. I can imagine wanting to thumb through Lydia Davis to absorb the mechanics of the effective short sentence, for example.
A great class - two papers, and that's it! Grading is fairly lenient and you learn a ton about what great writing looks like. Section (with Dena) is particularly engaging and helpful.
This class is cool. You read really random books by famous authors and spend a lot of time in the text trying to understand what they mean. The section component is awesome, but James Wood can be a little hard to understand at times (he uses a lot of complex language that can be discouraging to students who don't quite understand the terms of English language analysis). Overall, pretty easy class and fun to read such random literature!
Great senior spring class. Awesome selection of books that you get plenty of time to read. Lectures can be a bit too unstructured for my taste, but Prof. Wood has interesting insights into books, but is not pretentious in his approach and never claims to have the "key" to interpreting a given book like some professors might
This is an incredible class. The lectures and section are both fantastic. James Wood began on the first day by saying, "my goal is to make you all better readers," and for me, this was absolutely the case. I loved the books we read and the discussions we had about them.
This is a very interesting class. The books that we read were an eclectic collection that greatly expanded my repertoire. Professor Wood is a good lecturer; however, he does tend to try to classify the books into established categories and styles. If you aren't familiar with this approach to literature, his lectures can become confusing at times. Nevertheless, I very much enjoyed the class and would recommend it to anyone who likes reading!
If you're interested in modern literature (post-war in particular, although we never talked about any overarching themes or anything like that) for its own sake, then you'll enjoy this class.
A wonderful course -- not too much work (only two papers) and a brilliant professor and TFs
This course is fun and interesting without a heavy workloadso, it is optimal. You read great books. As Professor Wood tells you in the opening lecture, it's less about having an overarching theme than it is about reading some great novels and talking about them. It's great for a fifth course or for an elective as a non-English concentrator.
This course is awesome! The readings are fabulous, and Professor Wood delivers excellent lectures. Conceivably it's a lot of reading, but you only write two essays (and can just choose two books to write them on), so you only really have to read as much as you're inclined to. This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard.
The class itself is great. Section is a massive CF that will not help you at all whatsoever with actual class work, i.e. essays, which themselves are entirely freeform and include literally zero guidelines as to how they should be written of about what.
I would caution grad students from taking it because, while it is an excellent course, it is not designed with grad students in mind. The expectations of grad students were unclear and grad students were not involved in any section/discussion group.
Fantastic class that provides an introduction to authors with whom many of us are not well acquainted. Professor Wood is a delight to listen to and the workload is pretty low! (just 2 papers throughout the semester)
James Wood is a very smart professor with poor lecture organization. His lectures can be difficult to follow and sometimes do not lead to a point, but he has a lot of interesting observations and ways to read the texts to offer. The course is very easy in terms of workload and not stressful in the least. You can read the books at your own pace and you can write your two papers on what every you want. Dena was a great TF!
Loved, loved, loved this course! As if James Wood isn't reason enough to take it, the TFs are a lot of fun, and the books are gems--sometimes a little strange but worth every moment.
I took this as a pass/fail elective and it worked great for that.  Low stress, fun books to read.  Just two papers.  Section can feel like a waste of time sometimes-- could use better discussions.
Great professor, great syllabus, would recommend.
Overall, this course is a pretty chill way to knock out an English class. I took it as an elective, and most of the reading list was enjoyable, though there were a couple real duds. However, I think James Wood is not a very good lecturer. He is very set in his views as a literary critic and takes fairly accessible books and makes them inaccessible and more confusing. He assumes a high level of knowledge of the western cannon, though it is not necessary to do well in section/on the papers, but can sometimes make lectures intolerable.
This class is the most unstructured class I have taken at Harvard. Everything is so disorganized and the professor cannot stay ons schedule. I would not recommend this class.
If your section leader is good, then you will have a a great experience! Professor Wood is also very funny and very interesting.
This class feels very much like a book club -- so that's great if that's what you're looking for. The readings are generally stylistically accessible and never more than about 250 pages per week (a few weeks toward the end of the semester have fewer than 100 pages of reading). You don't need a lot of experience in English to enjoy the class, but Professor Wood constantly references canonical literature/history/theory, so you will miss a lot of points during lecture if you don't have that background. The class focuses on questions of style, so Professor Wood spends a lot of time diving into small pieces of text just to appreciate the language. That can be very fun (Professor Wood is a very entertaining reader), but it also means there are no thematic or formal questions that drive the course and make it feel cohesive. By the end of the semester, I was frustrated and bored by lectures that seemed to have no structure and were more about Professor Wood just chatting about his impressions of the books. That said, the workload was relatively light for an English class (just two essays, easy reading) and the section component was very fun. (However, because Professor Wood does not coordinate with the TFs, section experience apparently varied a lot per TF.) Overall, I would recommend this course if you look at the syllabus and see many works and authors that you are excited to read -- otherwise, you may find the class unrewarding and directionless.
Take this class for an opportunity to engage with some great writing, and to understand what makes that writing great.
Great class, very chill and fun. Wood basically has just picked his favorite books and spends class talking about things he likes about them. Only two essays and reading is very manageable and fun.
Hope for a good TF. Such a coo class, essentially James Woods' favorite modern-ish books, so in that respect it is a great class. Do the readings, and again, hope for a good TF...
It is a lot of work. There is a ton of reading, and they don't check if you actually did the reading or not, so there are no immediate consequences for not doing the work. So you really have to make sure you stay on top of it.
Be prepared to take the time to read these novels, and you won't regret it. The reading can come easily, as reading novels is fun, but just make the time for it!
I highly recommend you take this class. It is not my favorite overall class at Harvard, or even in my top 2-3, but it's a fantastic way to round out your schedule if you're a non-English concentrator (like me, I'm STEM), and probably a nice elective if you are. It is SO NICE to be able to just sit and read actually good/interesting/modern/funny books for a change for a class. Basically it's like getting credit for reading that is almost as enjoyable and sometimes more enjoyable than what you'd read on your own for fun anyway. There are only 2 papers; most of class is going to lecture and hearing James Wood gush about why the novels you're reading are incredible, which is enjoyable. He's a fantastic and amusing professor and each lecture seems to fly by. Really just a nice class to have in your schedule, will make you happier for having taken it.
James Wood is a fantastic teacher and I think everyone who loves books and reading should take at least one of his classes. It really felt like James Wood's book club but in the best possible way. Try to get T as your TF, she was wonderful.
This course is extremely laid-back. James Wood is awesome and is so accessible as far as getting meals with students and answering questions. Section was a little underwhelming and, in general, there are few opportunities to engage with the readings besides the two essays. It depends what you want from an english class - if you just want a slightly structured way to read some books for fun, then this is the course for you.
You read excellent recent fiction and gain skills to understand literature better~ do it!
This class is SUPER easy. Not a lot of work, but it's also hard to be incentivized to do anything & you don't really grow as a student or writer.
Great reading list and relaxed workload. Really is a james wood book club. Highly recommend if you're looking for a class with fun reading and few assignments.
DEFINITELY take this course! The books are short and easily readable in a week and Professor Wood is an amazing critic.
If you are looking for a chance to do some fiction reading or an easy class to round out your semester, this is a good one. You don't have to do the readings by any means, but if you want to, the books are quite good ones that you may not have come across otherwise.
A simultaneously relaxing and engaging course. It is book club with Professor Wood, and that is a good thing. Do the reading for the reading's sake. Go to lecture for Professor Wood's sake. And don't worry about much else. The only wild card is whether or not your TF is any good, which isn't guaranteed.
