This is a great class if you are interested in the topic (the reading is all English, Christian authors from ~1600-1900, just to be clear). Very light, but impactful reading, and great classroom discussions. Josh is a superstar, and his feedback on your work is unrivaled; whatever kind of work you're producing, I guarantee you he will 'get' it.
Take any opportunity to learn from Josh. This class is extra enlightening because he exposes you to some poets and thinking you'd likely never encounter otherwise.
It's a pleasure to be in class with Josh, and he will show you how to improve your poetry. The overall experience of the class depends in part on the students in it, but Josh always makes writing poetry a pleasure.
[General comments] I've taken two workshops with Josh now, and they were some of the best experiences I've had at Harvard. If you're serious about your writing, take one of his classes. Seriously. His comments are incredibly useful, and the discussions you'll have with your classmates are super useful in collecting new perspectives on what "poetry" is. [Devotional workshop-specific] We alternated between weeks of reading an assigned author and workshopping students' pieces. I appreciated the contrast; it gave some helpful structure to the creative process. Josh picked excellent readings (of course), and I had a lot of fun playing around with unusual suggested 'assignments'. I highly recommend the devotional workshop, even more than Josh's usual ones, especially if you're interested in taking your work in new directions.
Josh is solid gold as someone who cares about your poetry and will work to make it better -- the class isnt about devotional poetry really, more like the devotional poets who Josh really likes, but they're great and you'll pick up some new works you hadn't really heard before
This class offers a rare opportunity to both study and write devotional poetry. Both are incredibly interesting and rewarding.
I have never had a class help me grow so much in my writing in just a semester! This is a great class if you want to connect with your writing and spirituality on a meaningful level.
