This is by far the best intellectual history class I have taken at Harvard -- a really fun variety of topics, and even as a senior having taken many English and intellectual history classes, I felt like I learned a huge amount. Prof. Menand is extremely sharp but very laid back, and treats his students like intelligent adults -- there's therefore a lot of freedom in the writing assignments, and the grading felt fair to me. The readings are incredible, though a bit redundant in certain weeks. Nonetheless, don't be misled by the seemingly narrow title of this class: it's about a lot more than just high vs. low, and even though it studies a particular period, everything you learn feels extremely relevant.
This class is wonderful for anyone who wants to become familiar with postwar thought and themes. Almost anything you're interested in from the 20th century will be covered here- postmodernism, conceptual art, the movie industry. It has it all, and you'll learn so much.
Awesome class-- lots and lots of reading though. Try to do it all because it's all incredibly interesting. Menand is such an engaging lecturer. You'll learn so much about American art from 1945 onwards.
Art history, film history, cultural history, critical theory -- this class somehow does it all and makes no sacrifices.  God forbid it is ever turned into a MOOC.
Definitely take this course. I learned so much from the readings and from Professor Menand's Lectures. There was a great blend of theory, history, and primary texts about pop culture, mass culture, high culture, etc. in America from the 50's-70's (such a dynamic time period!). Also Professor Menand is one of my favorite lecturers; he is extremely thoughtful and articulate and offers very interesting insights. Very fun and interesting class.
Louis Menand is a superb narrative lecturer. This course ambitiously covers an important cultural period in American history from a huge range of perspectives and mediums. Because of the big picture perspective, it permits a variety of thinking from historical to theoretical. If you enjoy American culture, this is a great way to think about a recent period and discuss a bevy of important ideas with resonance today.
This is an amazing course!  Professor Menand is a fantastic teacher and the syllabus is incredible.  Take it!
This class has a great reading list and a wonderful professor and teaching staff. However, be prepared to read a lot of theory, and don't expect all of the material to fit together in a neat and orderly way.
The best class I have ever taken. Now that I have taken it, I cannot imagine having read a book before. Although all the theory may look daunting on the syllabus it is actually a lot of fun to argue about, and to feel as if you have been placed in the time when intellectuals asked the types of questions we ask in the course. Menand's lectures are unbelievablehe synthesizes huge shifts in thought and makes them understandable in one hour.
I would recommend any class taught by Prof. Menand. This class is taught by Prof. Menand.
It's a very good class. You will leave with a decently coherent picture of the American cultural landscape in the 50's and 60's.
This is class in a wonderful mixture of theory, criticism, nonfiction, fiction, poetry, etc. It's organized well, Menand is an excellent lecturer, and you will learn loads about the intellectual climate of postwar (and immediate prewar America). You will also learn a great deal about literary criticism in general. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard
This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Menand is an unbelievable lecturer, and every class ended with some revelation or epiphany. The material became the center(s) of my thoughts for the semester--the most you could hope to get from a class. It was fun, it was fascinating, and I feel like I have a significantly better understanding of literary theory, American culture industry, and the high/low divide.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. I really wish that every student considering a concentration in the humanities were required to take the course. It's difficult but graded fairly. So much of the way we read and analyze works of art in classes at Harvard goes unexplained: you're taught how to do close reading and visual analysis, but never to examine the history of those practices or question them. This class completely changed my perspective and opened me up to knew ways of looking at art.
This is a fantastic course, and one of the best English classes I've taken. Professor Menand's lectures and the course TFs provide great context for the readings and facilitate an understanding of at times very difficult critical theory.
This is "Art and Thought of the Cold War" on steroids.  A fascinating period for cultural history taught by one of the best professors in the humanities at Harvard.  Make sure to actually go to lecture because Menand is one of those professors you want to make the most of while you're here!
This class is bomb but be prepared for more reading than you can handle. And you'll never know what you should read if you can't do all the readings for the week. There's no clue as to which readings are most important, that is. They all are. So you will learn A TON about art theory and will be able to appreciate the arts and literature a lot more. Don't ever miss lecture. Try to enjoy it despite the mountains of readings (some weeks are ok).
Menand is a fantastic lecturer and you will walk out of the class with a good understanding of the various American cultural, artistic, and critical/theoretical movements of the mid-20th century. There's too much reading, but you can get by without doing every word of it. The debates and theories examined are fascinating, and there's lots of good writing to enjoy.
This is a great survey if you don't have much exposure to 20th century American culture. Really interesting interdisciplinary connections.
This the best class I've taken at Harvard. Menand is an incredible lecturer. This is the kind of material that you won't really get anywhere else, but that is really interesting and changes your perspective. This is also a good class to take with friends--I have had a lot of conversations outside the classroom about the material in the course. It's pretty easy to get behind in the reading. Lectures sometimes fall behind schedule, and Menand gives such a comprehensive picture in class that it's easy to feel that the reading is unnecessary. To a certain extent that's true. I would guess that you can still get a lot out of the class just by attending lectures. But you should definitely do it. I don't think there was a single reading I didn't enjoy. There was also never a single moment when I wasn't completely engaged in the lecture.
It's not the same as Cold War - it's much more focused on theory and criticism than straight historical context. It's just as rewarding, but just be mindful of the differences.
Great course -- wish it had been offered earlier in my Harvard career because it puts into context all of modern American social and cultural thought. A MUST TAKE class for anyone interested in literature, politics, music, art, or culture. However, the reading load is bit much though.
This course was an incredibly enjoyable elective. Many people seemed to take it pass-fail for this reason--it is really interesting and lectures are fantastic. There is a lot of reading for each class, and that sometimes made sections difficult and was difficult to finish in general. I would recommend it to anyone earnestly interested in the material, though.
This class will change the way you think about culture in America. By offering an integrated approach to reading the greatest moments in postwar social and critical thought, it asks the big questions about the role of art and culture in society and how we can understand or evaluate it. The focus is historical but contemporary concerns are ever-present, constantly being connected in lecture, section, and assignments. The readings can be dense at times, especially the more theoretical essays, but stick with it--they are worth it! You will spend time thinking and talking about these ideas after and between classes, and beyond.
This is a great course. It's a lot of reading, but it's ultimately worth it-- one of the more rewarding classes I've taken here. Every humanities kid should take a Menand course before they graduate.
This is a terrific survey in the history of taste and the anxieties that surrounded cultural categorization in the Cold War. It's a lot of reading, but you'll feel really accomplished in your well-rounded and breadth of  knowledge by the end. Professor Menand is an amazing lecturer and does a super job of filling in historical context; you're largely reading primary sources.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading. It's fascinating and worth it, but also necessary for the midterm and final.
This course is essentially a cultural survey of America from 1945-1975. It's a well-curated and thorough selection of primary sources (novels, stories, songs, films) as well as intellectual/critical responses to cultural trends. As a humanities student, this class really broadened my horizons by exposing me to the theoretical side of culture that I hadn't really had experience with. This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard; there was a ton of reading, but I tried to always make the time for it and enjoyed doing it.
This class is phenomenal. Menand is an amazing lecturer, and he makes the course material that much more interesting (it is already fascinating to begin with). Take it if you can!
This was one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. I have only taken one other English class (and I hated it), so I was nervous about taking this course, but it ended up being totally manageable (and it helped that I took it P/F, though that wasn't really necessary in the end). The reading is time-consuming but really interesting, and it covers such a wide range of material that you are bound to find many of the topics interesting. I feel like I will be talking about this course for years to come and I'm so happy that I took it as an elective.
Take this class if you have done prior course work in literary or cultural studies.  The course presumes a pretty high level of familiarity with literary and cultural criticism.  It tackles some pretty complicated topics, but Menand is an expert in explaining them in a nuanced and interesting way.  Lecture is genuinely engaging and interesting, but section leaves a lot to be desired.
Difficult class for non-humanities concentrators who have little background in these materials. Definitely doable, but not a simple gen ed.
TAKE THIS. I am legitimately sad whenever I think about not getting to discuss these topics again in the fall, because the truth is, there are no classes like it at Harvard.
Great class! Highly recommend Squibb as a TF.
Take this class. If you are an English major, this is the class that teaches you to question certain taken-for-granted axioms of the discipline. In one semester, you'll become a more conscious literary being.
The course was a highlight of my time at Harvard. It does so many things well introduces complex intellectual material in an accessible manner, and combines a stunning number of cultural and theoretical trends almost seamlessly. Professor Menand is masterful, and appears to have read everything there is to read. He alone makes the course worth it.
Look up Meat Joy. If you have something to say about it and you don't just go "eww," then you should take this course.
Great class, relatively low work load if you keep ahead on the readings. There is really something for everyone on this syllabus. I was able to explore pretty deeply the things I am interested in while also being exposed to new things. Very balanced.
Great class, Louis Menand is a great lecturer and the topic is for the most part interesting. Articles were at sometimes difficult to understand but overall it was a good course to take even just as an elective.
This class attempts to situate cultural movements and events within the context of the time period.  The lectures mostly address broad cultural shifts and primary sources of artwork produced, while the readings are mostly theories that make sense of artistic movements, often agreeing or disagreeing with them.  I especially recommend the class if you are interested in modern American literary and popular culture, and American cultural history in general.
This was one of the most worthwhile courses I have taken at Harvard. I looked forward to Louis Menand's engaging lectures and absolutely loved the complex debates we would get in to in section. The concepts stretched my understanding of the humanities and gave me plenty to discuss with friends even outside of class.
This class changed the way I looked at the world around me.  I highly recommend it to all concentrators.  The readings are pretty dense, but Menand is so good at making some really tough writers and thinkers really accessible.
I took this class as an elective senior spring, and it's definitely one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Menand is a fantastic lecturer and you'll learn about visual art, film, music history etc. It's the perfect elective class because it provides an introduction to everything. Plus, you'll feel more informed in museums, at concerts, and while reading the newspaper. There's a lot of reading, but it's pretty straightforward. Definitely take it!
This course is life-changing! You will never look at any form of art the same again. It's really transformative and fascinating and fun. Everyone should take it.
If you are interested in American cultural history, definitely take this course. Professor Menand's lectures are exquisite, and the readings are generally really interesting. Section is variable, but you will learn a fantastic amount in this class, and have a great time doing so.
I've never taken an English class before, but I'm really glad I took this one! Definitely take it.
one of the most interesting classes i have taken at harvard. definitely the best lecture course. i took this pass/fail and never missed a lecture because menand and the way he teaches the material is so interesting. though i was taking it pass/fail, i don't think it would have been too difficult had i taken it for a grade as the exams draw heavily on the material from lectures.
If you're interested in thinking intelligently about your cultural surroundings, this class is an absolute must.
The reading load can be brutal, but if you're interested in postwar American cultural studies, you'll likely find it hugely rewarding. Maybe consider taking this class pass/fail. Also, Professor Menand is an incredible instructor; his lectures are reason enough to take this course.
very interesting lecture. Great class to take pass/fail, because you get a lot out of it without stressing about the essays/tests/all the readings, although many of the readings were still very interesting and worth doing!
I lived for Menand's lectures this semester.
This is a fascinating and accessible course on some of the most difficult and interesting moments in American cultural studies. A must take.
This course was an absolute joy. I came out of every lecture, section, and assignment with a new perspective on the world, and there is no better class at Harvard for becoming a more mature thinking while learning a ton about culture, art, and history.
This course taught me how the most recognizable art of the last century fits into a framework that allows me to appreciate it far more. Professor Menand is an excellent lecturer.
Menand is an incredible lecturer, and the readings are all interesting and worthwhile
One of the best courses I've taken and a high bar for courses in general: if you're on the fence, definitely TAKE IT. This will be the class that gets you out of bed in the morning. It'll also be the class that keeps you awake at night because it's so interesting. This is one of those rare classes that you'll can't not like.Regarding workload: you probably could get by without doing a lot of the readings, but you should do them because you'll understand lecture a lot better. They're also interesting, so you might as well.
Do yourself a huge favor and take this class!  It is absolutely fascinating and very well-taught: at no point did I second-guess my choice.  Prof. Menand, as probably many others will say, is a phenomenal lecturer with a dry wit and boundless knowledge of American history.  But that much I knew going into the course, and what I didn't expect was to adore the material of the course just as much: even if the scope of the course sounds narrow or overly specialized, take the leap of faith.  The curriculum unites many disciplines in a single fascinating narrative of Cold War history, and no matter whether you are a history buff, an English nerd, or a scientist, you'll find something to love in the class.  This is definitely in my top four courses I've taken at Harvard!
This was the best course I have taken at Harvard. It answered questions I never thought to ask and gave me a foundation for understanding patterns in American culture. Menand teaches in a way that is not frilly but straightforward, giving students everything they need to know.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard! It's a really great survey of post-war culture: you get to some of the most influential critical essays and think about the period's defining art (visual, music, literature, film). Though it is a survey in the sense that you cover a lot of ground, Prof. Menand's lectures always animated the material through an interesting figure or engaging controversy, avoiding the trap that some survey classes fall into of staying so general that you don't feel like you engage with the material in a meaningful way. If you can't commit to coming to every lecture, don't take the class because you will really be missing out (instead, sit in on a few lectures that interest you). The midterm exam (and I'm assuming the final) draw heavily on lecture content. Chris was a great TF!
The syllabus and lectures in this course are excellent; you will feel like you are learning a lot, and the material is very interesting.
High and Low is an excellent course. Highly interdisciplinary in nature, it will introduce you to the most important movements in art criticism and literary criticism of the 20th century, as well as critical theory, popular culture, and American intellectual history. It is definitely a good idea to take this class early on in your Harvard career in order to decide which subfields of the humanities you might want to take more classes in. For example, I really enjoyed the literary criticism component of this course, and I am hoping to take a full course on the subject next year. This is a very accessible course, and although some of the readings can be dense (especially the ones on structuralism and poststructuralism), Professor Menand does an excellent job at teasing out their key ideas and putting them in historical context. One last thing: if you take this class and Laura is still TF'ing, go out of your way to make sure you're in her section. She is the best TF I've had at Harvard, hands down.
This class is a fantastic survey course on American cultural studies.
Amazing class that appeals to such a broad range of students--if you're interested in any of the topics mentioned in the course description, you'll love the course.
If you are not interested in postwar art or art theory, do not take this course.  That being said, if you are it is a unique opportunity to learn about postwar art, music, and literature that without any background can seem strange/pointless/'not art'.  This course is a phenomenal introduction to the artworld and gave me a foundation in both its theory and history that is relevant to Harvard classes and the world beyond them.
Professor Menand's lectures were always engaging and were consistently the highlights of my week.  Take this class; you'll learn some things.
Coming from a non-English student, whose first English class this was, if you can take the course, take it! Menand is fantastic and even if the teaching staff is different I am sure they will also continue to be stellar because Menand attracts the best. I took it for a grade, but if you are concerned take it pass/fail. Do the readings, but most importantly attend every lecture. Not only is that the bulk of the exams but they are life changing! I am so happy I got to take this class.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard - Menand is incredible and his lectures are wonderful. You learn a ton about incredibly interesting works of art and cultural movements; assignments are fair and interesting and there's no busy work. If you're at all interested in art, literature, or philosophy, you should take this.
Truly fantastic course. It seems to bill itself as a course about high and low art, but it's really about much more--the intersections of art, literature, culture, politics, etc. Menand is great, every lecture was a joy, and the class gives you an introduction to some of the trends in art and culture that feel difficult to approach.
Great lectures, interesting readings - might have to memorize a fair bit but sections and review help a lot. Overall a pretty reasonable course.
This course is fantastic. Professor Menand is a wonderful lecturer. He incorporates  ton of information from a variety of disciplines (literature, history, philosophy, literary criticism, art, music, journalism, etc.), and his analysis of the information is extremely insightful. The class leaves you with an understanding of the development of music, art, literature, etc. in the post-war period, as well as the relationships between them. I highly recommend taking this course!
fascinating and well taugth class if you like the material
Not a ton of work, not all readings are necessary.  If you get a good TF (Laura) you'll know which readings to focus on.  Menand is an excellent and engaging lecturer, and the material is really interesting, though at times disjointed.  Wish there had been more diversity in the syllabus
It was enjoyable and I learned a lot but lacked rigour and seemed pointless by the end
Take this class to gain the type of knowledge that will be helpful to you if you ever go to a cocktail party of pretentious art snobs. Louis Menand is a phenomenal lecturer as everyone says and his ability to synthesize a million different cultural events is incredible and very captivating. That being said, this class is one of the whitest classes I've ever taken (the course material are almost all written/produced by white men, most of the students taking the course are white, all of the faculty are white). I also felt a bit out of place as a non-humanities concentrator.
This was unequivocally the best class I have taken at Harvard. Professor Menand's lectures and Chris's sections were a spiritual experience. It radically redefined the way I look at art, culture, and identity. Each and every reading is provocative and eye-opening. Regardless of what you study, I promise this class will not disappoint. Do yourself a favor and take this class.
You won't find a better lecturer than Menand. He'll tell you fascinating stories every week in the way only he can. Take this class!
This class is truly phenomenal and, as as a graduating a senior, I can definitively say it is one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. TAKE IT if you have the chance. I shopped it my freshman spring but decided not to take it because of the intimidating workload, but having finally taken it my senior spring, I will say the time and effort you should put into this course is so so worth it. Do as many of the readings as you can (although you will be fine having just done some of them for the papers and exams) simply because they will be some of the best writing and theory you will ever read and ALWAYS attend lecture. Menand's lectures are some the most precious moments I will take away from Harvard and this course especially will teach you so much about modernist and postmodernist American art and history. You'll walk away from this course having learned all of things you always wished you knew about art and having become a vastly more knowledgeable, well-rounded, and "cultured" person because of it.
Menand is wonderful -- a true genius. His lectures are interesting, witty, and fun. I particularly loved that this "English" class was just as much about Andy Warhol or Jackson Pollock as it was about Norman Mailer or Lionel Trilling. Overall, a great primer on truly great American works of the 20th century. 2 papers, midterm, and a final. Section is great for really hammering down and understanding concepts.
If you really spend time engaging with the materials, this course will teach you s tremendous amount about American culture and art. you will walk away with a deep understanding of the cultural forces in america and how they were influenced by artworks and movements of the 20th century. menand is an amazing lecturer and a really interesting and good guy to speak to outside of class; he will help shepherd your thought-process which will help you gain a fuller understanding of things. the TF's were truly phenomenal and did their very best to get you where you needed to be while remaining friendly and approachable. overall, this was an amazing class that i totally recommend.
This course is probably the best I've taken at Harvard.  Menand is a god, the TFs were excellent when I took it (Chris Schlegel is ideal), the course is extraordinarily satisfying if you are interested in the material.
This class is necessary to be culturally literate.
This is definitely a whirlwind course, but one of the ones that I enjoyed most at Harvard. Professor Menand is an incredible lecturer and has a lot of interesting things to say about the course material.
I'd recommend the course even to students who, like me, focus primarily on an earlier time period; a number of the cultural debates that it addresses are really continuations of older debates that date back to modernism, if not earlier.
Great class, Menand is a brilliant lecturer. Please take it.
It's a really engaging way to get a pretty in depth sense of this time period in America. I genuinely enjoyed and looked forward to lecture. The assignments are manageable if you go to lecture and keep up with the reading.
If you are super into English this is a great course. If you are just taking it out of curiosity, the TFs assume you already know a lot and that you already know how to write a certain way, and you won't grow that much as a writer.
This is the sort of course you come to Harvard to be able to take. Prof. Menand is the best lecturer at Harvard and the readings are fascinating and foundational not only to an understanding of American culture and art but also of the modern University education. Workload isn't all that arduous either
this is a really great course that goes through history of art/culture in america after world war ii. the lectures are fascinating and so well taught and the readings are all super interesting. FYI it's mainly focused on white people doing cool stuff.
