This is a good course, but don't take it as a first poetry course. Professor Engell is a great lecturer and very thoughtful. Make sure you like Romantic Poetry.
You will come away with a much better understanding of the Romantic poets and an appreciation for the lives that they lived.
This class has been the best class I have taken at Harvard in the last three years. I loved how manageable it was and how fascinating each lecture was! :D If you like poetry, you will love this class. If you do not enjoy poetry, you might after hearing Professor Engell speak about it.
If you love poetry, especially challenging Romantic poetry, then this class is for you. If you have no experience, this class gives you a great overview of the greatest Romantic poets, but it can be frustrating at times to read and analyze the poems if you're not used to reading poetry.
Great class if you enjoy these poems! Will get to learn about their lives and closely examine their works with a great and sincere professor.
If you take this class, get Alison as your TF--she's absolutely fantastic and by far the best part of the course. Lecture can wander and be hard to pay attention to as Engell tends to get carried away by the romantic effusion of his thought. But if you can power through and pay attention, lecture is usually rewarding. The reading you do are brilliant and the feedback you get on your writing is really extensive and helpful. Engell really cares about your writing, which is a nice feeling to have.
The material is good to know for Jeopardy, but that's about all this class is good for. Lecture is so boring. The vibe of the class is exactly what I envisioned of a pretentious Harvard class. But, I guess it's easy if you're good at speaking in baloney.
This class is fantastic. The teaching staff cares about your progress and makes sure each student improves his or her grasp of understanding poetry and even a bit of writing their own poetry. Be careful because a big portion of the grading of the class comes within two weeks of the end of the term, so that can be stressful.
This is a great way to fulfill your poetry requirement. The texts can be dense and kind of dull, but Prof. Engell is a great, passionate instructor and Alison was a fantastic TF.
Professor Engell is a lecturer who generates a lot of passion for Romantic poetry and is able to highlight its relevance both in context and to life today. The diversity of works in the syllabus is great exposure to Romanticism. However, I wish this course had been more technical and concrete when it came to offering interpretations of the text or examining passages, poetic devices, or themes. It often felt like lectures were wandering and distracted instead of focused on the text.
This is a great class, a tough class, but very rewarding.  It may not produce the best grades, but most importantly, it gives one a lesson on how to become a better human being, and how important and powerful poetry is.
This class is richly rewarding, through both its material and its professor, but can be difficult in terms of readings and assignments at times.
Great course--phenomenal. The readings were well-selected and the assignments had purpose.
If you're not super interested in romantic poetry, this class is pretty dry. It gives a good survey of the subject, but readings can pile up if you don't stay on top of them.
This class is great not only because the subject matter is really interesting but also because Professor Engell and his teaching staff really care about each student's learning. Make sure you keep up with the reading from the beginning or it quickly becomes too much!
Prof. Engell is gifted at connecting these 18th-c. poems to his students' lives. He helped us read with compassion and reflection on our experiences. I enjoyed the creative writing assignments, and I really wouldn't have minded a few more brief poetry compositions (I've never tried it before since I felt like I couldn't, but maybe I'll try it some more). Mostly, though, it was the small things in individual poems that I overlooked on my own but that, with Prof. Engell and Alison's guidance, now change how I see the world.There is a lot of reading for this class, and Prof. Engell expects a lot. However, everything you give this class, Prof. Engell will give back ten fold. I learned to write in new ways about new things and this class will certainly be one of the best experiences I've had at Harvard.
Amazing teachers, difficult but worth it.
Keep up with the readings, go to office hours, and you'll learn soooooo much and the final exam will be a breeze.
It was a really wonderful experience.  The highlight is listening to Professor Engell talk about poems during lecture in a way you most likely haven't heard yet.
This is an incredible class that will change the way you read poetry and relate to reality. The Romantics are actually extremely modern in many ways. My writing improved tremendously with help and comments from the TF and the professor (this class is a rare instance where both read your work). Professor Engell is deeply devoted to teaching and gives inspiring lectures. A wonderful class!
Professor Engell is a tough grader but he will push you to produce the absolute best writing you can. The course also offers you the chance to do creative pieces, which I think provides a nice change of pace from the usual critical analysis.
This class is absolutely wonderful! There is a lot of material but if you consider yourself a Romantic or a struck by the ideas of Romanticism and think you might take some pleasure in poetry, this is a definite must-take course at Harvard. The lectures are incredible and Professor Engell's love of the poets, his students and the class as a whole is incredibly refreshing and makes the work for this class a real joy. Seeing it all come together at the end with the final is actually FUN! This course is about enjoyment and appreciation. While it is definitely a serious course, it is such a safe environment to try out ideas, be yourself and push the boundaries of your thought. Please pleas please take it and get to know Professor Engell and Julia - they are phenomenal. NB: Prof Engell even makes a pledge to teaching on the course website describing his dedication to his students. To be honest, I was a bit cynical in the penultimate semester of my Harvard career but I was proven terribly wrong. Professor Engell's (and Julia's) dedication shone through.
This course really achieved its stated purpose -- to instil a love of poetry and an appreciation for close reading. The teaching staff -- both Prof. Engell and Julia -- are phenomenal and caring educators. They prioritize developing an appreciation for the material over evaluation and memorization. This is the quintessential Harvard humanities course.
If you would like to get more into romantic-era writing/poetry, this is a great class! You'll read classics like Keats, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Blake, etc so it's great for cultural literacy. If you aren't a fan of romanticism, this obviously isn't your gig.
Even if you don't like poetry, Professor Engell makes this class worth taking.  He is passionate about the material as well as teaching in general.  He loves to hear from students and readily makes himself available.  It's a lot of poetry... and some weeks can be reading-heavy, but it is definitely manageable.... especially if you have a TF as wonderful as Julia is.
Keep up with the readings!!!!
The stuff you read in this class is life-changing! And professor Engle is awesome. Great class.
This course gives you a chance to really explore romantic poetry on a historical, philosophical, intellectual, aesthetic, and personal level. If you enjoy poetry and close reading then you will love this class.
Taking this class was the best decision I made this semester. James Engell is an AMAZING professor who obviously loves both poetry and teaching. He is kind and thoughtful, gives feedback on each paper to anyone who wants it, and actively tries to get to know his students outside of class. Julia was also an amazing TF, making the teaching team an overall phenomenal force. The syllabus itself was great, and I really enjoyed being able to "do homework" that was just reading beautiful poetry. I've actually never considered myself to be any great poetry lover, but this class, Professor Engell, and Julia changed my mind. Do yourself a favor and take it.
Take it, it's a great class. Prof Engell is really kind, and Julia is the best TF you will ever have. Seriously.Oh, and then there's the half-sister loving Byron, the opium addict Coleridge, the tree hugger Wordsworth, etc.extra info: prepare for three papers and a final.
It's an awesome one. You get a lot of personalized feedback and Prof. Engell and Julia are really enthusiastic and helpful with the content of the course
British Romantic Poetry is difficult, but rewarding. However, if lecture-only style courses are not your thing (as opposed to discussion based seminars), it probably is best to take another course.
This is an excellent introduction to the Romantic Poets that allows you to study the poets you are particularly fascinated by more deeply.
One should definitely be prepared for a decent amount of reading, but it's very manageable if you spread the readings out over the week. Also, there are only a couple major papers along with a few shorter response papers for section--comments on papers are very helpful, as well as section discussions. I ended up writing most of my longer papers on ideas I talked about in my response papers for section.
They grade your essays pretty critically.
Great readings, not a strict format to the course. Professor Engell is very interesting and a great lecturer. However the grading is tough and they expect a lot from the essays to get a good grade, but unless you have a natural ability to do so, it may be difficult.
This is a wonderful course for those looking to become acquainted with Romantic Poetry or to fill the poetry requirement for the English department. Professor Engell is truly passionate about both poetry and teaching. He genuinely wants you to love poetry, and comes to class each week brimming with enthusiasm for the poems and poets. The readings are not long or terribly challenging. A relatively low-intensive, highly pleasurable class.
It's a great poetry class.  Professor Engell and TF Tejblum are both wonderful, attentive, informed, etc.  However, it's brisk pace and status as a common ground course mean that we rarely did much in-depth work on a particular poet or set of poems.  Also, class discussion is only okay because many of the students taking it are relatively new to poetry or only taking the class to fulfill their requirement.
This is a very good class if you do the work!
I wasn't sure how much I was going to love the material, but by the end of this course I have such a deep understanding and appreciation for romantic poetry that I never would have expected.
