The lectures are exciting and helpful; the discussion is rigorous and not intimidating; the course makes Shakespeare feel historicized not only as a product of his own time, but reveals a broader relationship between the foundation of modernity and that which is associated with the idea of "Rome."
The lectures are phenomenal, Professor Whittington is great, and section and the readings were great as well
Professor Whittington is an amazing lecturer! The readings were fantastic. I hadn't taken any Shakespeare course before this, and I learned so much about how to read one of the greatest playwrights of all time. That said, the grading was very harsh, so be careful. It won't be an easy A at all.
Wonderful Shakespeare class. Prepare to read a lot of Shakespeare (about a play a week). Get Stephen. He's an amazing TF.
Professor Whittington is amazing, and though there are a lot of plays to be read, the work load is totally manageable.
This is a good course for what it is. However, the title is misleading; it is essentially a Shakespeare survey course. The focus of the lectures, essays, and tests is not really on Shakespeare's relation to Rome, and there are no assigned readings or discussions in lecture outside of Shakespeare himself.
There may be a better way to be introduced to Shakespeare, maybe this class is for people who already have a familiarity with him.
Prof. Whittington is amazing! Please do take a course with her!
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard-- it made me a more-rounded scholar and a better human being!
It's a great course, Shakespeare is a great author, and Prof. Whittington is a great instructor.
Professor Whittington is a fantastic Shakespeare scholar and generates an exciting enthusiasm about Shakespeare texts. Plus, this is a great opportunity to read Shakespeare that you will never really be exposed to otherwise--some great plays.
This course will give you knowledge of a wide range of Shakespeare's great and least great work. It probably won't shatter your understanding of literature or blow off your pantaloons. It's less about Rome than the title implies. You're a magician if you finish the reading.
This is a nice class to read more Shakespeare. I didn't find that it really deepened my understanding of the texts, but I had also taken three or four Shakespeare classes prior to this one. The professor and TF are really nice, but the exams aren't great.
This may be one of the better, if not the best, Shakespeare classes at Harvard. Certainly, any previous knowledge or experience with Shakespeare is helpful, but not necessary. Professor Whittington understands that not everyone will have already had the luxury to read much of Shakespeare in their academic careers in high school, and she makes a point of exploring each play in depth regardless of how 'famous' (ie Hamlet, Midsummer) it may be. Her reading guides are great for feeling prepared for class, and extremely helpful later when choosing paper topics. In terms of assignments, you're essentially reading one whole play a week. Staying on top of the readings is basically necessary, so you can get the most out of Leah's lectures, which are detailed, engaging, interesting, and continually referencing scenes and instances such that you may feel lost if you're behind in reading. Section with Michelle was the best - she's wonderfully sweet, helpful, engaging and great at making you feel like what you've just said is worthwhile input. If you have ANY interest in Shakespeare, take this course - Shakespeare is sadly underrepresented in Harvard's English classes, and this class is so worth the time and effort.
Don't take this class! We go to a school with some of the most famous, brilliant Shakespeare scholars in the world, and Professor Whittington does not seem to be one of them. If you shop it, don't be fooled by her dynamic lecturing style -- once you take a few weeks to process the content of the class you will disappointed by its quality. Unfair exams, useless lectures -- if you want to take it as an elective, don't; if you need a Shakespeare course for English requirements, find another one.
Hopefully by the time you get this, Leah would have done away with quote IDs. But this year, we had to be able to identify random quotes from all readings--hint, quotes were generally taken from significant portions of the play...but sometimes not. Toss up? This is not the best English class Harvard has to offer, but it is an okay introduction to Shakespeare, if you have no knowledge of him or you just became literate. I read most of the works in high school and the analysis given of each work was decent, I guess. Leah Whittington is not the best lecturer, but she's an enthusiastic lecturer and she THRIVES off of class participation. That is to say, if the class is super interested you have a better chance of actually getting a rewarding experience and getting the opportunity witness her speak extemporaneously and think outside the lecture notes she's created for herself--which arguably, were her best moments. She's no Elaine Scarry (who is my yardstick for anything English) but once she has her moment, she's a joy. Furthermore, don't look to this class to read Shakespeare's more famous works--we're looking at the hipster chronicle of Shakespeare here: Highschool, angst, angst, and unheard-ofs like Midsummer's Night Dream (highschool), Hamlet (angst/highschool), Antony and Cleopatra (angst), and Cymbeline (unheard-of) and the like. Don't expect: Othello, King Lear, Richard III, or the like. You know, the ones that end up on HBO. Take the class? Don't take the class? Ultimately, your life will be the same. And it's all meaningless.
It's a good course if you are interested in the material--but it gets a little repetitive at times.
To consistently be at a comfortable level in this class you should already have read all or most of the books on the syllabus before coming into the class. While the ideas Professor Whittington discusses in lecture are interesting and enlightening, the course breeds frustration because of the overwhelming amount of readings and the depth at which you're expected to understand all of them. Exams were unnecessarily difficult, expectations vague, and preparing for them was frustrating. This is an ambitious course and you leave having learned a lot, but the kinks still need to be worked out.
Be prepared to read a lot by one author. Granted, that one author is Shakespeare.
The course is easy enough, but it's hard to stay motivated because of the course load pace.  The lectures can be a bit superficial since the professor only has two lectures per play.  Nonetheless, it's a painless way to achieve the Common Ground requirement, and the professor is such a delight.
If you're interested in Shakespeare, definitely take this class! If not, consider that there is a heavy reading load and it's difficult to get by without actually doing the readings.
This is a wonderful way to fill a Shakespeare requirement, but it's also just a great class in general. Prof. Whittington is absolutely fantastic and she makes you so excited about the material. I'd highly, highly recommend the course.
Prior reading of Shakespeare is probably essential to get the most out of this course.
This class wasn't perfect, but it has a ton of potential and the wrinkles will probably be straightened out for next year. You'll read a bunch of Shakespeare plays in a relatively painless way, and if you're anything like me you may just be inspired by some of the lectures.
Take this course! Gives you a great survey of Shakespeare and how to read his works. The lectures are fascinating and introduce you to new and novel interpretations of Shakespeare's plays.
