Professor Oaadetz has a lot to offer his students but a very hard time actually offering it. Prepare to leave many a lecture seriously unsure what you were intended to take away from it. The pace of the reading is quite brisk and there are pop quizzes (though these are graded very leniently), so do not take it unless you are sure you can keep up. The readings themselves range from very dull to very interesting, but things definitely pick up in the second half of the course.
This course offers a very good look at American literature from poetry and histories to novels and speeches. The workload for this class is manageable most of the time, and definitely keep on top of the reading for reading quizzes.
The course has such a huge and totalizing focus on the canonical religious white men of the 1600s-1800s in a way that is mundane and really gets old.
The majority of the readings in the first half were historical accounts of pilgrim life, puritan religious doctrine, and texts of political philosophy. There was very little engaging Literature, and the lectures were confusing. Statements like "different characters have different ontological qualities" were made often and not clarified. Expect the words "ontology," "valence," "ideology," and "epistemology" to occur frequently and with little purpose in lectures.
It's intense and amazing...my only caveat would be that the earlier readings are rarely all that interesting/relatable on their surface, though they get much much better as the course progresses
You have to read a lot, and the lectures can drag on sometimes, but if you really do all the readings and try to follow Osadetz's logic, the class can be very rewarding.
This course was not the most interesting, unless you're a hardcore fan of classic American literature or English as a discipline, but it wasn't too hard or stressful, and was therefore worth it. As with any class, you get way more out of it if you do the readings, but you could definitely get away with not doing many of the readings because of the open-ended projects, which could be fun if you put thought into what interests you. Bottom line: not the most exciting, but a good choice if you're trying to fulfill a requirement without too much stress
This class is unfocused and frustrating. I never left lectures feeling like there had been a real takeaway from our discussions of the works--which are all really interesting--because we spent so little time on each one and the lecture were so unorganized.
Osadetz's offbeat lecturing style takes some getting used to.
This isn't the worst course you could choose to fulfill the pre-civil war literature requirement for History & Literature, but it definitely felt like a class that I was forced into taking rather than one that I was genuinely excited to take.
This is a fantastic course if you are interested broadly in American literature. American lit courses here tend to focus on more contemporary texts--looking into earlier texts (in this course) really enlightens the alter texts that are so predominant in our culture. Plus, you can never miss a chance to read Moby-Dick, which isn't offered often at Harvard.
Professor Osadetz is brilliant and his lectures are worth your time, but there were days when he seemed a little disorganized. He's a little brusque sometimes but never to the point of being rude. I definitely see this course improving in future iterations and recommend it if you are prepared to do a lot of reading.
I mean you have to take it and the workload is totally manageable, so it's not like I'm crazy about it but no problems.
It's really interesting to take a second look at many of the classic American texts (Scarlet Letter, Declaration of Independence, Self-Reliance) that you probably read in high school. Having a few years distance from them gives you a new perspective, but also it's cool to look at them in-depth from a literary perspective, not just from through a historical or informative lens. Osadetz style is such that he takes a critical (which at times can seem very cynical) stance on every text, which is simultaneously interesting to think about but also kind of frustrating. If you seriously think about what he's saying and compare to your reading of the text, however, you will grow and learn quite a bit.
Unless this class is completely restructured, do not take this class. We read many historical documents and lecture was both uninteresting and unfocused. Don't waste your Migrations requirement on this class.
I would be likely to recommend this course only because its syllabus is so good. As I have said previously, I did not feel like I got anything out of the lectures because they were so one-sided, and whenever anyone spoke his comments were indirectly labeled as "wrong" by Professor Osadetz which was frustrating.
The amount of work will just be related to whether or not you do all the readings. In general, there was too much reading to do in-depth before each class, which didn't really matter considering lectures were tangential and abstract whether or not you do all the readings. The essay assignments are weighted really heavily considering you don't do anything else in the class, besides pop quizzes which focused on specific details from readings and were largely unhelpful or motivational.
This course is a great introduction to early American literature, with a rigorous syllabus that generally covers all of the important moments.  It's a particularly welcome offering in a department that has not been teaching a ton of early American literature as of late.  The readings can be heavy but are not impossible.  The writing requirements were not very onerous in terms of number of pages, but there were pop quizzes on the readings.  The one thing to think carefully about is that the lecture/discussions run by the professor tended to be needlessly contentious, and this often made class hard to sit through.  The professor is obviously a very skilled reader of literature, but he did tend to offer the same kinds of interpretations over and over again--focusing a lot on irony, for example, perhaps at the expense of other concepts.  Section was absolutely wonderful, though.  If Dave is ever again the TF for this course, that might be reason enough to enroll.  I have scarcely experienced a better teacher at Harvard.
A great but busy syllabus. Professor Osadetz can be a wandering and pedantic lecturer but if it's a good day it's a great lecture. Surprise quizzes really dampened the energy and enthusiasm in the reading, however.
