This course is both a great introduction into American literature and a wonderful way to go more in-depth into concepts and books that you may have previously encountered. I would not take this class if you are taking another heavy reading class, but if you love literature and want to have your mind blown in lectures, definitely take this class!
I would recommend this class for anyone who wants to take a cool general education class but is willing to put a lot of work into it.  The reading takes a lot of time and, if it slips away, it will be a lot of work at the end. There are probably easier ways of taking this Gen Ed, but this class is definitely worth the work.
Considering studying english after this course. Amazing.
It's such a wonderful class, but you have to be really prepared to read  ALOT
There is a lot of reading, but it is a joy to do.
This course has a ton of reading, and so should not be taken lightly as an easy gen ed. That being said, if you at all enjoy reading novels and discussing the ideas they present, this course is really awesome. Professor Fisher gives very insightful lectures about the books we read, and you have plenty of opportunity to discuss and explore ideas in section. You'll come away with a sense that you have a decent understanding of the development and evolution of major themes and forms in American literature since the 20th century, which is a pretty good feeling. Sometimes lectures are a little disorganized and hard to follow, but again, they're overall super interesting and the course as a whole is really fun (provided you can do the reading).
These are all books that you should read to be a human in the 21st century - be warned however that this class is a ton of reading.  If you can read all the books it's 100% worth it but make sure you have enough time or else you won't be able to get the amazing essence out of this course that Fisher and the TFs offer.
Great lecture but a ton of reading. You have to do the reading if you want anything out of the course, which can be tough at times. I didn't find section very helpful.
TAKE. THIS. COURSE. It's my favorite class I've taken at Harvard! I am not a humanities major so I found the reading list rather lengthy and the unstructured nature of the writing assignments challenging but I loved it nonetheless. 10/10 would recommend.
Philip Fisher could not be better, he provides the most wonderful new perspective on everything.
This class prompts you to read some amazing literature and to learn about the historical and cultural context around each novel. It's worth taking just to make you read the great novels. Professor Fisher's lectures are very eloquent and have a fun classic harvard feel, but they are sometimes scattered and don't present any line of argumentation for the views presented. This is fine, just not what I was used to.
This course has an awesome book list. The pace is fast and reading load is no joke, but if you are willing to commit extensive time every week to reading, you will get a lot out of this course.
Great class, but definitely have a schedule for reading. Most students probably leave a lot of the reading to the end (right before the final exam), but it'll definitely be much more enjoyable as a class if you keep with at least most of the books throughout the term!
A fabulous way to read American literature
This class is a great English class, for both concentrators and non-concentrators alike, as it is a very broad course that covers some of the greatest american literature ever written. Even if you're not interested in taking English, the novels in this class are incredible so the homework doesn't even feel tedious and it's a great class for the Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding requirement.
This class is wonderful! Anyone can take it, although I think I got more out of it as an upperclassman. Be sure you have enough time to tackle the reading list, because the more time you can spend with these novels, the more you'll get out of the class.
As a STEM concentrator wanting to read more, this was a great course to take. It's a lot of work, but taking it pass/fail was great so I didn't have to worry as much about doing well on the essays and final. It can sometimes be hard to keep up with readings, but it's definitely a great reading list. I also sometimes got a bit lost in Fischer's lectures, but overall he had some interesting insights and did a good job of setting up historical contexts for the novels.
There is a good deal of reading for this course but it was always the kind of work I looked forward to. This truly seems like the quintessential Harvard class--the professor,TF staff and amazing syllabus truly foster a course where the students can be passionate about the work.
Excellent lectures and readings - will deepen your understanding of literature and American culture. The class is work-intensive, though, and reading assignments are lengthy.
I took this course because it was a great survey of books, and I did get to read a lot of great literature this semester I hadn't read before. BUT I personally was not very excited by lectures and stopped going halfway through the semester. Unfortunately, though this course is often ranked as difficult because of all the reading, you don't have to read all the books to pass the course, and most people probably don't have the time. By the end of the semester I finished most of em, and my sections were always fun. The take-home exam, in contrast, was not fun. 2/10, Would-Not-Take-Home-Again.
This is a rewarding class, but only if you do the readings and attend lectures. The workload is manageableonly two essays and a final in the way of assessmentsand if you like to read, the homework is enjoyable, not a burden.
This class is certainly not for everyone, but Fisher's lectures on the books are fantastic. His insight about these classic novels is enough of a reason to take this course, but there is a lot of reading (a novel per week and some are long, like Invisible Man), and there isn't a lot of hand holding in the course. Assignment-wise the course is very reasonable (2 seven page papers and a take home final), but it is the reading load that can be tough to keep up with, since there are many novels and additional short stories that are passed out in class. Fisher's lectures are also not for everyone since he gives lots of interpretation and points out many quirks and patterns in the novels, that enriched my understanding of the texts greatly and made them exciting to read, but I have friends who found his lectures a bit jumpy and too disorganized for their taste. There are many non-humanities concentrators in the course, but I did get the sense that the non-humanities people were more disoriented at times (unsure about paper topics and expectations for paper).
Amazing class. Speaking as someone who does not concentrate in the Humanities, this course allowed me to delve into such incredibly and important novels that I probably would not have read as meaningfully/deeply, if at all. It was not easy to keep up with the readings, but totally worth it. It was not difficult in terms of the actual papers. I highly recommend to anyone who likes to read, and wants an opportunity to learn from an incredible professor!
This is a great course, and a great Gen Ed. Professor Fisher is brilliant and his lectures are terrific. Truthfully, attending all lectures (especially twice a week at 10 AM) was difficult, but it is very much worth going to lectures. The reading load is fairly heavy, but manageable. A background in literature is useful, but this is also a good intro course. The work load is not too tough, though the final take-home exam requires real thinking and work. You study terrific pieces of American literature in the class.
Professor Fisher is an amazing lecturer. Every lecture I learned something new about the texts and about techniques for reading them. His comments also inspired reflection about not only the texts, but also the world in general. There is a ton of reading, but the reading list is incredible. Take it!
A Harvard classic. A really great class with a legendary professor and fun section component. The only fault of the course lies in its unreasonable reading expectations. It is simply irrational to assign Faulkner the week before spring break (sorry thesis-writing seniors) or expect students to finish Invisible Man in seven days (that's nearly 100 pages a day). Otherwise, read some great books and enjoy!
incredible class, but go into it understanding that you really should be reading all the books and if you aren't your enjoyment of the class will decline accordingly. This isn't GOV20 where you're not really expected to read everything, you really have to do everything here. If you don't like being told what to think Fisher may get on your nerves, but he's brilliant and really changes how you think about novels.
This class was hands down my favorite class of the semester.  While the amount of reading can certainly be intense, the payoff is amazing.  Professor Fisher's lectures are incredibly engaging and thought provoking and will change the way you read.  You will not regret taking this class!
This is a fantastic course if you are interested in learning about literature or about American culture. Professor Fisher is an old pro at this game - he has tons to say on each novel, so lectures are fun, engaging, and sometimes even mind-blowing. The novels you will read are all interesting in unique ways, but at the end of the semester you begin to see how each ties into the others across the tradition. It's amazing!This class has a fairly hefty workload. The only way to really get something out of it is to read each novel, and depending on how fast you read, that takes many hours each week. You can fake it a little bit during the semester, but any reading you miss will come back to haunt you for the final. The takehome is really tough, so don't take this class thinking it will be an easy A. On the other hand, written assignments are fairly light during the semester: two essays on which you have a lot of creative freedom and the chance to explore whatever interests you.
Do the reading. It's just not as good if you skip out.
take this class!!! I am a science concentrator; minimal background in humanity. at first I was intimidated, but soon I realize it is very doable as long as you have interest in literature, and did well in the class. the TF offers great support. The course has made a substantial impact on the way I think. It is not only about literature; by analyzing these great works, Prof. Fisher is also imparting wisdoms of life on topics such as morality, aestheticism, constraints from social rules, meaning of marriage, etc.
This course is incredible. You read magnificent books and hear the incredible ideas of Professor Fisher. Take it regardless of your concentration. You will learn so much and enjoy it. I took this my senior spring and for me, it was the perfect way to end Harvard (and I had never taken an English or Lit class ever here!). I also learned SO much: I learned that reading and critically analyzing "great" novels isn't a siloed experience that is just "English" or "Literature"--i.e. talking about style, contextualizing the historical importance of the novel, thinking about symbolism (all those "tools" of English you learn about in high school)--all these are important, but rather I learned that critically reading these stories is more about the universal parts of storytelling that relates to all aspects of life, which Professor Fisher will wisely and eloquently tell you about. The syllabus is so finely constructed that each week informed the next and the prior. It was an incredible privilege to be enrolled in this course.
This class is fast-paced but covers amazing material and also has wonderful lectures.
If you like to read, and you're willing to work (in other words, don't take this if you're looking for an easy gen. ed) then this is a great class! You learn a lot, read some great classics that you probably won't ever read otherwise, and feel fulfilled afterwards. A good way to take care of A&I or explore any interests in English.
Wonderful look into American literature. Lots of work, but rewarding!
This is a great course if you love to read! It's not easy and will take up a significant amount of your time, but you will never be sorry that you took it! I would recommend this course to everyone and anyone, no matter your major.
Read every day and take really detailed notes in lecture.
Take this course if you feel that you have the time to dedicate to immersing yourself in the literature (esp. if you are a slow reader). It is not a class where the works can be rushed through; attention to detail is key. Professor Fisher's lectures help focus students' attention on key aspects of the novel. The amount of material can often feel overwhelming, but try to enjoy itthe texts are awesome and part of the country's literary canon. Also, don't lose track of your handouts with the short stories and Fisher's commentary on various textsthey're helpful and necessary to hold on to as you prepare for the final!
Rewarding if you are willing to put in the work and complete the readings
This course is spectacular.  However, the reading is a lot, and you won't get a lot out of it if you don't do the reading.  So make sure you don't have a schedule that is otherwise overwhelming when you take this class.  Other than that though, this class was a phenomenal learning experience if you put the time in.
The class is extremely demanding but, in the end, quite rewarding.
This class is great. You will never get through all the books on the syllabus for pleasure so why not read them for credit and have a class that's doable (so long as you stay mostly on top of the reading) and not too hard assignments wise? Professor Fisher is also amazing and worth having before your undergrad career ends.
The reading is a little heavy, but also a really fantastic selection.  This course will push you to expand your thinking in lots of ways and think really carefully about everything you read.  Professor Fisher's lectures are absolutely amazing.
This class is hard because you really do need to read at least most of the books, but it's rewarding. In retrospect I wish I had gone to class more often.
Awesome books, awesome lectures. Definitely accessible to non-humanities concentrators if willing to put in the reading (though assignments are flexible enough to not really require this).
This class is only worth it if you want to read the books. For me, lectures didn't do much, but section felt like book club, which was fun. Great senior spring course if you like spending time reading.
This was a really interesting and wonderful class. I will say up front that it requires a good deal of time between reading a novel each week, some additional short stories, and writing 2 papers. However, if you are interested in some of the novels on the syllabus or just about examining critical time periods in American history through a literary lens, this is definitely a wonderful class that I couldn't recommend more strongly!
This course is a good and sometimes unexpected overview of American literature in the last 200 years or so. The reading mounts up (a novel a week + short stories), and if you get behind it's quite hard to catch up. As a grad student I found the course a bit basic. Its focus on style at the expense of other approaches was sometimes frustrating, as I felt like I could spot most of these stylistic things on my own when reading.
Please take this class! I have never taken an English class at Harvard and was pretty intimidated by the class and the reading list. I ultimately got up the courage to do this and was extremely happy I did. Fisher's lectures are just magical and you will love every minute of section and class if you do the readings. This class really change the way I look at literature and it's connection with our history and culture. This class was one of the classes I will remember the most from Harvard and it's what a liberal arts education is all about. Do yourself a favor and take it!
Phil Fisher's lectures are sometimes disorganized and hard to follow but when they work, they work really well. The class is good, keep up with the readings and think about each book.
Depending on your course load and reading speed, you might want to get a head start and read some of the books on the syllabus before the semester starts. I definitely found it challenging to complete a novel a week, especially the longer ones like Invisible Man. That being said, the lectures are wonderful, and the essays and take-home were pretty painless. Definitely take this class to experience something new. Probably more work than necessary to complete a Gen Ed, though.
Fisher is a great professor and the readings in the course are good, but be prepared to do a LOT of reading. I do not recommend this course to thesis-writing seniors unless you are basically done writing at the beginning of the semester.
It's a fantastic course! Be sure to pace yourself and do all of the readings in advance for each week. Don't skimp of the books, they're all fantastic.
Professor Fisher can make you think about books in ways you never have before. You'll actually learn what literary criticism means. Seriously, if you like books, take this class. But be prepared for heavy reading loads.
DO NOT UNDERESTIMATE THE READING LIST. Great books, but a lot of great books. Also, Fisher puts literally nothing on the iSite, so be ready for a lot of paperwork.
Take this class! It is a lot of reading but entirely worth it!
A solid class with reasonable readings. Professor Fisher is a good lecturer, and of course section depends on your TF and your fellow students. As always, you will get more out of it if you actually do the readings.
You get to read amazing books. Try and keep up, although if there are books you really don't like (for me this was The Sound and the Fury and A Farewell to Arms) you don't have to read them to do well. Take home exam is hard but doable. Suzanne is a fantastic TF
Only take the class if you have not read many of the books on the syllabus
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. I am not an English major, but it wasn't too difficult. Meet with tfs before the paper to work out your ideas, and keep up with the readings. And go to lecture! You will get so much from Professor Fishers lectures!
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. The books are amazing and Professor Fisher makes you read them in an entirely new light. The workload is completely doable--mostly just reading the novels.
This course taught me to look at literature in a new way. Be warned though, that you get out what you put in. It's certainly possible to get by or even do well by only reading about half of the books, to the detriment of learning. Also, I found both Prof Fisher's lectures and section to be generally too unstructured.
This is an incredible English course if you want an overview of some of the best American novels, or if you just love literature. The lectures are extremely interesting and although it can be a lot of reading some weeks, if you enjoy reading novels the reading can actually be really fun!
Excellent prof and TFs, great books. It moves fast though, and it's sometimes hard to keep up with the reading
This course can be very rewarding if you do most of the readings and actually think about the essay topics. It's a lot of work, though, so I'd recommend either doing some of the readings over break or choosing courses with lighter workloads for your other classes.
You need to take this course! Especially if you're an English concentrator. I waited to take this course my senior year and I definitely wished I had taken it earlier since it created a comprehensive and cohesive narrative about the evolution of literature that I felt was missing in my other English courses. All of the lectures are amazing and full of information. I could never write fast enough to capture all the brilliant things. One of the best courses at Harvard.
This class is awesome! If you have any interests in any of the readings, take the class!
Start the readings early in the week, the weekend before class really. You want to know what Professor Fisher is talking about, because it's all interesting. Amazing class.
This is a good course, and you get as much out of it as you put in. It is not necessary to do all of the reading, but you will be glad if you do most of it. Stay on top of assignments; don't let yourself fall behind on the novels. Also, read the short stories.
Professor Fisher is great, and the reading list is amazing. Definitely take it!!! If you're worried about the workload, it's definitely worth it
A wonderful overview of the American novel. The more you read, the more you will get out of it.
This class is a great survey of American literature by a Professor who has probably read all of these books 20 times. It's an awesome, low-pressure class with a fair reading load. Also, make sure you get into Suzanne's section, it was one of the most enjoyable English sections I've been in at Harvard.
Be prepared for an intense reading load every night. Don't fall behind on the reading, bc it will be a nightmare to catch up on, so it's important to establish a consistent reading schedule.
1. Look at the booklist to determine whether you want to take the course. If you don't like the books, you won't enjoy the course; if you don't think you'll have time to read the books, you won't enjoy the course.2. Fisher is the smartest lecturer I've ever had--smart phrases pop up ALL THE TIME. Since you'll probably be sleepy, write down as much as you can verbatim. When you wake up sufficiently and have Fisher's exact phrases right there in your noteboook, you'll thank yourself (or me?)
Invisible Man ought to have two weeks.
It's a lot of work, the essays are rough
If you like to read, this course is for you. The novels require a lot of reading, but they are each timeless and intriguing.
Professor Fisher is ab absolutely brilliant lecturer. Even if you're not into English or lit, I bet Prof Fisher could make you think you are. The books you read are--of course--amazing, but reading them in conjunction with Fisher's lectures is a whole other level. You will get so much out the class if you read all the books and pay attention in all the lectures.
I think my friend put it best when she said, "Phil Fisher? That man speaks truth and beauty."
This class is an absolute must at Harvard. If not for Professor Fischer's lectures, than at least for the reading list, which includes many of the most famous novels in American history. It takes a lot of work - with substantial reading and a very difficult final exam - but is well worth it.
This is a fantastic class. It's a great opportunity to learn from a wonderful professor.
Professor Fisher is a fantastic lecturer and does an excellent job at presenting a holistic and comprehensive view of the many texts we read. While some of the novels may be long, the reading consists of usually one novel and one or two short stories per week that complement the novel in some way. As long as you spend a couple hours reading, this course isn't too hard to manage.
its a lot of reading
This course is easily the best course I've taken at Harvard. Professor Fisher is an incredible lecturer--each hour on Monday/Wednesday morning was transformative in how I understood each assigned novel. He is so clear, thoughtful, and insightful. The novels themselves were wonderful reads, and the short stories/handouts provided effective frames for each novel. Make sure you keep up with the reading each week.
In this class, you have the opportunity to read classics from the American literary canon under the incredible teaching of Professor Fisher. His lectures deliberately do not condescend to the most basic understanding of the literature, but challenge you to think more deeply and critically about the material you read. His lectures about Lolita were some of the best I have enjoyed at Harvard. The reading load is pretty heavy, but all the material is worth reading. You could probably get away with not doing all the reading, but you will get so much more out of the weeks you make the time to finish the novel. Professor Fisher's analysis of the books focuses heavily on their aesthetic qualities, so do not expect a historical analysis week-to-week. The assignments for the class, two papers and a take home final, are worthwhile and there is no busywork involved. You will really get out of this class as much as you put in.
Be prepared to read. A lot. It's a rather large class, and so you probably could get away with skipping the work, and even skipping lecture. But why bother taking the class, then? You only have 32 courses in your Harvard education, and this course deserves one of those spots, but only if you are willing to work for it. Admittedly, it helps if you come to this course having read at least a few of the books. Presumably, this will help you by letting you read faster, at least for a few weeks. Prof. Fisher does a good job spacing out the texts, balancing the hardest with the easiest, but it's still a lot of reading and it's easy to fall behind. I also encourage you to ask questions of Prof. Fisher (in his office hours). He's always willing to talk an idea over with you, and you can personalize a large class by taking the extra 15-20 mins per week at his office.
So many novels, so many male white authors. Take it if you want to be pushed to read "classic" novels, but don't expect to have any life-changing experiences in the course.
Be prepared to read.
A great course -- Fisher's lectures and his selection of novels are truly terrific -- with a great deal of reading -- expect to spend 10+ hours on reading some weeks, and at least 6 every week. That said, you can skip a book or two and still be fine for the (very daunting) final exam. The grading is not ridiculously harsh, so while you'll spend a lot of time on this course, don't expect to be crushed by it. Overall, I would heartily recommend it, though only if you expect you'll have the time to really commit to it.
you do invest time into reading the novels but i found it so rewarding and time well spent. definitely one of my favorite courses and a course i am glad to graduate from harvard having taken.
Take any and every class you can with Phil Fisher
One of my favorite classes at Harvard. Lectures are amazing and the books are a joy too read. It is a lot of reading so try not to fall behind
I loved the lectures and there's no better homework than reading a great novel.
Honestly, I had a lot of issues with the course. Professor Fisher was too invested in discussing the aesthetics of the texts and not enough in issues surrounding race, class, gender, and other important themes. There were barely any female writers or protagonists in the texts or people of color in a class called The AMERICAN Novel. Seriously, I felt frustrated and oftentimes bored at the approach to the texts. How do you not discuss race when addressing Invisible Man? How do you fail to include Junot Diaz, Pulitzer Prize winner and a great Latino voice in the syllabus? This could have been so much better.
The American Novel is an excellent class for anyone looking to catch up on all those important classics that they haven't gotten to yet. Unfortunately, the nature of the course is such that you don't ever really delve too deeply into any one novel, which can get frustrating at times. Definitely a class to take, but perhaps during a semester where your other workload is a little bit lighter-- to read and think about these books in any detail, you need to put in the time. Thats the most important thing you should think about before enrolling-- are you going to put in the time?
Professor Fisher is a genius.  You want to take this course if only for his insights into some of the best literature out there.  Great reading list.
A great survey of American literature. Professor Fisher makes so many connections within the texts that I never could have imagined. The course really allowed me to appreciate literature more profoundly than before
Stay on top of your reading. Write down every word that Fisher says, because his lecture style is beautiful but meanders in ways that are confusing to initially interpret until you sit down and actually read your notes. Not even kidding: write down every word.
This class is beautifully taught. The amount of information you absorb in one week's time is sometimes more than you'll learn in an entire semester with another class. Expect to work hard every week, but the teaching staff and Professor Fisher are working equally hard, so you're all on the same footing. Be sure to read the short stories, too; this year, they weren't exactly "essential" for section participation or the final, but they really round out the course's themes, and you won't ever regret spending half an hour with Ann Beattie and company. Enjoy this class--it's really something else.
Phil Fisher is brilliant, engaging, and a riveting lecturer. He is truly a master of the literature he teaches. It is hard to attend his lectures and not feel profoundly moved.
Anyone at all interested in the novel should take this class.
There is a lot of reading. A lot. But it's worth it because if you keep up you get much more out of lecture and out of section discussions, and the books are all ones I'm very happy to have read.
I really enjoyed the course. I constantly mentioned it to my friends. I would highly recommend taking it as the class was my favorite of freshman year.
This is a fantastic course. Fisher's lectures are deservedly renowned; they will make you see the course novels in new ways and inspire you to attempt similarly nuanced, original,and complex close-readings. Readings cannot be beat. Don't worry about the workload, it's really not bad at all if you don't mind hunkering down with a novel for a couple hours a week (and what sane person would?)
This class has great lectures and sections, and reads really good books. However, the amount of reading is unreasonable and counter productive. I would have learned much more if we had read fewer books more thoroughly. Now that it's summer, I'm going to actually read the books on the syllabus. If you like racing through texts without paying attention to language or the aesthetic beauty of the course, then you might like the pace of the class.
Wonderful course with wonderful staff and wonderful material. Just do be prepared to dedicating consistent time to reading the literature.
This is an excellent course. Very insightful and enlightening, and helps you think about the evolution of modernism in general.
This course is fabulous. The novels are all very well chosen for the purposes of the course. They are engaging, and differ enough to provide variety but have enough similarities to coexist with each other. Professor Fisher's lectures are phenomenal. He weaves themes and details and history and background into one stream of commentary, examining the novels in a way I dreamed but didn't believe was possible. There is a heavy amount of reading - one novel per week - but every novel is enjoyable in it's own rite. And if it wasn't enjoyable as you read it, it will be as soon as you listen to Professor Fisher's lecture. Or it will at least make more sense, and you will see how people can enjoy it. The take-home exam is a lot, but definitely manageable. This class is worth the effort - one of those courses you know you worked hard at, and learned a lot, and have grown substantially because of.
Definitely take this class!! You won't forget it
There are a lot of excellent books but not enough time to really think about them. Prof. Fisher is brilliant.
The workload isn't too terrible for this class, but you have to remember to keep up with it regularly. I really enjoyed all the books we read, and I felt like all of Fisher's lectures really enriched my understanding and appreciation for the literature. Definitely a very enjoyable class!
This will be a very time-consuming course, but it'll be equally rewarding.  You get out of it what you put in.  Professor Fisher is outstanding and you don't want to miss out on his inspiring lectures.
Do the reading or you won't understand the lectures. Go to office hours. If you invest in this class, you will get SO MUCH out of it. Best English lecture I've had at Harvard.
If you want to read great books, this is a great class to push you in that direction.  Warning though: it is an English class, and papers will be graded on tone, diction, and things like that that other majors don't pay much attention to.  Also, lectures can wind around more than normal.
This class is a religious experience. This has been my favorite class that I have taken at Harvard, hands down. Though the reading list is definitely very intense, every book will teach you something and will be a joy to read. This gen ed course is definitely not for people looking for an easy course to skate through. That said, this class will challenge you and teach you not only about English but also about culture, sociology, economics, and about how humans and writers react to all the above things. Perhaps I'm fangirling too much over this class, but I learned a lot about myself and became a better writer by reading these books and listening to Professor Fisher's insightful, hilarious, perspective-changing lectures. Do not take this course unless you plan to put many hours into the readings every week, as the final and papers will end you unless you do. They are manageable, but you must be prepared to read, read, read. If you want to challenge yourself with new perspectives and life-changing texts spanning a wide range of the American experience  racism, capitalism, the passage of time, expansion, immigration  take this course. This is a gen ed that will live up to its well-rounding reputation. This course will not be easy, but you will get a lot out of it if you try. To quote the old adage, you'll get as much out of it as you put in. It will meet you more than halfway.
This is an awesome class! Some lectures are better than others, and there is a huge amount of reading, but you won't regret any of the work you do for the course--the books are well-selected and are definitely worth your time. I mean obviously you should know what you're getting yourself into...the reading load is huge and not at all easy to manage. But I'd take it again for sure.
This is a great survey of american literature taught by a fantastic professor and a wonderful class for English majors and non English majors alike. Definitely a good introduction to college English, and Professor Fisher is a wonderful lecturer.
It's a great course. You read a lot of great books that everyone should read and learn to close read. It's really fun but challenging.
You learn a lot about English in this class. You read a diverse selection of texts and write analytical essays on them (two). Fisher's lectures are fascinating and engaging and really make you appreciate literature more. The final exam is stressful because it is a series of take home essays, but it is far better than a sit down test, as it is open book. It is a great capstone for the class, as the synthesis required is easy, given you read most of the books and paid attention. Also, be comfortable with forming arguments for essays from scratch that need to differ from views presented in lecture (easier said then done, but possible with a lot of though). Start early!
I really liked being able to read these books (that I probably would not have read otherwise) with some guidance and insight from the great Phil Fisher. Although his lectures sometimes may seem disorganized, take them as a whole, and they're pretty impressive. Also as a senior, I felt that the themes of the novels we read were weirdly pertinent to many aspects of my life. But, be prepared to read a LOT and read fast!
This is a truly exquisite course. Professor Fisher's lectures are incredible, and this past semester it had a wonderful teaching staff as well. There is a huge amount of reading, but the novels on the syllabus are both enjoyable and important- books that you would probably want to read anyway.
You will feel marvelous when you finish this course. So many greats to read: Faulkner, Fitzgerald, Hemingway Professor Fisher's lectures are consistently illuminating and mind-blowing. Great teaching staff. Don't be alarmed by the take home exam: it is a nice capstone and will provide you with the true satisfaction of a course well-completed! Keep up with the reading, getting behind usually means never getting caught up again.
The syllabus was amazing - each and every one of the books is worth reading completely and thoroughly, the lectures were jam-packed with information, and Professor Fisher is a wonderful, incredibly knowledgeable person (take him to Freshman-Faculty Dinner if you're a freshman!). However, be warned: the reading is one of the heaviest you will encounter for an 100s-level English class. Even though most of the novels are not unmanageably difficult/long (aside from Invisible Man, The Sound and the Fury, and Herzog) the pace at which you move through them each week in addition to the extra short story/stories you are assigned each week make out for a challenging workload. I'd recommend taking this class if you really do want to read these novels and especially if you are interested in concentrating English, since it will give you a good taste of what it's like to take an advanced survey literature course. Be prepared to devote the time to it each week though; otherwise, the class will overwhelm you and not really be worth it if you don't fully read most, if not all, of the books/stories assigned. Also, really plan ahead on the two papers - because they creep up on you quickly and are surprisingly difficult to formulate and write. And know that there is a lengthy take-home final at the end of the course during reading period, NOT finals period. So this class is a time commitment, but you will learn a lot from it if you are willing to make the commitment.
Incredible class. Prof Fisher is an amazing lecturer and the texts are all great.
This class includes a lot exceptional novels. That ends up being a fault because it's tough to give each novel an adequate amount of attention. There is no interaction during lectures so prepare yourself for Fisher to talk past the end of class. He's good, but I wish there was more to lectures than just a talking head. Section with Maggie was helpful.
This course will challenge you in a number of ways but it's worth it!
If you have time in your schedule, take this class. Professor Fisher is a wonderful lecturer and is extremely knowledgeable about American fiction. The books are fun to read and the assignments are not too burdensome.
Definitely take this course, especially if you do not think you could appreciate these novels on your own. Professor Fisher is a remarkable lecturer and a master at explaining the merits of each of these key American works while also working in aspects of history, philosophy, and theory. Expectations for the papers are high -- don't expect to write a sloppy gen ed paper and get away with it, and if you put in the work, you can really learn a lot about American literature. For anyone who is at all interested in reading, take a Phil Fisher course. You won't regret it!
This is the best class. That being said, don't take it if you aren't going to take the reading seriously: it's a lot, but if you put in the time, you will learn so much. Phil Fisher is a wonderful professor and is somehow able to be simultaneously accessible to non-English folk like me and people who are way more immersed in that whole world. The essays are bit difficult but definitely doable because the TFs are all great and helpful. Don't be scared off by the final essay exam: it's hard, but not impossible.
If you do the reading, I'm sure this class is great. I fell off a bit on the reading and found the lectures to get a little thin in the second half of the course. Wasn't always terribly organized; the hesitation to post anything on the website is weird.
This is an amazing class.  Professor Fisher's lectures are truly wonderful and exciting.  The sections were great and I feel like I grew a lot as a writer in this course (a testament to the type of feedback that the TFs are committed to giving).  A lot of reading, for sure, but so worth it.
You should take this class P/F so that you can enjoy the reading without the stress of the 8 hour final exam looming over you.There was never a finalized syllabus and Professor Fisher changed the requirements several times without warning throughout the semester. This was incredibly frustrating and confusing.Lectures are pointless to attend if you're not caught up in the books. Even if you are, they don't seem very organized and can be hard to follow.
Definitely a tough class. The lectures are generally very good -- though some of them are easy to get lost in. Lots of reading each week and because of the final you can't skip many weeks. Papers are graded pretty harshly (may depend on section) and course is super inflexible about extensions (with the exception of thesis deadline) so definitely plan for that. The take-home final is exhausting, but in some ways a valuable synthesis of the course material.
The workload for this class is not small. However, if you complete all of the readings, you will have a much easier time completing the final exam and doing the work throughout the course. You will also get a lot more out of this class having done the readings. I would advise you to read the short stories as well (and to read them as they are assigned). The stories are not a huge focus within the class and it is easy to get away with not reading many of them but they are interesting and add to the class.
An excellent survey of 20th century American novels with works that are well-known classics and novels/short stories that I would not have come across otherwise. Lectures are always insightful and engaging; I wish I could write this way! Be prepared for a lot of reading-- a novel every week, often paired with an additional short story.
Even if you've read a lot of the books on the syllabus before, either independently or in high school, you really get to experience them in a different way with this course. Learning from Professor Fisher is such a pleasure. His lectures are rich with information and the section discussions are interesting.
This course was very fun and very interesting. It wasn't a lot of work for a GenEd class, and Professor Fisher was amazing.
There's a lot of reading, but you do not have to do all of it to do well and get a lot out of the course. Fisher's lectures are great if you can pay attention and read before 10am on Mondays. The reading list is terrific too, again if you can find the time to read it all.
This is a great courseFisher is great and I'd definitely recommend the books we read. It's a lot of reading but you get more out of it if you read (it's pretty easy to get by in section without reading everything, but you'll miss out on some great material).
Take this class!! Professor Fisher is amazing and you will get so much out of the books.
I highly recommend this class. Prof. Fisher's lectures are scintillating and the texts are canonically important and, mostly, aesthetically beautiful. The class is structured to be rigorous in the very best way, with a demanding reading pace, open-ended paper assignments, and a final exam that requires synthetic thinking. Only take this class if this kind of rigor is something that you find compelling.
There might be 1-2 novels that you just won't have time to read, but you'll still get so much about exploring great literature and learning from one of Harvard's best professors.
Challenging course but great if you want to really get an overlook on English Lit. Although you may read the same works you read in high school, you will definitely learn more about them. I was amazed at how Prof. Fisher brought Catcher in the Rye to a new level. Although Prof. Fisher's lectures may feel like they jump around a bit too much (rather than coming to a neat, tidy conclusion), you still take away a lot from the class. That said the readings are definitely challenging (we finish one book a week and some are quite lengthy and difficult), and although this would depend on your TF I suppose, grading was also much more difficult than previous English classes I've taken.
It's hard but very interesting. It can get very academic but Fisher is a very interesting lecturer.
So many great novels. Add to that Prof Fisher's amazing classes that both contextualize the novels within historical and literary trends and offer high-level readings of the novels themselves. Phenomenal. This is the second English class I've taken at Harvard (the second with Prof Fisher actually; the other being 157 Classic Phase of the Novel), and even though I just finished my junior year as a science concentrator, I really think I'd like to go ahead and get an English secondary (if scheduling permits). I think I emerged from this class with a notably higher level of reading: I read a lot growing up, but I tended to always read at a more surface- and plot-level; after this course, I pay a lot more attention to staging, syntax, form/structure, etc. While it's true that there is a lot of reading in this course (11 novels, averaging slightly more than 300 pages each), there are very few assignments for the course, which gives you flexibility in your reading schedule.
Wonderful course with wonderful books! The section component of this course really shines, as it allows you to actually discuss your interpretations of these amazing novels. Beware, if you have a short attention span you might find it difficult to stay engaged in Professor Fisher's lectures. He is brilliant, but lectures are quite unstructured and at times rambling. Also, if you're taking a really hard slate of classes that are very time consuming, do yourself a favor and avoid this class. The books aren't particularly difficult or dense (save for Faulkner), but you cover one a week and it takes (about 8 hours a week if you read the books properly, which you'll want to). All in all, a great course for anyone interested in taking an English elective because it provides a survey on the very best American novels from the 20th century.
This class has fit itself into my Harvard narrative as the perennial experience of what can happen when you leave your own "beaten" academic path in favor of something that you just WANT to do.  Every single lecture Professor Fisher gave was incredible, and he linked the novels we read to a larger American cultural story (this class is truly an English course for Social Studies concentrators, or so it always seemed to this one!).  Section was great if you came with questions as well!  In sum, this class is amazing.  This semester was incredibly difficult emotionally, and without the escape of this course and these novels, I'm not sure what I would have done to cope with everything I had to go through - as I told my TF last month, I needed this class far more than this class needed me.  Take it P/F if you don't want to stress too much, but whatever you do, DON'T let this gem pass you by.
This course is great! Do not fall far behind on the readings or it will come back to haunt you later on in the semester. Attend lecture, pay attention, and you should be fine!
This class is great! Maggie is a great TF and the reading list is excellent. Professor Fisher is extremely intelligent, and although at times he tends t speak very abstractly, he helps you view each of the novels in a very interesting way. The reading list can be tough at keep up with, but as long as you read the majority of the books and pay attention in lecture you should be fine.
Be prepared to read a lot!
This class has an amazing reading list and listening to Professor Fisher is a pleasure. If you are willing to dedicate your time to reading all of the books and handouts, you will walk out of this class feeling significantly more educated about the American novel. I would recommend this class in a heartbeat!
This has been my favorite class at Harvard - take it while you still can!!! I got lost in Professor Fisher's lectures at first, but quickly got on his wavelength and absolutely loved the lectures after the 2nd week. He's truly a god. Sections are wonderful - especially if you are fortunate enough to have Margaret Rennix as your TF!  The papers and the final exam are challenging and keeping up with the pace of the reading is very challenging as well, but well worth the effort. Take this class!!
This is a great class, worth taking for the reading list alone, which is almost uniformly excellent. I say "almost uniformly" because I didn't get to finish a few of them, which is to say, the reading list is also very demanding. It took a lot of discipline to stay mostly on track, and I inevitably missed some of the books (once we were expected to cover "Invisible Man", some 500+ pages, in a week - granted, there seemed an implicit acceptance that we would only end up finishing certain sections). But the lectures were wonderful - very dense, interesting, and well-planned. That Professor Fisher cares about teaching was both evident and appreciated. Maggie was also an excellent, knowledgeable and dedicated TF. Fisher makes many surprising, not necessarily obvious connections between/observations about novels, which I feel is something unique I've encountered in this class and which I was much more attuned to by the end of the semester.
The texts are very fascinating, but it can be tough to read all of them each week because in addition to the novel of the week, there are often supplementary readings that can be tedious. Take home exam could good for some, bad for others.
Definitely do not take this course if you are not willing to read a lot/keep up with a regular reading schedule. The readings are really great but will kill you if you fall off a planned schedule (especially if you are taking any other reading-intensive classes). Probably would not take for an easy A&I.
This class is amazing! It's really challenging, but I appreciated the chance to read so much of the American literary canon, and to think so deeply about American history through the lens of novels and short stories. Professor Fisher is full of amazing insight and also very amenable to conversation in office hours and at faculty dinner.
This class is just so, so great. It's work, since you have to read a book each week, but doing the work and listening to Prof Fisher during lectures is just such a great experience since he is just so so smart. In addition, section leaders are extremely intelligent, and really help you with your writing. I do think that it is very fast-paced, and I don't think I could appreciate each amazing work of literature enough because we went so fast and I just couldn't always keep up. But even so, it's a great course because of Phil Fisher.
