This course provides something which many, within the world of post-secondary education, do not: a space in which nascent propositions and debate are encouraged, while retaining a professional and respectful atmosphere.
The reading list is not trifling, but on the other hand, the sheer breadth of texts you will cover makes the course worth it (if you put the time in!).
This is a course bridging medieval and renaissance literature (and, in fact, challenging our periodized definitions of them)-- so if your interests lie anywhere in those areas, definitely take the class! If they don't, it's a particularly unusual and interesting way to approach 14th-17th century literature, and therefore well worth taking. Paper-writing is taken seriously, and the weekly responses are a good opportunity to develop preliminary ideas for longer essays. Also, while the syllabus seems kaleidoscopic in itself, it's well worth it to explore other resources, especially EEBO -- I found materials very closely related to the course reading there.
This class was, unfortunately, a disappointment. For those looking to get coverage for Generals, this course is not the best way to go about it. Simply put, you will find the class more concerned with religious and political history than literature itself -- there is almost no discussion whatsoever of form, style, genre, poetics, translation, literary history, or the history of the English language. As such, those without any previous exposure to writing of the late medieval and early modern periods will be left to fill in the blanks. Moreover, too many texts are assigned each week -- in some cases, up to five separate primary sources, only one or two of which will be covered in a two-hour session. This can be frustrating, not only because students will all choose to read different subsets of assigned texts each week, but also because discussion might skim over important sources (e.g. spending half an hour on Hamlet). This course was also missing two key ingredients that other grad seminars in the department offer: first, a review of relevant/contemporary scholarship as an introduction to debates within the field (alongside primary texts); and second, some aspect of professionalization in written assignments. Weekly scholarly 'paratexts' are assigned, but not stressed in discussion at all. And the writing assignments -- two papers and weekly responses -- are not tailored to either conference paper or journal article formats. That said, Professor Simpson is wonderful and knows everything there is to know about the material. I just worry that the structure of the course is wanting.
If you have the chance to take a class with Professor Simpson, jump on it. No matter what your field or familiarity with medieval/early modern literature, you are guaranteed to leave the class having learned an immense amount about the subject, and about life in or out of academia. Professor Simpson is not only an energetic, warm, and brilliant professor, he is also one of the wisest individuals you can hope to meet. If you put in the work, you can be sure to leave the class with no regrets.
For the medievalists, it is a must to take a course with Prof. Simpson!
Prof. Simpson is a fantastic teacher. His teaching lives up to his scholarship, which is formidable. I would absolutely take another class with him.
Be prepared to spend a long time reading, but you will get a lot out of it, especially if you read the secondary materials to ground yourself in unfamiliar old materials. You will emerge with a good sense of the important historical and literary questions of the middle ages and the Renaissance, as well as a sense of why those periods may not be so distinct as we usually think. You'll also receive a great introduction to some canonical texts and learn about texts you might never have encountered otherwise. Professor Simpson is an outstanding seminar leader, enthusiastic and charismatic, and you will learn a lot from him about how to run a seminar. The hours will fly by.
Be aware of the steadily heavy workload, but it pays off - this is a seriously rigorous course, which allows it to be rigorously fun. The more the whole class gets invested in the course, the better the course will be
Don't miss a seminar course with James!
