I had a lot of fun in this course--good readings, good discussions, good professor. Plus, the subject matter attracted some pretty funny people, so class discussions were super entertaining! :)
If you want a simple, easy English class with enjoyable readings, take this. If you want a rigorous, intellectual experience, don't.
This is a great course on satire with a reasonable workload and an informative/entertaining weekly meeting. Definitely take this course if you enjoy satire. Let me be clear, however, that satire is not always like Jon Stewart or The Onion; it is often dark and depressing.
This class has good readings and reasonable assignments. The workload is not bad, but come to class with lots of discussion points pre-formulated because otherwise discussion will lag. Also, while response papers are referenced in class, you will not get very specific feedback on them. The class is a relaxed pace though, and you'll walk away feeling as though you've read some things you should.
The class is wonderful if you like 18th- and 19th-century literature. Professor Shinagel is very intelligent and generates a lot of enthusiasm for the subject matter. However, it is often unclear what one is supposed to be taking from specific works, and there is no feedback on response papers.
The readings will be interesting and you can make your final paper a really good learning experience, but the actual class feels a little disorganized, disconnected, and boring.
An excellent course. Professor Shinagel is a very keen reader and student of human nature. Do not take the course if you are not interested in learning, and if you take the course you must read all of the books. If you put in the proper amount of work, you will be rewarded by learning an unbelievable amount.
This course has a very interesting reading list, but class discussions often depend on what students bring to the course.
Dr. Shinagel is great. He's been at Harvard for quite a while, and so he's a great source of lots of fun historical and literary anecdotes. If you are a freshman or a sophomore, you should take this class. It will serve as a great introduction to working with satirical literature in a seminar format. But I think that most older English concentrators will find the simplicity of class discussions, and the lack of any real challenge in the books on the reading list, a bit frustrating.
You get to read classics as well as contemporary works in different forms (i.e. novels, drama, poems) that allows you to appreciate satire. Professor Shinagel also gets you to think about the books in a moral/larger historical context, so be ready to speak up in class. Because the seminar is small and is two hours long, it could become dreary if you don't actively speak up and engage in class.
This course will provide you with the ability to view the world through a different lens and illuminate the similarities between social and political satire of centuries past and the modern day.
