It is awesome
Take a chance on RLS: Professor Kaiser will inspire you to approach RLS with spirit.
While it may seem daunting to spend an entire course on a single author, Robert Louis Stevenson's writing is so diverse that you don't get bored and the course feels much more dynamic than one might expect for something limited to a single writer.
Professor Kaiser is wonderful in both large lecture form and in small seminars like this one. I would take almost any subject with him.
Incredible chance to get to experience one of Harvard's best professors in a small class
Professor Kaiser is fantastic. There were not very many requirements, which allowed us to really spend time on the texts.
Professor Kaiser does an excellent job of canvassing the literature of Robert Louis Stevenson. You will learn to be a more effective writer and oral communicator through this course. Be prepared to be titillated.
If you like RLS already, you'll love this course. If you only like Prof. Kaiser already, you'll probably only just like the course.
Any course with Kaiser is always worth taking.
I looked forward to doing the reading for this class. All of the texts are engaging and incredible, and Professor Kaiser does a fantastic job teaching it. He makes class entertaining and a joy to be in. However, it is not as much of a discussion class I had expected, and, although there is discussion, it is led by Professor Kaiser and fairly structured. Professor Kaiser clearly loves the books we read, and is incredible at teaching them. I loved this class, and it was very low-maintenance and fun.
Great readings, Professor Kaiser is a great lecturer, but can seem dismissive of students' opinions at times. Overall, though, very enjoyable.
Kaiser is brilliant and so attentive to students! Fun material!
Kaiser is a little lecture-y and the discussions are more theme-based than close readings. I personally prefer the latter.
It's great.  Kaiser is, as always, an effective, but fun, teacher and you learn a lot about one author which I really like and is rare.
This course is not a seminar, contrary to the title. It is a small lecture course. Once you know and accept that I think it's much easier to enjoy the course. Students didn't get to talk much; it was mostly Kaiser lecturing. Also I felt he was slightly dismissive of the students' ideas and trumped his own..so be prepared for that too. But Stevenson is great; the assignments aren't hard or stressful; the reading is never a lot or difficult; and the final paper was a creative one which was great.
This is a wonderful course and Prof. Kaiser is both highly intelligent and hilarious. The class is always worth looking forward to, much in part to Kaiser's sense of humor. It was also a wonderful opportunity to explore Stevenson's corpus and his evolution as a writer. The course struck a good balance between intelligent analytical discussion and an enjoyable atmosphere. Great class.
This was a wonderful and rewarding course. Professor Kaiser is probably the best teacher I've had at Harvard!! Delightful readings!
Take this opportunity for a class with Kaiser. He is an amazing teacher, and the course work is interesting.
