Super fun. Took it pass fail for no pressure comic reading.
Fun class with very knowledgeable and good lecturer about your favorite subject matter! you can make a comic book as a final project
I highly recommend this class.Sections are led by delightful TFs that create a welcoming environment and allow for casual discussion. I highly recommend doing a creative project - I made a short comic and it really forced me to think about all of the elements that we discuss in class that graphic novel authors consider. All of the readings are so fun and feel like a break from real schoolwork.The only downside is the works have so much amazing content to discuss, but it's tricky to have enough time to do all of it!
The class is interesting, although I'm not sure if the material will ever be useful in the future. That being said, Professor Chute is a good lecturer. The essay assignments are fair and generally open ended, and the TF's are eager to help you improve as a writer (ie they will read drafts and provide very thorough feedback). Not an easy class, but definitely an enjoyable and manageable one.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard
This class had an interesting subject but the book choice is incredibly dark and depressing and at times deals with child abuse, rape, the Holocaust, interviews from Gaza, etc. If you can take that then the subject is really interesting but it can be dificult to read so many books like that.
This class was so much fun! I loved doing the reading for this class every single week, and you get so much out of it if you do all of the reading. Lectures are great too.
Great readings, excellent section discussions, good assignments- definitely recommend!
This is an incredible class that I feel very lucky to have been able to take. Professor Chute's lectures are illuminating and exciting, and the class will get you thinking more critically and intelligently about visual narrative media as a whole. The readings are fantastic and the coursework is very fun.
Super fun material, very interesting Professor - there is probably literally no one in the world who knows more about this. You definitely do have to do the readings to succeed in the course.
The course texts were really interesting and fun to read, and I genuinely enjoyed going to lectures. I think this would be a good class for anyone who has an interest in getting into graphic novels and comics.
While I had never heard of many texts on the syllabus, I was left impressed/thoroughly moved by nearly every selection. Hillary's passion for the material is contagious. Fair warning: the books are pretty expensive--even rental costs can add up. Try to look for cheaper online versions/library copies of the material.
This class is an awesome opportunity to read some great books and turn a critical eye to a form that's just breaking into the academic sphere. Professor Chute is probably the coolest person ever, and the teaching staff is wonderful. The final creative project is a fun opportunity if you like to draw/write!
Very fun material. Don't go in assuming it's just superhero comics (there are none). The reading can actually get pretty heavy some weeks, be sure to set aside at least 2-3 hours for reading. The first few weeks are a little boring, since it's early comics and mainly secondary readings, but the middle to end of the class is fascinating.Don't take this class because you feel like you have to learn the material, and don't take it as a joke second semester senior class, but do take it for everything in between!
This class is perhaps the best I've taken at Harvard. Prof. Chute is at the top of her field and brought incredible insights (not to mention guests) to her lectures. She and the TFs really care about each individual student and are very fair with accommodations if need be. Most of all, the material we studied was great across the board. I can't recommend this course enough.
This is one of the best English classes offered at Harvard! Reading graphic novels is such a fun activity, and such a nice break from normal coursework. The essays were fun, and all the lectures were legitimately fascinating.
It's a great course that focuses on the greater world of graphic novels and not too much on conventional, common notions of comics from DC/Marvel like Superman and Batman. You definitely gain a unique appreciation of the graphic novel as a medium for not just fiction but also history and personal identity.
TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT. Professor Chute is incredibly knowledgeable, passionate and accessible. Working with comics makes you think about how language and communication works in a way that no other English class does. The readings are all amazing and the workload is reasonable.
This class was a dream come true for me--it allowed me to do reading and work that I would have done independently, plus getting to experience Professor Chute's really insightful lectures.
There are so many things working for this course, and Harvard needs more courses like this. This course combines diverse, modern, socially relevant literature with cultural history, a bit of art studies, and lots of close reading for an invigorating new take on what it means to be a writer, artist, or reader, and what it means to have a minority identity in the modern world. The teaching in this course is outstandingChute is an expert in her field who is great at connecting to students. This course will make you want to read, write, draw, and think, no matter how burned out you may be on school.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!!!!!
Fantastic class, really worth taking whether you've been reading comics for ages or are new to the medium. Probably the only class I've take where I enjoyed all of the reading, even the secondary reading. Lectures and assignments were also excellent, and the Professor and teaching staff were really friendly and helpful.
If Prof. Chute is around, please please take this course. She is amazing, the books are incredible, and it is just such a fun and challenging course.
