Professor Gilmore is the best! I'm so glad I took this course, and I cannot recommend it more highly.
Put the effort into your own writing and it will be a fantastic experience, but you need to take the work seriously.
I wasn't sure about this class at first, but it ended up being amazing!! Professor Gilmore is a boss. I learned so much about reading and writing. Give it a chance!!!!!!
Because we were a small group, we were able to write and revise 3 short stories, and also write a vignette. Doing so much writing was tremendously rewarding and growth-inducing. Comments from the class and from Prof. Gilmore were all very helpful. An extremely satisfying, fun, and inspiring class. Could not recommend it more.
Jennifer Gilmore is a fantastic instructor and I loved this class so much. She is so kind, tough, and perceptive, gives wonderful, detailed feedback, and knows how to run a discussion (and to encourage students to eventually run their own discussions)! I so enjoyed this class and would take a class with her again if I had the chance! Truly a great professor to get to know, interesting and fun to be around and helped me to get serious about my writing.
If you are serious about your fictional writing, take. this. class.
There is a lot of work involved in crafting a great story but the effort makes it so worth it.
Amazing, life-changing class.
The community feel of this class is unmatched. You learn so much from those around you, and their feedback is wonderfully valuable. The workload isn't necessarily huge, but if you want to put out good work, it takes time.
This class is an excellent opportunity to critique stories by other strong fiction writers at Harvard and to get your own stories critiqued as well.  Amy is wonderful, and her written comments and ideas in office hours will transform your writing and your understanding of literature.  I am MUCH better off for having taken this class.  My one criticism is that it was sometimes difficult to synthesize workshop discussions into a coherent whole, with transferable skills and "take-away" knowledge.
It is a privilege to learn from Amy--and this class will force you to write! If you want to be a writer, take this class. If not, it might not be for you.
What a wonderful way to spend three hours on a Thursday afternoon. Do the supplementary readings--not because you'll have to analyze them in class or anything, but because they're so carefully chosen and beautiful that it'd be a shame if you didn't have them to carry around with you. Amy loves telling stories from the literary world, which makes for a very stimulating environment, and challenges you to a level of engagement that lots of other English/intellectual history classes only aspire to. Truly lovely.
This is an excellent course. The more you put into it, the more you will get out of it, especially when it comes to reading your classmates' work. I would recommend reading each story twice; it will not only (hopefully) help the author of the story, but help you understand how stories are constructed, how they change with each reading, and what you can work on better when you are writing your own work.
Nice, easy-going way to make sure you write during the semester. Not very structured or organized, but that is the charm of a fiction class that you can be creative in. The feedback you receive will very much depend on your classmates and their commitment to the idea of helping other writers.
Take this class if you can! Amy is so insightful, and she also facilitates a really great class environment. Reading your peers' stories is really interesting--you'll be surprised by the diversity--and the feedback on your work is extremely helpful.
Amy leads a strong workshop; one that will challenge you, but be enormously helpful to your writing.
I would 110% take this class if you can
Amy creates a great, supportive class environment for sharing your work and learning how to be a better writer. The workshop is laid-back and fun and you'll get great feedback on your work and how to improve. The reading list is solid, too. You'll get the most out of it if you bring your best work and really take the time to read your classmates' writing, give them the kind of feedback you'd want, and really treat the class as both an academic and creative forum. Creative writing classes are awesome as a "break" from traditional course settings, but treating them with the same effort really gives you the best experience in treturn. You won't regret taking any class with Amy!
Don't be afraid to apply! This class can be a really helpful and creative environment if you're in a good group of students (I had a great group). One thing to know is that you will learn really practical writing tips in this class. I was expecting a little more theory. I thought we'd be asking questions like what is a story? and why should one write a story? but this class really was a workshop -- it was like woodshop with a little more freedom. You learn how to assemble a story.
If you're lucky enough to make it into this course, it will be the highlight of your academic week (if not your week in general).
Amy Hempel is an amazing teacher and human being. Take it if you can!
I recommend this course to pretty much everyone - seminars are fantastic because they're small, they're low-pressure, and you get to read so much fantastic writing. You are also reminded that life experience does contribute to good writing, because the students are drawn from all the schools at Harvard.
Amy is a wonderful workshop leader who will always be available to talk and help you with your work--or anything else for that matter. The atmosphere in workshop was consistently friendly and light, and I certainly know that I looked forward to it on a weekly basis and will miss it dearly.
You're gonna work! But it will pay off if you keep the right attitude.
I'm so glad and grateful to have taken this class--it was so well and thoughtfully taught, and really revealed horizons of possibility in both the mechanics and aims of creative writing. Amy Hempel is such a thoughtful, careful reader, and she encourages members of the workshop towards the same standard, which creates a really positive environment for producing creative work.
Amy is amazing. This class is amazing. She really does facilitate a phenomenal workshop. You will learn how to write better fiction, how to construct better scenes, and how to comment on good writing: and the best part is, you learn it so gradually that your own knowledge and your own improvement is a surprise by the end.
This is the best class at Harvard.  You will never regret taking it.  The quality of discussion, the amount that the work matters to the students, the ways you'll learn about what you care about and who you are and how you live, are totally unmatched by any other class you could take in college (except maybe in one of Bret Johnston's workshops).  I would unconditionally recommend it to every person at this school.
The writing ability in this class is overall very high. I thought that every single student was very talented and capable (which wasn't true in other creative classes I took.)
Take the time to write and EDIT your stories before class. If you can come in with something polished for your first feedback session, you'll get that much more out of it! But don't be afraid to come in with something that needs a lot of work...as long as you've given your classmates a bone, and done a lot of work yourself, so you are ready for their feedback!
Those of you who get into Amy Hempel's class should count yourselves quite lucky. You will get out what you put in, but if you take the time and put in the work necessary, this course can dramatically help you advance down your own personal fiction writing path. Seriously, there is a reason that she has such a strong cult following among her student.
If you have the opportunity to take this class, take it.It is an absurdly remarkable and rewarding opportunity.
I would highly recommend this class; a great environment in which to learn!
Amy Hempel is a kindly lady with luminous eyes.
If this is the kind of thing you want to take, you're going to want to take this.
It requires a lot of participation and feedback. You need to be on the ball with your own writing too. But a great class!
A fantastic experience all round -yes, really an experience rather than your average class!  You will learn an incredible amount that will change your writing for the better and gain a community of fellow writers to inspire you.
This was the best part of my week.
If you are at all interested in writing, try to get into this class. A workshop is an amazing experience and it's rare to find something like this as an undergraduate.
Amy is incredibly sweet.  Even though she's super famous, she's willing to put a ton of time and effort into her students.  Definitely take this class if you get in.  If you're willing to put a lot of work in, you'll get a lot out of it
Workshop with Professor Hempel is one of the best decisions I have made at Harvard. I have learned so much in such a short time, and wish this class could continue longer!
don't be a dilettante
Amy is a wonderful workshop leader!
If you've ever wanted to take a writing class, you definitely should here. The experience is unbelievable.
If you're a writer don't miss the chance to work with Amy Hempel!  Read her Collected Stories, read everything she recommends to you, and visit her dog in her office :)
Amy Hempel is not only one of the most respected contemporary writers of short fiction, she is also a smart reader and a warm, encouraging teacher -  a rare combination!
It's great! Take classes with both Bret and Amy.
If you're a writer, there's no doubt you should take this class. Even if you feel you might not "count" as a writer, this workshop is here in part, I think, to make students feel legitimated in their writing. Not only does being with interested peers better your work, but it's a chance to see a range of writings and genres that might be helpful in ways you hadn't thought before. Amy Hempel is not only an unbelievable writer but a wonderful instructor and a kind person. Her guidance is personalized and helpful, and her reading suggestions are unrivaled.
Amy's the bomb. Take it.
Highly student-driven. The quality of the workshop will depend on the investment of the other students, but mostly -- believe me -- mostly YOUR personal investment. (The investment of everyone else will correlate.) This is a low-pressure context to incentivize yourself to write, and be read. Because the only way to find motivation to write is to be read, after all. Warm, encouraging setting -- not aggressive whatsoever, and beautifully and gently driven by Amy. Feels a bit like a family (although it could have been even closer knit; I expect that depends on the year). Please, please, take the time to write detailed suggestions to your classmates, because it's easy to get away with a brief skim, and then your edits don't become useful at all. Amy trusts the class deeply, and so she doesn't collect your suggestions. Just be generous, no matter how busy you become. She suggests some great readings to do outside of class, and she's always open to meeting with you for office hours and responding to emails. Definitely an accessible teacher.
Excellent way to improve as a writer. The reading material--fiction, poetry, as well as your peers' work--is interesting and enjoyable. Workshop is very helpful in clarifying strengths and weaknesses in your writing. Great class environment.
This is the most worthwhile, engaging, and challenging class I have taken at Harvard.
I'll be tempted NOT to recommend the course, so there's less competition to get in next time, ha ha. But, seriously, I would tell students that in this class you will get concrete tools you need to develop as a writer.
Amy is brilliant and kind, and this class will push your writing. It's what you make of it--the more you write, and the more you write what scares you, the more you will grow as a writer. If you put care into your feedback of other writers, you might make a community of peers for yourself. If you do all the reading, you might find some role models in the authors.
This is a workshop, so understand what that entails.
Do it! No reservations.
This class will change your life. Amy Hempel is the most astounding faculty member at this school--make use of her. My one advice would be to take her introductory class first--both are absolutely perfect in execution, but I feel like the introductory class fosters more of a community that really starts a writer off on the right foot. Either way, apply for this class and take it as many times as Amy will allow! Best decision you'll ever make at Harvard.
This is a great class! Absolutely take this class! Amy is a wonderful teacher: thoughtful, interesting, kind. She brings in great readings and has astute and helpful criticisms. The classroom environment is perfect: rigorous and yet relaxed.
Professor Hempel will pay close and generous attention to your written work, offering excellent judgment while trying to help you stay true to your intentions.
This was such a good class. I grew so much as a writer this semester because of the opportunity to  think in a sustained way about how to go about writing a story. The in-class writing exercises, while often very difficult, really helped me break open some of the ideas I'd been working on for a while. There's a good amount of work every week (comments on three workshop stories, plus a response paper to one published story most weeks), and added to the two stories you have to write yourself, it can get occasionally overwhelming, but it is so, so worth it. This class is an amazing opportunity if you put in the work and really engage.
Joan Wickersham is a fantastic creative writing teacher. Workshops were effective, engaging, interesting, and enjoyable. I believe I entered the course at a high level of fiction writing skill and still improved greatly thanks to her mentorship.
Joan Wickersham is a great teacher and will make herself available to you to talk about your writing. The stories we read and the writing exercises we did in class were very helpful, and the class worked well as a group to give feedback on each other's writing. It's helpful for this course if you're already writing regularly/ have some pieces stored up, so you won't have to produce a 12 page story out of thin air.
This course will improve your writing.  It's a great experience to share your work with peers and see their work.  It improves writing and editing skills, and Amy offers great feedback and helps you to see the strengths and needed improvements in your work.
If you can get in, take it!
Amy Hempel is a very good writer to learn from.
Amy Hempel gives very thoughtful, very helpful feedback on not only your work but on writing in general.
One of the best courses I have taken yet!
This class is about everything stories are about - language, poetry, craft,ideas, emotions, being a human being. The more you put into it, the more you'll get out of it.
Amy provides thoughtful feedback on your writing and a positive workshop environment. The workshop dynamic, of course, is not entirely in the teacher's control, and your experience ends up largely depending on the others in the group.
I really enjoyed this class. Amy is an incredibly thoughtful teacher and a smart reader. I feel like I benefited a lot from her advice.
In a very legitimate sense, without pretention, you get out what you put into it. The criticism is awesome but proportional to the work.
The English department's creative workshops are without exception great, although there should be more offered per year. It's a pity Jennifer won't be around to teach them, because she's a really fantastic workshop leadershe's amazing at turning small comments on stories into larger discussions on aspects of craft or structure in fiction writing, all while staying positive and encouraging.
Jennifer Gilmore is an incredible teacher. I think this class really depends on the students in the class, but I engaged in my writing in a way I haven't yet. And I improved drastically. Take it.
If you're someone interested in creative writing, definitely take a workshop at Harvard. They're generally really awesome in terms of forcing you to write, not super stressful, and are a really great break from normal academic classes.
