Professor Donoghue is great and this class is very enjoyable.  You will not regret taking it.
Very similar to the prereq course-- biweekly translations, grammar review. If you like English 102, you'll like this course.
I think you have to be pretty invested in Old English to enjoy it, and it could be really frustrating at times, but otherwise it's worth it - Prof. Donoghue is very patient and it's probably the single most painless way to fulfill a language requirement.
This class does challenge you intellectually and I would recommend it to inquisitive students who enjoy a challenge.
It's rewarding in that you learn some interesting things about the beginning of the English language, but it's tough.
What a cool class. The final project will be one of your favorite assignments in college, or in your entire learning career. When you finally sit with everyone and read the collective translation, you feel like part of a legitimate academic body. That's an awesome feeling.
Great class, so interesting and it's a topic that many never get to explore
Great way to do Foreign Literature and develop your knowledge of the beginnings of our language!
Take time to do your translations properly, and expect them to take more time than you think they will. The class is centered around the translation, so if you don't do it thoughtfully, you'll be missing out on a majority of the learning.
Professor Donoghue is one of the warmest and most encouraging professors I've met in the English department. He also has a wealth of interesting factoids that he sharesmostly History of the English Language-type stuffand although the final project is necessarily time-consuming, it's valuable experience for how to go about putting an edition of a translated work together.
Take this course! Even though Old English may seem daunting and difficult at first, it is very rewarding to be able to work through a text and understand it. Professor Donoghue is amazing and really breathes life into this subject matter!
The teaching staff does its best, but Old English is simply far more challenging than one might expect. If you aren't good with languages, or don't have the time to devote to really doing the work, it may be best to find another way of fulfilling a language requirement.
You only ought to take this class if you are VERY interested in Old English. Otherwise, it will be a chore. I didn't find much intellectual stimulation in this course - just looking up words in a dictionary week after week. The professor is great, but if you're not interested, it's just not going to cut it.
This class is a great way to make sure you don't lose the knowledge of Old English that you gain in the first semester of the OE sequence. Assignments are reasonable, and the final project (while time-consuming) is rewarding. Donoghue is a great professor and genuinely respects the students. He also organized several class activities, including a workshop using quills and ink.
It's a lot less work than 102g, but the final assignment is rough. Give yourself plenty of time to finish it.
This course is really fun and rewarding!
This class is so much better than the first semester of Old English. It's a joy being able to see these translations in manuscript form. I was thinking of dropping the class until we went to the Horton Library and looked at thousands year old manuscripts! This class was something special that I will not have the opportunity to do again.
If you are seriously interested in Old English as a language, this class is a must.  It is also a good, basic intro to interacting with original materials and preparing them for a modern audience.
If you've taken the first semester of Old English, there's no reason not to take 103g. No assessments beyond a really cool final project, and steady attention to manuscripts, which is an extremely interesting way to understand and interpret Old English texts.
You need to be able to work hard and put in the time
Do you like old English? If yes, take it: the readings are interesting, and the manuscript component is fascinating. If you don't, probably give it a miss. Class size is also hugely importantit had about 30 people this year, and the format of class (mostly just reading your translation and correcting it) really seems structured around a class of perhaps 10-15 at most.
I personally love anglo-saxon, but a really deep love of the language is required in order to find this at all interesting.
This class is great for those interested in OE.  It enhances one's understanding of the language and culture.  It is also a truly unique chance to engage with the process of transforming manuscripts into scholarly and classroom editions of the texts.
Be sure you are truly interested in Old English, as the class is very demanding!
The professor is an effective and patient instructor, and you translate a lot of interesting Anglo-Saxon material.
Even if you didn't have such a great time in the first semester of Old English, it's worth it to take the second semester; less focus on grammar, and more of the fun stuff.
The class is interesting but it is definitely a niche course, not for everyone.
Class time is slow and at times a bit boring, but the translations are fun and Dan Donoghue is very nice and accomodating.
