Don't take this course. Teskey is patronizing and condescending and my TF was incapable of fostering a true academic discussion. This course is painful and stressful in that once you pass the Add/Drop deadline, you are STUCK and it sucks the life out of you. The quizzes are impossible and Teskey will mislead you on how to prepare/what they are like. My TF punished me for challenging her ridiculous critiques on my paper. I asked her to clarify (because they made no sense) and then she took it out on me by not only giving me a bad grade but making me sit through her section once a week.
This class is a fascinating in depth look at Shakespeares plays, particularly Hamlet and beyond.  It is a great way to first "meet" Shakespeare, and it's a meeting that will turn into a life-long relationship!
If you've never read Shakespeare before or have read every single one of his plays, you'll enjoy this class immensely. Professor Teskey is an outstanding lecturer and brings Shakespeare's plays to life. The class is not particularly difficult, and participation/attendance are weighted heavily. Take it if you want to learn more about Shakespeare, or at least if you want to become a more interesting conversationalist at dinner parties!
Don't let the first couple of lectures fool you. I thought this class would be thought provoking and helpful with my general understanding of Shakespeare. Instead I found out what it truly was well after the add/drop deadline and was stuck with it. This class was truly a waste of my time.
This class is a great way to learn a ton about Shakespeare by spending a little time on a huge number of plays. By doing a broad overview of the plays, you understand in depth Shakespeare's evolution as a playwright in an evolving world. Week to week the work was not a lot, though be mindful that the two quizzes were quite difficult.
This course was unnecessarily difficult and generally unfulfilling. Great if you want to be able to recognize Shakespeare references in pop culture or other works of literature, but not for much else.
Professor Teskey is a fantastic lecturer, and he brings to light many elements of Shakespeare that most people aren't aware of. However, the quizzes given for this class are difficult and highly irrelevant: they involve the rote memorization of the names of minor characters and dates of publication.
If you're looking to fulfill the Shakespeare requirement for the English department, I'd look elsewhere.  7 times out of 10 Professor Teskey's lectures are just plot summary of a given play.  The readings he does are dramatic and fun for a while, but I found myself ultimately frustrated that we were being asked to read so many plays (some for no good reason--i.e. the godawful Timon of Athens) and not really getting to engage with them.  The quizzes are absurdly specific and don't do a good job of testing whether you've actually read the plays because they focus on recall of ridiculously specific details.  I had a lot of friends in the class so that made it more enjoyable, but probably wouldn't recommend to other English concentrators.  You'd be better off taking a class with a big name like Garber or Greenblatt, if only to say you did.  I've loved almost all the English classes I've taken, but this wasn't one of them.
This is an amazing class that will give you a chance to read a lot of Shakespeare and fit each play into the larger context of his evolution as the greatest artist of all time (sorry Kanye)
Great way to read a ton of Shakespeare and get to discuss it with people who know their stuff. Workload very manageable.
Be prepared to read a LOT of Shakespeare. And even if some days you don't feel like doing the reading do it anyway, if only to better yourself.
This is an amazing way to fulfill the Shakespeare requirement for English. Teskey is an amazing lecturer, who is as informative as he is entertaining. He ties together all the many shakespeare works you read very well. The reading list is substantial, but you can strategically read to make it not too much--honestly amounts to less than an average English class.
Professor Teskey is an amazing lecturer. He's very engaging, enthusiastic, and entertaining. Read all the plays so that you get more out of the lectures! Note that the quizzes could be annoying because they expect you to remember very minor character's names.
This class is only for people who are sure they are passionate about Shakespeare, or at least very open-minded to developing a passion for Shakespeare. At the very least, you must really like literary criticism and commentary.
read ahead.
This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard. As Prof Teskey said during the first lecture - the goal of the course is simply for students to soak in as much Shakespeare as possible. If this interests you, and if you would like a more nuanced perspective on Shakespeare's work - take this course without thinking twice.
There is way too much text to try to get through in section.
This class is a good way to satisfy the Shakespeare requirement for English concentrators, but I would not recommend this to students looking for a class to satisfy A & I. Professor Teskey's lectures are interesting and he is theatrical, but they quickly become repetitive. You will be expected to read A LOT, two plays a week. (think upwards of 5 hours of reading a week) and the reading quizzes are impossible. Other than that, there is one essay and a final creative project or essay. I really loved the option to do a creative project instead of a final paper.
It was a fine class. We read so much that we don't really get to delve into any of the plays in much depth, but there is value in reading widely and seeing connections across the body of Shakespeare's works. Quizzes were pretty terrible, and hopefully they'll change in future semesters.
Professor Teskey is a great lecturer, the plays are obviously phenomenal, and what you learn in this class will help inform the way you look at art from there on out. The world is full of references to and inspirations from Shakespeare, and this class is a great way to become aware of them.
This is a GREAT class--the absolute best way to fulfill the Shakespeare requirement for English. Professor Teskey is a wonderful lecturer, and obviously the reading list is superb. The requirements are also relatively light, although you'll find yourself wanting to do the fairly substantial reading.
This class is good but there is a lot of reading and it is very hard to keep up with all of the plays. The lectures are inconsistent. There are only two real assignments, which is nice.
This class was pretty cool--you get familiar with some of Shakespeare's greatest plays and Teskey's lectures are just lovely. He should really consider trying his hand at acting :) but it is much more breadth than depth. Overall some great themes though, and you feel pretty accomplished for getting to know so many plays.
Watch out for the quizzes, and actually read the plays.
Teskey is a wonderful lecturer, and you really learn about Shakespeare himself and why he wrote the plays, instead of the usual stuff about what's in them. Grading is heavily weighted towards participation, so make sure to show up and do the reading beforehand. Definitely don't spend $80 on the Norton when you can get the ebook for $40.
Professor Teskey is hands down the greatest lecturer I have ever had. Every moment of this class was riveting. Take it.
This is a wonderful class! Sitting and listening to Prof. Teskey lecture is extremely pleasant and there is not much work beyond reading the plays.
If you want to become a Shakespeare enthusiast, take this class! There are 17 plays covered, which is a lot of reading, but other than that, the workload is not especially onerous. You will come out of this class with so much knowledge about Shakespeare. Lectures are very enjoyable--students literally applaud after Gordon Teskey's lectures.
A great way to fulfill an Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding gen ed requirement! Professor Teskey gives some of the best lectures I've ever seen at Harvard, and my TF Porter runs a great section. Be prepared to read a ton of Shakespeare, though. If you don't grimace when you think about iambic pentameter, then you'll probably like this class.
This class was harder than it needed to be, making an otherwise amazing Shakespeare class slightly onerous. The lectures were incredible, Gordon Teskey is an amazing performer, and I am happy to have gotten exposure to such a vast range of the Bard's work. The quizzes were very detailed and thus very challenging. The essays were fun exercises and gave a lot of freedom to explore whatever topics we wanted. Overall, I would recommend this class for the great Shakespeare education and classic Harvard experience--bringing in history, literary theory, and poetry to the traditional English literature curriculum--despite the excessively challenging nature.
The lectures in this class were often unwieldy, and removed from the text itself; delving into plot summary, side-stories, etc. There is so much depth in Shakespeare that I found myself wishing we were exploring in either lecture or section, but the class was not interested in close-readings. The assignments count for very little of your grade, and the quizzes are absolutely ridiculous, asking to identify from one short line everything about it; very discouraging.
This is an amazing class, and Gordon Teskey is a phenomenal lecturer. One of the best classes at Harvard.
Come into it for the discussions and bear your teeth for the insanity of the quizzes that are harder than they claim to be. Start reading early!
Take this course if you're interested purely in reading a lot of Shakespeare's plays and learning more about some of his methods. The first quiz the year I took it was scary in terms of being very detailed in its questions about plot/characters, but the second quiz was a lot more comfortable. Keep up on the reading, not that you can't survive the lectures or sections without knowing the plays super well or anything, but just because the syllabus is all plays, and you won't get much out of the course if you're not reading them.
Teskey's lectures are beyond incredible. If for no other reason than that you get to spend two hours of your week basking in his knowledge and enthusiasm in lectures, TAKE THIS COURSE!!!
I like Shakespeare. I like English courses about Shakespeare. I was really excited to take this course. Unfortunately, though the name might suggest "Shakespeare AFTER Hamlet," the professor decides that's more of a guideline than a rule and decides, to hell with it, let's throw 16 Shakespeare plays in here. Now, you're thinking, 16 plays by one of the densest and most unpackable playwrights in the last millennia? That'll definitely give us proper time to enjoy and learn about Shakespeare! The professor proves us wrong again, and rushes through everything without really learning to enjoy it or understand it. The quizzes are like every bad English quiz you took in high school -- let's test your understanding of Othello by seeing if you remember the servant's sister's husband's uncle's pet's name. Any criticisms of this test format to the TFs seem to fall on deaf ears. Teskey's an interesting lecturer, but for the pace of the class and the type of tests that are given out, that small pro to the class is outweighed by a huge amount of cons.
Awesome overview of Shakespeare without too much intense diving into one. Great for not English concentrators who need AI or even for pre meds who need their English (that's why I took it). You don't need any kind of literary background and don't even need to read all the plays the whole way through. Helpful if you've read a few Shakespeare plays before but not necessary.
It's an interesting gen ed that is a good balance to other courses of science and math.
You read a bunch of plays rather than focusing on a few. The effect of this is that you gain a broader understanding of Shakespeare's career.
It's a lot of reading, but the lectures are very interesting and it's a great way to learn about Shakespeare and his plays.
Professor Teskey is truly amazing; he is a terrific lecturer, and can speak confidently about each and every of the plays covered in this course. With a 40% participation component, 30% for two essays, 20% for two quizzes and 10% for a recitation, the course work itself is fairly light; however, be prepared to spend plenty of time reading- and you should read each and every play before lecture, don't postpone the readings. This is particularly important for the quizzes, the requirements for which were not clear; the questions can be about extremely small details of the play, which were briefly mentioned in lecture.
Professor Teskey speaks a godlike English and lectures in humorous and insightful style.  He combines incisive analysis of plot with awareness of sociopolitical/historical context, as well as fascinating syntheses of debates in the community of Shakespeare scholars.  He takes a long view of Shakespeare, examining the plays as a developing oeuvre and as individual units.  He sets a fine example for lecturers in the humanities.  Section is a mixed bag, but the lectures are worth it.  There are two quizzes and two short papers.  Apart from that, the workload is reading sixteen plays (closely), which can take longer than you might expect.
The reason why humanities classes are notoriously difficult to get a grade proportional to your hard work. Between the essays and the quizzes, I found that there was not much correlation between the amount of work I put in and what grades I got out,which is very frustrating. One hopes that the large participation grade helps with that, but some people are not very confident speaking in class, especially when there are so many outspoken students.
This is a great class. You'll walk away having read many plays you've always wanted to read. Quizzes are hard, however, but there might be a big curve.
Take Take Take! Just a great way to read a little throughout the semester (with very little writing). Do it...For AIU? For Teskey? For Shakespeare? Even for those with only mild enthusiasm for Shakespeare, Teskey is great regardless. Lecture feels like you're watching him perform half the time and they fly by. Lots of plays but he does a good job of really going over them so even if you read through quickly you'll still have a deep and full appreciation for them. 1 essay and a final creative project.
This class teaches you a lot of Shakespeare in a short amount of time with not a lot of work.
I would tell students that this is a difficult course with a lot of reading, but it gives you a lot of perspective on Shakespeare. It's important to give the plays enough time to actually enjoy them. It is also important to seek help from the TF and to start projects much in advance. You will gain a new appreciation for Shakespeare, however, and the TFs and professor make everything interesting.
This course changed my life.  We all read some Shakespeare in high school, but reading 16 plays gives one a better understanding of the breadth of Shakespeare's applicability to our daily lives.  Professor Teskey's lectures are phenomenal and I am incredibly glad that I was lucky enough to attend them.
One of the most interesting English classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Teskey really is entertaining and you will learn so much.
The exams are killer. You need to remember minute plot details (e.g. names of characters that appear only in one scene), specific quotes, etc. The more you can memorize, the better. Lecture is fine but they take attendance so make sure you go. There is a lot of plot summary during the lectures but that won't help you on the papers, section, or exams. Teskey has Shakespeare's works mapped out in his head and he doesn't deviate from that map.
