It's a pretty good class if you think you might be interested in Milton.
I would tell future students that "Paradise Lost" is a must read and even more fun in a class setting, but that lectures become a bit disorganized.
Professor Teskey is wonderfully knowledgeable, and the Milton's work, beyond being necessary reading for anyone interested in English or religion, is fascinating.
Teskey lecturing on Milton is something not to be missed.
Teskey is great!
If you have an interest in the subject material, or need a pre-1800, then take it.  If not, it's not an ideal English elective.
Treat this course as if you are an adult who just wants to learn for learning's sake. Don't worry about the grades or the pressures of academic requirements. Milton wasn't messing around. He wanted to change your life a little bit. So let him! Enjoy Teskey and ask yourself, "do these ideas apply to my life, my world, my reality?" Because they will. I spent most of the lectures writing my own ideas down as they related to the lecture, and I learned a lot about myself and my world. This course gives you the opportunity do what undergraduate education should teach you how to do: how to think. Go get it!
English 131 was a wonderful class.  Professor Teskey does a really solid job of relating Paradise Lost--a seventeenth century poem!--to life today.  Because of this, discussions in section are not only interesting, but sometimes even heated.  I loved hearing my classmates' opinions on free will, sin, differences between genders, and more.
Professor Teskey really sells you on Milton.  Some lectures can be a little repetitive, but his obvious love for Milton/his works makes that bearable.  And how can you not be impressed with someone who composed Paradise Lost entirely in his head and dictated it to someone else because he was blind?  I'm speaking of Milton here, not Teskey.  Definitely should take it if interested in the subject or looking to expand your interests.
Milton is amazing, and the lectures are absolutely spellbinding. Take this class!
The class is lacking in structure, the lectures can be excellent or really unfocused--hit or miss.
it was a good pre-1800 literature class and a great way to read paradise lost, the lectures were a little disorganized but as long as one kept up with the reading it was really interesting.
hard tests, fantastic lectures
to fulfill the pre-1800 requirement, its worth it.
You MUST attend a Teskey lecture before you graduate.
This is a beautifully taught course that brings to light Milton's works and consequently English poetry written after Milton.
I would tell them to drop the class they have and take this one.
Fantastic class--very informative, extremely helpful. Shop it if you're uncertain. But maybe you should audit if you're extremely anxious about organization.
Teskey is the man.
Take the course, but know that you will never have a solitary thought about Milton that Teskey has not considered from every angle, bettered, and articulated beautifully before.
English 131 was the best English class I have taken at Harvard. Not only was the subject matter fascinating, but also easily digestible because of the pace of the course. Exploring Miltons three great poetic worksParadise Lost, Paradise Regained, and Samson Agonistiesin the context of the his life and early works, the course was extremely well organized in that it provided a great background on Milton and the development of his thought process while also devoting enough time to the three works to explore them in depth. Rarely is one able to read the entirety of Paradise Lost book-by-book in the classroom with such a knowledgeable professor to highlight it subtleties and nuances. I feel so fortunate to have this opportunity! I got a tremendous amount out of this class, developing skills in close reading and textual analysis that gave me the confidence to speak in class and engage with my classmates. As a science major, I was intimidated by the idea of taking an English seminar, but Professor Hequembourg cultivated an intimate and very supportive environment in the classroom that allowed us to engage with him and with each other in order to understand as fully as we could this dense, but extremely rich material.
Although comprehensive, this is definitely an intro course. If you've studied Milton before you might find the class slow when it comes to the texts you've already read.
This class is a wonderful chance to read Paradise Lost with one of the most knowledgeable and passionate professors there is. I went into the class without much familiarity with poetry or with Milton and came out with a deep appreciation of his aesthetics. More than any other class I've taken in four years at Harvard, this class just brought a lot of beauty into my life. Take it!
Teskey is easily one of the greatest lecturers you will ever have at Harvard, funny and incredibly well-read and well spoken. Not a tough class, just super enjoyable, and really fascinating. Seth as TF is the greatest.
Essential, will give you a deep appreciation of Milton regardless of your previous preferences.
One of the best courses at Harvard. You'll learn so much about Milton and English and probably life. Keep up with the readings!!!! You can get away by being a little behind but you'll regret it when you can't keep up with teskey's lecture
Take this! I learned so much and came to appreciate Milton. The work load is very reasonable. The focus is on enjoying Milton, not about grades. If you like literature, you will love this.
You should take this course. Gordon Teskey's lectures are sublime.
Sweet course.
If Teskey is teaching, this is a must-take. His knowledge of all things Milton is unparalleled, and he brings the works to life in an exhilarating way. It is a comprehensive examination of Milton, with lots of additional history of the politics/events surrounding Milton's career. Make sure you keep up with the readings -- I would spend 2 hours before class each day doing that class's readings, and was more than prepared for the class and each week's section. If you put in the effort, you will be rewarded.
This is by far the best class I have taken at Harvard. Professor Teskey must be heard to be believed - taking this class made me declare English as a concentration and I don't know what higher praise I could give it than that.
Professor Teskey is a quirky, mad genius -and he is capable of speaking and presenting like no one else. His lectures for incisive, moving, and divinely comedic.
This class is incredible; if you were ever interested in Milton, then you should take the opportunity to let Professor Teskey bring his work to life. You wont regret it.
If there's any course to help introduce Milton, this is the one.  Teskey and Seth provide a clear and riveting narrative of Milton, highlighting the progression of his personal life while admiring the complexity and beauty of his poems.  A really wonderful course (in part due to Seth's fun sections), Teskey is thorough in his analysis and never fails to impress in lecture.
Every English concentrator should take this class.
Great class.  You learn to read Paradise Lost and Milton's poetry with an ear toward the aural.  Professor Teskey gives awesome lectures, and Seth is a great TF.
I recommend this course with enthusiasm to lapsed Catholics and current Christians, and those who either have an excellent imagination or liked "His Dark Materials" in their childhood (not mutually exclusive). I recommend this course generally to anyone who wants to know more about Milton and does not mind focusing most of the semester on one text. That's probably you if you're reading this. Thus, take it.
This class was excellent. It was the first English class I took at Harvard, and it has me interested in taking more. The subject matter was fascinating, and the lectures and coursework helped me appreciate that subject matter more than I would have otherwise. Professor Whittington is awesome, and I had a very positive section experience as well. Overall this was a great class!
This is a wonderful course. Everything about it - the lectures, the readings, the assignments, the people - are all great. Take it.
If you want a reason to read and really understand John Milton's works (especially Paradise Lost), this course is amazing! You go deep into Milton's writings and see how he progresses as a poet and political figure. Whittington is one of the best professors out there, highly recommend taking the class in order to have a course with her...
Professor Whittington does an incredible job of guiding you through the difficult works of Milton. Milton himself is incredibly rewarding (especially with Paradise Lost). Pace of reading was reasonable, as were the short assignments scattered through the semester.
Take this class! Although this course is ostensibly about John Milton (whose work is fascinating and beautiful in its own right), Professor Whittington has really made this into a course about the nature of aesthetic understanding. The issues of morality, personal fulfillment, and political liberty that are brought out from these texts are  crucial to anyone's education. This should be a model for all Humanities courses at Harvard, since it combines deep engagement with the texts along with connecting them to the wider human experience. That is not to say that Professor Whittington is overtly didactic; she, like Milton, is much more interested with raising questions for her students to carry with them than in prescribing a particular set of answers. If you already have an interest in Milton, like I did, then this course is a godsend. Even if you are not a fan of Early Modern lit, or even English in general, it would still be worthwhile to check it out to see just how relevant Milton can be.
If you don't do anything else while you're at Harvard, take a class with Professor Whittington!!!!!!!
Professor whittington's enthusiasm is outstanding and so contagious. She seems to be the happiest professor here and it's a delight to attend her lectures! She's also a fantastic mentor, always encouraging us to go to office hours. She is as caring one on one as she is during class. Adrienne was a wonderful TF- I could not have asked for better.  Don't have experience with crazy epic poetry? No problem! We literally spent 2 hours or so just going over meter in miltons poetry and after that it really clicked!The exercises were helpful to keep me on top of the work and the reading. I LOVED that our whole grade was based on multiple assignments, not just 2 essays, so that I felt I had a lot of practice with analyzing miltons work so I did not have to worry too much about the larger assignments.And the Milton marathon! A total blast- it was great to animate miltons poetry with my own voice after having spent a whole analyzing him in class!Finally the small class setting was also fanastic, making room for active discussion even during lecture/class time.Finally, the pacing was great! It was really nice to have a full string of weeks to digest paradise lost. I loved that this class focused solely on Milton because we were able to learn about the evolution of the author and get a real sense of his style and how and why it changed.
This is a fantastic course on Paradise Lost as well as quite a few other works by Milton, both in prose (political treatises, etc.) and poems (Paradise Lost is only about half of the course). Leah Whittington is wonderful: she is so enthusiastic about Milton and her lectures were both informative in giving contextual background for his different works and helpful in the reading of them. Paradise Lost alone is a reason to take this--it is a work that should absolutely be read, and this course is a great framework for it!  This isn't an easy cop-out class though. Readings every week are substantial and there are memorization and writing exercises every couple of weeks.
Professor Whittington and Adrienne have amazing insight into the texts that will make you see them in a new light.
Professor Whittington is wonderful -- she has so much passion for the subject, and brings that enthusiasm to every class. If you don't already love Milton, you will after taking this course.
This was an absolutely AMAZINGclass! I loved the readings. I really enjoyed lectures because Professor Teskey is an AMAZING, engaging and interesting lecturer. I was never confused or wondering why we were covering a particular section. He is so knowledgable about Milton and his enthusiasm just seeps through and diffuses through the room. He recites Paradise Lost without looking at the text with a deep, powerful voice  it made lectures super interesting, fun and dynamic! One particular aspect of the class that I enjoyed was the depth and breadth of Milton's works that we covered. I feel like I have a much, much better understanding of Milton's works and his life. One of my favorite classes at Harvard for sure!!
Teskey's awesome--enthusiastic, interesting, nice, and very enlightening. He's not afraid to tell you what are good lines, bad lines, etc. so this partly a class in literary taste. You'll learn a lot about Milton's life, a good bit about Christian theology, a nice dash of the Classics for good measure, though the only reading is Milton's poetry. Its hard to always keep up on the reading once you get to Paradise Lost, but don't fret, lectures are still interesting and the essays still very manageable.
Professor Teskey is absolutely amazing-- fantastic lectures AND he cares about his students. You're also reading some of the greatest literature ever written...
If you like Milton, you should take this course. It would be impossible to find a better professor than Teskey to teach Milton. The workload is also very reasonable, so it's possible to actually enjoy the texts, rather than just skimming them at breakneck pace.
I cannot say enough good things about this course. Professor Teskey is a genius. His lectures are simultaneously enlightening and hysterical (I have never in my life laughed so hard while learning so much). If Elizabeth is the TF again, she is also a joy. Milton's poetry and prose, his life story, and his final project (Paradise Lost, Paradise Regained, and Samson Agonistes) are some of the best I've ever learned about. This is, without a doubt, the best, most engaging, most life-changing course I have taken in my Harvard career. If you for some reason can't take this one, make sure you take at least one with Professor Teskey. You will regret it immensely if you don't.
I would highly recommend this course. As someone who went in without ever having read Milton before, I learned a TON from Teskey's lectures (and imagine I would have even if I had known a lot about him). Obviously Paradise Lost is a classic and well worth reading closely, but we also read a lot of Milton's other works, which proved equally interesting. Professor Teskey is really invested in this class: he read and commented on each essay we wrote, came to section twice, and clearly made a real effort to convey his love of Milton. Section was less than stellar this year, but I don't think the class keeps the same TF every year so you should be fine.
If you are at all considering taking this course, you absolutely should. Prof. Teskey is an amazing lecturer and a wonderful storyteller; he is very passionate about Milton, and it makes for a great experience overall. I would recommend this class especially if you are not an English concentrator, as there is something for everyone in Milton and you'll really gain a better understanding of poetry. This course is a fantastic intellectual experience and its focus on appreciation of the material is refreshing.
