Professor Wood is excellent at what he does. His insights are definitely brilliant and I could possibly just listen to him lecture about these novels and would be just as happy. He definitely has a tendency to talk a lot, but what he has to say is super interesting and well thought out. He is not the best with emails, and you don't receive much guidance or prompting for the papers, which can be good or bad depending on how you like to do your papers. I liked the freedom, but was also worried about never knowing what he wanted.
This class is amazing! Professor Wood is an incredible teacher, you should definitely take a class with him at some point before you graduate! Also, all of the novels are absolutely incredible novels that I might not have read on my own time. The only drawback is that the class was larger than a typical seminar, so it is not quite the ordinary seminar experience.
I highly recommend this course no matter what your concentration is. I'm studying neurobiology and took this as an elective and it is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. It doesn't require a strong background in English writing courses (there are only 2 papers and Prof. Wood is great about guiding you along). The workload is primarily reading and it is definitely manageable. Even if you've read some of these texts before, Prof. Wood is an expert and has such unique and interesting perspectives that it's definitely worth it. If you want to take it you should lottery soon rather than waiting until later because it's advantageous if you've lotteried before.
Just be aware that the class lacks very much structure
James Wood is brilliant, and he always has something brilliant to say about literature. Don't take this class if you're expecting to impress him by dominating the class conversation because it's simply too big and he's simply too smart.
great class that I highly recommend. can't imagine a better setting in which to experience these amazing novels. professor wood is incredibly kind and wonderful to listen to.
This is an excellent course. Professor Wood is wonderful, and you could hardly read a better array of books (I especially loved beginning with Pride and Prejudice and ending with To The Lighthouse). Be wary it was a fairly large seminar (probably 25-30 people) and Professor Wood has a tendency to lecture rather than lead discussion for a significant portion of the class. But that's mostly fine because he has such an interesting perspective to contribute.
I highly recommend this class! Professor Wood is fascinating and offers some really great insights on the books we read. The workload is pretty light and enjoyable overall.
Past reviews of English 90LV likened it to a book club with Professor Wood, and I found that to be the perfect way of describing it. And, as might be expected, a book club with Professor Wood could not have been better. We tackled an intriguing subject and did it at a very manageable pace (Professor Wood prefers quality of reading and writing to quantity, which makes for a more valuable scholarly environment inside of class and out). Plus, Professor Wood is a joy to learn from and with. Do be advised, though: if future iterations of the course include 30 some students, discussions will suffer. English 90LV is a seminar, but it did not feel like it this term; I only spoke once or twice every week, didn't feel especially connected to my peers, and received paltry feedback on my midterm essay. I still got a lot out of English 90LV, but, if it's to be offered again as a seminar, it would definitely benefit from capped enrollment.
I would tell future students to really enjoy the texts that we read, to take their time with them. I would also tell future students to come to class prepared with a comment about the reading. James Wood is very approachable and has good advice for essays, so schedule meetings with him about your essays.
TAKE THIS CLASS! James Wood is a legend and any course with him is truly an enlightening experience. His takes on novels really make you think about each book in a new way. He's brilliant and engaging and really cares about his students. There is a bit of reading and, while it's to your advantage to do all of it, you definitely don't have to. Truly no reason to not take this class. Highly highly recommend.
james talks a looootbut he's a genius, so it works outjust make sure you have coffee during class, and don't expect to talk more than 60 seconds yourself during any given class
An engaging and incredibly enjoyable course reading wonderful books with a great professor - would recommend to literally anyone with an interest in literature. James Wood is brilliant and so friendly, and not really focused on grades or deadlines but just on enjoying the books you read. Every book is interesting and worth reading, and the workload is very manageable. Take it!
Professor Wood will absolutely blow your mind with how he draws out the subtleties of these truly incredible novels (even if you've read some of them before!). Be warned, however, that Prof. Wood can be extremely difficult to get in touch with out of seminar, that class can feel more like lecture than discussion, and that you will get relatively little feedback on your essays. This class is truly pleasure reading and doesn't take up much time if you have a difficult course load.
If you're in any doubt, take the class. Professor Wood is amazing, the syllabus is amazing, the workload is manageable. No reason not to take the class and every reason to take it.
This class was an absolute delight. The books are essential parts of the literary canon and were greatly elevated by the conversation and instruction by Professor Wood.
Wood is brilliant and it's a joy to hear his thoughts on the texts. Sometimes I wished the course brought in a bit more theory/criticism/secondary sources to consider consciousness. I didn't like how big the seminar was either and thought discussion could have been run better (rather than just giving everyone the chance to make their one insight), but all in all definitely worth it.
Take this course! And take it when you have the time to dedicate to read all the books, because you'll get so much more out of it that way.
