This class is really inspiring. Even if you don't have a huge interest in poetry, I think Professor Sacks does a great job of exposing everyone to the sheer beauty of poetry as an art.
This is a great class for English majors who need to fulfill the poetry requirement, but have not worked with poetry before. The class is definitely an introduction, but it can accomodate all skill levels. Professor Sacks is an incredible lecturer, and his passion for poetry is inspiring.
This is a survey course on what most people think of when they hear "poetry." By which I mean that none of the readings were unwieldily abstruse. The professor is brilliant and enthusiastic. I know many people, myself included, who went into this class hating poetry and came out of it with a real appreciation for its merits.
Professor Sacks is great and a really passionate teacher and really makes the lectures inspiring.  Expect to read the poems more than once each week and come ready to talk about them, even to lecture.  But don't feel that you need any extensive knowledge of or background in poetry - Professor Sacks and Adam make it accessible.
Professor Sacks is amazing and Adam is a great TF. There's no better class to take!
Peter Sacks is absolutely amazing.
You must take a class with Peter Sacks. If not this one, find another, but definitely take one.
This class feels like a spiritual experience. Professor Sacks is less an academic than a prophet of the human experience. A thorough, non-intimidating, and inspiring introduction to lyric poetry.
The workload is very manageable
I could not more highly recommend this class! Prof. Sacks lectures with such contagious passion for the field that I found myself seeking to write about poetry in all my classes this semester. The workload is very manageable and the paper assignments are open-ended so you can write about whatever most interests you. This class has transformed my previous mild enjoyment of poetry to an urge to devote myself to studying it, perhaps even with my thesis. I very strongly urge you to take this class!
You get to read some of the very best poetry out there, and there is no one better to read and teach it than Professor Sacks. His unending knowledge and kind demeanor is extremely refreshing. If you want to take a poetry class, I would most definitely recommend taking one with Professor Sacks before you graduate. It will open your eyes to the beauty of poetry, even if you knew nothing about it before taking the class. I was surprised at how hard the grading was on papers for this class, which was a bit annoying since there are only 2 the entire semester, but I do believe I learned some valuable skills about close-reading and learning how to better analyze poetry.
Take this class, especially if you're uncomfortable or unfamiliar with poetry. Professor Sacks's lectures are truly engaging, his enthusiasm is contagious, and he has a lovely lilting voice. The readings alone should be enough to convince you to take the class: from Sappho to Elizabeth Bishop, Milton to Frank O'Hara, this class is certainly a survey but it isn't afraid to go in depth. Adam is an amazing TF as well--if he's still part of the teaching staff, you'll be in great hands.
If you take this course, do all of the poetry readings before lecture because it will really enhance the experience. It's easy to not do the reading, but you really won't get anything out of the lecture if you don't!
Listening to Professor Sacks talk about poetry every week is an absolutely amazing experience. If you take the time to really read the poems assigned multiple times, the course really allows you to discover the artistry behind poetry!
This is an amazing class. I took it because I am an English concentrator - I would consider myself a complete poetry amateur but it's still great because the course is challenging and interesting while assuming a very low level of prior knowledge. I feel like I've learnt so much. Peter is an incredibly passionate lecturer and Adam is a great TF.
It's a wonderful class and you learn a lot if you put the time in.
Prof. Sacks is amazing in his enthusiasm for and knowledge of poetry. Take this class to learn from him.
This course is perfect for the poetry enthusiast, but also for those intimidated by poems who need to fulfill their English concentration requirements. I had had virtually no experience analyzing poetry before this course, but Prof. Sacks' lectures along with practice in section allowed me to understand the poems on a whole new level.
This is an excellent and easy way to learn about lyric poetry. Professor Sacks truly has a poetic mind, and his lecture style will help draw you into the beauty of language.
Peter Sacks is one of the best lecturers I've ever had.  Sitting in his class for two hours is like a meditation--you leave smarter, stronger, and more full.  Plus, the material is incredible!
Be prepared to read all assigned poems, usually more than once, and be aware that class is more interesting if you come prepared with at least a question or two about one of the pieces you liked.
This class is a wonderful introduction to Lyric Poetry. Each week's reading is carefully selected (and entirely manageable), and Sacks' lectures are both enthralling and brilliantSacks is a particularly gifted at showing how the technical aspects of poetry (form, line, meter, rhythm) contribute to its meaning. If Adam is the TF in future years, you'll be lucky to have himhis sections are thoughtfully put together, and he's a great guy.
This class was AMAZING. Professor Sacks is incredibly kind and knows so much about poetry-- it's really enjoyable just to sit and listen to him talking. He can recite beautiful poems at the drop of a hat, and will make you look at poetry in a way you haven't before. The breadth of the class is impressive but not shallow- you will learn something no matter how much you think you know about poetry. The workload's not so bad, and nor is the time commitment. TAKE THIS CLASS- you won't regret it.
If concentrators need to fill the poetry requirement, definitely take a class with Peter Sacks, and everyone at Harvard should take a class with Peter Sacks because he is probably the most amazing professor I've had at Harvard so far.
Take this class if you take only one class in the English department. Peter Sacks is absolutely transformative as a professor.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Marissa and Professor Sacks are incredible teachers and people, and you will learn so much about analysis and poetry.
Definitely take this class.  Professor Sacks is nothing short of enchanting and Marissa is one of the best TF's you will ever have, hands-down.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. The Professor is a great lecturer and Marissa is a wonderful section leader. This course made me love poetry and actually try to analyze it even when I didn't have to. This class will make you into a nerd, that's for sure.
This is an amazing class! Professor Sacks gives some of the best lectures I've heard at Harvard, and his enthusiasm and passion are infectious. Definitely the best way to fulfill this Common Ground.
if you want to learn something about poetry, this is the place to do it. Prof. Sacks and Marissa are absolutely brilliant and deeply invested in helping students learn. Writing about poetry (especially making arguments about poetry, as this class will require you to do) is very, very difficult and can sometimes seem more stressful than it's worth. But this class is still worth it to learn to appreciate these beautiful works better and to have exposure to Prof. Sacks and Marissa, truly great minds!
This course was really wonderful. We missed two weeks of class due to the snow days, and it was really a disappointment - those extra four hours were very much missed. Keep up with the reading, as it will really help your understanding in class, and try to read the poems more than once if you can.
One of the best classes at Harvard, and a great way to fulfill the department's Poets requirement.  Professor Sacks is kind and caring, as well as incredibly thoughtful.  He truly cares about both poetry and the quality of his teaching, and is a great guide to the magic of poetry.  His lectures are brilliant - interesting and yet not overly pedantic.
If you have an opportunity to take a class with Peter Sacks, I can't recommend it enough. This class is a comprehensive, evocative introduction to poetry. After taking it, you will definitely never look at a poem the same way. Not only that, but I found that this class made me a more attentive prose reader, in addition to poetry.
This class will enrich your life more than you can imagine
This course was truly life changing. Peter Sacks' enthusiasm for the art of poetry is contagious, and after taking this course you leave with an understanding of all that poetry is and can be -- something beyond an academic study but a spiritual, personal, and transcendent experience. Poetry is an art form that truly encompasses all of life's experience, and taking this class will expand your understanding of how the world works in very profound ways. If you are lucky enough to have Marissa Grunes as a teaching fellow, you will learn so much from her thoughtful feedback on your writing and her impressive knowledge of literary and cultural history. The only critique of the course I can possibly offer is that students who enjoy very structured, organized syllabi may be put off by the occasional disorganization of how the course is structured. For me, this spontaneity was a component of the beauty of the course as a whole.
This class is truly a treasure. Professor Sacks' expertise and passion really shine through in this course. Be prepared to spend a good amount of time each week reading + engaging with the poems outside of the classroom, but that preparation will really allow you to engage with Sacks' lecture and get a lot more out of the class!
Take this course, if only to hear Professor Sacks spew his treasure trove of knowledge about the various poems that we read in the class. He is an amazing lecturer, and just knows so much about each poem and is able to magically draw so much emotional and intellectual meaning from each word and each line. Before this class, I was disinterested, if not spiteful of poetry, but after having taken Poets with Professor Sacks and Marissa Grunes (the TF), I've begun to understand why poetry is powerful for so many people, and have been inspired to continue exploring the genre. This class is a perfect first class to take on poetry.
A great class to take if you didn't love studying poetry in high school. Professor Sacks has a way of opening up the emotional realm of poetry: you learn how to have a gut reaction to a poem.
