The reading list in this course is great, but there are many authors and we didn't get to look too deeply at any of them. Prof. Menand is very knowledgeable, but his lectures are more overview/background unless you push him with questions.
This course is a fantastic introduction to literary theory. All English concentrators should take this class! I feel like I learned a lot of things that were necessary for me to know, and that I would not have learned in any other course. Menand is a fantastic lecturer, and the readings are, by and large, very interesting.
Professor Menand is an excellent lecturer. The syllabus is full of brilliant minds.  Definitely take this course as an introduction into literary theory if you think that might interest you.  However, the course does feel a bit choppy since the readings not all necessarily connect, but that's something I think can be overlooked.
Professor Menand is a wonderful lecture; I appreciated his ability to synthesize complex readings and his ability to weave in interesting information about an author or era, which made the lectures very engaging. Each class's reading consists of a more foundational text paired with a more modern text; I really enjoyed the paired readings but keep in mind that it is literary criticism and the texts are densely packed with ideas (and you have to a lot some more time for understanding the older texts). There are two paper assignments (5-7 page and 10-12 page) which are meant to show your own ideas (and rely less on the readings) while the midterm and final are tests of the lecture material. As a result, it's really important that you attend lecture to know what concepts to focus on (and it really clarifies any confusion about the reading). There were many opportunities to meet with the TF (Dena) and Prof. Menand outside of class, you just have to take the initiative to schedule them.
Menand is an amazing professor. This is a class you should take, if you're at all interested in an interesting, common-sense introduction to literary theory.
Hopefully you're taking it because you like English, because it's a little obtuse material-wise for anyone who doesn't like English.

But if you do like English, it's absolutely fantastic. Menand does a really good job of just laying out the material and then teaching it to you. Meanwhile, the sections are a good outlet for discussion, and the essays are an outlet for your own ideas. I think it really is the perfect English class. It's genre specific, so if you don't like learning criticism then you might get bored, but I think the genre is so fundamental to English that this is just the kind of English class you can't miss out on.
I can only imagine this class being good if you have genuine interest in literature and literary/intellectual history. But as someone who does have those interests, I had a great time and felt that I gained a deeper understanding of history and of the field of Literary Studies in general. Professor Menand is a fantastic lecturer-he really makes the texts and writers come to life. Lectures were both interesting and entertaining, and I often left the class feeling that I had gained real and valuable insight into literary history. Section was just okay-the TF was somewhat disorganized and struggled to focus conversation in a specific direction, so I never felt that I really gained a lot from section meetings. That said, Dena was very enthusiastic and incredibly thoughtful and helpful during office hours. If you're taking this class as an elective, it should be because you want to familiarize yourself more with the Western canon and the thought that went on behind the books you read in your English classes.
Menand is an excellent lecturer, which makes class enjoyable. He tends to favor a historical analysis of the authors over an in-depth analysis of their texts, but this helps tie the class together and put everything in context, which is cool. The papers are not too bad, and actually pretty interesting. If you are interested in actually thinking about the role of literature in the world and what literature should be, you will enjoy doing the work and get a lot out of this class.
This course is a good overview of the field of literary theory and criticism.  Menand is a terrific lecturer.  The readings are essential to studying literature, so you may as well do them with the help of the TF and Professor Menand.  The exams are easy if you attend lecture, and the papers are interesting to write.
The class is quite abstract so it helps to be comfortable and interested in it, or you might float off into space. Definitely keep up with readings, even it some are dense, and ask the instructors and your peers to challenge and validate your thought. You should be comfortable enough with major theories to play with them, connect them, argue for/against them as you develop your own. 
Come with these:
-An interest in these questions: why does literature matter? What is literature? How do people think? How does literature link the individual and society?
-Some prior exposure to a broad range of literature--it will help you understand the abstract by grounding it in concrete examples. It will also come in handy for essays. 
-Creativity and perhaps the insolence to question big thinkers.
It's an exceptional class.
This course is a fantastic introduction to literary criticism and theory.  Menand is an extremely intelligent, engaging, and confident lecturer, who never fails to make the always rich and often difficult material seem accessible.  He is quite accessible as well, and always open to answering questions.  Just about every reading was engaging; the required Norton anthology contains many of the course readings but it also provides information on anything else pertaining to literary theory about which you might be curious.  NB regarding the papers: they can be difficult because they require you to do your own theorizing, to think very self-consciously about what YOU think literature is/does.  Certainly the readings will be important to your arguments, but to compose the paper you do not employ "close reading" or answer historical questions like you're probably used to doing in other humanities courses.
The course is designed extremely well to teach a basic framework of theory and criticism.
This is an incredibly difficult, fast-paced course. Those with a huge interest in theory will love it but pretty much everyone else will have a very difficult time.
A phenomenal class. Professor Menand is one of the best lecturers I've ever had. He never presents you with his point of view. Instead, he distills major theories into contextualizing lectures that make each argument so compelling that you agree with them all completely--until you realize that they all disagree with one another. Forces you to think for yourself. I've written plenty of research papers in other English classes, but this was the first class to really make me think of myself as joining a conversation of past thinkers and standing on someone else's shoulders.
If you're interested in lit theory, this is a great overview! Prof. Menand is an extraordinary lecturer with a gift for distilling complex concepts from dense readings.
This is a course for people who are serious about literature and criticism. The readings each week may not be too long in terms of page numbers, but the texts read are complex. I learned a lot from this course and it was very challenging at times.
Take it! It's one of the few theory classes available, and shouldn't be missed if you're interested in theory- especially if it's being taught by Menand, who is all-round excellent!
Great class. Menand really knows what he's talking about and it's a great way to get acclimated to the history of academic discourse about literature.
A wonderful introduction to literary theory. Menand's lectures were both entertaining and brilliant, and always left me with a sense of inner clarity even on the roughest of days.
There is no other class like this at Harvard. Professor Menand is a fantastic lecturer and really makes the material come alive. Some of the readings are a bit dry, but Menand's lectures contextualize them in such a way that they are still fascinating.
It is a good choice for students with little or no experience with theory or criticism, and it seems especially useful for English graduate students preparing for their general exam.
Take it. One of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard.
Exams are heavily based on the lectures, so make sure you attend regularly. If you review your lecture notes before the exams and keep up with the reading (which really isn't much every week) you'll do great. Also, read selections after lecture - they'll make way more sense and you'll have a better idea of what's important in the material.
If you are an English major, taking this class is probably the single biggest favor you can do for yourself.  It's essential, it's excellent, and it's eye-opening.
I would really recommend this class for anyone interested in a theoretical account of why we read literature and what the value of literature is. I feel like people thought the class was pretty difficult, but I enjoyed it so much. Prof. Menand is an excellent lecturer, and Rebecca was an extraordinary TF. It is not your typical English class, but there were a lot of resonances with other disciplines. And I'm sure every year it is offered it will get better. Take it!!
Excellent course.  Professor Menand is a wonderful professor and a genuinely decent human being.  Take a look at the reading list, and if it appeals to you, consider taking the course.  Workload is not bad at all.  Papers and exams are extremely fair.
This class is perfect for the philosopher interested in English or the English/Literature/Hist and Lit concentrator interested in philosophy. It was very difficult for me, but I am so glad that I took it. It has contributed much to my understanding of the readings I have been assigned in my other English classes. If you decide to take this course, just know that it has been designed to accommodate English grad students (who are the majority in the class), because this is the only theory class in the Eng Dept.
I'll note from the start that I'm no literary-critical weenie, but that I've taken a fair share of classes on literature at the college. I'm thoroughly pleased and satisfied to have had a brief but fascinating introduction to literary theory and criticism and recommend this class to anybody who has intuitive and self-fashioned thoughts about literaturewhy it's here, why it does what it does, etc.but would like to read more in a guided setting. Also, Prof. Menand is a superlative lecturer.
This is the best and most broadening course I have taken at Harvard.
It is difficult to imagine a better introduction to literary theory; anyone interested in the material should take this course as a matter of priority.
It is definitely worth taking, and definitely worth reading all the material for.
Menand is an incredible lecturer and Rebecca Kastleman was brilliant (sometimes too brilliant and inaccessible during section). Somehow the class felt a little less accessible than Menand's High and Low-- required more of an interest and knowledge in literary theory than one would think. Also some of these texts are DENSE... prepare yourself for that. Otherwise reading load is manageable.
