You would think that only people interested in African American history and literature would like this class, but I think this class is so great because it can appeal to anyone who loves literature, wants to study literature in its political and social context, and wants to dive into a pool of literature that isn't normally covered, or is only covered superficially.
This class will give you a much better understanding of the Harlem Renaissance than you (probably) had. Marina knows so much, both about the period itself and about the context around it (her actual focus is African American literature from earlier in the 20th century) and you will benefit a lot from this--she will push you to be a better thinker and writer without crushing your spirits. The material is great and the assignments are manageable.
It's great if your interested in English, History, or African American Studies.
This is a great class taught by a great professor. You will engage with excellent books and materials, but the assignments can be tricky.
This class is really informative and interesting.
Be prepared for a lot of reading, active participation in discussions, and no training wheels!
This class was really cool and really important. I was surprised that there aren't more classes on the Harlem Renaissance at Harvard. The authors you read and art you explore is really amazing, and the greatest strength of the course is contextualizing all the contributors to the Renaissance in the larger fabric and community dynamic of Harlem. It felt very much like a history / hist-lit course, so I'm not sure if it can really be called an English seminar! I was disappointed by that a little bit -- there was not much delving into the texts, and some of these texts really deserve a deep exploration and appreciation. I think the instructor could have done much more in facilitating that. Class sometimes felt a little dull or aimless, which is too bad because the texts were amazing! Finally, the writing assignments are sometimes unclear, and could have used more direction from the instructor.
This class was challenging but ultimately one of the most rewarding classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Bilbija is super cool, and is very understanding towards her students. You should take it - it's unlike any other English course I've had here.
