The professor is amazing, the reading materials are fun but challenging, and you will for sure get a lot our of this course!
These books and the lectures will explode your brain, in a good way.
There are better ways to read and enjoy these texts. I don't normally think that close analysis ruins books, but I think that this class ruined my enjoyment of some of these books because the endings were spoiled.
It will change how you think about literature, and therefore how you think about the world.
I would highly recommend this class to both english concentrators and students in other concentrations.  Professor Fisher is an amazing lecturer and he really makes you want to read these wonderful works of literature.
It's a good class, but the reading is too much work, and the lectures can be boring.  Also, often I felt like the lectures were a series of observations that never got to an interesting, important point.
This class alone made me decide to be an English concentrator.
This class was very interesting, but extremely challenging. I would recommend this class if you have the time in your schedule to devote to heavy reading.
This is an excellent course that is both intellectually challenging and very enjoyable. Given that the homework is primarily to read fascinating novels, it is a joy to take and (at least for me) more like relaxation than work.
Reading load very intense but worth the effort
The reading list is enormous, but it's worth finishing. The chances that you're going to go back to Buddenbrooks or Anna Karenina on your own are low.
great class. just be prepared to read a bunch
These are novels that you have either read in the past or say you will before you die. So why not read them with a great professor to guide you along?
Professor Fisher's lectures are excellent and the course provides you with the opportunity to read some of the greatest works of literature.
You shouldn't graduate from Harvard without having taken a class taught by Fisher.
prepare to read.
The class is definitely challenging - be prepared to do A LOT of reading. But it's definitely worth it.The books on the course list are a few of the novels that every English major should read before graduating.
This is a wonderful choice if you're looking for a challenge and a chance to read a large selection of great literature. Be aware, however, that the reading load is heavy. And the take-home exam is challenging, to say the least.
This course is accessible to any student from any discipline, because the novels we study focus most closely on the most common features of life. Anyone will find something of interest here. Be prepared to read a lot and to do so with potential paper topics and other questions in mind -- it makes notating quite a bit easier, and makes the reading that much more rewarding. You'll get much more out of Professor Fisher's lectures if (imagine!) you've actually done the reading beforehand.
I would only recommend this course to people who like English, and are willing to work hard. Among those types of people though, I would say that this is one of the best English courses you could take at Harvard!
It's worth taking even just as an excuse to read the books. Fischer's lectures are brilliant and really enhance the reading.
Don't miss lectures.  They're the highlight of the course and you will regret it.
This course is absolutely amazing.  Be prepared for ridiculous quantities of reading, however.
This class taught me how to read a work of literature in an entirely different way, looking at its historical precedents, religious influences, philosophical background, societal impact, and "local" circumstances in history, society, politics, and art that led to its particular construction. It taught me how to read and appreciate literature in a new way: one grounded in close analysis, general understanding of the historical cirucmstances of the time in which it was written, how it compares to other novels of the time, the overarching authorial voice that constructed the story, and thematic similarities between it and other works of the same author. I learned, more than anything, how an author's voice and writing reflects his/her feelings of religious, philosophical, and social life.
I would tell students that it's a great class, but only if they are interested in these novels. Otherwise, the reading can become too much and the course will be a bit overwhelming.
It's very much worth taking - IF you can commit yourself to the reading.  Don't take this as a senior year elective.  I made that mistake.  It was a bad mistake to make.
it was so much fun, one of the best I have taken at Harvard
Be ready and willing to read A LOT.
Lots of reading, but every page is worth it.
This is a fun class that leads you through great novels that everyone cares about and teaches you to think and write about them in illuminating ways.
The reading list is amazing, and the professor is very intellectually engaging.
I can't imagine a better class.  While the material of the class is reason enough to take English 157, the caliber of the teaching staff is such that it would be a shame for any students considering taking this course -not- to do so.  Taking this course reminded me that the purpose of the teaching staff is to reveal the great depth and complexity of the raw course material in a way that a student would never be able to do on his or her own, and Professor Fisher and his teaching fellows are unsurpassed in their ability to do this.  It is a promise, one has not understood "Anna Karenina" or "The Brothers Karamazov" at all until studying them with such a wonderful group of scholars.
It is a lot of reading, a decent amount of papers (very reasonable), and AMAZINGLY well taught both in lecture and section.
This is one of the best courses I have taken, and definitely the best course I have taken on literature.
A class that one rarely has the occasion to follow. Probably the best class I have ever taken
Try to get a head start on the reading. The reading is really good and it will be much more enjoyable if you can keep up with the lectures.
It made me want to concentrate in English!
Professor Fisher's lectures are complex but accessible to both English majors and other majors because he appeals to anyone who wants to know what's worth reading and why.
Only take this class if you really love reading because if you do not love reading, then this class will be a miserable experience for you.
This is an English class everyone should take!! Especially if you're an Emglish major.It gives you the opportunity to read books that you've always wanted to read but never did because they're intimidating. But Professor Fisher makes them much more accessible.
It's a very good and very interesting class, but they must be prepared to sacrifice themselves daily at the altar of academia.
Make sure you know what you're getting into. This class is a lot of work. Don't get behind in reading.
No other class offers such a consistent set of books.  Also, a class with Philip Fisher is basically a must for anyone who wants a decent literature experience before they graduate.
lots of reading, but great books that everyone should read.
THERE IS MORE READING THAN ANY OTHER CLASS AT HARVARD.
a ton load of reading. beware.
Be prepared to read, a lot. But if you like the books, it's worth it.
It is an excellent course for those with a general interest in literature, but be prepared to do a lot of reading.
The class is good, Fisher is cool, and it's definitely welcome to non-concentrators (or people who haven't taken an English class since high school). There is a LOT of reading though - it sounds doable, but math/science people forget how long it takes to read sometimes. Especially 19th century literature - it's really slow, so do make sure that you'll be into it.
Don't skip lectures - Fisher called attention to aspects of the novels I would have never noticed or considered. Also, I like that the assignments allow you to explore what you find interesting.
If you're even considering this course, I am sure you are aware of what it is all about: on the one hand, a VERY strenuous reading load, and on the other, one of the most brilliant, fluid, succinct, and eloquent minds (and ALWAYS perfectly easy to understand what he's talking about) in the English dept here. Lectures are truly brilliant. Fisher is extraordinary.
This is a great class. Take it.
Section with Daniel is great and the papers are manageable and fun to write, but lectures can seem a bit loose for people more used to clearer structures and stronger theses.
Take this course! Professor Fisher is a brilliant lecturer, and the reading list couldn't be better.
A great class, solid reading (though a lot of it), and you can work as hard as you want to. The lecture's much better than section. The latter lectures especially felt relevant to life/the world/etc and not just the insular world of literature.
I would tell future students that this is a great class for those wanting to read some of the greatest novels ever written, and that, although it requires a lot of work, the class is really enjoyable.
This is  a great class. However, you get as much out of it as much as you put into it. That being said, it is advised that you keep up with the readings so that you can engage fully in discussions and better understand what Professor Fisher is talking about. Falling behind is one of my biggest regrets of this past semester.
Not an easy reading list, but these books are fantastic, the selection really everyone should get around to once in a lifetime. That more or less goes for the rest of the class: the papers and exam are tough, but Professor Fisher's lectures are truly once-in-a-college-career-level gems. Very, very highly recommended.
If you intend to take this class to "read the books you've always wanted to read but never have," please consider why you've never read them. The reading load for the course is heavy and demanding. For not only success in the course, but also your personal enjoyment and edification, you NEED TO READ ALL THE NOVELS. If your schedule absolutely won't allow for that, please re-consider. The course goes through rich classics very quickly. Professor Fisher will transform how you read the novel but leave you wishing you had more time to indulge yourself in the pages. This can be a highly rewarding class if you're into literature and reading. But don't take it to buff up for cocktail hour. For practical tips, I tend to be able to read 100pgs per hour. However, with the complexity and action in these novels, I found myself reading much slower than that pace (and aimed for 60pgs per hour instead). This still means at least 10hrs per book (many of the books exceed 600pgs in length and are dense). I hope this is helpful as you calculate how much time you will have available for the course. That said, reading these novels often served as a "study break" from other readings... (if you're a non-English concentrator, you might relate).
Wonderful lectures, but experience varies by section. For the amount of reading required by the course, it felt remarkably manageable, so don't let that scare you away! Listening to Prof Fisher talk about these novels is a treat.
This course is worth it simply for an introduction to such great books (great in both the sense of quality, scale/size, and renown). The number of pages assigned disables the course from digging especially deeply into most of the material, but students do get the chance in writing assignments to select what's interesting to them. Sometimes the lectures feel scattered and there is a fair amount of plot summary sometimes, but often their are gems to make you excited about how to read a book.The opening lecture itself is fantastic, and I would highly recommend you shop the course at the very least and see for yourself. If you're going to take the class, try to commit to reading the books. Likely, you won't keep totally up to date, but don't give up and try to continue reading. You'll be very proud of yourself once you make it through! Make use of office hours.
Take this class.Like, yeah, you read an absurd number of pages in a semester (+3,500 by my TF's count), which is daunting. It's also a really magical experience: for all the breadth of the themes of this class, Phil Fisher and the TFs are really detailed and deep in their analysis. Take it as an excuse to read (and really study) some incredible books: the teaching staff are wonderful, PF's lecture's are brilliant, the whole experience was just great. Everything I'd ask of a lecture-style humanities class at Harvard.
Fantastic class. Fisher's lectures are incredibly in-depth and thought-provoking. He gives you lots of new frames for thinking about the novel, and helps you see the richness of books in which you might otherwise get lost, reading on your own. It's a lot of reading, but never impossible, and the strict pace assures that you will finish books you otherwise might not. Essay-writing here will teach you how to discuss huge books in a small amount of space.
This is one of the must-takes as far as English courses; Phil Fisher is a master of discussing novels and fully conveying the full meanings captured within them. The readings can be tough to keep up with, but the class itself is worth it.
Make sure you keep up with the readings, apart from the danger of falling behind (which is easy in a course like this) you miss out on so much great literature if you don't.
This is a fantastic course - many humanities departments suffer from a lack of a unifying intro course, and this is as close as an English class comes. The reading list consists of several canonical (and long!) novels - be prepared to devote a significant amount of time to reading them. You can get away with not reading one or two of them, but you'll have a much better selection of essay topics and final exam questions if you've read them all. The grading consists of two shorter essays and one long take home essay exam that can be done in one day or as an over-nighter - the time constraints are pretty brutal but manageable. Professor Fisher is an extraordinary lecturer, absolutely spell-binding.
I am a senior concentrating in a wildly different discipline, and this was the first English class I've taken at Harvard. Broaden your mind--take this course--it doesn't matter what you're studying. Professor Fisher is incredible; I looked forward to going to lecture every week and found him easy to listen to and wonderfully articulate. The teaching staff was dedicated and accessible, and section was revelatory. I hadn't written a true English paper since perhaps my junior year of high school, but this class was a joy to take--I'll never read a novel in the same way again.
So, bad news first: the reading is a LOT (up to like 600p in a week, though that's the max) if you want to do all of it and the final exam format really threw me off (~6 hours for 3 essays). But that's the worst I have to say. Professor Fisher is a genius and this class is a fabulous opportunity to learn about the "great books" from one of Harvard's real "great minds." If you don't like reading and thinking about books, find another way to fulfill your AI gen ed. It would be such a waste to slack in this class and your grade would probably reflect it. If you do love books, take this class and get ready to love them even more.
As Prof. Fisher says, don't take it if you're not willing to get deep into some long, dense texts -- but if you are willing to get into them, it's 100% worth your time and a course that will stay with you for your like (and years of cocktail parties thereafter).
Here is how you can get through this class- look up the really important chapters of each book and read those first. Then skim really fast through the rest of the chapters as much as you can. Sparknotes or Shmoop for chapter summaries... you have to understand the material in a short amount of time, so don't waste hours trying to close read thousands of pages. It's worth taking this course and reading these great books so just work smart and you can get through it! Professor Fisher is awesome as well.
I definitely recommend taking the class if you can handle lengthy reading assignments
This class is amazing! The books you read are all the books you tell yourself you'll read someday and actually get a chance to do so in this class, and sure enough, they end up being deep, complex, and interesting, exploring the mental and emotional realities (realism!) of everyday life. The class does require a TON of reading, though, so plan your time well. Professor Fisher is incredible, both as a person and as a lecturer; in addition to revealing great insights, his lectures really help you understand and connect to the novels, and he's so sweet and approachable as well. Be warned that it's no small amount of work (I really wish I'd gone to more lectures and done more of the reading on time), but by all means take this class!
You need to put a lot of time into this class. It's not difficult but requires a lot of reading.
Be prepared to read a ton and to set aside a lot of time if you want to get a lot out of it. Might be a good idea to have read some of the books before you take the course.
This course is great as an opportunity to read classic novels, and the lectures usually add something to the reading. But one thing to be careful with is distinguishing the things said in section/lecture that actually mean anything and the things that are just words being tossed around.
To all who either think or advise that one should take this class in order to read these books before one loses the chance later on life, think again.  This course isn't about crossing off something on your bucket list (although it's certainly cool you get to).  Rather, it's about working through these books through the lens of a brilliant mind and seeing structural, thematic, and historical intricacies in these texts that you would otherwise have to read dozens of academic papers ON TOP of the books themselves to understand.
This class was extremely enjoyable and engaging.  I felt like I gained a meaningful understanding of the books that we covered, as well as improved my skills of literary analysis and composing argumentative papers.  However, this course is fast-paced, and requires persistent reading outside of class.  It is important to stay on top of the readings in order to benefit from lectures and to avoid falling behind!
Only take this class if you're prepared to do a lot of reading and you enjoy it.
The novels assigned are fantastic, and Professor Fischer's insights are worth listening tof. It is a lot of reading, however. Be warned that if you take other heavy classes you might not be able to do all the reading. The essays are not that difficult and you should be fine even if you couldn't read every single page. This is a fast-paced course, and it might be a little frustrating how fast it moves from one book to the next. One-hour section every week isn't enough time to discuss all the things you'd like, but it's a good instance to get you thinking about these novels. Overall a very interesting course.
do not take this class unless it is the only time consuming thing going on in your life. i took it because i thought that even though it looked like a challenge, i would be able to do it and because i really wanted to read a few of the books on the reading list. this was a huge mistake. the reading pace is INSANE if you have anything else going on in your life besides this class. like, for example, other classes.
That even though this course is difficult in regards to keeping up with the readings and writing a good essay, it is a VERY rewarding course and I strongly recommend it just for the sake of respecting humanities and literature.
I doubt I'll stop thinking about this class or these books for a very long time. In many literature classes, it has become the norm to read excerpts or to reduce the reading of novels/primary texts in favor of theory - here, the only reading is five spectacular, canonical novels (and if you're interested in theory, Professor Fisher can point you in the right direction). Phil Fisher knows these books back to front so that lecture can almost feel like an intimate, sympathetic discussion on a friend. I learned so much not only about literature but about human psychology and limitations and life in general. It's a class you should take.
If you like reading long pieces of literature, this class will be amazing for you. Look at the list of novels, and if it gets you excited, then you should probably be taking this. However, if you are iffy about literature, then perhaps try some other course first. This course has heavy reading. I needed to keep myself to a disciplined hour of reading EVERY night without exception. You're probably going to fall behind, but the course is flexible and forgiving in that respect. The lectures are the highlight of this course though. Every lecture is full of brilliance and insight and you will never read novels the same way. The lectures can be a bit disorganized in my opinion, but it almost doesn't matter because everything Fisher says is gold.
This course is not for the faint of heart. It is for individuals who truly love literature and want a challenging, rewarding course. Professor Fisher's lectures are incredibly dense, rich in minute observations and philosophical discussions on the nature of mankind. You never know where lecture will go, and that is part of the excitement. And though Professor does a wonderful job of covering those crucial scenes of the novels, you really do need to read them - all of them. The course is so much more rewarding when you have read and thought about each text - a luxury I was not often able to achieve. Be sure you can make this course your focus. It is worth it. If you cannot focus on it, perhaps consider taking another course, as it will only overwhelm you and you will miss out on truly experiencing the wonderful course.
The course involves a lot of reading, but it is very doable. You should really enjoy 19th century if you are planning to take this course. The lectures are engaging and thought-provoking. The readings are fantastic. Don't get behind though! The final 4-6 hour essay is very doable if you've been doing the readings throughout the course.
It's a great course but it has a ton of reading. Only take it if you have many hours to donate to reading many pages.
I personally am a big literature junkie and pride myself on having read most of the classics out there. If you fit this description, or even if you have always wanted to read some international masterpieces with the right context and the delightful commentary of Professor Fisher, than take it. Actually, just plain take it. It was a great class. The amount of reading can be a little overwhelming, but they paced the books very well so as long as you are dedicated you should be fine. The TFs do a great job in preparing you for the papers, even if you have never written an English papers before and the sections are never boring. Can be a little bit tough, but it is extremely rewarding. If you have the chance, TAKE IT.
Don't get behind on the reading!  Seriously.  But Professor Fisher's lectures are incredible and the TF's are great.  Overall an exciting course for anyone interested in English or the humanities.
[For reference, I'm a junior physics concentrator. I read a lot (on my own) before college, but unfortunately, I stopped reading completely once I got into college. This is the second gen ed I've taken.]Great class taught by a great instructor! Professor Fisher is by far the best lecturer I've ever had at Harvard--engaging, compelling, never boring. This class brought back the love of reading that I'd tried to suppress for whatever reasons, and I'm planning on reading a lot over winter break and even taking English 178 next semester with Prof Fisher.  That said, this was my most challenging class this semester (in addition to being my favorite class). It took me a lot of time to do the readings, and I struggled on the essays (what are close readings anyways). Luckily, I had a great TF (Rachel) who was very nice and who helped me improve a lot between the two essays. Thank you, Rachel!The work from the class is mostly reading (+ two 8 page essays and a final), but there is *a lot* of it. The four main novels (Buddenbrooks, Brothers Karamazov, Middlemarch, and Anna Karenina) are 700-1000 pages each, and you're going to have to read slowly and carefully. II didn't enjoy the books much, but I did appreciate the literary aspect. These also weren't books I would've necessarily read on my own, so I'm glad I took this class, read them, and quieted my fear of 700+ page books. Take this class if you like reading books!
I loved this course, but would recommend it only to students with an extreme interest in literature and intensive writing/reading.
by far the best course I have taken at Harvard so far. The books that we had to read, as well as Professor Fisher's analysis of them in lectures, were absolutely life-changing
The workload is not a joke. It cannot be conquered. Especially if you are a slow reader like me, be prepared to go to section often unprepared. With that said, I still recommend taking the class, because the lectures are fascinating and if you can keep up (at least somewhat), you'll be okay. Also, go to lecture.
The books you will read are great classics for the most part, so you'll get to experience all that that entails. In addition, Professor Fischer's expansive, meandering lectures will do quite a bit to flesh out  all the material. The main downside to this class is the rapid pace(we got through five books in ~10 weeks, 4 of which were over 700 page-and the professor actually intended on us getting through six in the beginning) so you have to really keep up on the readings. In addition, a couple of these books might merit a whole semester to themselves, so realize you might not get to plumb the depths of every clause, reference, and implication.
As a science concentrator, I'd say the following: be sure that you want to take an English class before you jump into this one. It has great books and a great professor and if you don't really care about your GPA afterwards, definitely take it!
This course will change your life. If you are ready to commit your time (so much time), you will see the lessons, ideals, and even passages from The Brothers Karamazov or Middlemarch intruding into random moments of your life. I was inspired by this class, with its common heroes, realistic happy endings, and troubling questions. I plan on rereading these novels throughout my life, though I never may have made it through the first time without Fisher's guidance. Take this course, BUT DON'T TAKE IT WITH A HEAVY COURSELOAD IF YOU EXPECT TO GET ANYTHING OUT OF IT.
This course is fantastic; Philip Fisher is absolutely brilliant, and the class is planned so deliberately. Each lecture is carefully crafted and a joy to listen to and learn from. Be prepared for a hefty reading load... at times even impossible. Though I didn't finish every novel (despite trying my best), I do think the class was incredibly valuableand will motivate you to read the novels (even if you don't have time to finish them all during the semester).
It's definitely a lot of reason and you don't have to do all of it to do well in course (especially if you're taking it Pass/Fail), but I highly encourage you to do the readings anyway. It's extremely gratifying to be able to discuss some of the greatest novels of our time with a brilliant professor, and you only get the full experience if you immerse yourself in the works. If you like books, and are interested in expanding your literary taste, or just want to read the classics, take this class!
The lectures are very good as are the novels, but the readings are ambitious in length and difficulty. If you are a slow reader and a completionist, this may not be a feasible class to take.
You get to read a lot of great books  Don't take it if you're not going to read them because that's such a waste.  You won't learn much unless you do all the reading.
TAKE THIS COURSE. The texts are so engaging, and lectures will leave you ranting to your roommates at late hours of the night. Be sure to stay on top of your readings, though. It is very easy to fall behind.
Make sure you are participating even if you have not gotten all the reading done because you will get so much less out of the course if you sit in section silent.
I took this class because Prof. Fisher's lectures were so captivating. I felt like I grew in ways I never would have otherwise, especially as a premed, life sciences concentrator, and I believe that the challenge was worth taking. However, I do wish I had taken this course as a senior or even audited it instead of taking it as a sophomore, and I think I dived into the course underestimating its difficulty.
Perhaps the best class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Fisher delivers amazing lectures that make you think about literature in ways you've never before considered. The books themselves are classics, though the reading load is substantial. In short, this is as close to a perfect class as I've seen.
Professor Fisher is the best lecturer I've had at Harvard, and this class is worth taking simply for the benefit of his insights into some of the greatest novels ever read. Yes there's a lot of reading, but it's some of the most worthwhile homework you'll do at Harvard.
If you love reading and want to understand some of the great novels in history, take this class! The amount of reading you will have to complete is intense, but you'll feel like you've finished a marathon by the end. Of course Professor Fisher's lectures are incredibly insightful. This class will push your ability to analyze literature through excellent sections. The assignments are a bit nerve-wracking because they count for so much of the grade - 2 "midterm" essays and a final essay take-home exam and section participation even though most of the work in this class was just getting through the novels. There were moments when I felt so unqualified to be taking this class and surrounded with people who could keep up with the reading and analyze it much better than I could, but this feeling of inadequacy pushed me to reach higher levels of comprehension than I could have achieved otherwise. I also felt that I learned so much about the major themes that drive these enduring works and that this knowledge will help me get through any other complex work of literature in the future.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time reading and thinking critically about the books--it will be worth it. The books, section discussions, and Professor Fisher's lecture will open your mind to 19th century literature and thought and forever change the way you read books in the future.
I took this course pass-fail. I still read the majority of the books by the end of the course, but there was less pressure on the papers and finals. Great way to enjoy the books and lectures without the stress: a good option for seniors. Time commitment is still significant, but I wasn't worried about my grade.
I loved this class. The books are great - I hadn't read most of them before , but I was enriched by them and understand now why they are canonical texts. That said, keeping up with reading was definitely a struggle - you are basically taking in these massive tomes in a 2 week period, and being a slow and easily distracted reader didn't help. If you think you will take this course, it would be extremely worthwhile to plan ahead and read some of the books ahead of time. Professor Fisher is an incredible lecturer and a wonderful resource. Even though no one will hold you accountable for it, try to be at your best for the very dense lectures to get as much out of them as you can. Going to lecture always felt like a privilege. Go to office hours too, even if just once - Professor Fisher is really nice and although the idea is intimidating he always seemed concerned with making me feel at ease. I am a little angry at myself because I feel like I didn't make the most of the class, so don't make that mistake - keep up with reading, really consider your papers, make use of the support offered by your TF.
Fisher is a fabulous lecturer; be aware that the final exam is quite intense (the questions are very fair, but it can take as much time as you let it, and it's hard not to spend the entire time - I'm not sure how it would actually be a 4 hour test)
It's a lot of reading.  A lot.  And the exam expects you to have read and remembered every page.
The course is a lot of reading and so it put me in a really good position to have read some of the books before. These books also aren't the kind that you can just skim through, especially the The Brothers K and Middlemarch require some pretty close reading and they're each 800-900 pages. Professor Fischer's lectures are incredibly engaging but again, it's a big class and you're covering a lot of material so don't expect the kind of close analysis that you could stake a claim around or write a paper on. The section TF's are really great, which can always be hit or miss with a Gen Ed and Laura was absolutely fabulous.
This class was everything that I hoped it would be. Professor Fisher was a fantastic lecturer, and Laura Johnson was an engaging, helpful, and unbelievably knowledgeable TF.  The readings were brilliant, and despite their length (800+ pages each) the reading schedule was completely manageable with a full course load so long as I was careful not to skip a day here or there.  Sections were engaging and educational, and I've never received more thoughtful feedback on any writing assignment as I did on my essays in this course.  I couldn't recommend it more highly.
An extremely ambitious and demanding course, in terms of novels, lectures, and the final exam.  You'll get a lot out of it, though there's so much in those books that it probably won't feel like enough.  Still, more courses at Harvard should be like this.
The reading can be heavy sometimes, but really, who wouldn't love to have their homework be reading Middlemarch or Pride and Prejudice? The work load is wonderful...two papers and a take home final. The two papers are great because you get to pick your topic or use an assigned topic, and the take home final is actually kind of fun...you get to talk about everything that you have been thinking about the books you have read for the whole semester.
It's pretty easy to tell if you should take this class. Look at the syllabus. Do you want to read these 5 novels in their entirety during the semester? Yes? Take it. No, don't.One thing- since there is so much to cover, you don't necessarily go into too much depth.
Incredibly insightful class.  The lectures teach you more about life than about books at times.  If you dedicate the time to reading the books that is required, you will gain so much out of the course and contribute to discussion and write better essays at that.
Be prepared to read a *lot*, but take this class if you think you can manage it. Fisher will not disappoint.
Be prepared for a lot of reading, but if you are willing to put the time in this class is an incredible experience and very much the highlight of any semester!
This is one of the very best classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Fisher is phenomenal and he recruits brilliant TF's to help you out in section. The reading list is long, but it is definitely doable. You get out of this class what you put into it. You have the opportunity to read the best literature with one of the best professors at Harvard in a class that's open to everyone -- I can say that I would have made a huge mistake in not taking this class. Take it!
This course is a lot of reading, but it is worth it. Essay grading is tough, and the reading is a lot to handle. That being said, taking the course is very rewarding, and though Professor Fisher's insights are not immediately obvious, they become very interesting when reconsidering the books after reading them.
You will walk away from this class with a completely altered understanding of the novel as an art form and social construct.
English 157 is an interesting gen-ed course that looks at classic novels. For me, it was fun, because it contained books that I wanted to read at some point regardless, and for anyone else in a similar situation, I recommend it. However, don't take this course if you've disliked books "similar" to the ones studied within it.
This class gives you the opportunity to read some of the best novels ever written.  Then you get to explore them with a charismatic and enthusiastic professor.  It repeatedly addresses the fundamental question of what the purpose of the novel even is.
Take this class, it'll change your life!
This class was excellent. Fisher's lectures were superb, the novels are incredible, and section discussions were insightful. The only caveat to the course is the requirement to read significant chunks of novels each week; barring that, anyone even tangentially interested in literature will undoubtedly find the course to be among the best they've taken at Harvard, as I have.
Take this class if you are going to enjoy the reading. If you are excited about the material or are looking forward to a break from problem sets and memorization, this class will be really enjoyable despite the time investment.
The lectures were original, informative, and captivating. Long texts were made accessible without being dumbed down. I left the course with not only an impressive set of books under my belt but also with a broader understanding of authors and writing and methods thereof in general. Sections were well-organized and well-run. This is the best class I've ever taken.
Take it. The readings will be long and hard, and the papers aren't easy- but if you go through a few hundred pages a night, the lectures will be mindblowing, the sections amazing. Truly one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Great class--the reading list, lectures, and sections are all great. I recommend reading one of the books over the summer because the required reading can get overwhelming. I think it comes out to about 300 pages a week for the entire semester.
These lectures are amazing, and the novels you read you will want to read anyway at some point in your life, so you might as well read them now and enjoy them as much as possible with the additional insights.
I loved this course because I love to read great novels; if you don't, you should not take it.
TAKE THIS COURSE
This is a fantastic course.  Like every course taught by Professor Fisher, this class will blow your mind and open your eyes to a thousand connections and mysteries living inside the texts that you might otherwise never have access to.  These are incredible pieces of literature that I've always wanted to read, and if you read them with Professor Fisher it might change the way you read and understand the world in general.  There are huge quantities of pages to read every week, but if you've taken English courses before you know what you're getting into.  In this class, you will end up needing to read all of the books in the course (you can get away with skipping at most one, in my opinion), but it is ok if you don't keep up exactly with the schedule set on the syllabus - as long as you finish them by the papers!  Of course, you will get the most out of each book if you are reading at the pace set by the course, because lectures will mean so much more :).  I highly, highly recommend this class if you've always wanted to read these books, if you love English, or if you want to see what it's like to understand amazing books through the eyes of an amazing professor.  Take a class with Professor Fisher asap - his lectures and handouts are priceless.  I'd recommend this one more to upperclassmen than freshmen, but you can do it if you feel motivated to.  It's worth it!
The class is fantastic, and the professor is wonderful, but the reading amount is pretty heavy and makes taking the course with another reading/essay class on your schedule a little hectic.
This class is an absolute must to take at Harvard!  Professor Fisher is absolutely brilliant, and throughout my 3.5 years at Harvard, Professor Fisher's lectures have been some of my favorite.  Additionally, the novels are amazing, and it adds a lot to your semester to be able to read brilliant novels for homework.
While the actual papers and other assignments are not incredibly difficult, staying on top of the reading if you have never read the novels before certainly is. Definitely recommend having read at least one of the major works [Buddenbrooks/Brothers Karamazov/Middlemarch/Anna Karenina in 2012] before taking the class. I struggled hard to stay on top of reading having not read any beforehand.The readings and lectures are great, however. Phil Fisher really knows how to weave a story, and, as a science major, I found it incredibly stimulating and interesting. I also feel as if I will forever look differently at fiction - in a good way. Though demanding.
Don't be afraid of it based on the amount of reading & the final! The books are long but excellent, and the final isn't that hard if you've done your reading.
I really enjoyed the course, and would encourage anyone interested in this phase of literature to take the course. The readings were all great, but it is a decent amount of work. Keeping up with the reading is a huge factor, falling behind becomes very stressful and makes the course much more difficult.
this class is incredible. I think it should be mandatory for undergrads. You read amazing books, some of the best of all time, and Prof. Fisher gives stunning and wonderful lectures every day. Take this class, don't be intimidated by the amount of reading, and try to enjoy it even through the piles of pages. It's worth it, you won't regret taking it. There are very few English concentrators, so you won't be alone if you're new to English classes.
This class is incredible. Phil Fisher's lectures will revolutionize the way you think about reading. You also get to read a selection of some of the best novels ever written; what could be better? Keep up on the reading, it's very difficult to catch up.
This is an amazing class! It came highly recommended by several friends and did not disappoint. Prof Fisher's lectures contain so much wisdom that really reshaped the way I view reading - for school or leisure. I also loved my sections with Laura - talking to her really helped with assignments making them much more enjoyable. My only warning is there is a lot of reading - so you should be committed to either setting a whole day a week aside for it or reading until 3 am a couple nights a week. As a science concentrator working on a thesis I was initially concerned I wouldn't have the time or no-how to succeed in this class - but it really ended up being a great experience! Do it - it's one of those classes that shapes your experience as a college student!
This course is amazing.  Professor Fisher is really quite a superb lecturer, and it was a great way to knock some books of my To Read list.  That being said, there is a lot of reading for this course, and it does take a fair amount of time. But if you like reading then it is the course for you.
This class allows you to read some of the most epic novels every written. Professor Fisher is great as well. However, be prepared to do large amounts of reading and weekly responses.
Wonderful course. You end up reading all the novels that you've told yourself you should read but never get around to doing. Though it's a fairly rough load, it's worth it in the end when/if you get around to doing it all. Final is ridiculously rough, but aside from that and the reading the only assignments are two essays, which is very doable. Try not to fall behind on the reading--I was perpetually behind for most of the semester which was painful to make up at the end.
This is great class. Read a few of the novels beforehand, but try to follow along with those while the class is reading them, too. I had heard this was the best English course at Harvard, and it was very good (loved the books) and I enjoyed lectures, but if you're looking for a stellar English class, perhaps choose one where you work in a section with the professor--I would have preferred that set-up in this class because I wanted to discuss the works with Prof. Fisher.
You will lean so much in this class- and get to read so many awesome books in the mean time! Take it:)
It's a lot of reading and a lot of work but it's a phenomenal course!
Getting to read such classic novels was my favorite part of this course, but the lectures were all very interesting and insightful. My own sections were wonderful and also engaging. Take this course if you want to commit to reading a lot of pages in a short time.
If you love nineteenth century novels, take this class! The amount of reading is substantial, but it's definitely worth it for such amazing literature.  The lectures are also incredibly insightful, among the best I've heard at Harvard.
This course, as these explanations will tell you, involves a lot of readings. That's true, although they're manageable enough if you can read 50 pgs. each day. I kept up well enough until midterm season--and then the reading involved long-session catch-up. That's not terrible, though, and I did manage to read all the books (finished 1 the day of the final...). The lectures are solid, if a bit repetitive at times. But the books themselves are awesome--and this course (which has very strong sections, too) is the best way to truly appreciate them. I was motivated to take the course by its books, despite having read none going in. I wasn't disappointed. I'm an Economics major who's also a very slow reader--but I loved this course.
I recommend this class with more enthusiasm than any other class I have taken at Harvard. Prof. Fisher's lectures were remarkable in how they synthesized broad themes and made a series of great novels feel approachable analytically. I was always riveted. Section with Laura was another highlight of the class because asks the best questions that generate discussion that is more meaningful than any other section I have been in before. This class was incredibly formative for me as a reader, writer, and thinker.
Pride and Prejudice, Anna Karenina, The Brothers Karamazov - if we don't read these books in college, for many of us there won't be time to read them and enjoy them. Lectures are wonderful, but the 5 hour exam at the end of the year is mentally exhausting.
This is a wonderful class, but there is a very big possibility that it will murder your GPA. If grades are important to you, you should probably steer clear from this class.
This class is AMAZING. Professor Fischer is AMAZING. The books you read are AMAZING. Lectures are AMAZING. BUT, this is only true contingent on the fact that you genuinely, absolutely love analytical reading, get excited by making neat connections or learning from the fantastic philosophical perspectives of some of the greatest writers of all time, and think that laboring over Dostoevsky, Tolstoy etc. is extremely rewarding rather than trying. Also, it is contingent on your genuine interest in the material rather than a huge concern over your GPA. Grading is relatively tough - so if you are taking this course to get an A - don't. If you're taking this class to learn, grow, read great books, and get whatever grade you deserve - YOU NEED TO TAKE THIS CLASS!Also, this can be true of you, even if you are not an English concentrator! For example, for science concentrators with a love of analytic reading this is a great option for the Aesthetic and Interpretive Gen. Ed. - if not probably the best option. It's definitely not an "easy gen-ed" but it's worth your while, it's a meaningful course that you will get something out of!Also, there is a HUGE amount of reading, so be aware ahead of time, and make sure if you're taking this class that your schedule is going to let you dedicate enough time to be able to enjoy the readings, and get something meaningful out of them, rather than treating them as something you have to get through as fast as possible. Do this course, and yourself justice, and don't take it with the intention of not doing all the readings. There is so much to get out of this course, and it deserves to be done in its entirety. Also, personal advice: going in to the course already having read a good portion of the syllabus will make the course very manageable. e.g. if the summer before taking the class you can knock out two of the larger books on the syllabus you will be in good shape, and they will be fresh enough in your memory (and annotated perhaps?) that you'll still be able to write about them.Finally, be aware that the final is a day-or-night option take home. It's intense.
You better really, really like to read and write.
If you hate reading, don't take this class. But if you love to spend hours lost in the classics of the 19th century, then you most definitely should. I loved this class and would recommend it to anyone, but it is not an easy A. Also, if you do end up taking this class, know that Professor Fisher and the TF's are bottomless wells of knowledge, so really take advantage of them.
Take this class.  Be prepared to work very hard, but it is well worth it.  I am so glad I read every book on the syllabus, and I know I appreciated each more because of Professor Philips's lectures.  The sections were interesting, productive, and helpful.  The papers were not too arduous--but you needed to read the books before writing, which was challenging!
I HIGHLY recommend this course to anyone willing to do the work.  It is a lot of reading, and the essays are tough.  Not least, the final exam is grueling.  If you are willing to do the work, you will gain IMMENSELY from this course.  It taught me to appreciate literature in a new way.
Prof. Fisher must be one of the most compelling lecturers in the English Department.  He knows the novels he teaches as well as anyone can possibly know such expansive works of art.  I would recommend this class even to people without a strong background in reading novels; it will teach you how to read them, as long as you're willing to put in the time and effort.
This is a class for someone who not only loves reading novels that are extremely long and weighty, but also has the time to. You will be fantastically challenged and stimulated by Professor Fisher's incredible lectures and materials, and as long as you have the time/effort to read the novels it will be the best decision of your semester. Take this class, and make sure you set aside the time to do these novels justice.
I read all the Q guide reviews of past years that said how much work the class was going to be and how long the reading took, and I can confirm this as someone who thought they could handle the weekly reading and definitely couldn't. If you take one of Fisher's classes, it would really helpful if you'd read at least one of the books beforehand, so you have some wiggle room. Otherwise, I guarantee you will be perpetually behind, especially by the end. I think most of us had read a good chunk of all the books throughout the semester, and at the end, we had to catch up on the rest of all the books. With the level of detail and analysis they expect, you just can't skip chunks of the book and get by. For the take-home final at the end, you have to write on all the books. The take-home is the worst part of the class because you either get it at 9 and have to turn it in by 4 pm or at 5 pm and have to turn it in by 9 am the next day and you have to write between 12-16 pages in that time. In retrospect, I learned a lot in the course - it is challenging and the tfs have high expectations and know their shit, but ultimately I find that it's unusual to find a class like this Harvard that you can't bullshit through, so this is a good thing. During the semester though, the class is stressful and a lot of work. If you go in though knowing this, I recommend the class! Also, Fisher is brilliant, but his lectures are all over the place and his opinions on the books can be controversial, so I almost felt that it was like going to random guest lectures each week, and we were sort of left alone to interpret and work through the books ourselves.
Lecture is as good as an English lecture gets. Fisher has fascinating points to make, and really makes you appreciate the books. Great books, too.
I know a lot of other people who have taken the course say the same thing, but it is true: This is one of the best courses I have ever taken. The book list is daunting, but if you are willing to commit and devote the time to reading them, you will love love love the class. Professor Fisher is a brilliant professor and puts teaching first. It is a pleasure to attend his lectures. What can be better than reading wonderful books and hearing a great professor share his thoughts on them? Take this class!!
Fantastic course, well-curated reading list, but be prepared to read (yes, actually read) 800-1000 page books.
I would tell students that this is a phenomenal course, but for those looking primarily to fulfill a general education as I was, it might be better to take a course with not as much workload.
Great class, keep up with the reading if you want to get as much out of it as you can
Read the syllabus before you take this class; pay attention to how thick the books are!
If you can handle the sheer amount of reading and you love books, take this class. Fisher is an amazing lecturer and the course material, in particular the more Slavic course material, is sublime.
Professor Fisher packs a lot of content into his lecturesin fact, it can sometimes be hard to keep up with how quickly he moves through the various points he sets out to cover (which are listed on the blackboard every lecture). In some ways, this class is a bit unbalanced: Professor Fisher spends a lot of time talking about themes and motifs in the texts, but not so much on how these texts relate to those that come before or after; also, literary perspectives through history about these texts are something I would have liked to learn about (how the Brothers Karamazov was read differently by different literary critics, for instance). Overall, though, I'd have to say that this class really delivers on what it sets out to do, which is to teach students about realism, some of the greatest works of realism from the 19th c. (and Buddenbrooks), and how to read closely and make literary arguments.
It's a lot of reading, but reading that is well worth it. Lectures are amazing and you walk out thinking that you are a changed person. But reward comes with cost-- the books are difficult and so are the assignments. Professor Fisher paints really broad strokes about what the 19th century novel is, what reading critically means. He doesn't point out to you what the central themes are, what the central message is as in a high school course. You are required to do a lot of work on your own to draw conclusions for your papers. That said, you should TOTALLY TAKE THIS COURSE. LOVED IT.
A really great excuse to read several really great books. The final is really unpleasant, but you don't need to worry about that until it's actually happening. Everything else about the course was fantastic. It's one of the heaviest reading loads of any class at Harvard, so be prepared for that going in. But it's definitely manageable to read everything assigned and still take other tough classes.
The reading load for this class is heavy, and it helps to have previously read one or more of the books.  But the lectures are fantastic and allow you a unique perspective on the writing tradition of the 19th century.  Professor Fisher is great!
This is really a tough class. Very rewarding, but I would recommend taking it in a semester where you think you can really invest the necessary time to the reading.
If you are interested in novels, or even trying to gauge your interest in them or in literature in general, you should take this course. The ideas presented in lecture about the texts are extremely intriguing, and the course covers such a wide range of texts that it seems as if, by the end, you have good exposure to major themes and ideas in novels during the nienteenth and early twentieth centuries. If you take it, you should enjoy reading a lot, because that is what you will have to do to keep up with the pace of the course.
A lot of detailed, close reading every week (200+ pages/week), be aware of how much work you need to put into it. It definitely helps to do some of the reading before taking the class.
The final is harder than you can imagine. Books are really long. That said, still liked the class. Really good lectures, great books
I found this course absolutely amazing. It is an incredible set of novels and Philip Fischer engages in analysis that gets you thinking about the messages and values of the books.
Professor Fisher's lectures alone make it worth taking this class, but you also get complex, analytical discussions with a highly motivated group of people and the experience of reading the greatest nineteenth century novels.
Phil Fisher's thoughts are very interesting and sometimes beautiful.  He's an inspiring thinker and the class was worth it just to hear him talk in lectures
Get ready to do a lot of reading, section is very helpful, and take a lot of notes.
Stellar English course for those interested in working hard at studying literature. Take this course if you want to read long, excellent novels and listen to an exceptional lecturer. Don't take this course if your interest in literature fades after 800 pages or you want an easy literature course.
Fisher's amazing, Josh Rothman's amazing, the books are amazing. No reason in the world not to take it the first chance you get.
rewarding class, but requires a lot of hard work (specifically reading and thematic linking)
This course is really interesting, and it gets you to read a number of excellent works by great authors.  Fisher's lectures are quite good and I would have marked "recommend with enthusiasm" but I don't think this course is for everyone. You have to be comfortable with a quite heavy reading load. If so, then go for it!
You should definitely take this course for Fisher's lectures, but I wouldn't recommend it as a first semester freshman.
TAKE THIS CLASS before you leave Harvard!!! Otherwise you'll be sitting here after you graduate (if the incomparable Phil Fisher is still around by then) auditing it with the other white-haired alums that we shared the classroom with. That's how good it is! Few other classes will give you such a mighty reading list. And to listen to Fisher talk is akin to hearing that rare, wondrous, voice of a thoughtful intellect telling you all about the greatest books in the world with the attitude of a humane observer of people. You feel uplifted in a class like this.
Take this class! It's one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard, Professor Fisher is amazing, and the TF's are wonderful and so committed to helping you.  Such a life-changing class!
This is a hard class, but it is also an incredible intellectual ride. There is a ton of reading each week, and the papers and exams are intellectually rich and challenging, but the novels are magnificent, and if you pay attention, you can can really get a great sense of how they work and why they are so important to literary tradition. Philip Fisher is not the most engaging lecturer, so you have to make sure you adjust to his style and pick up what you need to know.
Stop. Loads of people will doubtlessly use this space gush about how amazing Phil Fisher's lectures are, how many amazing connections he can fit in one lecture, and how they love to bask in his radiant presence. But as a person who thinks rationally, I was very frustrated. The lectures are incredibly scattered, and you'll leave not with revelations about 19th century novels, but an enormous pile of facts only useful for hitting on English majors while sipping lattes in Cafe Pamplona. And the points that he does hit are not developed in detail - the lectures are more like a long list of essay topics, and less like English essays. Alright, the Fisher-worship can continue now.
You read great books, and the Professor and TF's are great. The books are very very long though. You have to read on a regular and consistent basis or you will not succeed. Seriously though, it's a lot of reading, but very rewarding.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard thus far. Philip Fischer is absolutely wonderful, and you could not find a better, more passionate TF than Kaye. I loved every moment of it!
The books are wonderful!  I listened to some on tape (Librivox is amazing!!!!) while I was in lab, so I got to do homework while I was splitting cells.  It is a lot of reading, though, and you do want to annotate well.  I would definitely make sure you know what type of essay they're looking for before you start writing.  I had trouble getting the whole literary analysis part down, but that's probably just because I have less English background.  I think it is a really neat course, and definitely at least worth shopping.
This is a great class, even for non-concentrators.  However, it's important to keep up with the readings, or you won't get much out of lectures.
Despite the large amount of reading, this was one of the best courses I took at Harvard. I would highly recommend it.
The teaching staff is excellent, but there are too many books on the syllabus to read closely and discuss thoroughly in section. Take this course only if you have already read more than one of the novels.
There's a ton of reading so maybe allow for this to be one of the bigger classes in your schedule. You will get a lot out of it if you put in the work!
Definitely the highlight of my semester, which was otherwise stuffed with science classes. Phil Fisher said something very insightful the first day of class about reading being a solitary activity where you completely enter other people's lives but give nothing of yourself in return; if you're willing to spend a lot of time reading, this is the class for you. But you'll still get to discuss and make sense of it all in section. The novels you read in this class are incredible novels packed with insight into human psychology, and the original thinking you get to do on essays is so rewarding. Try to get Laura; she's awesome (though I'm sure the other TFs are also)!
books are long but classics and great to read. The bulk of work in the class is reading, and if you can't commit to reading the novels its not worth taking the class. Prof Fisher is so great and so smart. It's great to hear his perspective on such great works of literature
I might just sit in on a couple of the lectures instead of taking the course; you'd get the gist, without the work.  Then again, after completing the work in the course, you get kind of the same high as completing a marathon.
This is a fantastic course on the whole.  You will read amazing novels and by the end you will be drawing connections between some of the greatest books of the nineteenth century.  That said, you will be doing SO MUCH reading in this class.  If you are not a reader (and I mean a serious reader) then this probably is not going to be your class.  There were nights when I did 300-400 pages of reading, and this is pretty dense fiction.   I highly recommend this class for anyone deeply interested in great character-driven novels, but I warn you that it is a tough course, and will often consume many hours of your week for reading.  NOT a gen-ed oriented course, so if you are just doing this for a requirement, don't kid yourself.  Finally, Professor Fisher's lectures are simply brilliant.  I mean this honestly, he blew my mind, inspired me, made me laugh, and even brought me to tears.  But you will not enjoy the full power of his brilliant lectures if you don't do all of the reading, so be warned that this will take lots of work.  Also, Laura Johnson is the most amazing TF I ever could have asked for.  If possible, try to be in her section.  The conversations about the novels and their themes were amazing, and she really knows how to motivate people!
A great class if you want to get exposure to some of the Great Books everyone should have read- don't take this class if you are looking to close read
Fantastic course to take. You will not regret anything. Fisher is a fantastic lecturer and chooses TFs whose competency ranks well above the average at this school. The reading list consists entirely of books that everyone should read. My one tip is to get some of the reading done before the semester begins - you will thank yourself later.
This class has a lot of reading, but the novels are superb.
Phil Fisher is absolutely everything he's cracked up to be.  His lectures are top-notch, and the books he chooses are exactly what you should be reading.  That said, it's also a ton of work.  Doing all of the reading is completely necessary, and there's a ton of it.  You can absolutely take this class without an extensive english background, but be prepared to work a ton catching up to folks accustomed to literary criticism.
Phil Fischer is brilliant. If you've never taken a serious English class before, TAKE THIS!! The novels are great, especially the Russian ones. It definitely helps having read some of the novels before. I'd already read about half the books, and it made the semester so much easier.
It is a lot of reading but certainly a satisfying collection of novels. Prof. Fisher is great, as always.
The lectures and novels are great, but the amount of required reading is quite large.
The class is good and you get to read interesting novels. But the reading is intense, and if you get a little behind it will snowball. Additionally, the grading is very harsh. Papers are difficult to write on such large novels. The final exam is a killer! It is a good class but not an easy one.
Professor Fisher is incredible!  His lectures are really engaging and, as a freshman taking the course, I was very pleased with the coherence and intuitiveness of the interpretations presented (as opposed to high school english).  The TFs for this course are also great - they really had an infectious enthusiasm for the novels.
Lots of reading, but definitely worth it
If you enjoy reading and you're willing to chip away at it every night, the reading is manageable. Phil Fisher is amazing and his lectures will blow your mind. You'll be excited to go to lecture every week and disappointed when the hour is up.
It's a lot of reading, but the readings are classics so it is completely worth it. The professor and the TFs are amazing and very supportive. You will learn things about the novels that will completely change how you understand the 19th c novel, for the better.
Do all you can to have Margaret Rennix as your TF and consider reading one of the novels over the summer to give yourself a reprieve in the syllabus. Bottomline: this class is wonderful. Take it. It will change the way you read novels and appreciate realism. And you will walk away with an undying love of Phil Fisher.
There is a ton of reading, but you will be glad to have read these books and the feedback and attention from the teaching staff is unparalleled.
Professor Fisher is one of the best professors Harvard has to offer. You will regret not taking this class.
Pre-reading some of the books may be helpful in keeping up, if you don't read fast. These are monsters of books, aside from Bovarie and Sensibility. Give yourself time and space.
This class was one of the best I have taken at Harvard, and, for that matter, the kind of class I came to Harvard to take. You not only feel smarter after having done all the reading--you feel wiser. Going to lecture is like attending the best secular sermon you'll ever hear in your life.
This is a great great class, but requires a lot of time, work and reading!
This course has a great (but long) reading list and sections are great. Lectures can be a bit boring, but they don't take away from the class as a whole.
Wonderful, delightful! Yet as said before, you must really stay on top of the thousands of pages of reading to benefit from the beauty of the books and of Professor Fisher's lectures.
Probably one of the best courses I have taken here. It is a lot of work, but well worth it. It really developed my close reading and writing skills.
This class is incredible.  The workload is so worth it, Professor Fisher's lectures are amazing, and at the end of the semester you will have read six absolutely classic novels that may have otherwise sat untouched on your shelves forever.  Be prepared to read a lot, to think a lot, and to have your mind blown by incredible literature and literary insight.  Also, Margaret is the most amazing TF in the world.
Heavy workload, great subject material
If you have any interest in literature at all or enjoy compelling, brilliant lectures, you have to take this course.  It will change your life by introducing you to the forerunners of the novel as a genre and Modernism, who were all brilliant in their own right.
In my opinion, this course should be a MUST-TAKE of all college students. I gained an appreciation for the novel, for literature, and for humanity -- it sounds broad and vague, but it's true. Professor Fisher is a gem, and his teaching fellows are the most devoted, brilliant TFs I've ever had. You will regret not taking this before you graduate.
Take it! Everything about this class is wonderful - the reading, the lectures and the teaching staff.  These books are delightful to read in any context, and reading them in the company of such great lectures and fun sections makes them that much better.  Doing the reading will always be a welcome break from other homework.
Would recommend with enthusiasm to anyone with a passion for literature
This class is the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. Though it is very challenging and time consuming, the novels you read are intriguing and personally illuminating. Professor Fisher is clearly brilliant, and his deep perception of the novels, as well as his references to other authors or to philosophers, really enhanced my understanding of each novel. Furthermore, my section experience was really great in this class. I loved the opportunity to discuss the books with classmates in a more relaxed setting, and the feedback I received on my papers was lengthy and constructive. If you're willing to put in the time and work, you will get so much out of this class!
Get ready to read more than you ever have for a single English class before.  Any book under 500 pages now looks short to me.
The readings, especially as filtered through Professor Fisher's thoughts, are well worth the time (even though they take a LOT of time).
Be ready to read a lot (as everyone will say), but it is all doable. I think it comes out to 200-250 pages a week. The lectures are really great and always give you a deeper understanding. The section was probably my best section so far. It was really relaxed and everyone felt comfortable making observations. These sections were closest to a discussion I've seen.
If you take any English course in the department, take this one.
If you do not mind doing a ton of reading (all wonderful, wonderful books though) this is a great course. I mean GREAT.
The reading list is amazing, Professor Fisher is a boss, and the TFs are knowledgable and friendly. I would advise students considering this course to make nightly reading a habit. Once you get behind, there is really no catching up.
There is a TON of reading but it is all interesting.  You wont regret taking the class at all.
Before you take this class, keep in mind that the reading load is absolutely enormous. That being said, the readings are incredible and on the whole engrossing, and I'm so glad that I've had the opportunity to complete all of those books. The lectures are engaging and are a great complement to the books and the sections are absolutely fantastic. On the whole, I would say this course is fantastic, especially as an introduction to English at Harvard. I would again emphasize, though, that the workload is absolutely enormous.
The best course I have ever taken. Lots of work but ultimately very rewarding.
Way too much reading to cram into the new, shorter semester, unless the rest of your course load is extremely light.
You might want to read all these books anyway, just by dint of being human, so why not read them with such good guidance?
This is by no means an easy way to fulfill Gen Ed or Core. You have to be able to keep up with the very long syllabus (six books don't seem that daunting until you realize some of them are 800+ pages). It can be rewarding if you put time and effort into it and do well, or if you want to experience English at Harvard, but if all you're trying to do is fulfill a Core, there are options that are less time-intensive.
The readings were wonderful and the lectures were fascinating.
Everyone should take this course to round out his/her education at Harvard.
It's a great class, and will definitely not be regretted, but make sure you sort of work your schedule around it so that you can read a good amount. Otherwise it won't be worth it.
This class is incredible!! The books are wonderful, and Prof Fisher is a great lecturer. I'd recommend it a million times over!
Some of the best books you'll ever read, crammed into far too small a time, and taught in a brilliant but irritatingly scattered manner. Fischer is an absolute authority on these books, but his lectures are maddeningly all-over-the-place, however much he tries to organize them, and the pace of the course is really too quick to get everything out of these books that one might hope. Only take if you're willing to really dedicate yourself to it.
This course is miraculous.  The books require significant time devoted to reading with distraction, but the end result is an amazing engagement with spectacular literature.  Philip Fisher is astounding.  Get Margaret as your TF if possible.
If you are willing to do all the reading, it is a phenomenal course. Though exhausting at times.
This is a classic course for classic novels. Lectures by Professor Fisher are experiences to be had. The teacher and the TFs are really dedicated and this course demands that kind of reciprocation from the students. There is much work and learning to be done, sections are very diverse and full of great activities, and you will have to read slowly and carefully, above all else, patiently.
The best reading list I've ever had at this college.
Great class. Be wise and do the readings progressively. BE WISE
These are great books, made greater by Professor Fisher's guidance. While anyone will gain from this course, those who learn the most will be those who do all of the reading. Reading these novels requires a significant time investment, and the fact that they are novels, rather than text books, should not lead potential students to believe that the readings will be easy.
English 157 is an amazing course.  It requires a ridiculous amount of reading, but you get to survey the best novels, guided by a fantastic lecturer.
Enrolling in this course is a way to experience these novels with a thoroughness and depth of understanding that is difficult to find elsewhere. Yes, it can sometimes prove to be too much reading: make sure you craft your schedule around the thousands of pages you will be reading for this class.  Despite the huge page count, dutiful reading will prove to be entirely rewarding as the semester proceeds. Prof. Fisher's lectures are a digest of critical texts, close readings, philosophy, and history, and he covers these largest of large novels with a satisfying completeness. Coming out of this course you will feel like you have tamed some tremendous beasts and will have the weaponry to approach many others in the future. Just make sure to keep up!
You must LOVE to read and really want to finish all the texts. You probably will not finish all the reading, but you must be as driven to do so as you can be. If you're the type who likes to get away with not doing reading for section, this is not the course for you.
This is the best course you'll take at Harvard.  It doesn't matter if you have English background.  If you're interested in this course and you don't take it, you'll regret it for the rest of your days.
This is the best class you could take. It truly teaches you to think on a different level.
Don't miss a single lecture- each one is valuable and exciting.
There is a LOT of reading to be done, and I definitely recommend using study groups for the final examination.
Be prepared to work.
Lots of reading; be prepared to devote a lot of time to this course.  But it's worth it if you have the time and are willing to put in the work...
It's a great course, Fisher is great, but you have to really be prepared for a LOT of reading (or have read a lot of the books in the course previously).  I am a senior English concentrator, and this was my heaviest reading load this semester.
Excellent. (You should simply be aware, as Professor Fisher makes clear, that the reading load is heavy.)
It's a lot of work, but very rewarding if you're interested in the material.
It's a really engaging course and taught me a lot about literature. However, it's very heavy for an English course. If you have a heavy course load or other commitments, I'd suggest auditing the lectures instead.
Be ready to read!
Stay on top of the reading!
The reading list is comprised of books that everyone always means to read (especially Brothers Karamazov and Anna Karenina) -- this class offers the chance to read them with the help of a brilliant professor.
Lots of reading. Interesting discussions, lots of support but not so much supplementary materials
I hesitated before taking the course because I am a science concentrator and I had not taken a literature class since high school but it was well worth it. You may have to work to do well but you learn a lot in return. If yo are looking for an easy core that allows you to focus on your concentration course I would definitely not suggest this one. Only do this if you are very interested in having a good grounding in literature.
Good core choice because it's an english department course and therefore is more worthwhile (in my opinion) than a core. I will use knowledge from this course for the rest of my life.
I often did the work for this class as a reward for doing work for other classes.  Yes, the material is that cool.This class will change the way you read literature.
I don't think it's necessary to have an English background as long as you like to read.
Large workload but readings are staples of English literature, so quite necessary for any English concentrator to take
good for students prepared to spend a lot of time on readings
It's an enjoyable and painless way to take an English class, and the reading list contains the classics that you have always meant to read.
Take this course. You read some of the best novels ever written and have some of their richness and complexities lucidly teased out and expounded upon in lecture.
You will inevitably get behind in your readings.  Instead of trying to catch up, read a summary of it.  Then, skim through and focus on particular passages.  Pick up the reading once you're back on schedule.  It is not necessary to read the book from beginning to end in that order to get something out of each book.
Be prepared to do lots of intensive close reading and integrate that into forming strong, persuasive arguments.
every student at harvard should have to take this class. i didn't stop talking about it.  but you better be ready to spend a lot, a lot of time reading
keep up with the reading, there is a lot of it.
It's a great way to fulfill a core requirement and actually learn something about relevant books. Be prepared to work hard though!
Yo, do the reading!
The course involves a lot of reading, but the novels are wonderful and the lectures are amazing.
If assignments don't change, take it only if you can read a lot quickly. You have a lot to read during a short period of time. The class moves pretty fast.
Don't fall behind in the reading, but make sure you don't rush through the books; take the time to read everything carefully, because it will be useful for the papers and the exam.
Take this course, but only if you're very enthusiastic about classic literature and really love English!  It's very heavy reading, and it requires a lot of your time to really appreciate this course, but if you spend the time and you love to read, I think it's a course you MUST take before you leave Harvard.
I personally loved this class, but you should defintiely heed what Prof. Fisher says on the first day: This class involves a LOT of reading. You need to be very organized from day one and make sure to schedule in time to read in order to get all of it done. It is not a course you should take unless you're really prepared to work hard and stay on top of things, and I would not recommend taking it in conjunction with any other heavy reading courses-- I did, and that was a big mistake!
The books are great but read them on your own.  I was not inspired to think further about the books through lecture or section, and I hated the formulaic, unemotional approach to the novels.
Interesting, a "classic" english course--the perfect elective for anyone interested in literature! Dr. Fisher is great.
Be ready for a LOT of reading
Professor Fisher's lectures are great and really interesting, if somewhat hard to follow. The novels are, of course, excellent, and the course is a great excuse to read some of the best books ever written (and then write about them!).
The lectures are fantastic, and do not judge the novels before you read them because they were all appropriately selected!
A fantastic reading list and an outstanding series of lectures:important not just for English concentrators, but in order to be a thoughtful nuanced person in the world.
The reading list alone is worth the class.
The books are great.  You just have to be ready to read all the time.
Recommended provided they are good at handling novels - not too much guidance given on writing papers. This is fine for me cos I'm an English major
the best way to read these novels; grading is fair and paper assignments are not a burden; but there is a lot of reading, be prepared to play catch-up over breaks
Great class but prepared to work A LOT. Or, take it pass fail like me, and learn in a less stressful way!
Requires a lot of work. Clear preference for English concentrators in sections, grading. Worth one's time. Your high-school idea of what a class at Harvard should be.
while it has some difficult and very long readings, and while it is important to be able to write well for the essays, the quality of the readings and the lectures should be more than enough reason for most people to check out this course
Professor Fisher offers intriguing insights into the the way different kinds of novels are put together.  His refreshingly authoritative tone is based on an incredible depth of experience in reading and evaluating novels.  His assertions may provoke disagreement, but this simply serves to draw one more into the course and to provide possible topics for argumentative papers.  The reading is excellent, and one finishes the course with a satisfyingly tall stack of books read.
The lectures are fascinating
Philip Fisher is a god among men.
Please take this course! It will change your life and Phil Fisher is the most amazing lecturer at Harvard.
The reading list is excellent and the lectures informative, but be warned, future students -- there is a LOT of reading.
This is a great course, if you are prepared to read a ton.
be prepared to read a lot
Don't let the large amount of reading deter you from taking this class; it's well worth it
I took this course for the books, but the course weighed down my enjoyment of them. I would advise that future students read the books on their own.
Lots of reading.
It is hard, but worth it.
Only take this class if you are willing to do a lot of reading.  If you love literature, it is very worth the effort.
Read Read Read!!! Over 4000 pages to read!!!
Professor Fisher is a hypnotist.
do not take it if you are not prepared to give the time and focus to the material
This class features a fairly intense amount of reading which may have been reasonable under the old schedule, but which is now somewhat ridiculous.  That said, if you can handle the breakneck pace, the rewards are worth it; Fisher's lectures are always to die for, and the novels couldn't be better.
This course is one of the best you will take at Harvard, but has a ton of reading, and you get a lot more out of it if you can do the reading, so think about whether it is something you can and want to invest in or not.
This is a really satisfying and beneficial class -- you learn a lot about classic texts that you might not have the opportunity to read independently.  Professor Fisher has wonderful insights into these texts.  But students should be prepared to do a lot of reading.
This class is HARD. But you won't regret learning about these famous works.
This is a good course to take as a freshman if you're trying to decide whether to concentrate in Englishthere's a nice variety of length and style in the assigned texts, and the paper assignments aren't too strenuous.  You should definitely be prepared to do a large amount of reading, though.
Incredible readings, essential pieces of the Western canon you might not get around to later in life, and lectures that you will not want to miss.
Though the workload is heavy, this is a delightful class for anyone who enjoys reading 19th century literature.  Professor Fisher's lectures truly enhance the experience of reading these great works.
Amazing class! Professor Fisher's lectures are engaging and the class is a wonderful chance to read some of the best books ever written. It is a LOT of reading, and sometimes I wonder if it wouldn't have been better to read these books on my own and take the time to really enjoy and savor them. But then again, busy as I am, like most Harvard students, when would I really take the time to read Anna Karenina on my own. Overall I think this class was a really valuable experience.
This class is incredibly rewarding, but be prepared to be pummeled by the workload.  Be sure not to overload yourself with other difficult classes in addition to this one.
This was by far one of the best literature courses I have ever taken: lectures are saturated with information and truly make you think about these texts in a different way, all of the reading material is enjoyable and useful for the rest of your life, and section meetings are a pleasure and incredibly helpful in teaching you how to improve your analytical skills. I definitely would recommend this course!
Here words throb real breaths and finally pages ensheath life into their wetting graze - reading begins
Do not take this course unless you plan on it being one of your main focuses for the semester. There is a ridiculous amount of reading, and unless you can actually finish it (and you won't be able to unless you have other relatively easy courses), you won't get as much out of the course as you wished you would. Listen to all the other advice: read these books on your own and take a less intense course for your Gen Ed.
it's impossible to do all the reading in a single semester if you have any other major time commitments outside of class, and it's impossible to do really well unless you do all the readings.
there's a lot of reading
Taking a course with professor Fisher was a delightful experience. I enjoyed every minute of the class and I learned so many exciting things about celebrated authors and their work. Professor Fisher is a very talented professor who communicates his passion for literature in a unique way. Moreover, he is very kind and always eager to help when questions arise.  I believe that I couldn't have chosen a better course for this semester.
A great course, though ability to skim is recommended. Should also be able to write close-readings very swiftly.
What I said above would be fine: Professor Fisher is to literary analysis as Miley Cyrus is to climbing, partying in the USA, etc.
This class should not be taken as an introductory or elective course; anyone who wants to take English 157 should be ready to put a large amount of time and effort into the readings and should already be comfortable with analysis and essay writing.
Phil Fisher is one of the best professors in the English department. He is a brilliant lecturer, he provides secondary literature, and is always willing to see students outside of class.
It really is a lot of reading, but its well worth it, as the texts are well chosen. Make a real effort to keep up with the reading because lectures are often quite rewarding and you'll get a lot more out of them if you're caught up with the reading. The final is a killer.
You have to be truly willing to make the time to read all these books, but it's a great pleasure.  And Professor Fisher's lectures are fantastic -- I've always loved long novels, but now I feel equipped to understand them in a much deeper way than I did before.
Be prepared to have to read a lot.
Take this class!!!!  The books are great and Phil Fisher is a God among men.  If you love novels, or even just reading in general, this class is for you.  It is a challenge, but endlessly rewarding.  Again, highly highly recommend it.
Phil Fisher is a wonderful teacher - I was rapt even at 10 a.m. in lecture. That being said, the shorter schedule has made the reading move at an even faster piece - you will be expected to read and digest the Brothers Karamazov in about two weeks. Not difficult if you have nothing else to do...Also the final exam is not the terrifying experience that everyone makes it out to be. Just read the novels and go to lecture - you will be fine.
Increadibly rewarding.
Cherish every lecture-- you will regret having missed even one.
Prof. Fisher is amazing, and even though the class wasn't always easy, it was worth it.
Professor Fisher's lectures were life changing. Marissa was also one of the best TFs I have had at Harvard. She gave extremely detailed and helpful feedback, and was always available outside of class to discuss ideas. For me, even as a CS concentrator, I found that this class was well structured and well taught enough that I could really enjoy it and follow along. Fair warning: it's an average of 200 pgs of novel reading per week.
You should definitely, absolutely take this course!!! Professor Fischer teaches so well, and the support from the TFs (go Marissa!) is amazing. I received so much helpful feedback throughout the course. Although it is a significant amount of reading, the lectures and sections discussions really help to make it easier and clue you into little nuances that make the reading even more fun!
KEEP UP WITH THE READINGS. You will get so much more out of the class than if you fall behind.
you have got to read a little everyday.
Of course this class does require a lot of reading, but the opportunity to take a class from Professor Fisher is really not to be missed. Do try to stay on top of the reading, however. As soon as you fall behind, you never really catch up.
Phil Fisher is a genius. If you don't take a course with him while you're at Harvard, you will almost certainly regret it.
This is a dream of a course. I had heard from many people that taking a class with Professor Fisher ought to be a requirement before graduation, and now I wholeheartedly agree! The fact that the course was so well-run, and that I had an amazing section and TF, felt like a lucky bonus.
I had never taken a literature class before this (I took this for AIU credit), but I felt by the end of it, I had learned a tremendous amount about literature/textual analysis/English as a discipline. Great class, great books, great teaching staff. Be prepared to spend a ton of time reading though.
Awesome class! Very accessible to people who haven't done much English before but still want to learn a lot!
This class was amazing! Professor Fisher's lectures are astounding and the teaching staff is so supportive and helpful. This being said, the workload is intense. We blew through 800 page novels in two weeks, and often I  wished that we could have slowed down to better appreciate the reading. You should be prepared to commit at least one hour every day of the week for the reading. At least. But, if you can manage the reading-load, take it! You'll be glad that you did.
Really great class - but take if you have time to do a *lot* of reading.
This was my first English class, though I've long had an interest in literature, especially 19th century novels. This is by far the best class I've taken at Harvard, with extremely inspiring lectures by Prof. Fisher, insightful and enthusiastic TF (I was in Marissa's section), and of course very engaging novels. The only word of caution is the workload. I went into the class having read two of the five novels, and still ended up spending a lot of time reading and re-reading. That said, this class is a great enjoyment for those genuinely interested.
Great books. Amazing professor. You won't regret it.
This is a great class for anyone who has an interest in the readings (which include Austen, Dostoevsky, Mann, Tolstoy, Eliot), and is willing to put effort into thinking about and responding to them. Professor Fisher's insights on both individual scenes and the novel as a whole are uniformly fascinating and brilliant, and you'll learn to appreciate the books in entirely new ways even if you've read them before. The readings and papers do require a significant amount of time and effort, but are all extremely rewarding, and you'll have a lot of help with them from class and section!
This class was far and away the most incredible class I've taken in my four years at Harvard. Professor Fisher is an incredible teacher, and the TFs clearly have a genuine passion for the books. In addition, the TFs care immensely about their students and will go out of their way to make themselves accessible. This class fundamentally changed my perspective on some things in life -- if you're looking for something to fulfill your A&I requirement, absolutely take this class. Couldn't recommend it enough.
yes, the books are long.  but they are worth it.  as is lecture.  it's fast and furious.  but fantastic.
It's a kind of unbearable amount of reading, but worth it in many ways -- the texts are amazing and professor Fisher is a joy.
Prof Fisher is amazing. I have taken two classes with Prof Fisher and wish I could take more. The class is a lot of work but you get a lot out of it.
Read some ahead of time, or get really good at reading very fast. There is an absolutely huge amount of reading.
The reading is the best part, and lecture is quite good. The grading is very harsh and that is discouraging.
MUST TAKE COURSE AT HARVARD! The best way to read some of the greatest works ever written. Prof. Fisher is definitely my favorite professor so far, so do yourselves a favor and take this course before you graduate. Stephen Squibb is also an amazing tf if you ever get him.
Great lectures but rather disorganized. KEEP ON TOP OF YOUR READINGS FROM WEEK TO WEEK! I ended up reading two novels the day before the final and it was hell.
professsor fisher is a treat
It's an incredible chance to read really great novels, in a really cool setting, but they have to be willing to read a bunch every week.
Best class ever. Take this class, take it pass fail if you have to (though be wary the english department is great about grades), but take this class. My favorite class in my 4 years here by a long shot. I love the books, and only if lecture wasn't at 10am.
