Professor Scarry is wonderful. The Brontes are wonderful. The combination of these two forces must be experienced.
It's a wonderful class, take it! It's a fair amount of reading but they are intriguing novels from arguably the most distinguished female novelists and the seminar environment with Elaine is fun, intimate and engaging.
Elaine Scarry and the Brontes, together, make for a wonderful semester. There is a LOT of reading; however, the focus on Wuthering Heights and Jane Eyre keeps the course from feeling too frantic.
It's a lot of reading but AWESOME. If you like the Brontes, you'll love this course!
This course is so, so wonderful. Professor Scarry is just an incredible person, and it would be a shame to pass four years at Harvard without interacting with her. If you think you'd be happy reading a little under one Bronte novel per week, this course is absolutely for you.
Prof. Scarry is insightful and the readings and assignments were very good. 4 response papers spread out through the semester is an excellent way of enlivening the discussion with solid analysis and thoughts (we were made to think deeply and produce idea before coming to class), drawing out of us  powers of insight and interpretation.  The other students were strong, and this made a huge difference.  Scarry thoughtfully had a written application and writing sample due before the second meeting. Reading the novels over break helped me get through the syllabus (10 novels).
If you like the Brontes and you like pontificating about literature with a brilliant professor take this course.  Prof. Scarry is amazing, leads fascinating discussions and is very attuned to work load.  There is a lot of reading (a big (Bronte) book a week) but there are only 4 short discussion papers (2 pages) during the semester and then you are really expected to perform on the long final paper. The class is engaging and the Prof. Scarry is great, although be warned that you will never get a grade at the end of your papas so sometimes it is hard to know where you stand in the class!
