You have to know what you're getting into with this course. It is perfect for some people, whereas I know others who would have not been engaged with it. It's basically 15 students who love poetry, sitting around for two hours talking about, all the while being guided by the masterful, yet deft hand of a brilliant professor. If that sounds boring, steer clear. If that sounds like intellectual bliss, then by all means, take this class!
Professor Sacks is inspiring. His knowledge of the excellent poets we read is astounding, and the discussions within the class are some of the best I've had in college. If you are interested in the poets on the syllabus, you must take this class.
You will be living with the poetry you read for an entire semester, and it will change the way you see the world around you -- no doubt.
Peter is a wonderful and soothing reading of poetry.  He has a mellifluous voice and deserves to be heard.
It's lovely.  You can sincerely love poetry here.
peter sacks is lovely.  listening to him talk is a great experience--i learned so much, even about sort of "random" things.
This is an important period in poetry, and it's good to see what happend after modernism.
Sacks is very knowledgeable, but a tough cookie.  If he disagrees with your reading, you're going to know he disagrees.  God take pity on your soul.
This is an exciting introduction to twentieth-century american poetry. The atmosphere of the class is intense without being intimidating, and the professor's approach is immersive and inspiring.
Take this class in order to become familiar with contemporary poetry from an expert in the field. Professor Sacks is wonderful, poetic, and will open your eyes to the world.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.
One of the top courses I've taken at Harvard University
This is a fantastic class, and Professor Sacks is engaging, brilliant, and interesting.
Absolutely amazing. One of the best classes of my undergraduate education so far (I am a junior).
Peter Sacks' ability to synthesize and explain the significant aesthetic achievements of these poets helped me makes sense of the sometimes erratic trajectories of our postwar modern poets. Supporting his familiarity with the general is Sacks' ability to read these poems as they deserve to be read--at the minutest of textual levels.
You need to be into literature-speak, and sign on for getting totally into the poetry, but if you do, it is AMAZING. The professor is as good as any I've ever had.
Professor Sacks is wonderful, and so are the poets we study.
Sacks is a wonderful teacher, definitely take him at least once here at Harvard.
You get more than what you give, and that it's worth it to give a lot. Prof. Sacks is a very patient, very caring teacher, and one of the best you'll have here, I bet.
Any student interested in exploring 20th century poetry at a high academic level should seriously consider this class. We covered many poets - Bishop, Lowell, Wright, Rich, Ammons, Ashbery, Ginsberg - over the course of the semester, and Prof. Sacks speaks brilliantly of them in class. However, don't take the class unless you really commit to doing the readings and interacting with the material each week. Otherwise it might not be worth it.
If you are even remotely interested in studying poetry, you should take this course.  It will give you a very impressive set of references for other studies as well as immeasurable amounts of pleasure; I never had as much fun completing my reading and writing assignments than I did for this class, actually wishing that I had more time to read the poems more slowly and repeatedly.
Professor Sacks is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard. He makes a genuine connection with his students, and his understanding of this material is deep and caring. He always makes class discussions feel significant and his readings of poetry are always surprising, challenging, and, ultimately, beautiful.
This course provides an excellent introduction to American poets in the latter half of the twentieth century. Professor Sacks is very knowledgeable as well as warm and receptive to student ideas. He also is willing to adjust deadlines for individual student needs. The material is difficult however, and the class tends to attract motivated students, so be prepared to work! (Also, read the poems carefully; otherwise there will be awkward silences in class when the professor asks about the specifics of a given poem.)
Professor Sacks is a phenomenal professor - he is incredibly brilliant and his passion for poetry is contagious. That said, this course is for students who are deeply interested in poetry. A very strong level of analytical ability is required, and most students study or write poetry extensively. Do not take this class as an introduction to poetry.
One of the most engaging professors at Harvard teaching about the representation of America's fundamental characteristics in modern art; also, about the project of inquiry more generally. This is the best of the humanities at Harvard.
It's incredible; Prof. Sacks is wonderful in every way and you should take this class if you can get in. Changes the way you read and think about poetry, particularly poetry after Modernism.
This class is pure academic excitement and joy. It has made me a sharper thinker and a more ambitious poetry reader. I have no words to explain how incredible this course if in every single way. Prof. Sacks is a true inspiration; his lectures, facilitation of discussions, accessibility and passion for poetry made this course a true joy for me.
It improves your whole life. You spend a lot of time just looking at and listening to beautiful poems.
The most life-changing class you'll take at Harvard. Will change the way you see the world
This is a class with a really incredible professor and really incredible poetry: there's no reason not to take it. Be prepared to spend much more time thinking about a much smaller amount of reading than is normal for a Harvard class.
it's very interesting but you have to be driven to do a lot of thoughtful reading on your own
Peter Sacks is incredible--you should absolutely try to take a class with him.  I might recommend taking one that isn't as popular as this one--this class seems to attract a lot of intense, somewhat competitive poetry experts who are certainly brilliant, but make discussions a little less productive than they might be in a class with more non-concentrators, underclassmen, etc. who are more open to learning more about poetry.
Only take this course if you are very strong not only in reading and writing about poetry, but in speaking about it in a confident manner.
This seminar is an incredible survey of 20th century American poetry, taught by the most sensitive and observant reader of poetry I've ever met.  Take it!
This is one of the most inspiring classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Sacks cares so much about the material that it is impossible for the students not to. More than a class about 20th century American poetry though, this was a class about how to see the world differently. I cannot recommend this class more highly.
Everyone who loves literature should take this class. You will leave with both a solid knowledge of 20th century poetry and an enhanced ability to discuss and write about any literature skillfully. Peter Sacks is a can't-miss at Harvard.
Peter Sacks is one of the professors in the English department that you have to take a class with before you graduate. It doesn't matter the material, you will learn from him. That said, great readings in this class, the chance to go in depth with people like Elizabeth Bishop, and the the chance to sample many other poets.
sacks is not to be missed if you care about poetry
You should try to put yourself in whatever room Professor Sacks is in and make him talk about poetry.
This is (by far) the best course I've ever taken at Harvard. It was deeply fulfilling both academically and artistically, and continually reaffirmed my belief in literature and in the arts. I believe that this course encapsulates everything that "academics" and the study of literature should strive to be. It includes an extremely rigorous study of 20th century american poetry but never forgets the point of literature - that it is a heartfelt study of and meditation on what it means to be alive. A warmth and a belief in art dominates the room and never allows that dangerous cold, removed, academic eye to persevere, but still engages in a deep analysis of the texts.
Wonderful seminar on the greats of twentieth century American poetry. There is a lot of reading, so be prepared to be immersed in these poets and spend time on them, or else you won't feel prepared or ready to speak in class on the high level of discussion required. Professor Sacks is extremely caring and intelligent and his enthusiasm is contagious. He offers exciting and sometimes meandering readings of poetry rather than a more slow and rigorous approach you might find in other classes, which can sometimes feel a little tiring as he rhapsodizes endlessly about these poets. Even though he is quite brilliant, it can sometimes feel difficult to follow or replicate. However, no part of class time ever felt wasted and unproductive, and there is no busywork. Outside of reading lots and lots of poetry and a few papers, there's no work that's not also enjoyable and productive.
Peter Sacks' genius may seem intimidating but learning from him is an honor and a pleasure. After every class I would feel not only as if I had learnt something valuable, but as if I could view the world from a slightly different perspective. An incredible course.
Professor Sacks is a great seminar leader and a lovely person. The class goes deep into a series of excellent poets. Be prepared to read a lot and to deal with occasional logistical frustration. Also know that the Professor's analytical approach is idiosyncratic - you will likely love it but it isn't for everyone.
