This is probably the best Literature/English class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Carpio is a poignant, intelligent, rigorous, and highly nuanced reader of Nabokov--but she is also an incredibly kind person, the sort of professor who genuinely cares about her students as brains and as people. GO TO OFFICE HOURS. Seriously, the whole class was sort of in love with her by the end. Anyway, back to Nabokov: The opportunity to delve so deeply into an author's work is a rare gift, especially in Harvard's English department, and there are few better authors to do this with than Nabokov. This man is a genius who wove a wondrous and fraught textual world inside and between his works--this seminar can truly open up that world, making it increasingly fascinating without letting it become monotonous, obvious, or abstruse. Having read so widely in Nabokov's works is something I know I will carry with me for the rest of my life. Carpio's seminar style of giving one final term paper (with really well-structured deadlines) also led to the single best academic piece of work I've ever written. So there's that. You'll likely have to fill out an application on the first day of class due to interest so come prepared knowing why you want to take it or even email Carpio before. It's worth it. You will love this course.
This class is the best I have taken at Harvard. Nabokov is a genius and his prose can be difficult, but Professor Carpio frames discussions with basic themes such as landscape or a definition of art. From there, she lets our discussion flow in any and all directions. She's incredibly accessible and kind, and provides excellent feedback on your response papers- she won't just tell you what's wrong or what to explore more, but also tell you what she enjoyed, which is really refreshing and a boost of confidence in a seminar of this caliber. EVERYONE should try to take a course with Professor Carpio!
This was hands down the best seminar I've taken at Harvard. Professor Carpio is an excellent teacher, the reading list is superb, and the assignments are thought-provoking. If you're a Nabokov fan, absolutely take this class.
If you've read any Nabokov at all and been meaning to delve into his books in a deeper way, this course is excellent. I'd read a few of his novels before this class, and was interested in thinking in a deeper manner about the way he orchestrated his fiction. I was not disappointed. I absolutely adored this class.
If you are passionate about Nabokov (or inventive fiction lit in general) this class is a MUST-TAKE. At one novel and response paper a week, it takes a bit of time but not a huge amount, and I would get really carried away doing my response paper and make it really long to include everything cool I'd found. Class discussions are both freeform to your interests and expertly steered by Carpio. Don't be afraid of the final paper, either, Carpio's draft edits are your best friend! INCREDIBLE course.
Professor Carpio is an angel and she has a phenomenal sense of humor. Syllabus very manageable and incredibly interesting. Take this class.
This class had a relatively low and manageable workload, but the class discussions were held at an extremely high level and hence it could be intimidating to speak out loud in class. In order to get the most out of this class, a previous background with Nabokov's works would be very helpful.
This course has an amazing reading list and Prof. Carpio facillates good discussion. However, be prepared for a lot of reading. The discussions in class can also revolve around abstract ideas like art and love rather than looking closer at the text.
If you are fortunate enough to have come down with a case of Nabolepsy, be sure to weave this course into the Texture of your Time. Professor Carpio is one of the smartest, warmest and most engaging Professors in the English Department, and the perfect person to guide students through the complex prose and involuted structures of this notoriously tricky writer's English novels.
What an incredible seminar. I've rarely seen a course in which the students get so close. We learned and laughed together, and overall this was one of the most rewarding experiences of my college experience thus far.
I am so thankful I decided to go to this class on a whim during shopping week. It is far and away the best English class I've taken so far at Harvard. I learned so much from the other students, as well as from Professor Carpio, who in addition to being absolutely brilliant is a remarkable teacher who is always willing to provide guidance. Even if you've never read anything by Nabokov, take this course!
