Professor New is extremely knowledgable and able to guide her students through the complexities of early New England literature.
I loved this class, and when I signed up for it, I had no idea I would love it so much. It is not your typical Harvard class-we got to made ink and write with quills! We went on a field trip to different historical sites in Boston to supplement our readings! Every class was fun and enjoyable, and had an interactive element. Professor New is a great instructor-she cares about your learning and wants to help you to improve the way you look at material, as well as your writing. I was afraid the readings would be boring-but I actually loved them and learned so much about early American history. This class helped to give me an entirely new perspective.
Take it if you have ANY interest, you'll learn a ton. Don't take it to get an A -- which the professor tells you up front (believe her). If you hate colonial american history you probably won't like this class very much. If you like it at all you'll love it. Professor New has a great ability to make classes fun without making it seem like she's trying to make it "fun course."
This is a fantastic course. I was really skeptical going into it, but Professor New made the class lively and engaging. Colonial hist and lit is not the easiest thing to be excited about, but I will say that the readings and the discussions were great. Prof New can be a tough grader, but she is fair. There are also rewrites (which I recommend you take). Overall, a great course.
This is a really excellent, fun, and informative way to complete the Colonial Literature requirement for Hist&Lit, a requirement that is really difficult to complete painlessly.  Professor New has chosen a reading list of early American texts that is very accessible and diverse, and there is actually no cooler way to learn about these texts than to be at Harvard where much of the history of Massachusetts Bay happened.  Professor New is by far the most creative and energetic professor I've had at Harvard --be prepared to sew, cook, write with quills, and go on many field trips in this class.  She also gives really stellar and attentive writing feedback, but be prepared to have to work very hard on papers and go through multiple revisions if you want a good grade.
This course is a wonderful introduction to a range of the most important texts in colonial American literature.  The professor is superbly knowledgeable, enthusiastic, kind, and attentive to students.  The class discussions are stimulating and quite advanced.  "A" grades, however, are very hard to attain on the first draft of each paper, so be prepared to work hard on the revisions and spend time discussing your papers with the professor.  If possible, do the revisions early.  This course, it should also be noted, is wonderful for Hist and Lit students.  The professor, besides excelling at helping students to read and write better and caring about their success, seems to like and respect Hist and Lit very much, and has a deep knowledge of the methods and disciplinary history of the program.
A very good way to get the Hist&Lit "Colonial American Lit" requirement done. I was skeptical at first, but had a great time in the class.
The best way I could possibly conceive of to study American colonial literature. A great seminar course
Prof. New does a great job and makes the class a lot of fun. The reading load is very manageable and offers a great way to learn about the beginnings of the country.
