I loved this class--take it.  I didn't know anything about Hardy and Heaney before this semester, and now I'm obsessed with both of them.  Professor Scarry is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard.
This is the best poetry class/english class I have ever taken and I doubt I'll ever find a better one. Professor Scarry is the nicest, most wonderful teacher, and by far the most brilliant I have studied under in my time at Harvard. There is no way anyone would regret this class, and more than that Seamus Heaney and Thomas Hardy have written some of the most complex and intricate pieces of poetry that you will ever encounter.
Extraordinary course!
Prof Scarry is a fantastic resource, and she is perhaps too kind. Her every word was valuable, although she did not strike down my bad ideas.We read many beautiful poems, and Heaney and Hardy were an excellent combination.
This course was a highlight of my Harvard career. If you haven't taken a poetry class at Harvard, you absolutely should before you graduate. If you're planning on taking a poetry class, they don't get much better than this. I love Seamus Heaney more and more every time I read him, and I loved Professor Scarry more and more every class she taught. She is so involved with the course on a personal level that she actually gives out her home phone number and expects you to call her if you ever need anything. She'll call you too. Great poetry, great course, great choice for anybody with an open spot in their schedule.
Great poetry class--good if you're really good or just getting started too. Professor is soooooooooo incredibly talented.
Any class with Professor Scarry is worth taking.  She has so many beautiful jewels of wisdom to impart to her students, which makes the art of reading poetry so much more applicable to daily life.  This class also combined two poets who do not seem particularly related in a new and interesting way.
For those students entering the course with a previous knowledge of either poet, this course will serve to further you love and appreciation for both. For those who enter the course wishing to learn more about poetry, its workings and intricacies, you will do so. For those wishing to take a great course taught by a wonderful professor, you could not do better than to choose English 90kb with Professor Scarry.
This class helps you learn how to read poetry in a multi-leveled way.
