If you get the opportunity to take this class, take it! Professor Marks does a great job facilitating the workshop and creating a little community of writers within the classroom. You really learn to develop your own style, which is something you don't get in a lot of workshops.
If you want to improve your playwriting ability, take this course! It will both push you as a writer and as an academic, all while allowing you to fail, experiment, and break outside of your comfort zone.
This class is fantastic. Sam is great and it's just a fun atmosphere to learn playwriting
This class is absolutely great! I would definitely recommend it if you have interest in playwriting or screenwriting. Sam Marks is a winner--he's sort of like the stern police chief in your wacky buddy-cop sitcom, where you realize he's not stern at all but just wants you to be the best rookie cop you can be. Except instead of rookie cop, he wants you to be a playwright.
If you engage fully, this class can really help you grow as a writer. It can also help you find community. More than in any other class I've taken at Harvard, I felt in this workshop that I was among my peers, people who value the same things I do and who want to commit their time to the same things I believe in.
This class is awesome! It will expose you to many different styles of writing and push you to expand your limits as a writer. Sam is a great teacher and facilitator of discussion.
If you're interested in devoting a semester to playwriting, take this class! Sam is a smart teacher with a rare gift for appreciating and guiding students with a variety of writing styles and interests. He's not dogmatic, and you won't come away from this class feeling that there's one accepted way to write. He creates a safe, welcoming environment to grow in as a writer.
Fabulous course, an incredibly comfortable and helpful workshopping environment, and Sam's just great in general.
This is a great workshop. Professor Marks is extremely knowledgable and does a great job of ensuring that everyone participates and has a chance to receive thorough feedback on their work. Also, you get to read a lot of fantastic plays.
Relaxed class where a love for writing is taught more than anything.
An excellent--and reliably fun--workshop for developing as a writer and getting useful feedback!
Definitely take this class is you're interested in finding out who you are as a playwright. Sam really encourages all Students to explore their work and their voices. Highly highly recommend.
A really great class for writers who know the basics of story-telling and are now really looking to find their own particular voice.
This class improved my writing dramatically and pushed me to places that I didn't know I could go. I was constantly surrounded by the creative, inspiring works of my peers and felt that everything I did got better and better. Sam is a great instructor and just an all around good dude. Take it.
Really enjoyed this class - Sam is a fantastic professor!
This class is incredible. Writing is awesome; Sam Marks is not your typical Harvard professor but he's all the better for it; and the other kids in the class are great too.
Take it. It forces you to write a ton, and Sam is terrific. Best part is being able to workshop scenes with classmates and Sam
Fantastic course, terrific experience, professor is wonderful, experienced, helpful, supportive, dedicated.
This class will show you a wide array of content with varied stylistic techniques, and then let you use what you like best to make your own work. How great is that? (It's obviously very great)
This class is great if you work well under loose structure. You should start your plays early. Liz is really, really fun and easy to work with, and because the class is so small you get to work with her/your classmates to get feedback early on. The class is what you make of it.
Liz is a wonderful, wonderful playwright and teacher.  The class is low-pressure and you can produce some really great writing in this class and have a great time.
Great class, Ken is wonderful, and the more effort you put in the better you will feel about it.
Ken is a fabulous teacher, particularly a playwright teacher. He knows what he's doing, he creates the best feedback system for a creative writing class, and he really cares about our writing. The experience of having actors do a reading, with the help of a director and dramaturge was also really, really amazing. I had a blast, even if I was anxiously working on my writing a lot of the time. I learned a lot about plays and playwriting, especially the honest facts about how a career in playwriting would work. It was lots of fun and Ken was great!
This class is great for anyone who is interested in how plays are actually created.
Having your play performed at a festival with real actors and directors is a deeply rewarding experience, one of the most interesting things you can be a part of through a Harvard course.
You have to take this course if you are interested in playwriting.
This is a really awesome course, and can be very rewarding at the end. You'll learn how to balance criticism with your own instincts.
You must be familiar with playwriting. Also, you will receive a lot of feedback and you must be ready to sift through the comments. Some comments will be worth taking, some will not, but it's very difficult to reconcile all the feedback with your own vision for your draft.
This is a hard course, but worth it if there's something you really want to write.
This was the second playwriting class that I've taken here at Harvard (and I'm only a freshman), and I have been far from disappointed.  I love love loved going to this class every week.  And the festival has been one of the highlights of my education in general.  For anyone interested in playwriting, I HIGHLY recommend this course.
Be prepared to do a lot of work.  The more work you do on your play, the happier you will be with the reading.  That includes listening to and carefully considering others' feedback as well as doing thorough re-writes and re-writes of re-writes to polish your script.  But also be prepared to get so much out of this class - if you love playwriting and especially if you aspire to be a playwright, this is absolutely the best class for you to take and will help you improve by leaps and bounds and be a FANTASTIC experience.
Only you can write a good play, so work hard! It's fun and rewarding to hear feedback from other students.
This is a great, chill class where you will learn a great deal.
Doing this in the spring and seeing you show given life, even in draft form, is a very moving experience and something I think anyone interested in writing plays would benefit from.
Definitely the best creative writing class at Harvard; not only do you write every week, you read constantly, eventually producing a product you can't help but be proud of.
A great course if you're interested in writing of any kind! Tons of freedom, but a poor group could make the semester not very enjoyable.
Sam Marks is a really fantastic guy to talk to about playwriting or life, and getting to read the work of your peers is great both as a writer and as a person who likes reading an interesting and diverse collection of stories. Take this workshop for something both fun and personally productive!
This course is incredible if you're interested in writing creatively, especially playwriting.
Sam is an awesome teacher and you will learn so much both about the "fundamentals" of playwriting and about the ways in you as a writer can ignore those fundamentals. The Playwright's Festival is an incredible learning experience for anyone who wants to write plays, and the class is worth it just for that. But your experience of the class will very much depend on how good the other students are, because a good deal of the learning comes from just observing and thinking about the work of others, so it helps to know some people and know that they're good. But stilltake this class and take it with Sam. It's a good one.
If you like playwriting, take this class. I hadn't written a play or part of a play in years, and this was an excellent way to get back into writing. The small group setting is such a safe space led my Sam's constant support. Amazing. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
It's so awesome! Sam is great and the course is wonderful.
Playwriting is super fun, Sam is cool, the Harvard Playwrights Festival is a great opportunity to see your work read/acted that you most likely won't get elsewhere.
Sam Marks is a great professor. I struggle to take criticism in general, but the way the workshop is organized, I have been able to see an improvement with my writing and learn to be more willing to push myself to do things I would not have otherwise been comfortable with in my writing.
TAKE IT!!
This class is amazing if you like theater/writing. Sam is incredibly and really wants to get people engaged in the material and their own writing.
Loved the class, fantastic opportunity to workshop and improve your writing. A lot of work, very disciplined and very rewarding.
This is a really fantastic class for anyone interested in delving into playwrighting. The discussions and workshopping are a really cool opportunity to wax creatively, Sam is gives great feedback, and participating in the Harvard Playwright's Festival is a really enriching experience.
Sam is wonderful, and very enthusiastic about teaching and reading your material. I went into this class with virtually no experience in playwriting (I did have screenwriting experience) and Sam helped me work with my strengths to produce a play I was proud of. He's really great, and the workshop format is stellar.
Great course, especially as a continuation of intro. Sam is as always a great playwriting mentor. You will not find a better course for a laid back opportunity to create a play and see it be performed.
amazing class. sam is the best.
This class has a lot of writing, which requires a lot of creative thinking, but if you enjoy this, you're good.  Work hard, and write meaningful plays.  It's not easy.
This is a great class. It taught me how to think about theater and creative writing in a bigger way and it was a great way to take a break from more formal academics while still thinking about everything I've learned and how to say something interesting through my play.
Sam Marks is a brilliant professor. The writing assignments in this class don't feel forced. Ultimately, the class is what you put into it. If you bring in writing that you wrote last minute and didn't spend time editing and revising, you're probably going to have a bad time. The more you can curate your work before you present it in workshop, the more useful feedback you will get. Sam is careful to not create a negative or uber-critical workshop space, which is incredibly important (writers' egos are particularly fragile, I think) and the discussions in workshop always keep a positive vibe to them. He encourages students to not be prescriptive when it comes to what others in the class should do to their writing to make it better. His feedback is 99.99% of the time open-ended and constructive. Great class.
Absolutely take this class. Sam is really amazing; there are a lot of students for a small seminar, so you have to make sure your voice is heard if you want to get the most helpful feedback, but it is truly a great and safe environment to try some new things.
Fun reading list. A bit disorganized. The playwrights festival is a great opportunity to work with a local director, and to get a sense of what it feels like to develop a new play.
This is an amazing opportunity to explore a beautiful medium. The plays read in the class are all wonderful, both the works by professionals and by fellow students. Truly one of the best experiences I have had.
If you're interested in playwriting, want an imperative to get yourself writing - this is the class for you! You should be prepared to dedicate a significant amount of time to developing your script ideas and writing each week. I wish I had had more time to spend on this class - it's definitely not an "extra" class. Dedicate yourself to your writing and you will learn a lot from Sam Marks, from your classmates' writing, and from the Playwright's Festival!
