If you don't want to read a lot of Dickens, for the love of god do not take this course.
It's a fantastic course. Very thought-provoking as well as fun. If you haven't read much Dickens, this is a lovely introduction....and you'll want to read more.
The course really requires fun reading and talking about the material. The two essays are creative writing (short too), so this class was great.
I really liked this class.  It was easy, interesting, and fun.
It's what you make of it. Matthew Kaiser is great, the material is a loooooot, that doesn't necessarily need to all get read in order to engage in discussion. Very laid back. Assignments are fun.
Really fun class not too much work, pretty lively discussions and fascinating books. Plus, being in a small seminar with Professor Kaiser is not an opportunity to pass up. Being able to bask in his humor and intelligence for two hours every week was one of the highlights of my semester.
Professor Kaiser is as good as it gets. You'll regret not having him in a seminar setting. His courses are thought provoking and very well taught.
It's a great class if you love Charles Dickens!
Professor Kaiser is amazing and entertaining, and the assignments are fun and friendly. There is a lot of reading for this course, but if you do it, the class will be extremely interesting.  Dickens is awesome.
This was an amazing and enlightening seminar.
If you like Dickens, you should absolutely take this course. If you don't like Dickens, find some other way to fill this requirement, because it would be unkind of you to sit there making everyone around you who loves Dickens miserable.
Kaiser is awesome, Dickens is awesome; enough said.
This class is awesome. You will have to do a lot of reading, but it will mostly feel like reading for pleasure, not like homework. The essays will actually be fun to write.
The course is interesting and Professor Kaiser is very engaging, but you won't necessarily be challenged to read or analyze as critically as may be satisfying to you if you are an English concentrator.
Be prepared to do a LOT of reading.
The reading is tough to keep up with (due to sheer quantity), but the course is worthwhile and interesting!
