Professor Burt is excellent and he structures this course well. It's a great intro to poetry with little work. However, beware if he lets in a lot of students again: the size of the class derailed discussions often this semester.
This course caused me to fall in love with poetry completely. Burt is one of the most dynamic professors I've encountered at Harvard. He infects you with his love for poetry as he shares his incredible insights into it, and at the same time is deeply considerate. He is always conscious of making students of any identity feel welcome in his class and making each student feel significant (even when our class had 50 in it!). I highly recommend going to office hours for this class, and I especially recommend immersing yourself in the poetry. If you can really live and breathe this poetry, you will connect with Burt and the intentions of the course in the most fulfilling way.
With Professor Burt, no day is a boring day, but stay excited about the readings from class to class, and the course will be even better.
Take this course!!!! This course pretty much changed my life and swayed me to pursue English as a concentration. The teaching staff really makes this course -- Prof. Burt inspires you with his enthusiasm, great intelligence, and his quirky, unique self. Chris is kind of very amazing and so amazingly intelligent -- he knows pretty much everything I feel. Still, he's so down to earth and also is interested in modern things like T Swizzle and also cares so so much about his students. It's honestly so touching. The course covers a breadth of poetry from very very old historic times to contemporary poetry that covers modern events like the Black Lives Matter Movement. This is THE poetry course to take. So so enjoyable. You only write about three papers and you have a take home final and you also have a bunch of really fun writing assignments that are not graded! I had such a blast taking this course! Doing the assignments and attending lectures were honestly just such a treat! It was honestly like eating dark chocolate <-- that is what this course is like. so enjoyable!!!
Professor Burt is one of the best professors on campus.  Quirky and engaging, I was thoroughly upset whenever I had to miss a class.  He provides great insight into poetry and clearly loves his job.  The range of poems is pretty good, but like all Common Ground courses, is not too indepth.  Professor Burt also gives out really enjoyable short assignments that barely even feel like work.  I would strongly recommend this course for anyone who wants to know more about poetry, regardless of concentration.
Ask TFs for help if you don't have any historical background! They're extremely supportive and helpful. Also don't take the class for granted... you want to read through the poems thoroughly so you'll be prepared for the take-home exam.
If you love poetry take this course. If you need to take a Poets class for the English Concentration requirements take this course. If you just want to learn something about poetry but aren't super interested don't take this course. It covers a ton and assumes a lot of familiarity with poets.
This is a great course for those who have not had prior exposure to, but are interested in, poetry. Professor Burt and Chris and Emmy are all brilliant and caring and will teach you so much about reading and thinking about poetry.
You can definitely get away without doing the reading, but I think you'll get a lot more out of the class (as is usually the case) if you do it. I do definitely feel like I have a solid poetry background after taking this course. Stephen is SUPER fun and engaging, but classes can be a bit all-over-the-place sometimes.
This is a really entertaining class, mostly because the poems you read are pretty excellent and Professor Burt is a very entertaining lecturer. I would say that the lectures often felt disjointed/not very well planned out, and the size of our class (~40) meant that not everyone felt comfortable speaking up during class. That being said, Prof. Burt, Chris, and Emmy all wanted us to succeed and really spent the time to make the class worthwhile for us.
If you like reading poems you will love this class. I had never taken an English class so I was intimidated about writing papers, but the TFs were awesome in preparing us to write papers, and the whole class was just a lot of fun. Professor Burt is really unpredictable and makes class very interesting. This was one of the best electives I have taken, because it gave me a chance to read so many poems--weird poems, funny poems, sad ones, clever ones--and learn a little about the poets lives (usually very interesting).
I took this class with 50 people, and it was definitely way too much. That said, the readings are great, Burt is very cool and intelligent and wacky, and the assignments are fun. It is not a particularly focused class, but if you're looking to read a huge range of poets this is the place to do it.
Keep up with the reading and use office hours for paper advice, and you'll be fine.
To get the most out of this course, you really need to devote yourself to the readings. You won't get to even 20% of the assigned poems in class, so it's important to think about them (read them multiple times, over a period of at least a few days) before lecture. Otherwise, you'll get the gist of what's going on but the valuable points will zip past you without you even noticing. Professor Burt is obviously brilliant (he can basically give you an annotated bibliography about seemingly any poetic subject off the top of his head), but his lectures are minimally organized and very fast-paced, so it's hard to keep track of what's going on unless you're very focused and you've already done some thinking on your own. But if you can do that, you will absolutely get a rewarding introduction into poetry from all periods and genres, including some that are only infrequently taught in the canon. This class also includes a lot of ungraded assignments (that will however factor toward your overall participation grade in the course) that push you to think about poetry in more creative ways and to write some poetry of your own. I was nervous about these at first, but they're actually very fun and really help you dig into the material. If Chris TFs this course again, absolutely try to get him!! He's tons of fun, really easy to work with, and really supportive and reliable. Overall, I would definitely take this class if you're an English concentrator looking to fill your poetry requirement. Otherwise, maybe look for something that spends more time focusing in on a specific period or genre so that you can get a deeper sense of it instead of a sprawling, more cursory look at the whole canon.
It's awesome and fabulous and if you think you're even slightly interested in poetry, take it! You'll be exposed to a great variety of styles and time periods, and you'll definitely find a new favorite poet (or two, or three, or...).
This course is a great way to fulfill the "Poets" requirement and meet a great professor who will be invested in the rest of your career in the English department.
Prof. Burt is great and makes a genuine effort to engage with students!
If you love poetry, you'll love it. But there is a good amount of work and consistent reading with this one.
Only take it if it's a smaller course
Professor Burt is certainly different, but he's so knowledgable and generates such enthusiasm for the material that it's difficult not to find his quirks delightful by the end of term.
You will come away with this class with a far better grasp of poetry than when you began. You will learn what to look for when you read.
The course is a good survey of poetry, but it doesn't follow a traditional pattern. Instead, units are grouped by types of poems. The size of the course was one of the negative parts- it was too large to be a seminar where students could really have a discussion, but it also wasn't run as a lecture. Professor Burt and the TFs are all brilliant and really care about the material and the students. However, the instruction was slightly unorthodox in what material we covered, and what topics of discussion involved. Sometimes it felt like we were just talking about poems instead of coming away from each class having learned something more definitive.
The class suffers from a lack of organization, and there is no sense that classes have been planned (or even thought about) beforehand, which can be very frustrating. Workload, however, is extremely reasonable, and the poems assigned are great.
A really fascinating class with instructors who truly care about their students.
Professor Burt is a genius, but also kind of all over the place. His style of teaching can be hard to follow and leave your notes looking like random assortments of side notes. All in all though, not a bad way to satisfy the English 50 requirement.
This is an interesting course, but if you want a smaller course more dedicated to in-depth discussion, this might not be the course for you.
This class is an excellent overview of many types and time periods of poetry.
If you're looking for a comprehensive poetry course, English 50 is a great choice. Be sure to talk to both Professor Burt and your TF outside of class, especially when it comes to thinking about essays, but also to get great poetry recommendations in general.
If you're really passionate about poetry, you'll love this course. The workload was manageable, the teaching team knowledgeable and helpful, and learning from Stephen Burt is truly an experience. However, there were times when I felt a little dissatisfied with the course, primarily because it would take us 30 minutes into every class period before we started actually talking about poetry.
Burt is THE BEST. So invested in his students. If you have a bit of an interest in poetry, take it!
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard--Professor Burt cares very much about teaching his students and making sure they stay engaged, and I thoroughly enjoyed my time in the course. Professor Burt brought in contemporary poets, music, multimedia tools, and more, and he is always very available if you need help.
Burt can get away with little preparation because he's a poetry guru. This makes for looking-at-the-clock classes, but the material is rich. The assignments are manageable though grading is tough. You don't get a lot of prep for the final so be sure to keep up with which poet wrote what at what time and with what form. That's huge.
Take this course if you want a comprehensive introduction to poetry. Class can generate some pretty good discussions and I found it pretty rewarding in terms of how familiar with certain poets I've become.
English 50 provides a great introduction to poetry - we read both standard and obscure poems and poets from many genres. Professor Burt is incredibly brilliant and insightful, but try not to let this intimidate you. He wants nothing more than for his students to succeed and - at the very least - he is engaging and entertaining (often running around the classroom and not limiting his writing in chalk to the chalkboard). However, if you're looking for a formal course about poetry through the ages, this may not be the course for you: English 50 hinges on class discussion and, because Professor Burt allows students to pick the poems we discuss, we didn't always get to cover the ones I liked the most. Overall, though, I enjoyed spending time chatting about poetry with a tremendous teacher, TF, and class.
Be talkative in class, read all of the poems, don't leave the papers until the night before and you will be fine.
It is a wonderful way into poetry, Burt is fantastic, and you should take it
