This is a great class to fulfill the Diffusions requirement. Professor New really cares about your growth as a critic and a writer.
Great discussions, New is awesome, although be prepared to work hard, especially on the papers.
Your ability to discuss texts in a group will improve
English concentrators, take this class for your Diffusions requirement. I was not looking forward to this requirement at all (I'm not really interested in American literature), but this was probably my favorite class this semester.
Hard, but worth it. Engaging discussions and you learn a lot
Take this course!  This course was by far the best course I have taken at Harvard. Even if you don't think you like literature classes, you will greatly enjoy the course and Professor New.  Moreover, this class is a terrific way to improve your writing skills.
Obviously I've only ever taken one Diffusions class and I have no basis for comparison but I really think this is best Diffusions class you could take. I know it has pretty low Q scores which I assume is because of the paper revision system which means that initial paper grades can be much lower than you're accustomed to/disheartening, but it's worthwhile. I had no idea what I would think of the texts that we were reading but Elisa New so clearly revels in everything and is so tickled by life that you can't really help taking on her enthusiasm. Carra is also a great TF.
Professor New can be intimidating, but is a fun and knowledgeable lecturer.  The books read in the course, including the Autobiography of Ben Franklin and My Antonia, are some staples in literature, and the themes and narrative techniques developed throughout the class are interesting to track through time.  Writing drafts and receiving feedback before final submissions is super helpful.
Highly recommend!  You get out what you put in.  The discussions are only interesting if you've done the reading, and the assignments are incredible learning opportunities only if you take the time to talk with Professor New and work through your ideas.
Professor New is an engaging and enthusiastic professor with a laid-back attitude and a palpable interest in her material and her students.  She leads great discussions, knows how to keep you interested, is realistic and reasonable about her expectations, and gives amazing feedback on your essays.  She's also exceptionally kind and goes out of her way to make class enjoyableshe invited us all to a barbecue at her house, took us on a field trip through Boston and bought us lunch, and let us have class outside to enjoy the spring weather.  I would love to take more courses with her.Take this class if (and only if) - you're willing to do the readingusually a novel a week or slightly less.  Prof. New acknowledges that sometimes other things will come first, but it's very hard to catch up since you move through pieces rather quickly, and it's next to impossible to participate in discussion if you haven't done the reading for that day. - you're willing to bring new ideas to the table in discussion.  There are some lecture aspects, but the class is essentially two 1.5-hour discussions per week. - you write good essays.  Prof. New really emphasizes the crafting of essays and expects them to be sophisticated in every categorystrong, original theses; tight organization; thorough analysis; thoughtful diction; etc.  She says up front that she doesn't like grade inflation and will grade fairly, i.e. more harshly than many professorsBUT she reads every essay and gives really thorough feedback herself, and you're strongly encouraged to go to her office hours, revise both essays, and turn them in to get higher grades. - you can get through lots of New England pre-20th-century literature.  If you hate the postcolonial/post Civil War periods, look around for another class.Good things to know: - If you're having trouble (either in the class specifically or in life in general, e.g. mental health issues), let Prof. New know.  She's very reasonable and accommodating.  That doesn't mean you get an easy out, but she'll work with you to make sure you get to show what you're capable of. - Don't put off the revisions until the last minute.  They can raise your grade significantly. - Give yourself an extra day or two to revise your papers *before you hand them in. - Get copies of the books with the right page numbers.
If you are taking this course, there is a 90% chance you are doing so because you have to take it to graduate. Unfortunately, the professor doesn't understand that game. Cue uber-bad readings, fruitless discussions, and an absurd grading system where you have to rewrite your three papers to get the grade you get in all other English courses the first time around. Lisa New is smart and likeable, but this class was a disaster. You have been warned. It's a shame you will probably still have to take it to graduate.
Not bad if you can follow the lectures....good luck with that.
it's hard to get anything satisfying out of the lectures. discussion is not enjoyable. the grading on papers is harsher than other english classes.
Sometimes it's a little hard to pin down exactly what you're supposed to be learning, but you'll inevitably learn something fascinating anyway.
Professor New is the single-greatest professor and more importantly, teacher, that I have ever had. She expects a lot from you, as far as reading and writing quality, but she actively wants you to succeed and to improve. If you are prepared to work for it, you will not only do very well, but also feel like this was an academically transformational course.
It is an interesting course. You read literature you probably will not ever read. And that is always cool. However, I would not say it is the best English course I've taken. The books were okay.
Too much reading.  But I learned a lot.  Be prepared to write two papers on two novels and rewrite them (so four papers in total) and write on five other novels for the final exam.  It means you have to read carefully at least seven novels for the class.  If you don't think you can, do not take the class.
Professor New is an incredibly gifted lecturer and teacher, and you will certainly come away from this class with a wealth of knowledge regarding American literature.
This class is fantastic, Professor New is an incredible professor and incredibly willing to work with you on your writing, and to reward the time you put in. That said, it's a lot of work and you really do have to put the time in, but I've been in few classes where I've wanted to do the work so badly!
If you have to take Diffusions, it may as well be this one. All of them are pretty dry, but at least Professor New is interesting.
Go to office hours. Seriously, if you need help working out how to approach different narrative styles, Professor New is really great about helping you out.
This class taught me what expos didn't. The papers are marked really strictly but since you have the option to revise it makes you better at strengthening your argument. Prof New and Maggie are also great and helpful with feedback on the papers. Take advantage of the revisions! If you're thinking of taking it for the Diffusions core but aren't sure if you should, then you should. I wasn't sure I would enjoy reading American literature from the 1800's but Prof New and Maggie make the discussions really engaging and interesting that I ended up really liking the readings. Basically, if you want to learn to write and analyze literature, to really learn, then you should take this class!
This one's a little unique, not always pleasantly so -- not a whole lot of classic american lit for Harvard's classic american lit survey, and you'll probably have to revise your essays -- not a big deal to some, but hey. Any latent 'they won't let me read the good stuff cause they're making me read the interesting stuff (sampling ethnicities, exploring the narrative self in autobiography, etc)' feeling will find its bane here.
Take this course! You'll love Professor New. She really knows a lot about each novel, and she's always cracking jokes and passing around "show and tell" items to make our time in class as interesting and effective as possible.
The connections each book has to the others can at times feel a little nebulous, but that doesn't dampen the spirit of enthusiasm that animates this class. A great window into American literature.
A lot like a high school English class but with an excellent college professor to lead it. She gives lots of attention to writing, which was very helpful.
You get to read all of the American classics that you either have already read or have been wanting to read. As an English concentrator, this course is awesome. The reading is manageable, the discussion is stimulating, and Professor New is a true expert in American literature. You will have to work you butt off to get an A in this class (and will most likely have to write multiple rewrites), but if you work hard you will be rewarded. I wouldn't recommend this class to people who are looking for book club easy-A English class; but if you want to read some classics and learn to be a better writer, take it!
This course is amazing. You'll have a lot of fun, but make sure to do the readings.
As a Diffusions course, you'll get a range of American literature, but best of all you will tremendously improve your ability to write on the texts.
The discussions are very interesting, and the teaching is amazing.
this class is fantastic. Professor New and Marissa are marvelous discussion leaders and their policies for flexible essay deadlines and revisions are so helpful in producing a paper that you can really be proud of, not one that you wrote in an all nighter and never want to look at again for fear of seeing just how terrible it really was. the readings for this class are all engaging, and i genuinely looked forward to class every week. ABSOLUTELY take this class.
Do the work. Enjoy that nothing is handed to you. Enjoy being able to listen to prof New speak and think and listen twice a week. Definitely a get out what you put in class.
The course provides a wonderful grounding in the study of American literature.  The best works of the tradition are featured on the syllabus.  Students study a collection of classic American texts, and have the opportunity to study different cultural milieus at the same time.  The hallmark of the course, though, is the individual attention provided to students by Professor New and the teaching fellow (this year Marissa Grunes).  Professor New and Marissa are difficult graders, but they are willing to spend generous amounts of time with students in office hours to help them improve.  You should definitely take advantage of the opportunity to meet with them and revise the essays!
It's a challenging but fascinating and enriching course that will give you a new perspective on the development of fiction throughout America's history.
Professor New is really chill about essay deadlines, but if you put it off you'll regret it. Also, do the reading or discussion is painful.
