the material in this course is interesting but discussions sometimes drag. Easy to keep up and do well but not the most lively of classes.
This is a great course, even for those who do not concentrate in English. Professor Stauffer is an expert on both Lincoln and Douglass and he does a fantastic job facilitating discussions and creating assignments that enhance one's understanding of the two men and their oratorical styles.
Make use of the creative options on the papers, such an option isn't available in most courses.
Far and away my favorite class I have ever taken. Working with Professor Stauffer is a joy. The material is fascinating, and class discussions are lively. One of the best parts is that Professor Stauffer loves having discussions outside of class; meetings for papers or other assignments often turned into hour-long discussions. Having a professor who engages with his students like that is wonderful.
This has been one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. John Stauffer is a brilliant scholar and teacher, and the discussions these speeches foster are truly fascinating. Having a creative option for most assignments is a great touch, too. You'll look forward to this course every week!
Take this course if you like rhetoric, politics, history, lincoln, african american history, anything. It's great for all.
If you have a chance to take this class, you absolutely should. First, Professor Stauffer is the nicest, most thoughtful professor I have had at Harvard. Second, learning the ins-and-outs of two of the greatest American orator's word will help your writing, speaking, and thinking. Third, this class is just fun. It's an amazing way to talk about such a contentious time period in American history. Plus, the reading is entirely doable, so you actually can participate in class.
This is a phenomenal course. Professor Stauffer is brilliant, he loves what he does, and he cultivates a great classroom environment. He makes himself highly approachable, and goes out of his way to serve his students. He knows so much on the subject, and hearing from him is very enlightening. The class has great readings, great discussions, and you have several opportunities to think analytically and creative. Lincoln and Douglass are highly interesting figures to study, especially together. I would highly recommend this course.
Take it! Professor Stauffer is great/very helpful if you seek out help. If you're history/histlit/english, this is a very good/eye-opening class. If you aren't interested in Douglass or Lincoln or Af Am things maybe don't take it. The oral presentation is a huge part of the class so don't underestimate the work needed.
Take this class if you have any interest in rhetoric, Lincoln, or Douglass! Or, even if you don't, Prof. Stauffer will peak your interest. His knowledge of the topic is incredible, and the discussions in class were engaging and often vigorous.
Great class with an outstanding instructor.  Professor Stauffer is a passionate about both the material and his students. If choosing to take the course, do note the sole focus on Lincoln and Douglass (ie. if easily bored with one author courses, one might find this course similarly monotonous).
If you love Lincoln, Douglass, or rhetoric in general this is a class you don't want to miss!
If you love English or American History or simply small classes with talented professors, you will be immensely happy to have taken this class.
This course offers a unique opportunity at Harvard to study (very nearly) the full breadth of a topic. You will not just 'break the surface' but explore in depth the rhetoric of both authors. Furthermore, there are few (if any) rhetoric courses offered here so I recommend with extreme enthusiasm that you apply!! Very easy, very rewarding.
This is probably my favorite class I've ever taken. The combination of fascinating material, a great professor, and a really engaged class made this such an incredible and intellectually stimulating experience. I think it is the first class that I have honestly and thoroughly done all of the reading for and it hasn't felt like work. Truly a wonderful experience on every account. I loved it and recommend anyone interested in speeches, American history, government, the Civil War/slavery, or really anything remotely related to Lincoln or Douglass to take it!
Fascinating. Explores Lincoln and Douglass in a way that you've never experienced. Professor is brilliant and understands his subject, but he also goes out of his way to encourage participation, discussion, and debate.
If he teaches it again this is not a class to miss. It was one of my top 3 classes I have taken at Harvard.
If you have interest in the Civil War and/or Speech Writing, take this class! This class is very unique. You get to study the speeches of Abraham Lincoln and Frederick Douglass. What could be better? I looked forward to going to class every week. The assignments were fun, and you have the opportunity to be creative. However, a word of caution to international students who did not grow up learning about the details of the Civil War: make sure to read up on the history before taking this course.
If you've not studied Lincoln and/or Douglass before and you're hesitant about an English course with a seemingly non-literary focus, shop this seminar. Stauffer may just convince you otherwise. One of my favorite courses I've taken here at Harvard. Workload is reasonable. Take the creative option for the final project.
What made this class so excellent was not just the way it explored history through Lincoln's and Douglass's work, it was also Professor Stauffer's dedication to teaching. I received in-depth feedback on the style and content of my writing. The videotaped introductions, with Professor Stauffer's help and feedback, also helped me improve my oral presentation abilities. Professor Stauffer was an excellent instructor. I learned a lot about 19th century history in this class, but I am also very satisfied with how I improved my writing and speaking abilities, too.
This is one the best classes I've taken at Harvard! The subject matter is so interesting and Professor Stauffer has so many invaluable insights!
If you can take a class by Professor Stauffer, DO IT! He is amazing and really cares about his students!! He is so fun to work with and creates such a great environment to learn! He is a gem!
It's certainly not a history class, because Stauffer doesn't follow historical practice; nor is it a rhetoric class, because most discussion is about history. It's kind of a mix of everything, which is good and bad.
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard. As a junior in the English Dept., this is the first Eng course I've taken that I've loved and that has made me proud of my concentration choice. Students in other concentrations should not be dissuaded, because our seminar conversations were often guided by Gov, Ec, Hist, Hist and Lit, and Classics concentrators whose particular experience and informed perspective added much to our understanding of Lincoln and Douglass. If you have any interest in American History, the study of the Civil War, political rhetoric, Frederick Douglass, or Abraham Lincoln, do not miss out on the opportunity to experience the genius of Professor Stauffer in the setting of a small discussion class.
If you can get into this seminar you should absolutely take it.  This is one of the few classes at Harvard that I can truthfully say has changed my life because it has changed what I am thinking about doing post-graduation next year.  Professor Stauffer is an incredible thinker and teacher and it is a thrill to be in his presence, whether in class or in office hours.  I learned so much from him and his joy in the material he teaches brightened my semester and inspired me to want to teach like he does when I become a teacher some day.
This class was wonderful! It's an intersection between many fields and, as a result, the class is full of people from different concentrations and different outlooks on the subject. Also, Professor Stauffer is incredible. Easily one of the best professors I've ever had at Harvard. He really cares about undergraduates and that shows throughout the class.
The best class I have taken at Harvard. Stauffer's encyclopedic knowledge of Douglass and Lincoln is truly something to marvel at.
Try your best to get in.
You won't meet an instructor at Harvard who has more enthusiasm than Prof. Stauffer.
You are about to enter the classroom with a Professor who was basically friends with Lincoln and Douglass. You will learn so much about their speeches, the history of the U.S.A and politics in general. Phenomenal course!
A great course -- I highly recommend it. It is a fair amount of reading, but Stauffer is an extremely nice professor. Make a real effort, and he will make a corresponding effort to help you learn, understand, and do well.
Absolutely take this class if you have the space for it; take it anyway even if you don't. One of the best-taught, most interesting courses I've taken here.
Amazing class. One of my favorites. Stauffer is fantastic. Great materials.
A great class with genuinely interesting readings that is intensive enough to force you to engage meaningfully with the material but not too difficult so that you can't take a week off if need be.
This is an excellent class and a great introduction to the history of abolitionism and the Civil War. Your writing will improve exponentially from the Pithy Commentaries. See if Professor Stauffer caps the class-- this year, it was a bit large, and I've heard that it worked better with smaller class sizes in past years.
This was by far the best course I have taken at Harvard. Fantastic readings. Fantastic discussions
