I highly recommend this course. All the books on the syllabus--especially the Iliad, the Odyssey, the Aeneid, and Paradise Lost--are works every student should read in college. 

Of course, the syllabus is less important than the way the class is taught. Professor Whittington delivers an engaging, though-provoking, and insightful lecture every class. She is not only a great teacher, but an excellent human being as well. I have yet to meet another Harvard professor (especially one who teaches a class of this size) who makes such an effort to get to know her students and who cares about them on such a personal level
This is a great, fun class. You should take it, whether you are an English concentrator, or if you just enjoy reading epic stories. Just be aware that it does require a lot of reading, so you won't be able to breeze by. But, the fast-paced reading is what allows you to get through so many classic epics, so, again, if you enjoy reading a good epic story, this course is really fun!
Professor Whittington is the BOMB! Her lectures are great, and she is very invested in her students! The reading is A LOT - but it is all so entertaining that it isn't a hardship. Take this class, even if you are not an English concentrator!
Professor Whittington is an excellent lecturer. She is engaging and thought-provoking, and each class had me attentive and interested. The sections aren't that useful, but it seems to be a necessary evil.
It's a great class. Professor Whittington is a great lecturer. The readings are manageable. The papers are not long but they are graded very hard. The Midterm and Final are not hard but do require a lot of preparation.
Epic was a wonderful course. Prof Whittington is probably the best lecturer I've had. She has a detailed outline for every lecture, and follows that precisely, so that she pretty much ends precisely as the bell tolls. She also has a knack for asking questions, then taking students' answers and seamlessly weaving those into the next portion of her lecture. She always manages to deal with both lofty higher-level concepts and nitty-gritty close reading in the same lecture, integrating the two in such a way that you feel like you get a full picture of the text. It's absolutely brilliant.

Oh yeah, and the syllabus is stellar. Some of the highlights of the Western canon, selected to give you an overview of the epic tradition. 

We also had some very nice extra events, including a Milton reading one night and a Star Wars screening. Really just the icing on the cake.
Be prepared to read a lot. The class is absolutely worth it and the readings are really interesting.
This is a fantastic English class with a fantastic professor. It's also a great class coming out of high school AP-level literature courses. There's a decent amount of reading, but most of what you learn will come from listening to Professor Whittington's lectures and coming to section discussions.
Fantastic class! Really important and interesting readings. It's definitely fast-paced, but it felt like each work was really explored in depth.
Professor Whittington is such a goddess. She is probably the best professor I have had at Harvard in my 4 years. She cares deeply about her students, is clear, concise and brilliant. I would highly recommend this class, but students should know it is very challenging and reading-intensive.
Lots of reading (for non-English concentrators) but totally worth it. These are books that you have to have read before graduating from college and this is the best way of doing that. Prof. Whittington is fantastic!
TAKE IT! Whittington's lectures are delightful, the readings are important and good to revisit if you've read any of them already. A course with a grand scope that really pulls it off. Just make sure you're prepared to make it through Middlemarch by the end of the semester.
I found the lectures intellectually engaging and interesting and I found the readings all very good.
This is one of the best classes at Harvard. The Epic explores many ideas related to both the past and modern times, and you will be constantly thinking about heroism from different viewpoints. All of the texts are awesome to read, even Middlemarch (it grows on you, I swear), and really fun to discuss. Papers can be challenging, but if you push through, you will do fine. Overall, the work load is pretty chill. Both the lecture and section are equally enjoyable. I haven't met anyone who does not like the course.
The course has a lot of reading (probably 150-200) pages per week, but it is all worth it.  If you're not going to do the reading, just don't waste your time.  Professor Whittington is a great lecturer, and if you are a quantitative concentrator, this class is a great way to break out of the hyperrational realm and engage with the liberal arts.  You meet interesting people and gain appreciation for literature while reading some epic texts.
I cannot recommend this class highly enough!!! Take it as a gen ed or an elective and it's so worth a little extra work. Definitely stay caught up on the readings, it makes the course so much better.
This is a wonderful class, especially for a freshman or someone branching out into English or the Humanities for the first time. Professor Whittington is here to help her students. She is very accessible and clearly wants everyone to succeed to the best of their ability. The coursework, lectures, handouts, and review materials are all designed to make the students both enjoy the material and the the most out of it. The readings are manageable, and the so are the two essays. It is a great mix of structure and freedom. Again, it is a wonderful introduction to some truly amazing texts and English classes at Harvard in general.
Take this class (and go to office hours if you do--Prof. Whittington is amazing!)
Fantastic class. Engaging lectures from Whittington are a highlight. Her passion is contagious. I took this class because I wanted to take a class with the english department, and I needed to fulfill my AI requirement. If you're looking for an easy A GenEd, this is not the course for you. The difficulty of the reading load of the course cannot be understated. If you're looking for a rich, fulfilling course that demands critical engagement with the readings, this is the course for you. Obviously, you're above to get by without doing the readings in their entirety (I'd be shocked to hear more than a handful of kids in my class did), but this can catch up with you on the midterm and final.
This English may not be for everyone. Some people are looking for courses that don't require reading books. The books are not short. 

But that aside, the course was amazing. I'm never sure of whether I will agree with previous years' Q scores because I tend to feel differently about courses than most of my classmates but I can agree that this course and Professor Whittington was incredible. Finding the course essentially made my semester.
This is an amazing course. The teaching staff is amazing, the material is interesting, and the assignments are reasonable.
This class was amazing. The pace of the reading can get intense but it's not to bad catching up. I've studied most of the books before but Professor Whittington gave an entirely different perspective on them. Her lectures are very poignant and powerful but she manages to make them funny and interesting as well.
you don't actually have to do any of the reading for this class which is a good thing if you don't want to do any reading but a bad thing if you want to learn something about epics
Very good class. Professor Whittington is wonderful and enthusiastic in her lectures. The only downside is that you have to read Middlemarch, which is 800+ pages of pure boredom, but the other materials are much better. The end of the semester culminates in a lively discussion about Star Wars and modern epics. I definitely recommend this class if you are interested in literature and enjoy multiple types of literature.
This class is fantastic and you will learn SO MUCH. The lectures are also so interesting and the professor is organized and efficient. It is time consuming, however, and a lot of reading so be prepared for that.
This course, and Professor Whittington, are absolutely fantastic. Absolutely take this course if you have the chance.
This is one of the top three courses I have ever taken. I recommend that anyone who has the opportunity take it. The books are all ones which no one should graduate from Harvard without reading, and the way they are discussed really opens the mind to new possibilities. Thinking about these texts in the way Professor Whittington does makes them relevant to every day life, and I know that I have grown as a person and as a student from taking this class.
If you have any interest in the epic genre, take this course. I even see the ones that I had read in a new light.
Brace yourself because the readings are intense but incredibly worthwhile.
Make sure you are at least familiar with epic and some of the books in the syllabus.
Definitely take this class! It's an amazing English class, and the teaching staff take a great gusto with the course material. It's indubitably a demanding load of material to read, but you can become very engaged with the reading. It's a great variety of epic!
Professor Whittington is great, and Misha is friendly. If you want to read great literature and attend some well-planned and interesting lectures, then this course has that.
Sort of shepherded along, given timelines for how to pace work for essays.A training wheel, but this was helpful to me, and I think I will use it as a template for all future essays.  For the second essay, I felt a little lost.  It was hard to come up with ideas for a thesis (a common problem for me in English classes, but for some reason, especially here.)Whittington told me to write one line or so of commentary on each page of the epic, and I did this---it was very helpful in finding a specific passage I remembered but could not immediately place.  It was also invaluable in reviewing for the final and jogging my memory about the surrounding circumstances of particular quotations.  Also, sticky note fascinating passages and interesting detais you want to explore more--this is helpful when choosing essay topics.Unfortunately, hardly anyone in my section was an Eng concentrator, and discussions (as a result) were extremely superficial most days and not insightful.Prof Whittington is organized and competent and has interesting ideas to set forth in lecture.  She is perhaps not the most inspiring professor, but I did learn from her lectures, which are very fast-paced.  You will not be bored in lecture.There is a discussion component in lecture.  Often I was not particularly stimulated by classmates' contributions, but occasionally an insightful comment was made.  Whittington is very encouraging and effusive; sometimes it is hard to tell which of your ideas are valid and which are fluff.Librivox and Audibles helped me immensely, immensely in getting through the epics.Misha gave very thoughtful comments when I asked him for feedback while drafting the topics, outline, and eventually my essay. Section was disappointing.  I wish Misha had asked for our feedback midway thru the semester--I think all courses should do this, not just new ones.  There were approximately four truly stimulating sections in which I truly felt I walked out of the door with new knowledge.  These included the poetics section, the trip to houghton, and two other unusually lucid sessions.  I wish Misha could have specified concrete passages for us to analyze in class, so we could have prepared thoughts to discuss in class.  Some of us have difficulty analyzing and synthesizing on the spot.  Instead, most of us came having read the text, but with few thoughts to speak about.  Thus, discussions were very often superficial, indeterminate, and of little value to me.  Participation by other members of my section was not stimulating, perhaps correlated with the fact that few of them were literature or english concentrators.I did not feel as if my life were changed at the end of the course, as I have for other English classes, but perhaps this was due to the nature of the material covered.  Homeric, Virgilian, and Early-Modern Epics can be difficult to read since the tools one uses for modern novels are not always (often not) applicable to analysis of these works.  Star Wars seemed a little not-serious at the end of the semester, and I could have done without the inclusion of this film.
Every student specializing in literature should take a course with Prof. Whittington. Any student that plans to take only one literature course at Harvard, let him/her work with Prof. Whittington!
A wonderful class. Great syllabus, well taught. You will leave this class feeling that you have accomplished something worthwhile and learned about some of the most important pieces of literature around.
It's time consuming but worth it
Great course. Prof. Whittington is a wonderful teacher - knowledgable and enthusiastic. She is passionate about teaching and it makes her lectures a real pleasure. Plus, you are reading some of the greatest literature of Western civilization. I highly recommend the course.
The lectures gave great insight to the text, and you were able to discover the beauties of epic literature. All of the assessments were fair. But the best thing about this course is that Professor Whittington has such a genuine passion for these books which inevitably rubs off on you :)
This class is incredible. I'd never really read any of these classic works before, and this was a great way to do it. Professor whittington is an engaging lecturer, and really makes an effort to get to know everyone personally. take this class, its one of the best offered!
If you keep on top of the reading, you are set.  The hardest part is certainly getting through the texts, but if you can keep up with that it makes the lectures and discussions so interesting and rewarding.
One of the absolute best classes I've taken at Harvard, and certainly the best-taught. Professor Whittington is an incredible teacher. She's caring, smart, informative and nuanced. Misha, the TF, augments her teaching style in the best way. Make the most of the lectures and the extra help that they offer with essays.
There is a lot of reading to be done, but it they are all important texts.  The major struggle is studying for the exams.  Don't be afraid to look through outlines of the texts and summaries if you are getting confused with all the reading that needs to be done, they help to formulate when events occur so you are better prepared to figure out passage identifications. However the passages given are usually fairly key in the lectures and the reading guides.  Definitely use the reading guides, they basically fram where lecture will go for that week.   Great professor!!!!
This is without doubt the best course I've ever taken at Harvard. The lectures and reading material were fascinating. The class wasn't ever stressful. The professor was engaging, friendly, and helpful. And you get a good background in the classics, which is helpful for basically all other Western lit.
This was the best English class I've taken at Harvard so far.
This class is outstanding-- you will learn so much about the epic tradition, and Professor Whittington's lectures are thought provoking and insightful. Really a remarkable and engaging class that will push you a great deal. I can not recommend it enough for its content. However, I warn that it's a great deal of reading and the grading is hard.
Take this class if you are interested in these texts and want to become a more well-rounded student. This class will not be an easy A. Grading is difficult, and the amount of reading is demanding. The content of lectures is fantastic, and you will come out of the class feeling as if you really understand Epic, but you have to love the topic in order to enjoy the class.
This class was very good as a survey course of the epic tradition. The readings are all very interesting, and the professor is incredibly nice and engaging. I enjoyed this class and the readings very much.
This class is amazing and so is Professor Whittington. It is a difficult class and has a lot of reading to keep up with but is a great choice if you are willing to put in the time. I am not an english concentrator and took this class, so someone that is more used to the amount of reading and also writing english papers might be better suited for the class.
It's a lot of work! A lot. But worth it as the TFs and Prof. Whittington are amazing and the works we read are well-known and interesting.
Take this course. These books are important to your becoming a well-educated person and Professor Whittington gives fantastic lectures.
Oh man, you should absolutely take this course. Epic battles, epistemological uncertainties, thinly veiled critiques of ancient governments, internalization of epic and STAR WARS. What more could you want? The readings for this course were fascinating, and Professor Whittington and the TFs do an amazing job of explaining the deep meanings of and connections between these works. Perfect Gen ed course.
This class is a really fun and solid way to study the great epics! Make sure to do all the reading as it comes -- it's harder to catch up afterwards, since there's quite a bit of it and the text can be pretty dense. Prof. Whittington's lectures are really interesting and she comes across as a really pleasant person. If you're only taking this course because Star Wars is in the title, reconsider -- Star Wars doesn't come in until the end. and most of the course involves reading epic poetry and novels. Overall I really enjoyed having the chance to study epics because I never have before. If you have any interest in epics, English or just a solid class you should check it out!
DO NOT take this class if you're not willing to do the readings. There's no point because this class is just reading. Expect to do 100-200 pages a week.
If you can write and like to read you're golden.
I wouldn't take this class as a Gen-Ed. There's a lot of readings and demands a genuine interest in English literature.
English 111 is good. There's a lot of reading but it's all pretty interesting. Professor Whittington is really nice, but the lectures can occasionally be boring.
Amazing class, not an insignificant amount of reading. Professor Whittington is the best, and the TFs are great as well.
This course is amazing. Many people have already read Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, and still others have read Milton's Paradise Lost. However, this course combines an amazing and very enthusiastic professor with intense analysis and comparison of six epic works. This has been one of my favorite courses here at the College, not only because it's literally a class where we analyze the epic traditions and adaptations of Lucas' Star Wars but also because it's a wonderful course to trace the evolution of one of mankind's greatest oratorical/literary traditions. There is a lot of reading, especially towards the end of the course as the English epics tend to be denser than the ancient epics, but it's really worth it.
English 111 is a great course to engage with the Epic genre, covering a broad body of text ranging from the classical to the Victorian era. Lecture is wonderfully taught with enthusiasm and section is extremely engaging. The readings are quite long, but you'll get a ton out of them, and once you start reading, you'll get caught up in the text. Could not recommend this course more!
This is an incredible class with an incredible reading list. Whittington is a treat to get to know, and she makes a point of meeting with each and every student. The reading is challenging but manageable!
Be prepared to read, because there's a lot of reading to be done in the course. Other than that, the lecture component is pretty interesting and the section is great.
Epic: From Homer to Star Wars is an amazing class where you get to read/ view classic epics such as the Iliad, Paradise Lost, and Star Wars and deal analyze how the conventions was adapted based on the societies in which they were written. You get to talk about topics such as heroism, and gender roles, whilst reading some of the best literature in history. The lectures are fantastic, sections are great, and the workload is very manageable.
Try to keep up with the readings as much as possible. That said, the teaching staff is aware that this is sometimes a tall order, so skipping a few large chunks here or there won't lose you any points in the grading so long as you pay attention in lecture and section and are smart about which parts you read.
This is a really interesting course with a great syllabus and strong and enthusiastic teaching staff. I had gone too long without reading some of this course's books, so I was really glad to get the chance to read them. Professor Whittington's lectures were really insightful and she is so passionate about the material. Workload was pretty heavy what with assignments and keeping up with the reading. I'm a slow reader, and so this course definitely pushed me with that. Exams are pretty straight forward, which was nice. Overall, definitely consider this course! But do know that there is a lot of work, so it might be a hard elective if you're just taking it because it looks interesting (or because of the Star Wars selling point!).
This course was fine, but just fine, not great or even good. Professor Whittington is pretty good at lecturing, however, the course required so much work (hours of reading each week, essays, midterm, final and weekly section assignment). Don't take this class or take it pass-fail.
I hated English in high school. This course was so good that I briefly googled what it took to get an English secondary (I was turned off by the early brit lit requirement). That should say a lot, I think.
This is an amazing class. Do take it!
I would highly recommend this course. The professor and TFs are very kind and very interested in what they are teaching, and this is very important (you don't find this in every single class at Harvard). They are very bent on helping you understand the text that you are reading and really help you become a much better writer in the end. You do not by any means have to be an English major to take this class; I am a prospective biology major and feel that this class was very doable with enough effort and initiative.
This is a phenomenal course. Prof. Whittington is passionate about the material, and you should absolutely invest the time in office hours to get to know her. I took the course because I wanted to read the classics on the syllabus, and I fell in love with each one. There is a lot of reading, and you want to make sure you allow yourself time to do all of it.
Professor Whittington and the assigned readings are great!  Staying on top of the reading is difficult, though, and I was very unhappy with my TF.
This is a great course. Prof Whit is epic--her every lecture is engaging and full of content, in terms of literary and historical significance. The reading list has a lot of fun stuff, although the last novel is a bit long, and definitely worth reading if you haven't already. TFs this year were very exacting and helpful, holding us to high standards in writing and giving a lot of support. Very fun class!
English 111 was an amazing course for someone like me who had never taken an English class at Harvard before. Professor Whittington definitely knows that many of the people in her class aren't English concentrators and therefore provides materials in excess to help out students. Her lectures were always a highlight of my week and I feel I learned a tremendous amount about literary analysis in the process.
Get familiar with the texts and you can take a lot more out of this class
This class is a sneaky amount of reading. Sparknotes only gets you so far, and it's pointless to take a class on Epics if you're just going to look up the plot. Don't take it unless you're ready to invest a lot of your time reading that semester. Biggest regret of my academic career at Harvard, took this senior spring.
Sooooooooooo much reading, though I didn't do most of it
great class!
It's a great class! It really gets you thinking about the world around you through the lens of epic, which is kind of unexpected. Professor Whittington and the TFs are absolutely brilliant and really sweet human beings as well. Be prepared for a lot of readings though...
While the reading material is extremely interesting, there is a LOT. Definitely try your best not to fall behind, or else you may find yourself frantically reading 800+ pages in one day. Very worth the work, though - you can get together with friends and read out loud to make sure you keep up?
I probably wouldn't have taken this course if it weren't a Gen Ed. But it's a good Ged Ed - pretty easy to get an A without too much work; interesting material; enthusiastic professor. Doing all the readings admittedly takes a lot of time - but you don't really have to do it all if you don't want to.
This course has its pros and cons.  If you are a fan of literary criticism and analysis, you will probably enjoy this course.  There is a great deal of commentary on deeper meanings of texts and analyses of rhetoric and language, as well as the evolution of themes.  However, I am not a fan of this and struggled, especially with the essays that were largely based on this type of analysis.  I enjoyed the readings and did not mind dedicating the time to reading them.  However, I think I would have preferred to just read the texts without the literary analysis.  If you enjoy that sort of thing, you will probably enjoy this class. However, if you do not and are taking this course as a way to read these books, save yourself the time and just read the books in your free time and skip the literary analysis.
All the reading is very interesting, the teaching staff is incredibly engaging and fun to work with. Try your best to keep up with the readings.
This is such a great class! Professor Whittington is an amazing lecturer and also so approachable. The reading list is also very interesting.
Interesting class but a LOT of reading and the pace is quick! I recommend it to people who really want to learn about the epics because you will need a desire to read and learn about them in order to keep up and get the most out of class.
Interesting literature but too much reading. You can get away with only reading two of five novels though if you choose them wisely
Take it if you want to read books of the canon and actually understand them!! You won't necessarily love all the books but you will still get a lot out of them.
Stay caught up on readings and talk to your TF ahead of time about your proposed paper topics, the genuinely want to help you succeed in the course.
This class made me realize that I had a lot of weaknesses when it comes to writing, and it was actually pretty difficult writing the two papers required for this course. It was also weird being in an English class that administered exams, because I've never had an "English test" before.
This is probably my favorite course I've taken at Harvard so far! Professor Whittington's teaching is amazing, and all of the works we studied are classics that everyone should read at some point in their lives. I cannot recommend this course enough, unless you are the type of person who would not enjoy reading at least 200 pages a week.
This is an amazing class, and I would strongly recommend it to anyone seeking to fulfill a GenEd requirement. It's not a walk in the park - you read five epics of significant size over the course of the semester - but you get out what you put in. Whittington is an amazing lecturer and selects only the best TFs. Sections are engaging and informative. Furthermore, the actual epics are fun to read in their entirety, especially Middlemarch, despite its length. If you're not afraid of putting in the time and are interested in actually learning something in your GenEd classes, do not hesitate to take this class. It's engaging, informative, and enlightening.
