Professor Warren is a fantastic, enthusiastic and super nice person! The readings were all very interesting. But there was just too much work and a lot going on, and so it made it hard to really appreciate each other. It felt a bit rushed and confusing. But Professor Warren is super nice!
Be careful-- the books may be funny, but the amount of reading is overwhelming. The course topics of enlightenment, the novel, and humor relate to each other in very complicated ways. The lectures were not the most clear.
Very cool material, but way too much reading in the first half of the course, and Professor Warren's lectures tend to be unfocused at best (although he is clearly a brilliant and vvery kind man)
Professor Warren is an amazing professor, and I always looked forward to his lectures.  The reading list was great, and even though the class was and English class, it had a great balance of history and comedy with the English component.  Professor Warren always picked out really funny clips to watch and would devote class time to talking about relevant things happening in the media or news, like the "CancelColbert" movement.  He also gave us a ton of freedom in our papers.
Despite the humor component, this is very much an Enlightenment-era english course. Be prepared to do close readings and write english-major-y papers.
Warren is a really nice guy, and you should definitely get to know him, but the course is a little confusing as it stands. It's hard to determine the relationship between the humor and Enlightenment components of the course and seeing a general trend in the evolution of the novel is a little tricky with all that's going on. That being said, I learned a ton from the course. The readings were awesome - try your best not to skip them. Trisha is a fantastic TF and made the course manageable and enjoyable for us.
It has the funniest reading you'll do all year; it covers completely canonical books you really ought to have read by now; it covers completely uncanonical books you should read anyway; you will read a diversity of genres and nationalities and eras that is sadly not the norm for English or literature departments; you will traverse pop culture, from Clueless to Jan vankmajer, in a week; you will learn how to deliver a persuasive argument about literature in a college-level essay; you will learn about all the above in lectures that are as fun as they are challenging.
It's a great class but be prepared to do a lot of reading.
THIS CLASS WAS FALSELY ADVERTISED. YOU DO NOT GET TO SIT AND WATCH FUNNY TV SHOWS FOR HOMEWORK. Ahem: First of all, there is far too much reading on a weekly basis, along with the section assignments, random handouts to read given in class, and television episodes, it is impossible to expect all that work to be done when students also have three other classes with fair workloads, which means that section is often a waste of time since people come unprepared. Secondly, lectures can be extremely disorganized. Powerpoints are unhelpful and contain too much text on each slide, making them hard to read, and the lectures follows no structure, so it's unclear how we are supposed to be taking notes and when to take them. Finally, the paper assignments need some adjusting--the midterm was poorly timed (immediately after spring break, when we were ALSO assigned ANOTHER BOOK and ESSAYS to read for the class), and the final was too close to the final paper, leaving little breathing room.  Trisha was a godsend as a TF, as she seemed to understand that things were very poorly handled in the class. Thank God for Trisha, and definitely go to her office hours. Basically, this class needs a lot of reworking, and would be much better as a seminar course with people who are dedicated to the workload.
This class was extremely disorganized. The reading load was upwards of 200 pages a week, and this is not an understatement. I thought that this course would be a fun and more relaxed class which compared television and comic enlightenment books of the 18th century, but it was much more novel heavy. I would definitely not suggest taking this class if you are a non English concentrator.
This class is a lot of fun - both humorous and enlightening, as the course title would suggest. My one warning is that it is nearly impossible to do all the readings. Balancing 200+ pages a week plus other classes is a huge task and while it is possible to get by in section/lecture not having done all the reading, one gets a sense that one is missing out on a lot when not getting the time to read such amazing books.
The workload is obscene, and the class is not well structured, so lectures feel to lack points sometimes. Overall, this class is very frustrating, between a lot of work and not enough of a payoff.
The idea behind this class is super interesting, as are many of the readings. However, it is pretty poorly organized and the workload is absurd. If you take it, be in Trisha's section at all costs because she is the best.
This course has a great amount of potential. The idea behind it is great, the material interesting, the readings quality, and the professor extremely enthusiastic. That being said, I think the curriculum itself needs a little ironing out so that lectures are more cohesive and coursework is doable without reading hundreds and hundreds of pages a week, additional to secondary readings, additional to television and movies to watch, additional to response papers.
In general this is a very good class whether you are an English concentrator or simply someone looking to take a paper-based course to fulfill a Gen Ed or for fun. Professor Warren is approachable and Rachel as a TF is helpful and friendly as well. Be warned there is a fair amount of reading in this class - about an entire book a week, which may be a little much for people who are not in the humanities. You will experience a lot of different texts that helped shape the humor of literature as we know it. The grading is very fair, there are two papers, and a final exam, and the sections are light and relaxed.
I really enjoyed this class, though there was a lot of work. I enjoyed the "theories of humor" aspect of it, but beware  it is still just as much an enlightenment course. The TV show pairings kind of dwindle as the course goes on. That said, all of the books were great.
Everyone, especially English concentrators, should take a course with Warren! He's a fantastic lecturer with genuine enthusiasm and a knack for making a great reading list, and really listening to the interests of his students. However, the class was "sold" to me and many other students with images of Arrested Development, Seinfeld, Curb Your Enthusiasm, etc, which DO get covered in the class, but as a side dish to the large amounts of often-old readings you do. Don't take this as an easy class in which you can talk about TV, take this as a way to learn about comedy history and theory.
This class is a disaster. The premise was flawed beyond belief; the idea of uniting the novel, the Enlightenment and a smattering of theories of humor was so forced...and just didn't work. This class needs a serious rethinking.And don't take my word for it--my section (18 students all in agreement) spent an ENTIRE class talking about how hopelessly flawed this class was, how nonsensical the premise was and how pointless the lectures were.
I loved this class. I thought the readings were amazing, and I got to learn so much about the Enlightenment, in France, England and such!
There's not structure to the lectures, there's no clear connections between the components of the course, and assignments and readings are constantly changing
This was one of my favorite classes in my time here.  Warren's lectures were really enjoyable and I felt like I was always learning new things without ever trying to hard.  The TV and movie pairings were fun to watch, and even more fun to think about how they related to what we were reading.  The books we read were difficult, and there was a ton of work, but everything was so much fun.
I took this class because I thought it would be interesting and not for any sort of requirement.  There were a lot of readings and I personally found it difficult to keep up being a non-english concentrator, so that would be something to consider.
It's very interesting and funny, just make sure to do the readings.
Do not take this class. Dont even think about it. Lectures make no sense. We never discuss the TV shows mentioned. Professor Warren might be a nice guy personally but it seemed throughout that his soul intention was to confuse and annoy the students, both with onerous assignments that served little purpose and with tedious lectures that depressed attendance.
