The material was pretty interesting and the Professor and TF were great.
since u have to take one of these, this one is prob the less painful
Sadly, Steve is leaving next year, but this course has been by far one of my favourite classes at Harvard. I have heard people complain about the English class requirements, but this course didn't feel like a requirement in the least. Steve is so passionate about everything he teaches, and Stella is a wonderful TF. The class is small enough that it feels very intimate, but big enough that people who may feel intimidated are not pressured to speak up. The readings are given out at a very reasonable pace so that you can definitely take your time to enjoy them. The assignments are few, but are all so well-thought out and interesting that they are more enjoyable than a chore. Overall, an amazing class and I can't recommend it enough.
Teacher is incredibly entertaining and passionate about the material that I always enjoyed being in class because I enjoyed being in presence.
This course is the perfect way to fill the Arrivals requirement.
It's a lot of fun! Professor Rozenski and Stella really made the class interesting. It's worth it for them.
Even if you're not interested in medieval studies, Prof. Rozenski's teaching style will really bring new excitement to the material.
You missed out! (bye Steve!!!!!)
Great professor, boring subject matter
I took this class to fulfill one of the common ground requirements, and was apprehensive about the texts at first.  But Steve's quirky charm and visible obsession with the subject makes this class exciting and relatable. I would recommend it even to people not taking it as a requirement. The creative assignments were also fun a unique component to an english class outside the creative writing department.
Unfortunately, you have to take this class if you're an English Concentrator. If you're not an English Concentrator, run away! Rozenski and Stella, however, are the best possible teachers I could imagine, assuming you do have to take it.
This is a great way to fulfill the Arrivals requirement. Steven and Stella were fantastic.
If you're an English concentrator, taking Arrivals with Prof. Rozenski is a gem! He's an amazing teacher, and he and Stella make a great team. What might have been a drag of a requirement ended up being the highlight of my semester!
This class is a requirement. You have to take it. I hope you will join me in trying to tell the English department that that is ridiculous. No one should have to read the Ancrene Wisse. Ever.
I hated the subject material, but you're probably not taking this unless it's a requirement, so that's a moot point. Professor Rozenski is hilarious and engaging and extremely kind, but unfortunately he's leaving after this semester. My main complaints with the course were that there were a lot of theological texts assigned, which are even more painful than actual literature from the time period, and that I felt like we tried to cover too much material and thus missed out on really delving into the more interesting stuff.
Class was fairly unorganized at times, and I was often confused about how certain texts related to others.  Wish there was emphasis on broader themes on a weekly basis that connected texts to each other.
Don't miss this one- the professor is phenomenal, the lectures are brilliant and the material is fascinating. I had a lot of fun, I laughed and I was exposed to some wonderful literature.
Steve and Joey are such a joy - they make arrivals actually fun!
Don't be frightened by the Arrivals requirement! This class was incredibly interesting and does an amazing job of bridging the themes I love in modern writing with the foundations of English literature.
Joey and Steve are both so passionate about the subject matter, it's a lot of fun. This isn't a subject area that I'd ordinarily be very interested in but through their knowledge and enthusiasm I really enjoyed the material, learned a lot, and looked forward to class.
It's a very fun and painless way to look at some great authors.  The professor and TF are both very welcoming and receptive, and give great perspective on the material.
The class is an Arrivals class, so if you are experiencing this material for the first time you can expect it to be a bit difficult, but Joey and Steve really make an effort to make it enjoyable (or at least bearable.) Steve is just absolutely delightful and plain amazing! He's such a positive and optimistic presence to have in the class, and you can tell that he's really passionate about the material (as is Joey) which always made up for the days when the readings were particularly challenging.
I thought Arrivals was going to be the worst course I had to take as an English concentrator, but it turned out to be the best. Professor Rozenski and Joey made it not only an incredible learning experience, but so fun. The assignments were innovative and the lectures were energetic and fact-filled. It was my favorite class of the semester.
great Arrivals class - particularly good for students with no background in pre 1600 English literature - informative without being too technical - good range of readings, and useful chronological approach
Arrivals is a difficult subject to teach, as a lot of people aren't interested in the material. That said, Professor Rozenski is enthusiastic about the material and that kind of energy can't help but transfer to the students.
The course material is boring, but that's the case of this common ground requirement.  Joey and Steve are so smart and welcoming, it's hard not to enjoy the class even when the texts bore you to tears.
There are many readings and it would benefit you to skim them rather than read them in their entirety as to read them all would be impossible and overwhelming.
Every English concentrator has to take Arrivals, and if you don't think early English literature is your thing, this one is probably the way to go. Professor Rozenski tries very, very hard to engage students, from bringing in food frequently to offering creative response paper options like riddle writing and even balloon animal twisting. Being in his classroom is a pleasant experience even for those who may never read Chaucer again.
I was NOT looking forward to taking any class on Old/Middle English (and delayed taking it for a long time), but I can honestly say that this class surprised me. I learned a ton and had a good time, too.
If you need to fill arrivals, this is definitely the class to take. Prof. Rozenski really cares about the material and generates enthusiasm for things you might not realize you're interested in. The assignments are very straightforward (ie. no pop quizzes, like there are in other arrivals classes) and you get a lot of helpful feedback on your writing assignments. Definitely take this Arrivals!
