Professor Warren is engaging and his discussions are evocative. I had never read Blake before taking this course, but I found it very interesting and insightful.
This course should really be titled 'Blake and a bunch of modern American poets,' because despite being part of the title Ginsberg is only addressed in one or two classes, the same time given to Bishop, Lowell, Plath, and other American poets we breezed through without looking at intensively. If you are a Blake fan, take this course, as it focuses on Blake throughout the entire semester. However, Blake's poems can be tough reading because of the density of mythological and historical allusions, and despite Prof. Warren being a likable and enthusiastic instructor I felt he didn't ever give us the general background we needed to understand Blake's works or learn to read him without struggling over every cryptic reference of 'Los constructs the great Golgonooza' or 'the Daughters of Beulah divide in the Vortex of Infinity' or 'the Circle's center lies outside its circumference!', which was literally every line.
This class was incredible and rewarding.  Professor Warren is both highly knowledgeable and an excellent teacher--I don't think I have ever been in a class where every single one of my peers participated enthusiastically and productively in the class, and Prof. Warren's assignments and teaching method engendered and nurtured that participation. If you want an English seminar with lots of high level discussion about poetry in a relatively casual manner this class is great.  The visual art components of the class are prominent and add a good deal to the course. I have no visual art background and did not feel unprepared for the visual art sections.
SUPER COOL! Blake is a wild ride! This class is a great seminar. Professor Warren facilitates really great discussion. You will become a better reader of poetry. And the syllabus is great - you read really cool stuff, and in chunks that are manageable so you enjoy them. The work load is pretty light.
This is a great course that dives right into Blake. He is certainly not the easiest poet to read, but I am so glad that I took this course. I have become so much better at reading poetry, particularly since Professor Warren is so wonderful at guiding discussion and getting you to notice details and patterns.
There are many WONDERFUL components to this class--the trips to the museums, Prof. Warren himself, etc... The more contemporary poets are FANTASTIC and it's really cool to read the Blake--but this is NOT a class on Allen Ginsberg.  If you're looking for that, you really only get two weeks on it, and there isn't all too much structure about it.  If you're looking for a class on William Blake, this would be really good choice!
