I was blown away by how much my fellow peers were excited about and engaging with the material. It's refreshing to be in a class with people who care at least as much about what they're learning as their grade. That aside, the class is a lot of reading, but you'll be exposed to  important canonical works. Rebecca is very kind and responsive to email and Prof Scarry has some mind-blowing insights. Somewhat repetitive, overall enjoyable.
This was a very enjoyable course that served as a strong introduction to issues regarding the social contract and how they manifest themselves in day to day life. I would strongly recommend the class to anyone with an interest in the way any society works at the macro and the micro level: from the contracts that form a nation, to those between two strangers travelling together in the carriage of a train.
An awesome class! Sometimes feels random but still a great experience.
This was one of my favorite courses that I have taken at Harvard. You really learn how to think more concretely and creatively about a topic that has been relevant in literature for hundreds of years. Lectures can be a bit abstract, but by the end of the course you have a strong sense of how all the texts on the syllabus come together around the theme of consent.
Wildly interesting and unique class. Be prepared for quite a ride.
The syllabus is fantastic -- it's an amazing breadth of materials from some of the best writers of their eras. The organization of the class is a little contrived at times, and lectures can be a little unclear, though very fascinating. Section discussions are quite engaging. Keep up with the reading!
Exceptional course. Scarry's lectures are always engaging and frequently revelatory. Rebecca expertly leads a section that was the best I've ever experienced.
Prof. Scarry is an amazing thinker. This course is a very special opportunity as the professor, unlike most courses, is lecturing on her own "original" theory about how things work. The students are asked to have a critical attitude and contribute their own "opinions" about how things should work. The normative and critical level of thinking required for the course as well as the transposition of themes across disciplines and metaphors make this course fascinating.
The course tied together many different works from across an enormous spectrum of genres and time periods. We only read excerpts from many of the works, which sometimes proved frustrating.  These excerpts were the most important to the themes of the course, but not reading the entirety of some of the works made analyzing them more difficult.
The stench of pseudointellectualism stuck hard to this course. Professor Scarry's lectures were unorganized and the texts were too disparate to be threaded together by the vague theme of "consent". The fact that this of all courses counts for "Ethical Reasoning" credit says something terrible about the General Education system. In spite of the great works of literature read and wonderful films watched in this course, it fell flat in both the lecture and section components.
Professor Scarry is wonderful in lecture, but the course itself might not be one of her best...
All of Scarry's classes profoundly alter the way you approach texts.
it wasn't a great course. i read great readings but didn't learn much.
If this class is offered again, absolutely take it. How often do you have the opportunity to read plague narratives alongside "Philoctetes" and "The Philadelphia Story"? With Professor Scarry and Rebecca Kastleman at the helm, these connections not only become clear with time, they become urgent and compelling. Don't be afraid of the reading list: you'll come to love each text in its own right, even if it seems bizarre at first. Stick around and see how things come together. A beautifully constructed course with two very thoughtful and deliberate leaders.
A great ER requirement for English concentrators because this is one of the only Philosophy courses that welcomes commentary on the aesthetic organization of the literature and other sources. It's a pleasure to take a course with Professor Scarry as well!
If you are interested in questions of consent or agency, this course is fascinating. It makes brilliant connections between a wide range of interdisciplinary texts, and Professor Scarry's lectures are both engaging and analytically poignant.
A seriously serious class. Well conducted (one of the most dedicated professor/tf teams out there). Lectures are kind of scattered and take some time to get used to, but YOU HAVE TO GO TO EVERY SINGLE ONE (because they're cool, because every test is graded on how much you know from lecture and readings, because they help you see what you're reading/what you didn't read from Scarry's viewpoint which is super important.) The most useful gen-ed I've taken - I see consent structures everywhere now, can tell you a lot of cool facts and pretty significant cultural and literary phenomenons, and think in a way I'm not used to. Section is basically an intellectual discussion. Rebecca does a great job of facilitating discussion, and everyone talks which is rare in a gen-ed. She is also the sweetest person and will give you the support you need outside of class.Bottom line: It is hard. It is cross-registered with the law school. But working hard and finishing this class feels so rewarding and you get an English and ER credit at the same time.
This is an amazing course. Professor Scarry is great: both kind and very personable, and her lectures are interesting and insightful. The course allows you to explore the philosophical issue of consent in great depth, so you should especially consider it if you're interested in consent or philosophy in general. By the end of the course, you will feel like you have a much better grasp of the issue. The readings are really diverse, both in genre and in length, which is great if you like exploring different kinds of texts and films. But it also means you should be prepared to do a lot of reading for certain weeks. Still, overall, the course is more than worth the work it requires and a really enjoyable experience.
