This is a course to those who find that many Harvard courses are devoid of humane element.  I find it rewarding to know that we can talk about life.  Jorie has no qualms about critiquing the flaws in this society.  That is very liberating.
Jorie is a great teacher and if you are open to it, you will without a doubt learn in this class.
Jorie Graham is a goddess.  Take this class!!
Take this course. You won't regret it.
Jorie reminded me why I came to Harvard: so I could spend time with people like her.
If you have an opportunity to take this course you must do so! Or I will break your legs!
Worth the price of admission (to Harvard).
It's the class from which I've learned the most in my entire time at Harvard.
keep an open mind and listen to everything Jorie has to say
Gird yourself for a tough but rewarding semester.
Jorie is the kind of person you point to when you explain why you chose to attend Harvard.  She is a gift and a marvelous teacher.  She makes the invisible accessible.
You can't leave this room without being changed.  You can't leave this room without being inspired to give praise to everything in the world.
Jorie is most incredible reader I've ever encountered. Careful, caring and authentically concerned with each student's writing.
This is one of the best classes at Harvard, if not the best.  Jorie is an extraordinary educator, able to do what few others in the world areimprove students' poetry and teach them how to read poems in new ways.  Take this class!
If you're a poet, don't go through Harvard without learning from Jorie. She is virtually poetry incarnate, and the most inspiring presence you may ever encounter. She can teach you to care about the people and the world around you, to turn honest self-scrutiny onto your own pretensions and affectations, and to write damn good poetry if you really listen and take her suggestions to heart. She focuses on every aspect of a poetic career, from inviting the muse, to struggling with images, to revision, and finally arrangement and sequence in a manuscript. What may come as a surprise is that she can also teach you to read and analyze poetry with greater precision and insight into literary history and how language works than many literary critics. She's a life force. Take her classes!
incredibly intense and the most necessary course I've taken at Harvard
Be prepared, or rather don't. Your expectations will be continually confounded. But - who knows - it might just be better than what you expected. Be open and honest, to yourself and to others, to get the most out of it. Take risks. Remember to have a bit of laugh as you go - we did.
Jorie is in every sense of the term: life-changing. If you have a chance to write poetry under her guidance, and alongside the talented and invested cohort of fellow poets you will find in this class, you must take it.
It will change your life.
If you are serious about writing poetry, this is the best possible course to take. It's likely that you'll improve immensely because of the supportive workshop environment and because of Jorie Graham's extraordinary guidance.
If you write and like poetry, and have the time and the energy and really the courage to show yourself to Jorie Graham and a class of a dozen-or-so peers, then without a doubt you show enroll in this class, and you will likely find (as hundreds before you have found) that the class will be one of the most fulfilling classes Harvard offers, and you will be back the next year.
Jorie is an incredibly passionate and thoughtful reader and mentor-- the workshop is an intensely thrilling experience
This class is unbelievable. If you have the chance, take it. I don't know who I learned more from, Jorie or other people's writing.
Jorie makes this course. She plays to her students' strengths with the nuanced intuition born of experience and sensitivity to the individual natures in the class. She will also recognize your weaknesses and challenge you, both in your poems and as a human (these are never disconnected for her). After a few minutes in a room with Jorie you will find yourself standing up straighter in the world, at attention, curious, concerned, more alive. This course can change your life; it might even save your life.
It's very intense and can take up a lot of time, but if you can spare that time its definitely worth it.
The Jorie workshop is not to be missed
This course requires a lot of effort and serious thought, but it is deeply worthwhile.
It's worth the application process. Jorie is absolutely incredible. The workshop is a second life, outside the mundane world. It gives you the chance to really engage in the "soul-making" process of writing poetry, because Jorie doesn't tolerate fake poems where nothing is at stake (and she knows when to say this gently and when to say this firmly).
