Prof Sollors and Nick Donofrio make a great teaching team - it was a pleasure to be in the classroom with both of them.
Great professor and sections--fun readings that are both classic and contemporary--
This class will definitely introduce you to new experiences. Firstly, the reading material is fantastic. The written assignments are not just restricted to analytical essays but give you the opportunity to explore literary research and even fiction pieces if that's what interests you. Professor Sollors and Nick really put a lot of work and effort into developing this course, and included things like a day trip to a museum and a writing conference. This was a great experience within the English department.
There is a lot of reading, but it is a very rewarding class. That said its certainly not easy. Really, the best part of the class is Professor Sollors' detailed knowledge of EVERYTHING and his and Nick's enthusiasm.
- Class provides students with individualized attention and is extremely engaging (especially for a required class)
This course was really engaging and unique, but still suffers a bit from being a new course.
Great books, great professor.
It is really fun.  You will enjoy the class, as well Professor Sollor and Nick's passion!
This is a really great way to fulfill the Diffusions requirement--the texts are enjoyable, the work load isn't terribly heavy and whatever assignments we are given are interesting, and Professor Sollors and Nick work hard to make sure we're getting the most out of the class.
This class is really fun, relaxed, and rewarding intellectually.  Professor Sollors and Nick did a lot to help us understand the foreign experience of the works and went out of their way to take us on trips and organize conferences where we shared our work.  Reading classic and contemporary literature with similar themes was also very enlightening as you saw the progression of foreign perceptions evolve with time.
Amazing class and wonderful teachers. I have nothing but praises, except be prepared to not have a seat for the entire shopping period. Workload is very reasonable, and you get quick, valuable feedback and learn a lot. It's also quite wonderful to see how creative and talented your classmates are during the presentations of the final projects. My only regret not having taken any class with Professor Sollors before and I'm graduating!
It's a great class. Professor Sollors is excellent, as is Giovanna. I would have to warn that listening to other students talk takes up bout half the class
I really, really loved this class. I imagine any course with Professor Sollors would be incredibly enjoyable.
Werner Sollors and Giovanna are great.
This was clearly a course into which Professor Sollors and Giovanna put a great deal of planning and energy, and it really showed. All the essentials were there -- the reading list was very diverse and interesting, assignments were fair and had a great balance of creative and analytical, sessions were very informative and had discussion sprinkled in pretty nicely. What made this course really impressive, though, were the additional opportunities it involved -- a trip to the ISG museum, creative projects presented in a beautiful Barker Center room, lunch with Professor Sollors! Overall, just an impeccably put together course.
Take this class if you get the opportunity. Professor Sollors is an amazing mind, and it is a privilege to be taught by him.
This course requires a remarkable amount of reading and work every week, so I would recommend taking it in a semester with an otherwise light work load.
This was a generally good Diffusions class for English concentrators. You cover a huge swath of American writers. Make sure you can keep up with the pace of a novel a week, especially as weekly response papers are required. Professor Sollors has some wonderful insights about these works.
the reading list is amazing and the interracial/intercultural component of the course is so relevant to the cosmopolitanism of our day. A course that's a rare gem in the english department
I think your general enjoyment of a Diffusions class will depend largely on how you like the readings, so if the works on the syllabus interest you, take the course. You will leave with a thorough understanding of American literature. Sollers is an excellent professor as well.
Great course--Werner Sollors is a great professor. Great books. Great class for learning how to write good papers w all the response papers due...
This felt nothing like a requirement! The readings were fantastic, and both Professor Sollors and Giovanna were great, and seemed invested in making sure that everyone got a lot out of the course.
Professor Sollors and Giovanna are wonderful, generous teachers, but the course itself was a little disappointing.  The reading was too much, so the discussion tended to feel superficial.
Professor Sollors is great - a knowledgeable lecturer and a truly caring professor.  Giovanna is good as well, but she's definitely not among the top English Department TF's I've had.  The reading list is solid, but if the weekly response papers stay in the course after this semester, they are the worst, and become quite annoying, especially when you have heavy reading and maybe even another assignment due that week.  Like many common ground courses, expect the in-class 25 person discussions (comprised of mostly freshmen and sophomores) to become repetitive and pointless very quickly.  But, overall, a good way to fulfill the diffusions requirement.
Professor Sollors and Giovanna are both so enthusiastic and knowledgable.  They lead great discussions.
Professor Sollors is wonderful, and this is a great reading list.  A good way to fill your Diffusions requirement.
This is a great course. Professor Sollors is excellent; he's passionate about this subject and he clearly cares a lot about teaching well and connecting with his students.
While I enjoyed lecture and discussions, I would have preferred more time for each book and less response papers.
I would take this class as an elective, even though it is technically a required "Diffusions" class for the English concentration.
