Professor Scarry is wonderful in seminar by facilitating fluid discussions.
At a time when anthropology is moving away from aesthetics to a more material approach, and at a time when state funding for aesthetically-oriented programs in institutions of higher and lower education is being cut, the question of beauty's relation to justice is an extremely important one. This class makes the case for the relevance of such a relationship.
This class will teach you a whole new way of looking at art of any kind, and provides you with plenty of ammo for those skeptics who would deny the extremely important social and political implications of the appreciation and study of beautiful things.
This class requires an immense investment of time, mostly the reading, more so than most of the classes at Harvard.
On Beauty is a wonderful class that will get you thinking creatively about aesthetics. It is a class that may not provide you with a focused idea on the subject, but you will definitely broaden your knowledge about the interplay between aesthetics and literature as a whole and discover new texts.
There is much to gain from reading these texts and listening to Professor Scarry, but it is essential that you enjoy the seminar environment.
Elaine Scarry is wonderful! Be prepared for large amounts of reading, though the reading will be really excellent.
It's a bit of a strange class - in its syllabus and they way it is conducted. But Prof. Scarry is wonderful - and if you want a class to just read and think about beauty in a laid-back manner, not highly rigorous or stressful, then this is good.
Incredible professor and beautifully curated course materials
The professor is absolutely wonderful, and it is a pleasure listening to her.  However, the presentations sometimes get in the way of full class participation in discussion, and I sometimes wish she would interrupt people when they start getting long-winded.
This course is really what you make of it in terms of responses to the readings.  There are enough readings that you can really make your own way in terms of the questions you want to ask.  If you are already interested in something aesthetic, and are not an intellectual dictator, then this is a course for you.
This is a challenging and unusual class in which students are given freedom to explore their own projects. Elaine Scarry is a truly wonderful professor who brings the best out of her students.
Beauty is one of the most important things in life.  Professor Scarry's seminar will help you understand what factors play into it and how multifaceted beauty can be.
This course is structured in a free-flowing manner to facilitate exchange between students, but it's intellectual demands and fluid approach might not be for everyone.  If you are looking for a course that will give you bullet-point notes and clear-cut, definitive answers, this course probably isn't a good fit.  It is more exploratory than instructive.
I would recommend this course and this instructor without reservation. Dr. Scarry is truly a goddess of beauty and wisdom.
This course is an exceptional opportunity to consider a subject that is all too often passed over or unthinkingly treated in other seminars. It has a wider array of readings than just about any other seminar in the department, and it will ask you to think in ways no other English seminar ever would.
I think that English grad students shouldn't miss the opportunity to take this class and engage with its content.
This course is a Harvard English classic - I think an understanding of the history of aesthetic discourse, the gifts and curses of beauty, is necessary to an understanding of literature itself.
