This class is an amazing opportunity to join a community of writers  Jennifer is a wonderful teacher who pushes you to become a better, sharper, smarter writer.
We treated each other's work with a seriousness that really taught me to take pride in my own, and I think that made workshopping my own work a lot less scary. I knew that both Gilmore and my peers wanted to see my story reach its full potential. Also don't worry if you don't have a workshop background. By the end of the course you will learn how to talk about literature from a craft perspective.
Take this class if you're interested about writing and want to explore it. It's not too much work and a fun break from you other work. Still, the 3-hr seminar format is tiring, and you could always try just writing more if you want to write more.
Great class to improve your writing and see other students writing styles!
Creative writing workshops, particularly this one, are SUCH a great addition to any schedule. It's a low-stress but extremely productive environment, and it's a great way to do something creative and fulfilling for academic credit. Amy is absolutely amazing; it's a shame to see her leave Harvard, and I hope whoever takes her place as an additional intro fiction instructor is just as good.
If you're reading this, then I'm sorry to say that you have missed the chance to take this course with Amy Hempel, because she is an irreplaceable resource to student writers.
if you are looking for a safe space at harvard to work on your creative writing, i highly recommend this class! it was a great opportunity to get to share my work with other students and receive constructive and helpful feedback that I really think helped me as a writer. obviously, the more you put in, you get more out of this class. It's not really that much work, but it really gives you a chance to explore and be creative within an academic setting
Professor Hempel is wonderful - what an eye for fiction!
if you have the opportunity, i can't recommend this class enough. Amy is fantastic, able to help transform stories for the better with only a few words. she knows exactly how to help, and my writing grew tremendously.
This course had an incredibly comfortable atmosphere, which made it easy to critique productively. Also, everyone in the class was very thoughtful and talented, with good insight into all the creative pieces. The feedback was invaluable, and seeing others' work was very helpful as well. I feel like I grew enormously as a writer. I loved this class, and wholeheartedly recommend it to others.
If you have any interest at all in fiction writing, apply for this course. Being part of a workshop with Amy Hempel is a once in a lifetime experience. Take your work seriously, take the work of your classmates seriously, and you'll grow as a writer. This course will be 3 hours that you look forward to each and every week--I guarantee it.
Fantastic course that taught me a lot about the short story and my own writing. Amy is wonderful and will give you helpful and detailed feedback, as will (most of) your classmates.
If you are interested in fiction writing at all, I would enthusiastically recommend this class. Amy is obviously an incredible writer, so the chance to receive feedback from her is on its own exciting. However, the class itself is a lot of fun. There are people who have been writing fiction for a while and people who have only just started, but it's a really supportive and friendly environment. You will benefit a lot just from being made to write, and at some point having to call a story finished, which can be much harder outside of a semi-disciplined structure. You will also benefit from the feedback of smart readers who also love fiction, and from the different writing styles and perspectives that everybody brings.
This class is incredible. It is my favorite class so far at Harvard, and I am a senior. I cannot say enough good things about Amy. Take it if you want to learn about writing and life, and don't be afraid if you don't have a lot of experience!
You will really grow as a writer in this course. Amy is a wonderful guide and mentor, and really knows how to create an environment where students can feel comfortable laying themselves on the line a little bitsomething which is very necessary for creating good writing.
If you've never written fiction before or if you're just looking for a very knowledgeable person to give you honest feedback, this is the class for you.
One of my favourite classes at Harvard; such a great opportunity to develop your own writing and read the amazing things that others are working on.
Amy is a dear soul who can diagnose writing problems with ease, prescribing readings like drugs. This class is by far the most rewarding class I have taken at Harvard.
I've yet to take a better class at Harvard. Amy is beloved by anyone who has worked with her before. This class has given me so much.
Your writing will improve tremendously, and professor Hempel is fantastic at teaching one of the most difficult things that a person can teach.
Amy Hempel is very special and you should really value your time with her in this class. It was a treat, spending only a few hours each week reading stories and writing your own, and then getting class credit for all that.
Take full advantage of the invaluable resource that is a workshop while you can.
You will learn a LOT about yourself and your writing in this course. Taking this class was one of the best experiences I have had at Harvard. Amy is absolutely wonderful. She creates the PERFECT class environment with other students who support and challenge you and want you to be your best.
Amy is an unbelievable person and teacher. I think I would love this class no matter what because of her, but I think the amazing group of people that I happened to take the class with made it even more awesome. Writing the stories was very difficult but so rewarding. It was an honor and a joy to be a member of this class.
This class is by far one of the highlights of my entire education, and I cannot praise Amy enough for creating an inclusive and tight family out of our class.  The feedback I received from her and my classmates really improved my writing a lot, and the readings were great.  This class was SO GOOD that one day when Amy couldn't make it to class, we were so sad that we held class ourselves.  It's THAT awesome of a class!  Even if you have never written fiction, like a few in our class, you can have a great experience, and I've made some really great friends as a result.
Amy is incredibly warm and fosters a very collaborative environment!
Amy is a great writing teacher and this course is inspiring and enriching and probably worth taking if you want to get started writing short stories that other people might enjoy. What this is not, however, is a kind of Math 25 for writing, a bootcamp that takes the enthusiastic novice writer and trains her thoroughly in various conventions by forcing her to practice the craft rigorously and continuously.
This class requires an application-- if you get in, please take it! Amy Hempel is sweet, knowledgeable, and just all-around stellar. The workshop experience is also something you don't want to miss!
You will get a lot of feedback on your written work and will learn many new ways of analyzing short stories.
Anyone who is accepted to this course MUST take it. Amy Hempel is the most talented faculty member at Harvard, hands down. She is generous with her time and gracious with her comments. She will completely transform your writing style if you will just sit back, soak in everything she says, and be malleable. Please, do yourself a favor and read her book before taking her class. You do not need to, but it's so important for students to know just how good their professors are before they start learning from them. If you don't have time to read her for yourself, trust this: everything Amy Hempel says is gold; listen to her critiques.
This class was something that I looked forward to from the moment I left class at 7 at night.  It is a welcoming environment in which you can creatively express yourself and  receive feedback upon how to improve your style.  In the end, you have a finished product that reflects the amount of work and creative thought you put into it.
I would recommend this class to any student regardless of their concentration. It will change the way you think in every capacity. It's about exercising a healthy mind. Writing, the discipline of writing, forcing yourself to write, finding ways to look at the world and worlds inside your head in ways that allow you articulate chaotic streams of thought into clear channels of (self-)communication.
great experience
It's super fun! Congratulations!
This is a wonderful course that teaches us to improve our creative writing and look more deeply at the creative process. Also, it teaches what makes a story work and what doesn't. And peer editing is amazing.
it's fabulous, and Amy is incredible
This class was really great, not a lot of work, lots of thinking and reading.
One of the best ways to force yourself to write. And then improve. Amy is wonderful and always willing to help and excessively approachable. I was also in a class full of talented and genuinely interesting people that I got to know as people.
Take this course!  Amy Hempel is incredible.  If you are worried about not having enough writing experience, don't be.  Come to class with an open mind, willingness to voice your opinion, and ready to have fun.  Really put in the time and effort writing and editing, and you'll learn a lot about yourself.
Amy is just an amazing individual and a great teacher. She can really take your writing and make you look at it in a different light.
This class is a fun way to learn about writing fiction in general and the way in which you specifically should be writing it.
What expos should have been, but better.
You will learn a lot in this class about how to write and read better, but it really does seem to depend on who happens to make up your workshop. It's a very intimate class, so the people really make it.
If you are interested in writing fiction and learning about the process of writing fiction, this is an awesome class for you!
This course is the kind that gives the "only at Harvard" label some meaning. Having the chance to learn from someone as talented and wise as Amy Hempel is truly incredible -- and if you have the opportunity to take it, you HAVE TO. The more you put into this class, the more you'll get out of it. Don't slack off. The more carefully you read other people's works, the more careful a writer you'll become.
This class will change the way you think about what a story is and what makes a story good. The reading list is excellent, and most classmates were very serious and sincere about giving good comments.
You're in for a treat!!!!!
Amy Hempel is a wonderful teacher.
Wonderful introduction to fiction writing.
Amy is the perfect instructor for an introductory course like this: never condescending, always full of concrete suggestions and advice, and easy to relate to.  Workshops draw students who seem genuinely interested in improving their writing, so class discussions are always lively.  And if the three hours seem daunting, they really do get over in a hurry.
Take it.
If you like writing, it would be criminal of you not to take this course before you graduate. My best experience at Harvard by far.
This is a great class to take. It's once a week, and it really helped me develop my creative writing style.  The best part about it was that I got graded to do what I loved!
Professor Hempel is an amazing writer and instructor and this class was wonderfully constructed and extremely helpful in improving your writing.
The practice--both in writing and in presenting your work to others--is amazing. But if you write in a style different from the professor's, be ready to parse through the feedback for things that can actually help you, rather than force your writing into something it isn't.
Amy is wonderful and is such an amazing, kind, and funny person! Regardless of your year, concentration, or experience, I recommend applying for this course if you have a passion for writing (particularly fiction) and are willing to give and accept advice. You never know what will happen, so there's no reason no to apply, and if you have the opportunity to take the class, I highly recommend it!For the logistics--everyone writes two stories in the semester (and ends up revising one of them) and three stories are workshopped in class each week (for about 45 minutes each). Amy gives very helpful, specific advice and if she thinks it may help you to read work by a certain author she is the best at suggesting stories to help you get over any obstacles in your writing. I found my peers to be thoughtful and (for the most part) respectful of my work, and it was a great opportunity to read their work as well. But really, for me, the class was about getting the chance to meet and work with Amy, who is one of the most thoughtful writing teachers (and people). The class was always one of the highlights of my week and was (surprisingly, to me) low-pressure and a complete joy to be a part of. What makes the class so special is that Amy recognizes the talent in each individual writer, which creates a very special, engaging workshop environment.
This course is the best that I have taken at Harvard. Amy is amazing.
If you love writing and want to improve, this is an incredible experience. Amy is a great author with great advice to give, through helping each other the class gets to know each other really well, and you will both be exposed to great writers you've never heard of and have your own writing changed as you get your strengths assessed and advice given by classmates.
I feel like I could have learned a lot just sitting there and listening--I've gotten a better understanding of what a short story is, and this was a class that I always wanted to spend more time on. Professor Hempel was very knowledgable and experienced.
This is a wonderful course! Amy is supportive and brilliant and fosters a caring workshop environment where the emphasis is on producing your best work and challenging the conventions of your writing. It benefits from its small size and you receive great personalized attention on the stories you write throughout the semester, as well as gain an awesome reading list! Definitely make the effort to go to Amy's office hours and talk over your pieces with her - you will learn so much from her guidance! What is particularly great about this course is that you will also learn a ton from your classmates - definitely take the time to read their work carefully and give them feedback!
This class is really great if you put in the time and effort to close-read your work as well and the work of others.
This is great exercise in seeing if writing is for you, but the workshoping and comments are often too nice to be helpful
Professor Hempel is very talented and gives constructive feedback.  I learned a lot and enjoyed the course, particularly learning from my classmates.
This was the best class I've taken at Harvard. Amy Hempel is the teacher you want to have. She lives and breathes fiction writing. She understands the craft better than anyone and is dedicated to making you understand it as well as she. This class was unexpectedly life-changing.
Take this! Amy is amazing and the feedback you get from your classmates is really great for building you up as a writer. Also, if you are considering applying for a creative writing workshop but are on the fence, I would encourage you to try. I didn't expect to get into this class when I applied, but I did, and I loved the experience.
Definitely worth taking.
This is one of the best courses I've ever taken! As someone dreaming of creating and telling stories, I feel that I actually improved my writing in ways I was not aware of because of Joan's amazing patience and encouragement. My peers were also so talented, and while we came in as fellow writers, we left as close friends and colleagues. I'm so thankful for all her help, and I can honestly say I will feel the benefits of this class for years to come, a rare blessing indeed.
This class is hard work, and you should be prepared to have to read something to the class that isn't perfect.
This creative writing course (which I took with Joan Wickersham) was a refreshing change from my usual curriculum of p-sets and papers. The assignments were enjoyable--if you love writing (and can can manage to get into a creative writing course), take this course. Joan was always ready to help, and the class was a joy because it mixed compelling coursework with a relaxing atmosphere. Fellow students were also interested in writing and very willing to help/advise.
If you've taken a fiction workshop before (even if it was in high school), you might want to think about taking advanced fiction workshop. This workshop was great, but I didn't think it was rigorous enough, craft wise. There was a lot of discussion about content instead, which is not what I think fiction workshops should focus on.
Joan is a wonderful instructor who provides incredibly helpful feedback on your pieces. She is very accessible outside of class and will always meet with you if you want extra help or more feedback. Her advice on your writing is spot-on and she is very enthusiastic about the subject matter! Plus she's super experienced and is a published author -- very cool.
Take creative writing classes! Prof. Wickersham is very helpful, both in providing feedback for writing and giving advice on how to be a writer. Also, it's amazing being surrounded by such talented people who are passionate about writing and storytelling.
You get what you put into this class. Feedback from peers and the professor is incredibly helpful. Workshopping other people's work also becomes important to your own development.
It's totally worth it!
Take the class! Very enriching!
This is not just a class; it's a workshop for serious, committed writers.
This is a great way to explore your creative side and work on your writing skills
Be prepared to give and take tough criticism, as well as to give and take praise and encouragement. This class will gently challenge you even if you have developed your own style; take it if you would like to embrace the challenge. It is a lot of fun sometimes, because you get your head filled with stories each week, and once everyone knows each other, people open up a lot.
Not only if you like writing, but also if you like creative thinking, definitely take it.  Both current fiction teachers are fantastic, as are most of the creative faculty.
It is a great way to get into writing and reading fiction
It's a great seminar, Amy Hempel is amazing! The feedback you get from your peers is invaluable, and you get to hear so many great pieces of writing along the way!
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard.
It's a great place to explore different things you enjoy that you might not get a chance to do once you graduate college.
If you have a chance to take this workshop, do not think twice. It has changed the way in which I write, read, think, and sometimes feel!
if you can get in, take it! Easily one of the best experiences I've had at Harvard. The three hours of class flies by, and I learned so much about writing.
Amazing class.
Anyone who has even the slightest interest in writing should take a creative writing course. You work with a real, published author and learn so much about the craft of fiction writing without a huge amount of stress.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. The assigned readings really inspired me, and workshopping one another's stories gave me the concrete skills/understanding of craft to have faith in my own ability to one day get from my still amateur fiction writing to work that I'm really proud of.
Do not take creative writing if you want an easy, no commitment course. This class makes you think and rethink the way you write, and will topple your opinion of yourself as a writer and help build it back up. I approach writing--and reading--so differently after this class, and appreciate the toolkit Jennifer instilled. I feel I have a much better grasp on how to approach writing a story or longer work than I did before. This kind of class is unique in that it asks you to work creatively, to make art for academic credit--take it if you can!!
Great class and really great instructor, but you get what you put in - if you don't put in the effort to learn something, you won't.
