This is a course in which you read texts you never thought you'd read and find you like them -- or, at the very least, understand them.
The lectures and sections make up for the mediocre reading material. However, aside from the large amount of reading, assignments themselves are very fair and manageable.
It's a great class if you get your readings done (which is usually possible). Both the professor and the TF are great instructors; I usually left lecture and section with new insights about our readings both from them and from my classmates. Since at least two weeks were spent on all of the books, we had the opportunity to look for themes and motifs covered in the first week of lecture as we finished our reading of the text--something I found particularly helpful.
The class is interesting, but you need to keep up with the readings to really comprehend all that's being thrown at you, and this reading load is rather demanding.
Prepare to do a lot of reading, some of it very slow, though all of it interesting...if you think about it.
Professor Price will take a seemingly tedious, 1000-page 18th-century novel and make it incredibly fascinating and exciting. She is brilliant and funny and her lectures are always excellent.
This class is amazing! Professor Ganz is one of a kind. She encourages discussion and radiates positivity. If you enjoy English and reading, you will love this class.
This class is probably one of the best I have taken so far at Harvard. Professor Ganz is clearly an expert in her field, and her enthusiasm for the novels is really evident in her lectures. The structure of the class, because it was so small, may be a little intimidating, but don't let that stop you, because it is so worth it.
Make sure to do the readings. It really makes it more meaningful when discussing in the classroom.
This was my favorite class this semester.  We read books that I never would have read on my own, but I ended up really enjoying them.  I learned a lot, and I really enjoyed every class.  The professor is great, and the class was so small, that we got to know each other well.
Keep up on the reading, don't stress too much about the midterm or final. This course is excellent, and Professor Gantz is a wonderful professor. You can really tell she loves the subject material.
Readings are somewhat female-oriented. Professor is great and her feedback actually helps you improve your writing
This class is great!
Unfortunately, I believe this is Professor Damrosch's last class.  He gives a wonderful lecture, and I am not sure this class will be the same.  Section TF Jacob, however, is excellent and you should hope that he is back.
I think future students should be aware that the amount of reading for this course is substantial, and that if you don't do the reading, you won't get much out of the class at all because lectures are very much given with the assumption that you have done it. It's a good course, but don't take it unless you have the time to devote to it, because if you're just going to skim through it, it's not worth taking.
This was a very painless way to fill a requirement, and the material was really engaging.
This class is wonderful particularly for students who are looking for an education in foundational English literature.
I wish Professor Damrosch wasn't retiring and you had the chance to take a class with him. I wish I could have the chance to take another class with him.
English 141 is an engaging, interesting, and exciting course.  I almost always enjoyed doing the readings, and felt little stress from this course.
The reading material is great as is section. Shop the class first though, if you could actually hear what the professor is saying than take it if you will.
Be ready for some inaccessible texts, that have long stretches of boring.
boring way to fulfill a requirement
Light written workload, lots of reading but it's fun, brilliant and engaging lectures.
It's more of a history class than an English class. For those who enjoy the context part of the development of the novel, go for it. For those who want to really get down and dirty with texts, I'd recommend taking a different course.
The lectures are kind of painful unless you reaally reallly like the books.
Fantastic teacher
Prof. Gustafson is great! Definitely take the class.
Professor Gustafson really knows the material and the subject matter is interesting
Everyone who is interested either in the novel or in the Enlightenment should take this course; it is informative and a lot of fun.
Professor Gustafson is wonderful, she's so knowledgeable about this topic, easy to talk to, engages the class in discussions and is a very likable person. The novels are great reads, sometimes it's a little hard to keep up with the reading, but it's manageable
This is an interesting class if you like 18th century literature
Wonderful English class to take for the English concentration, English secondary (will fulfill British lit requirement), or for an elective. As of now, the class has a straightforward final, two 5-7 pg papers, and 5 journal entries of about a page each. Only warning: a large part of the allure of this class (though not all - I loved the books) is the amazing Professor (Prof Ganz) - who will be leaving after this semester.
This class is very enjoyable, and the readings are very interesting even though there are a lot of them.  The essays are graded a little harshly, but as long as you spend enough time editing and working on them, you should be fine.
Melissa Ganz is terrific! She is a wonderful moderator for class discussions and does a great job of both supporting your opinions and guiding you towards some deeper concerns of the text. Her grading is also fair and she is extremely approachable outside of class. The materials in the class itself are interesting. Get ready for some melodrama, which people tend to either love or hate. But mostly the readings are great with some hidden humor.
be sure to be interested in the subject matter. otherwise you may regret choosing this course. the teacher was amazing but unfortunately she's gone now.
These are great books.
If you're looking for a course where the professor is incredibly knowledgeable, accessible, and encouraging, the reading is moderate in volume but very enjoyable, and the overall workload is very low, then this class is the best for you.
I was really dreading the early British Literature requirement for my secondary field, since I thought I would find the books to be boring. I was totally wrong. This class wound up being one of my favorite classes at Harvard. It was so well-taught, it wasn't too much work, and the course material turned out to be fascinating. I would recommend that anyone with even a passing interest in literature take this class.
Anyone interested in the history of the novel will gain a lot from this course.
The reading is super fun and you learn all sorts of crazy things about the 18th century. Never knew how ribald and risque the 18th century was!
This class offers an interesting opportunity to examine 18th-century novels, but beware -- it's a lot of reading with not a lot of discussion payoff.
This class provided a great opportunity to become acquainted  with 18th century works and  Professor Gustafson was a great discussion leader.
