Do the readings and take advantage of Professor Watson's knowledge and excitement for the material. Going in thinking ugghhh i have to fill my arrivals requirement will lead you to do yourself a disservice for the first few weeks of the course. Enjoy all the wonderful stories of parsons and knights and adam and eve - its a fun magical class that teaches a lot about the evolution of storytelling and language - there are three papers and a few quizzes which are a little bit annoying - but they keep you honest about the material and it's all definitely worth reading! Also, professor Watson is the best - so go see him as much as possible.
This class is both really fun and really interesting.  We read works I had never even heard of, and talked about concepts in literature and in life that made me really think.
The readings are interesting and Professor Watson's a great teacher.
Professor Watson is a really excellent and engaging lecturer. The workload was manageable, with shorter readings during the weeks where the language was middle English. Overall, very enjoyable
If you're looking for a fantastic intro into English, or just interested in the works, I highly recommend Professor Watson's class. He's brilliant.
This course draws from challenging material, but it is very enjoyable if time and effort is put into diving into the material.
If you've heard of works like Beowulf and the Canterbury Tales often, but have always been hesitant to tackle such big names on your own, then please take this course. Professor Watson balances a healthy enthusiasm for pre-modern literature with a deep engagement with historical trends. I sincerely adored lecture, and feel that I have a bit more grounding in my relationship with the English language tradition.
Have an open mind.  I was pretty freaked out about taking Arrivals, so I decided to make it the first Common Ground course I took, to get it over with.  But I actually ended up enjoying it a lot more than I expected to.  There's a good amount of reading, but nothing unreasonable.
Professor Watson is a fantastic lecturer, giving you both historical and literary insight into the books you read as well as generating a lot of enthusiasm for each text. A medievalist class did not sound appealing to me at first, but after taking it with Watson, I can say that I really enjoy the subject and would like to do more work with medieval texts.
Prof. Watson is a great lecturer and often offers ways of understanding the texts through context and history that you would never get from reading yourself or just studying the history around a piece. I read many of the major texts we read in this course in high school (Beowulf, SGGk, Canterbury Tales, Paradise Lost) and still learned a lot from his lectures. Despite the section quizzes on reading comprehension, it's easy to let yourself slide on the readings if you're having a busy week, but try not to - lectures are worth it.
The reading can be difficult but the experience of having Professor Watson is incredible.
If you're nervous about getting into the "old" parts of English, never fear, Watson's enthusiasm for the subject matter will make it all both understandable and enjoyable! Reading amount is average for an English class (lighter than many) and though paper prompts are occasionally a bit confusing the grading is fair. Would recommend
