This is an incredibly special course, my favorite course I've taken at Harvard. Prof. Abramson is fantastic. She's very dedicated to her students and makes a real effort to provide helpful feedback, improve students' writing, and make the course a fun experience. The readings in the class are a fantastic survey of the best in journalism, and the guest speakers brought a special dynamic to the class. I also really enjoyed meeting and working with the students in this course; they're all exceptionally bright and really interesting people and writers. Between sections and our end-of-semester field trip, Prof. Abramson fosters a community-like feel, which I appreciated. Make sure you take this class if you get in!
I would like to emphasize that this course has literary and artistic merit, although it covers a genre that might not immediately peak the attention of the more creatively inclined writers / playwrights or screenwriters or poets etc. who write in an entirely different form. I think journalism is an extremely valuable skill for any writer to have. Not only does it teach you to listen to people and to ask the right questions, but it also teaches you how to develop a plot and successfully follow a story. I will take this with me both when I write journalism pieces in the future with other genres.
Professor Abramson is kind, thoughtful, and seems to have endless enthusiasm for journalism! If you are thinking about journalism at all as a career, or just want to have a unique glimpse into the inner-workings of that world, this class is a phenomenal, once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.Maybe just a note to be aware that though you write two long pieces, this is not really a writing workshop in the traditional sense, and focuses more on learning about the world of journalism. Still, Professor Abramson is always there to read through your work and give commentary, and is amazing in how much of her time outside of class she devotes to the students.(Also, great snacks during the breaks!)
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard, and one of the most helpful to me as a Harvard. Jill is a truly exceptional teacher and I feel so lucky to have worked with her. I feel that my journalism has improved exponentially.
If you are accepted into this course and do not take it, you are the most foolish person at Harvard. An amazing class. The course made me a much better writer and appreciator of prose. You read what are regarded as the best pieces of journalism ever written, and talk about what made them so great. You get a lot of experience in longform, which is very different than what I usually right. Class itself is a joy and Professor Abramson is very helpful as far as making your assignments a success.
This class is truly a once-in-a-lifetime experience. If Jill taught an advanced journalism course, I (and I'm sure everyone else in the class) would apply for it, because this semester was one of the most enriching, thought-provoking academic and personal experiences I've ever had. The readings are excellent; the assignments challenging, yet immensely rewarding. I really can't recommend this class enough.
If you can get into this class, you absolutely have to take it.
Just take it! Jill is a fantastic teacher. You'll grow so much from taking this class.
Fantastic, valuable, enjoyable class. I genuinely looked forward to Monday afternoons each week. Professor Abramson brought incredible insight from a remarkable career and was a lot of fun. She was also incredibly generous with her time outside of class, meeting throughout the semester to discuss both assignments and career and life advice. Readings were engaging and very manageable. 

I wouldn't be intimidated to apply for the class without much journalism experience; it could definitely serve as an introduction to the topic.
Take this class!! Professor Abramson is probably the best teacher I've had at Harvard. The class is fun, engaging, and will make you a better writer.
Where to start? Jill Abramson is THE person to learn journalism from. She brought incredible stories, excellent guests, and a deep interest in her students. The top editor there is knows a lot about developing writers and you're sure to emerge from this class a much stronger writer.
Jill Abramson knows everything there is to know about journalism. Whether you want to be a journalist or just tell stories, this class is 100% the best way to read a lot, learn a lot, and also listen to a lot of kickass super dope journalists tell you about the biz. Seriously. TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU CAN.
You may have read all these pieces about Jill Abramson earlier in the year that portrayed her as a tough, pushy, stern boss. Forget that smug characterization. Professor Abramson was one of the most dedicated and delightful professor I have ever had. She picks engaging readings, holds frequent office hours where you would always want to go, even if just to 'hang out.' She tries to know students on an individual, personal level and also provides great advice about anyone interested in a career (or internship) in the field of journalism.
This is a wonderful class for anyone interested in journalism. Professor Abramson is endlessly knowledgeable, and it is an amazing opportunity to be able to learn from her.
This is a fabulous course. The chance to read the pieces Jill Abramson considers to be the best in all of journalism is itself worth it, and in addition she leads a great seminar and is warm and accessible to her students. If you're fortunate enough to get into this course, take it!
The assignments will take you time, but they are worth it. Definitely turn in drafts because Professor Abramson's feedback is amazing. In terms of readings, you get out of it what you put in, and I think they help make the assignment expectations clearer.
The course is great for getting writing advice, hearing enlightening stories, and hearing guest speakers that really provide enlightening perspectives on journalism and the industry in today's work. Working with Prof Abramson is also a rare experience that is invaluable--both for your writing and professional considerations. The only thing is that it is pretty non-academic, as we don't spend as much time on speaking about the social effects of modern journalism as we do about practical writing advice.
Jill is fabulous. She has a wealth of stories and wild experiences from her time at the Times, which make spending three hours per week with her a priceless experience. She is also so eager to get to know her students -- we all went to her office hours frequently because she was so encouraging of us to do so and so willing to offer mentorship and advice (much more than many professors here). Before I met Jill, I was expecting her to resemble the media portrayals of her (i.e. sort of a bitch) but I was shocked at how dissimilar she is from this. She's warm and funny, witty and perceptive and very invested in her students. She's honest and down to earth and is willing to reveal all of her personal trials and tribulations to the extent that they might help her students.
Prof. Abramson is the real deal.
The primary strength of this course was having Jill Abramson as a professor. She obviously comes with incredible experience in the industry, as well as the riveting anecdotes and amazing contacts that come along with it. The name of the course is somewhat misleading, in that it is not a broad introduction to journalism, but really a course on longer narrative pieces. I think the class presupposes experience in journalism to a large extent. All in all, I would say take the course if you love journalism, as I certainly do, but don't except to make huge leaps and bounds as a writer.
Really cool experience to take a class with Jill. There is little to no work on a week to week basis, just two papers. Great guests come by!
This is a fantastic course that offers the unparalleled opportunity to get to learn from someone who worked at the highest echelon of serious journalism.
If you have any curiosity or interest in journalism, no course will give you a better introduction in terms of both breadth and depth
Everyone, from every field of study, should take this class. My biggest regret is that I only took it senior spring. Jill is an amazing instructor who cares about bringing a complete experience to her students. She gives amazing feedback on work and pushes you to write important pieces. My friends used to wonder how I sat through a three hour class, but it never felt like three hours and I was always excited to come to class and discuss readings with my peers.
This was hands down one of the best courses I took in all of my time at Harvard. Jill is so phenomenal. She really takes an interest in your learning and is incredibly supportive. The reading list is phenomenal - you're basically just reading Jill's favorite pieces of journalism, which are some of the best ever written, and then discussing them with her. Take. This. Class.
Possibly the best class I've had at Harvard
This is one of those classes that if you get in, you take it. Jill is absolutely the most wonderful professor. Obviously she's talented and has a wealth of experience, as everyone would expect -- but she's also immensely thoughtful and very, very encouraging. She makes herself very accessible at office hours and reaches out frequently. If you have experience with journalism, there might be a few times you find yourself a bit bored -- but for the most part, it's a mix of people with no experience and significant experience and you'll be blown away by the discussions Jill leads. I absolutely, absolutely recommend it wholeheartedly.
Jill's accessibility and willingness to give us constructive criticism in a group and individual setting proved invaluable for my development this semester.Furthermore, the course evolved in a clear fashion that showed us how we would be learning to become better writers and journalists. I left the class feeling as though I had opened a part of my writing ability that I didn't know was there. This is a class you won't find anywhere else!
If you already have journalism experience, you likely won't learn much about reporting that you don't already knowbut the syllabus is excellent, and Jill is a fantastic editor and instructor.
Jill will really familiarize you with how news and stories are reporting and produced. She is an open book, and I appreciate how willing she is to share her experiences with her students. You will read well-written pieces and discuss what makes them engaging. You will submit two pieces, and I wish we had actually written more, and received more feedback. But getting to ask Jill questions every week was very valuable.
THIS COURSE IS AMAZING!!! Jill is an amazing instructor. This class is definitely in my top three favorite classes that I've taken at Harvard.
If you are interested in writing and journalism, don't miss the chance to learn from Jill Abramson! She is an amazing person to hear talk and lecture and this was one of the most satisfying classes I ever took.
I cannot recommend this course enough. Prof. Abramson is amazing--you're really learning from the best--and she makes every class engaging and fun, with special guests, fascinating discussions, and lots of snacks. If you have an interest in journalism or nonfiction writing, this course is a must.
