This is a thought-provoking course that covers some of the best literature of our time.
Glenda is fantastic. Please stop by her office hours, or invite her to faculty dinner if you're interested in the topics of this class- she's so personable and interesting funny, and so intelligent. I really enjoyed this class, from both an aesthetic point of view, and as a means of learning more about the politics of regions of the world outside of the US and how the process of immigration creates some fascinating patterns, even when the source region are extremely varied.
This class is a fantastic English course for the veteran concentrator or for someone who just wants to fill out their schedule with a relatively easy and enjoyable class. The books are great, and though the reading list is long, you can get away with not reading every single book. Short response papers are due every week, with one short essay and another longer paper also due throughout the semester. Brandon was a great section leader and very accessible outside of class.
Professor Carpio is great.  You can tell she puts a lot of thought into the course, and though she is always well prepared, her flexibility ensures that the course stays relevant, interesting, and functional.
Be ready to work. This class requires an excessive amount of reading. You will quickly become tired of the weekly response papers. This is NOT an easy class, proceed with caution.
I loved this class so much.  It is an amazing course with a fantastic reading list.  I always enjoyed the lectures and Professor Carpio teaches you how to read these texts with a careful eye.  Loved it, TAKE THIS CLASS.
This is an incredible class; take it if you can. Professor Carpio is incredibly knowledgable about the material she's teaching, and is also an incredibly nice person. The material for class is time consuming, but well worth the time. Every novel was interesting and fun to read, and broadened my knowledge of immigration in the US. I took the class because I regretted not reading enough first semester and really missed English classes, and I was so glad I did. I don't know if the TFs will stay the same, but Ari was fantastic and super accommodating. Really just a relaxed, interesting, and fun class.
Amazing. Take it. There is a reason why Carpio has a cult-like following among her students.
AMAZING class. As someone who is not an English concentrator and had not taken an English class since high school I was a little worried about taking my first one. I was pleasantly surprised, though, to find that the class is very accessible to people of all concentration. Not only are the books incredibly powerful, the balance provided between context and content (style) makes the class perfect for everyone, regardless of how the approach literature. Professor Carpio genuinely cares about every student in the class and I found her to be very warm and willing to talk about the books or anything else. I really recommend this class to everyone.
Only take this class if you really enjoy analyzing literature and writing about it. Don't just take it if the reading list seems interesting.
If you are looking for a great English course with good readings, an amazing and dynamic professor, and well-prepped TFs, look no further.  This class was one of my highlights of the semester - I absolutely loved it the whole way through.  Reading Daz was amazing, especially when he came in to visit (ONLY AT HARVARD!) and Brandon is a TF who really "gets" how to work with Harvard students.  Such a great class, I couldn't recommend it more highly.  It won't take too much work, just reading and a weekly response.
There are very few chances at Harvard where you'll be able to read literature such as this.  It is both illuminating and enjoyable!
This class is amazing. Carpio's lectures are engaging and relevant, and all the novels we read are funny, moving, emotional, and overall just fantastic, the most fun I've ever had doing readings. I would say to only take this class if you are prepared to do all the readings. the novels are the basis of this class, and neither lecture nor section will make sense without the readings.
Take this class if you're interested in immigrant fiction. Professor Carpio is a kind professor who typically gives engaging lectures.
Take it! Professor Carpio is not only a fantastic lecturer, but also a very cool person who makes herself very available to her students! Also the syllabus is great. Loved getting the chance to discuss contemporary lit for a change. There's really no reason not to take it!
This is a wonderful course with an excellent syllabus, and Professor Carpio is a dedicated, enthusiastic lecturer who is both passionate about what she does and eager to engage with students.
Too much work expected from the student- response papers, a paper, a long research paper, and a take home final exam felt like far too much. The books were interesting though.
This course is taught by an amazing professor and the syllabus is excellent. I read some of my favorite books in the class and loved Professor Carpio's analysis of what we read. However, the structure and assignments of the class often detracted from the experience of the class. I wished that section discussions were more substantive, that lectures were more context oriented, and that their had been more choice in the final class assignments.
Professor Carpio is an amazing lecturer and some of the books are great. Others I did not enjoy nearly as much.
The syllabus for this course is a lot of fun, and Professor Carpio is passionate and exciting.
Really really interesting books, and Professor Carpio has interesting thoughts to share about them!
This is an excellent class and you'll definitely enjoy most of the readings! Professor Carpio knows her stuff and will make this class a great experience for you.
Professor Carpio is an amazing professor and a personal inspiration to me! She's great to talk to outside of class, and I loved her so much that I am planning on taking every class she ever teaches. It's a great class-- you get to read great novels of the kind that are not usually studied or celebrated in the (white) canon of literature, and just listening to Professor Carpio do her thing in lecture will make you smarter (she's that brilliant!)... Plus we got to meet Junot Diaz, who is absolutely phenomenal. He told us, "White supremacy always has to be on the table," and that changed everything for me. The one major concern I had with this class was that the white TFs just didn't seem to get it. In section, my TF would never talk about race, and when we'd bring it up, he'd be very dismissive of the issue. In a class on new immigrant narratives in which most of the characters in our novels were people of color dealing with the racism of America, this, to me, was unacceptable. Professor Carpio, of course, made up for her disappointing TFs by always dealing with race in a very Junot Diaz way-- provocative, messy, and unafraid. I definitely recommend this class to everyone, especially if the sections are revamped. I'm so glad I took this class because it introduced me to some amazing texts and to my favorite professor of all time! Thanks, Professor Carpio, for an incredible semester!
The sections may not be very fulfilling or helpful.
You'll be exposed to some really great readings, and Professor Carpio knows what she's talking about. It's a novel a week--read each book in entirety if you want to get the most out of the class, but in all honesty if there's a week in which you can't finish, it's possible to get by. It's a bit much with the take home test plus a final research paper, but really interesting overall.
Take this class! Carpio is an AMAZING professor, and she is soooo approachable! The course was fascinating - the course materials were great to read (Junot Diaz!!!). As a daughter of an immigrant and an aspiring writer, I found that these works dealt with themes that are so relevant to my life. Overall, just an amazing experience!!!
This is a great class and Professor Carpio really does a good job of generating enthusiasm for an awesome set of books. Each week had a great novel to read and if you make sure you read all of them you'll get the most out of this class. Section was great, and a really good time to discuss some interesting and brilliant new writers.
Take this class if you can! There are a lot of required readings but they are so interesting and entertaining that you might have as well read these books on your own. Professor Carpio is amazing! She makes the class insightful and enjoyable.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. The workload is minimal, though there is a book every week, and Glenda Carpio really synthesizes the material. I would definitely recommend this class!
It is a lot of work; you must read a book each week and write response papers.  However, it is totally worth it if you have the time.
TAKE THIS CLASS. The syllabus is rich and full of so many good reads. The reading may seem like a lot, but it's so good it goes by like a breeze. Even if you're not an English concentrator, Prof C. works with you to make sure you understand how to write a great paper. It's totally manageable, the literature and films are great, DO IT. It will open your eyes to an emerging canon of literature rarely taught at the big H. Even if you're a tad interested, shop this class.
Be prepared for some awkward lectures at the beginning.  It took Prof. Carpio a while to not be scared of the class, and so her presentations would make no sense at the beginning.  Once she relaxed a bit and became more comfortable with the class then her lectures improved.
Intellectually challenging. Animated speaker. Interesting readings. And great use of various media forms. Everything you want in a class.
Great readings, great professor, definitely will improve as Carpio gets more comfortable lecturing about this stuff
Great class!
A perfect intersection between history/culture and English.
Even though the title "New Immigrant Narratives" may appeal to you because of its sociological implications or you feel as if you would love to discuss the immigrant experience through characters in novels and books, make sure that you are ready to deal with the "stylistic" aspect of English as well.
a great class that makes us rethink what american literature consists of.
This course helped me draw connections among many different kinds of literature and how to analyze literature.
This is an amazing class! I'm so happy that Harvard finally has a class that looks at Latino literature as a new genera. I constantly hear authors like Junot Diaz referred to as "Latin American authors" so it's a relief to know that there are people here who care about this movement enough to create a class out of it.
This is an amazing class with an incredible prof and an amazing TF.  Prof Carpio and Maggie went above and beyond with the novels they picked for us to read and generated enthusiasm for the class.  It was a great enviornment that encouraged a close reading and analyzation of fantastic works of the immigrant canon.  It was great! TAKE IT!
Although there were some kinks about this class that still definitely need to be worked out, this class pushed me to think more about Latino literature while emphasizing its form and artistic qualities. I wish there were more classes like this offered at Harvard, Professor Carpio and Maggie did a wonderful job!
The syllabus of this class finally brings to Harvard a necessary canon of authors who speak to many students - as immigrants in America. The course addresses important histories and stories of what it means to be American, and who fits in this national identity. Professor Carpio extends the class beyond 'minority literature' by teaching about the structure and form of these authors- giving a place for new immigrant literature as a canonical and important form.
Such a great class!! Professor Carpio is such a great lecturer and really involves class participation if you like to speak. The reading was also very interesting and the majority were contemporary writers and works of literature so it was always such a nice break in your schoolwork to read a novel that you might have ordinarily read over summer break. The films were also very interesting! Definitely take this course! Especially if you're pre-med because in medicine you will be interacting a lot with immigrants and its so interesting just to learn about how immigration is textualized in America.
If you love getting to read amazing novels as homework, then this course is for you. I'm definitely sad that I can't take it over again.
You get slices of life in so many different forms, you learn about the academic and non-academic , conscious or unconscious categorizations of literature as "immigrant literature,"  you meet a great Professor and great TF
Engaging class with an enjoyable reading list. Although the assignments are fairly difficult, I truly enjoyed doing my work for this class and would highly recommend it.
Take this class!  It will give you a great understanding of aesthetics in latino literature and also allow you to read a lot of really great books.  There's a lot of reading and films, but they're all really enjoyable.
