Strong emphasis on discussion, interesting although numerous assignments, interesting subject matter
Kelly is the best. Books are interesting. Discussion is cool.
Professor Rich is awesome and the reading list is awesome! I went into this course with no English background really, and just wanted something different. I really enjoyed my time. Make sure to participate in class! Stay on top of readings and it will be an enjoyable course.
This class is great! You get to read all the books you might have wanted to read anyways (i.e. White Teeth by Zadie Smith, Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit by Jeanette Winterson, V for Vendetta, Remains of the Day, etc.) that are all super fun and super 'contemporary' to a degree so if you're into that definitely take this class -- in many ways it was my guilty pleasure because I loved doing the homework for it so much! All grades are essays / participation!
This is a great course if you've always wanted to take a class in the English department but have shied away from other offerings because they've seemed too "literary" or niche. The wide variety of authors, viewpoints, and genres covered means there's something that will appeal to everyone and the material is incredibly engaging and approachable. You'll actually be excited to do your reading for this class.
It's an incredible class for readers at all levels, and really gives you an enthusiasm to read voraciously.
Professor Rich is an awesome instructor who everyone should take a class with, because she really cares about her students, listens to their thoughts, and opens the floor to discussion. She's also really good at understanding contemporary literature in a way that the Harvard English department doesn't really do - if you want to read good contemporary books with an awesome professor, take this class. 10/10 would recommend her teaching.
Great class, but kind of simplistic assignments!
This is a phenomenal class. The book list are all those book that you wanted to read but don't have time to while in college. Professor Rich is amazing and classes are always engaging and thought provoking. This is one of those classes where you actually look forward to the papers and assignments because you know it means an opportunity to dive in to interesting material and follow up on great discussion points from the course.
There was so much work.
This course is great if you like to read fiction and to write short assignments (5-7 pages, 4 times a semester) about a small set of books. This class honestly reminded me of an English class from high school where we just read books much faster. Kelly is a really awesome lecturer who infuses a lot of discussion into her class and does a good job of making sure concepts are clear. She also really cares about her students and wants to make sure everyone is able to succeed in her class.
The syllabus for this class is great, though a book a week can be a little much. That being said, you can totally get through without doing the reading also assignments are easy and not often, so if you're looking to read some good books and take a chill Lit class this is a good bet
Easy class although sometimes the readings are very long, but for the most part they are enjoyable so its manageable. Take it!
I really loved this class. It was a great interplay between the literature of the era and the historical and social contexts that produced each work. Professor Rich was incredibly enthusiastic and excited about the material, and instilled the class with a sense of enthusiasm. The readings were fun, they covered a wide range of eras and social situations, and were all well written. Overall, if you have any interest in Britain, in literature, or in history and culture, this class is perfect.
There is a lot of reading, but it is really enjoyable reading!
Kelly is a great professor who knows so much about the books and is great at sparking dialogue among students. The course material was also very well selected; so many books that I wouldn't have read otherwise, but all so interesting! Lana was a really helpful section leader who cared about the students. Also, the assignments are interesting without requiring too much work. You definitely get out what you put into this class.
This is a pretty laid-back class and not super difficult. Class is fun and overall a good class.
The class moves quickly, sometimes going through two books a week, so although the reading load is not too strenuous, it does feel as though you're not always getting adequate time to address a text in class.
