Enjoyable class. Professor Donoghue is a great professor, he makes class fun and interesting. The work is manageable, but may be a bit overwhelming if you have not taken a similar language before, but is totally doable for everyone.
This is not necessarily the easy option for fulfilling the English department's Foreign Literature requirement. Old English is a different language from modern English, and it's taught in a very weird way. I could've devoted more time to this course, admittedly, but I often felt a bit lost and on my own when it came to really learning the ins and outs of the language. I'm not saying don't take it, I'm just saying be prepared to take it seriously.
Understand that Old English is not the English you know and love.  You will have to study it like a foreign language.
An interesting approach to a little-studied language. Definitely not a typical language course.
Professor Donoghue is great and has tons of enthusiasm for his work, but this class is tough. It is easy to get behind and miss important material, and you'll spend most of the term wondering about your grade.
It's not an easy class. It may not seem to be the most practical class. But it's worth it. For one, it's an English class that doesn't involve a monstrous load of reading and writing. Secondly, it provides a solid foundation for learning the history of the English language. I think that many English concentrators focus heavily on literature and lose out on opportunities to engage with the history of our language. This course provides a great way to sample some of the other disciplines within the department. It was organized well, but it's not enough to only go to Donoghue's class--going to section is critically important (even though it is technically "optional"). All in all, a fun course (I loved Donoghue's daily etymology tidbits, and Len and Misha made for a dynamic duo in section), and a very intellectually stimulating one.
You will have to teach yourself everything from scratch.
This course was a reasonably-paced introduction to Old English. The focus on biblical literature was wise, not only because the material was of interest, but also because most students had some degree of familiarity with the subject matter. The structure of the class was very predictable (a little grammar or some literary background, followed by translation), but this was not necessarily bad. A somewhat more methodical approach towards the learning of grammar would have been nice, though. This is something that could have been done in section, because section at times felt unstructured. Overall, however, a satisfying course.
It's an interesting course with a lot of beneficial applications, and Professor Donoghue is very patient and knowledgable with translations. But to learn the language well, students must be prepared to spend a lot of time outside of class on translations and studying, drilling, and reviewing grammar.
I thought that this class would be fairly easy, seeing as it's (essentially) an intro language class, and that language is an ancestor of our own.  I soon learned, though, that Old English grammar is VERY different than modern English or any of the romance languages that I studied in high school, and it is much more difficult.  It's not impossible to do well in the class, but be prepared to study a lot.
I actually very much enjoyed this class. When I decided on English as a concentration, I originally saw the foreign lit requirement and immediate rejected Old English as a possibility, but having ended up taking it for a couple misc. reasons, I don't regret it. I learned a great deal about the grammatical and linguistic basics of an older language that's often compared to Greek/Latin studies, which I never had the opportunity to do in high school. There are many interesting factoids about how OE relates to modern English, and Donoghue is gracious, warm, and encouraging. I will say, though, that this is not an 'easy' class: there is no shortcut to learning the necessary grammar to make sense of the readings, and the class is also somewhat disorganized at times, e.g., the way your grade for the course is calculated is not transparent, and sometimes you run out of time in class to finish reviewing translations.
Donoghue's a quirky motivating teacher. He likes to control classwhich is definitely useful when the class is at noticeably different levels of comfort with the material. As far as English classes go, this one has lovely material, and I wish we could have covered it in greater detail. However, as far as a foreign language class goes, I'm not exactly sure how this course can possibly substitute for a literature course in another language. I loved the course, but it seemed a little under-rigorous.
Interesting! A lot to know for the final, but definitely interesting!!
It is the only Old English offered at Harvard and if you are interested in learning Old English or want another take on biblical literature, then definitely take the class. That being said, it's difficult to know how you are doing in the class.
The goal of the course is misleading; despite it being an "introduction," near the end I felt as if I had completed rather an intermediate course in comparison to another language - given the astounding progress we had made. The exams are fair and the concepts are easy to grasp. The only downside to the course is the amount of brute work that must be done in order to translate each passage and memorize them to a loose extent, though at the end the course is very rewarding and enables you to tackle any text in Old English given the right dictionary. A must take for anyone who cares about the English language to any extent.
Do not take it unless you have to or ok with doing all of the work.
