This course concisely captures contemporary themes that dominate the world today--migration, immigration, location and dislocation, identity and nationalism. Any person interested in the future of ideas should consider taking this class.
Interesting, contemporary literature and an intelligent, enthusiastic professor? What more could you ask for in an English class?
Professor Vadde is a wonderful, brilliant professor who is also accessible and makes sure that you learn effectively. It's sad that she is leaving.
I found this course frustrating.  The readings were fascinating; they're the types of essays you come into college hoping to read.  They are vitally important the the English Canon and are still influential in the field of English Literature today.  But this class failed to guide us through the readings as I hoped it would.  There never seemed to be a clear connection between the units or really any kind of logical progression at all.  The amount of reading we were expected to do each week, while not very high in page count, was still unreasonable because of the difficulty of the content and the resulting time it took to read each essay.  I learned the most from section and from the papers, but the exams were honestly pretty difficult.  The exams expected you to identify the essay and the author from which a particular line was taken.  I might recommend the course just because the readings are so good, but know that it is a difficult and potentially frustrating course.
Engell is one of a kind. I have never met anyone like him. He is so interesting and intellectually curious. I really admire him and enjoyed his lectures. I am so glad I took this class. I think it really challenged me to bring my writing and critical thinking up a level.
It is a great course for anyone who wants to have a big map of the western literary theory across a long time span.
Many of the texts are fairly dry and inaccessible, but Prof Engell and Daniel do an extraordinary job in trying to elucidate them and bring them to life for students.
This is a wonderful and elucidating course. There is a great deal of reading  all of which you will not only have to actually do, but actually process and understand in a fairly nuanced way  but Professor Engell is a passionate, accessible teacher and the payoff at the end of the semester is worth the effort.
This should be a required course for anyone who earnestly wants to study literature.
This course will fill in some gaps and force you to read a lot of literary criticism that you would probably not otherwise hit on. The most important thing about this class is that in exposing you to lots of small chunks of lit crit, it is in a good position to inspire you to read other things, seek out complete works, become obsessive about a topic, etc.
Lectures aren't tremendously exciting, but if you're looking for a strong, broad background in literary criticism and theory, you'll get what you want out of the class. Because it covers so much, it doesn't leave you time to pick apart the theorists and critics as much as you might want to, but the essays are a good opportunity to pick a couple and look at them in greater depth.
If you care about art, culture and politics, please do yourself an enormous favor and take this class. I didn't know, before it, if I would like lit crit. It seemed like an esoteric discipline and I was not sure how it would relate to my life. But I am so glad this was my introduction to critical theory! Every time I read something for this class I felt my life enriched by the ideas I was being exposed to. There are fundamental, really serious questions being asked in this class, like whether the individual matters more than their time and society; why we need beauty and art; what is at stake in the historical and current politics of race and gender; how to write; how to read. It's so much more than just a list of famous critics and their ideas. And this class gives you the best possible way to approach its essays (some of which are being written by the greatest thinkers of Western history: Plato, Hegel, Kant, Hume, Eliot, Freud, Nietzsche, Lacan, Derrida). For one thing, Daniel Williams is one of the best TFS EVER. Then James Engell is so good at insightfully, efficiently conveying the material, and linking together the critics you read so that you never feel you're just memorizing the isolated ideas of individual critics, but always understanding the crucial ways they've contributed to larger ways of looking at literature and society. Engell is kind and entertaining and has an exciting lecture style, similar to Phil Fisher's, and is very happy to make time outside of class for you. Reading for each week is pretty light and exciting to do, and the tests for the class are easy as long as you've kept pace with the syllabus (which is not hard to do) the whole semester.
This is a really great survey of literary theory/criticism, particularly in the field of English; Professor Engell is incredibly knowledgeable and helpful, and Daniel is a great TF, who is really accessible and constructive in his feedback. The readings are interesting whether or not you are in fields that require a knowledge of lit. theory, but if you are, then this is a pretty indispensable course.
If you are interested in theory, this course does a great job. However, it is not an introductory English course by any means. Do all the readings. They all matter and are very dense.
Keep up with the readings and you will be rewarded! Very interesting class, and taught exceptionally well.
This class packs a LOT of information, and you have to really take responsibility for cementing your understanding of much of the material on your own. The deluge of authors can be overwhelming, and Professor Engell often goes on brilliant tangents that are not always explicitly tied to a particular author, so you will have to listen closely and actively draw inferences. There is much to be gleaned, but you have to be up for it and engage with intentionality. Also, do not be shy about asking questions.
