I really just loved having a creative writing assignment to turn in every week! It forces you to write and, especially because there are so few long assignments (you can essentially work on one piece all semester, in addition to short and easy imitation exercises) you can really spend time with your work. I could see that it might be what you put into it, but since I had an idea of what I wanted to write about (and had never had the chance to write something like it) it was just great to have an excuse to make myself grow as a writer!
Take this course!!!!! Darcy is a PHENOMENAL instructor. He will help you develop and hone your writing skills exponentially. I absolutely love Darcy and everything about this class. I recommend taking better advantage of Darcy's office hours -- I wish I had done that! This class was my absolute favorite part of the week. If you want to learn how to improve your writing and give meaningful feedback to the work of others, and spend time with a truly amazing writer and teacher, take this workshop!
Creating meaning out of your life on a deadline is a weird, weird thing, so in thinking about whether to take this class, I'd say the most important consideration is whether you are the kind of person who would find that structure helpful or stressful (or both!) I do think that doing a workshop can be hugely valuable because it forces you to be constantly producing words, which is hard to do on your own in busy semesters, and it really highlights the difference between writing for yourself and writing for an audience.
This is an excellent, intimate course that provides you with an opportunity to practice different types of writing that you don't get to work on in most other classes!
This is a generally pleasant class. Darcy is a knowledgeable and very generous person and teacher. He definitely tries to address several important issues (publishing being one) and is very democratic in how he runs class. I always felt very respected. However, while I did pick up some tips about writing with more clarity and read some interesting pieces, I feel like I may have lost some of the voice I came into class with. I didn't gain many technical skills and sometimes the democratic approach (e.g. having peers talk about their writing process) didn't add to the experience. I also didn't learn much from revisions.
Take it. It'll teach you FAR FAR FAR more about good writing than Expos ever will.
Darcy Frey is an awesome professor and you'll get a lot out of this course if you are ready to engage in the readings.
A great introduction to the nonfiction genre taught by a very encouraging helpful writer.
Darcy Frey is the man.  You will learn to think about writing not just passively, but actively, as a creator.
This course provides the opportunity to workshop nonfiction writing with a committed, intelligent, skilled teacher and a classroom of talented peers.
The readings are great, and it is wonderful to be in a class where you can experiment creatively rather than simply writing analytical papers. However, sometimes it's hard to sit through 2 hours discussing only one or two texts, and you will only get to write one paper that you get feedback on.
If you love to write about personal experience, if you keep a journal, even if you have never taken a writing class before  apply for this class!
It's an extremely good class filled with very capable studetnts. I was pushed every second by the ppl next to me in class to be a better writer. Class is really long. You have to go 3 hours (but you get breaks). If you like writing, definitely take this class
Do not miss the chance to take this course. It has been one of the most meaningful for me in all of college. Becoming part of a writing community throughout the semester is a very cool  and unique thing. Further, ending the semester with two 10-page pieces of creative nonfiction writing feels significant. No matter what field you go into, the ability to tell a story and write in an engaging way will serve you well, and this class definitely helps students develop these skills.
This is a fantastic class for anyone with interest in creative writing. I was intimidated by the idea of a workshop, but the atmosphere was incredibly supportive. I learned a lot about writing in general, as well as the art of creative non-fiction. I highly recommend this class!
Take this course if you can! Darcy not only brings extensive writing experience and knowledge to the course, but he also cultivates an open classroom environment in which people feel comfortable sharing and critiquing writing.
This is truly a wonderful class if you're interested in upping the level of writing. You'll leave the class with a much better understanding of the craft that when you came in, and Darcy is extremely helpful and accessible. Take it if you can!
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Darcy is wonderful, the readings are phenomenal. So much helpful feedback on the work you produce; wonderfully intimate for a Harvard course in that you get to read about the subjects and stories that are most powerful for your classmates. Discussion is great; do not be deterred by the three hour length! Time will fly.
What a course. Reading McPhee, Joan Didion, Virginia Woolf, and other published writing, while workshopping every week-- your writing and critical capacity improves, as well as seeing what other writers there are on campus, in all their variety. The instructor is one of the kindest, thorough teachers I've had at Harvard, and he really cares about student improvement. Take it if you get in!
By far the most enjoyable class I've taken at Harvardand that's out of 29 classes so far.  If you enjoy writing and reading and getting to know your peers you'll love it.
If you want to focus on writing, to get good at it, and spend a lot of time thinking about it, this is the only course at Harvard to take.
I absolutely loved this course. My writing undoubtedly improved and I got so much out of it personally. Darcy is also an incredible teacher. In addition, someone from class would almost always bring food to class to share which added to the cozy environment, so I would put out there that Darcy likes food and people should bring treats to class!
This class has made me a writer. I formed an incredible bond with the people in my class (all of which I had never met before) and Darcy is amazing. I could not have been happier with this class and am sad it had to end--you get out of it what you put into it, but everything is worth it in the end.
Take this class! It was an amazing break from a lot of the busy work I felt like I was doing this semester--it gave me a really good opportunity to work on something that I was passionate about but that I don't usually get to dedicate any time to during the term. Darcy is an amazing, thoughtful professor who offers really good feedback and instruction, and your classmates will be, as well. Really interesting, supportive people take this class and it's really, really nice to have a community like that.
This course has made me want to take every creative writing course Harvard has to offer. Yeah, it's good.
This class is good, a welcome relief from other formats of class. As a student in a workshop, you feel responsible to others in a way that really motivated me towards thoughtful work. I wished we could have workshopped pieces twice rather than once, and I think it would be much more rewarding if that were the case.  Overall, it was a very good and clear set of lessons about nonfiction writing with some practice and great readings.
This was far and away my favorite class I've taken at Harvard. The format of a workshop is, in general, a really exciting environment, and this class in particular was a wonderful group of writers reading excellent writing, doing excellent writing. Darcy was a real joy to work with, and clearly put enormous thought and passion into teaching the course and working with each of us as individual writers.
This is an absolutely fantastic class.  If you want to hone your writing skills in a supportive workshop environment, take this!
Darcy is really great.  Definitely try to take this course.
Prepare to work. Hard. This was definitely one of the more intense creative writing classes that I have taken at Harvard. That said, you also learn a lot about your own writing and about what makes writing "good".
If you are interested in nonfiction and want to strengthen your writing language, structure, and process while learning more about the field in general this is a great class and definitely worth your time.
This course offers a great introduction to nonfiction writing. You will read excellent work (both professional and from your peers) and receive useful feedback.
This class is a great environment to explore your thoughts and creativity in writing. You will learn a lot from your honest and interesting classmates and be inspired by the tone Darcy sets every week when you walk in. It may be three hours long, but it's certainly the shortest three hour class I've ever taken. Be prepared to be very forthcoming about your feelings and experiences if you go with a memoir-style piece, which basically everyone did.
It is wonderful to write literary non-fiction for homework. Class instruction is not particularly methodical.
This class is the best one I have taken. It is a rare opportunity to have your writing read and critiqued by very smart people.
Take it! It was my favorite class this semester, and one of my favorites at Harvard. Darcy is an incredible teacher. The class was fun, relaxed, enjoyable, and truly one of the best parts of my week. I got to know the other students as writers and as people, and I trusted them to give constructive feedback. Writing the pieces was challenging but rewarding. It was not too time-consuming or difficult, but I feel like a much better writer.
This was one of the best academic experiences I've ever had. Darcy taught me more about writing than every teacher I've had before him combined. After having completed this class, I think that all students at Harvard should take creative writing classes like this one.
This class is a great way to improve your writing skills and explore a topic that you are interested in.
excellent course, highly recommend.  darcy is awesome and really makes this class an incredible experience.  you will work hard but grow immensely as a writer.
This is probably the best class I've taken at Harvard. If you love to write, taking this course is a no-brainer.
This is a great class that provides a ton of helpful feedback on your writing. Your writing will really improve by the end of the semester.
This course had less instruction and guidance than I thought it would so I would recommend with reservations for people without creative writing experience.
I'd recommend it only if you can discipline yourself to work for it.
great way to get a solid background in nonfiction writing--covered basic elements of nonfiction, read different nonfiction articles/stories to understand these elements, discussed different types of nonfiction. workshops were great, and kathy has some great stories!!
The teacher this semester was only subbing in for the usual teacher, so the reviews from this semester may not be entirely relevant should you be considering taking this class in the future.  But overall, a great excuse to read lots of nonfiction and call it homework, and it's nice to have a reason to write.
It's a shame Kathy Rich isn't teaching anymore, but the workshop form seems to be inherently good. Also, it's one of those rare classes that will make you a better, more thoughtful person.
This is an excellent opportunity to hone your skills as a writer and build time for your own writing into your academic schedule.
This class is a marvelous experience.  Reading the nonfiction pieces submitted by your peers is a joy, and the small class gets to know each other very well by reading and editing each other's work.  The intense personal feedback that each student receives -- we spent about an hour discussing every piece -- is really phenomenal.Though she let the class be dominated by student discussion rather than providing much outright instruction, Kathy always impressed me with her highly insightful comments, both written and oral, on our pieces.
This workshop is really great for getting you to write regularly. Verlyn gives great constructive criticism and if you stick to it you will become a better writer. This doesn't always mean that everyone in the workshop is writing very good stuff at the end, but you become better at identifying how to make something good.
For anyone interested in finding out about and practicing the most fundamental elements of writing, this is your course. Verlyn is a very generous and supportive teacher, and his interest in your development as a writer is absolutely sincere.
This class is fantastic if you'd like to free-up your ideas about writing. You'll be amazed at how much progress you'll make in such a short space of time and how much you'll enjoy the short readings and weekly essay assignments. It's also a great way to work in some writing-time into your schedule. Definitely apply to the class if you're interested!
Its awesome!  I also saw my writing improve dramatically during the semester.
wonderful course, changes your understanding of writing; amazing professor who is really nice and helpful and interesting; great class discussions
one of the best classes i have ever taken. i really, really learned what i wanted to.
This course will make you a much better writer, if you take it seriously, and give you exposure to a lot of really fantastic writing, both published and from your peers. This was definitely one of the best classes I have taken yet.
This is a great opportunity to force you to sit down to write if you find that your regular daily routine at school hasn't left you much time to write.
It's a great class and a great genre. You'll learn even more than you expect, and you'll enjoy every minute of it!
Take it if you can, and don't be intimidated by the application -- it's worth it. Great reading list, great instructor, great classmates, and it offers a venue for a type of writing you won't find elsewhere on campus
This is a great opportunity for students looking for focus on their own writing and get in-depth, valuable feedback on drafts.
Even if you've never really considered yourself a nonfiction writer, or a writer in general, Darcy will help you realize that you can produce work that is both writerly and worth coming back to (revision revision revision...)This class is amazing. If you're even in the least bit interested, go for it.
By far one of the most enjoyable and rewarding courses I've taken, ever.  Every single member of the class showed a huge improvement from their first to second piece and produced excellent work, including many who had never written creative nonfiction before.  We also grew very close as a class and Darcy created a really supportive environment.  If you're seriously interested in writing and especially in improving your writing skills, definitely apply for this one.If you take this course, make sure - to give yourself plenty of time to read your peers' work and the assigned essays.  They'll all be great reads, but if you leave them until the night before, you won't be able to provide as good feedback, and it will show. - not to be tempted to wait until the last minute to work on your pieces.  The deadlines sneak up on you and are pretty non-negotiable, since workshopping your stuff is the entire point of the class. - you're willing to do some deep digging into whatever you write about.  If you're uncomfortable writing about your insecurities and having them critiqued by strangers, this may be a pretty tough class to endure.  (You can of course write nonfiction that's totally unrelated to yourself, too, but be prepared to get into the nitty-gritty of that.)
This is a fantastic course. It's a place to try new things with your writing, so take advantage of the awesome, genuine people in the course and try to write something new.
This was a wonderful experience that really changed how I felt about my academic work at Harvard. I was motivated to take this class because I wanted to become a better writer, and I was always invested in coming to class, listening to my peers, and participating fully. I have never been a part of a classroom that felt this open or genuinely engaged as this one. You do not need to want to become an author or journalist to take this class, you just need to be really interested in reading and writing, and have a personal investment in improving your craft.
This is an amazing class.  Your writing skills will improve drastically and you will realize the small details that make a sentence pop.  You will look forward to class every week and not even notice the three hours going by.  Definitely take it!
Take the course.
This is an incredible class.  The workshop can feel a little long, but the feedback received on one's own pieces (and others) is overwhelmingly useful.  My writing improved immensely.
This course will challenge you to write and think about writing in wonderful ways. If you're at all interested in memoir, essay, or narrative journalism, I would definitely recommend taking this.
take this class! it is a nice complement to take this small, intimate class while taking big lecture classes because you get to know your professor and fellow students so well, and in a totally new light, through stories and conversations. this class is well structured and the three hours fly by before you know it
I was thrilled to get in. I was thrilled to participate. And now, I am a better writer for it.
This class is time-intensive, but you really do get out what you put in.  This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard, because of the relaxed and supportive environment of peer review, and the camaraderie that the class fostered.  I really grew as a writer and always felt encouraged to push myself.
This is an awesome class for learning how to improve your writing. You'll also get a chance to do in-depth critiques of other students' works, which is both interesting and helpful. Darcy is a great teacher and really cares about helping you improve.
By the end of this class, you will have a very good sense of the kinds of questions and nuances to consider in approaching and revising a piece of creative nonfiction. If you are interested in doing any kind of writing, this is, I think, very valuable. Because of this class, my ability to criticize my own writing has become much stronger: having a group of readers that you get to know over an entire semester is extremely helpful for coming to know what works and what doesn't in your writing. Also, Darcy Frey is a superb professor who guides discussion in productive directions and has a large repertoire of extremely helpful (and applicable) suggestions. If you're at all interested in developing your writing abilities (and not only in creative nonfiction), you should apply: it certainly won't hurt, and since creative writing seminars are in such high demand, it's worth applying sooner rather than later.
This is a great class. It definitely feels like an "introduction" to writing nonfiction but was really interesting and challenging nonetheless.
If you have any interest in journalism or memoir-writing or any sort of CNF, take it.
This is a well-taught and truly enjoyable workshop that will help anyone who wants to improve the quality of their non-fiction writing.
A great way to sharpen your writing skills, whatever your field.
this course provides a great introduction to the craft of nonfiction literature; the workload is not too heavy except when you have to work on your pieces. provides you with just the opportunity to write that memoir or piece that you never thought you would. highly recommend. will be a class you remember after you leave Harvard.
If you take away little else, the reading list in this course is wonderful.
If you are interested in pursuing a career in creative nonfiction or journalistic writing, I would recommend this course with enthusiasm.  You will be introduced to some excellent nonfiction writing and have an opportunity to have your own work workshopped in detail by other students.  Apart from the two writing pieces, the class is very little work, which allows you more to time to work on your writing.
This class is a great opportunity for students interested in exploring the realm of creative nonfiction, which often goes unexplored in general literary circles. You will read an interesting variety of great writing and learn to talk intelligently about the mechanics of nonfiction writing and how to technically and aesthetically approach it.
This is a chance to grow personally and with your writing, not to mention work with a very supportive and intelligent writer who will teach you to ask the most helpful questions of yourself when writing.
You should take this class if you love to write and want to improve your writing.
Darcy Frey is a terrific teacher that will get you to love writing!
Take this class! Darcy is an amazing person to know, and you will learn more than you ever thought you could in an introductory class.
This class is deceptively time intensive but absolutely great.
Great class, low-pressure but highly helpful. Darcy is excellent, and the workshops are productive
Creative writing is a great way to exercise a different part of your verbal faculties and think about things you care about in a new way.  It's a great way to break out of the rut you can fall into if you write and think within the confines of a single discipline for too long.
Take this class if you have ever thought about writing creative nonfiction. It is a great introduction and will be a great classroom experience as well.
It's absolutely fantastic. But it is a considerable amount of work. often there will be three, 2 pg response papers due each week, and sometimes on top of that you will have your 10 pg piece due.
This class is the best I've taken at Harvard so far. I know that phrase is thrown around a lot, but for a writer of nonfiction, this is a class not to be missed. Darcy provides spot-on and thoughtful commentary on your work, plus concrete and practical tools for revisions. He leads workshop discussions so that they run smoothly and address everything that needs to be addressed for a particular piece, while always remaining balanced and tactful. He inspires the other students in the class to approach class similarly, so that the discussions are probably more involved, intelligent, and balanced than any of your other sections. "Section kid" will not exist in this class, and you'll look forward to it every week.
I feel that I learned a tremendous amount in this class. Darcy is great - very approachable, and a conscientious, precise and knowledgeable teacher. His feedback was extremely informative, providing encouragement and praise where it was due but also highlighting the many areas for improvement in my writing. The weekly responses - one page single spaced to each student and professional piece - could be tedious and frustrating at times, but I understand why they are required. I'm sure everybody in the class went through fluctuations in terms of how thorough their responses were, but it required in the minimum substantive engagement with every piece. It's hard to gauge how much I've improved as a writer, but something I almost value equally is the amount I'm sure I've improved as an editor. I would have liked to read more professional writing - for the last few weeks we seemed to be doing only student work - but I think this was partially the result of a canceled class, which isn't anybody's fault.
This class is fun!
This class is fantastic. You will learn how to write effectively and how to engage an audience!
Take this class! The workshops will provide a relaxed, non-judgmental early audience for your writing and help you hone your skills over the course of the semester.
Darcy is amazing. He is such a wonderful teacher and will give you amazing feedback - plus, he's kind and supportive. The workshop environment is truly unique, and you won't experience anything like it in a lecture class. If you're serious about writing, take this. Not only will you improve, but you'll learn how to become a better editor as well.
Darcy's great. Don't underestimate how much you'll improve just by reading other people's writing. Be prepared to sit still for three hours.
Although you only workshop two pieces throughout the semester, this class is deceptively time consuming, but incredibly interesting and worthwhile nonetheless.
Like so many of the creative writing workshops, this was one of my favorite classes this semester. It's very open ended so you have a lot of freedom to write what you want, and the level of engagement I felt from my peers was really amazing. Just the enthusiasm from Darcy and the group made me want to work so much harder on my writing, and I feel that I learned equally as much from reading other people's work as I did having my own work critiqued.
This class is great if you are looking for a structure to support your writing, and a supportive community that will provide thoughtful feedback. You will write 2 long-form pieces throughout the semester.
Great class - probably best if you come in wanting to work on a piece, but you could also just be curious. Push the envelope!
This is a wonderful class! Darcy is excellent, and the discussions in class about everyone's work were really productive. If you're interested in nonfiction writing at all, or writing in general, definitely take the class. Just keep in mind that it does require a decent amount of work, since you read and edit 2-3 pieces per week, write a response for each piece, and work on 2 fairly hefty stories of your own.
You must be willing to put time in to critique peer work of wildly varying quality. Discussion can drag, but the feedback on your own work can be invaluable if you put in the time.
Darcy is a great professor and gives really helpful feedback in a very supportive manner. Definitely helps your creative nonfiction writing. Make sure you are aware however that you will be discussing other students work in the class each week for the majority of the time.
Introduction to Creative Nonfiction was a highly engaging writing workshop that covered such a rich variety of aspects of writing nonfiction through published works and student written pieces. Despite the format of the workshop being the same each week (i.e. discussing three student written pieces or two and a published piece), the workshop always seemed to be a space for creative and insightful discussion. I would fully recommend this course to anyone looking to improve their writing. Darcy was an excellent and enthusiastic course leader!
This is hands down the best class I have ever taken at Harvard! If you are lucky enough to get into this course, TAKE IT! I definitely poured my heart and soul into each assignment, but this class really pushed me to actually improve as a writer. I learned and improved more in writing than I have in any other course taken here. TAKE IT! Darcy is amazing - such an inspiration.
This class is an excellent introduction to creative nonfiction writing. Part of what makes the creative writing courses so wonderful is the small size (12 students) and the intimate community of writers that is fostered throughout the semester. In this course, you consider the craft of writing nonfiction but in a compelling and artful manner- and it will utterly change how you read any other piece of writing in the future. Darcy is an amazing instructor- hes more of a magician than a pedant, balancing classes with discussions that he directs to make them the most engaging and productive and also presentations of topics related to craft and process. Even if you have no interest in literature or academic writing, this course will teach you how to construct a piece of vivid prose- whether it be narrative, travelogue, investigative journalism, memoir, or lyric essay. Definitely recommended without qualifiers- the workload is very reasonable, and something everyone enjoys, and you get to know a faculty member who is a professional writer as well as a group of students with whom youll develop your craft throughout the semester.
Take this!!! Darcy is an amazing, caring, brilliant instructor, and you will learn so much about reading and writing.
This class had significant payoffs for my own writing and ability to think about writing. I think week to week I struggled to see this and was at times frustrated, but by the end I had a muchs Tonga understanding of the elements of writing *and* had gotten really insightful feedback on two stories I had written. Know there will be a serious time commitment. I think it's easy to underestimate from the syllabus, but your two stories are only the beginning of the work. Taking the time to seriously really and comment on others' work every week is a rewarding but work-intensive process. Also know that you will (unless the syllabus changes) be required to write an in-ward facing piece and an outward facing piece.
Take this class if you're at all interested in creative nonfiction! Darcy is a wonderful, spiritual human being and it's a great focusing experience if you can't bring yourself to write on campus.
The workshop is a great experience and will improve your writing regardless of what level you're at coming in. Creative nonfiction is a diverse style, and this class will expose you to some of the types of writing that can fall under its umbrella. Like any class based on creative work, you get out of it exactly what you put in. Come in with some ideas for things you want to write about and the workshop will serve as a great way to do it.
I expected this course to be far more centered on writing exercises, short assignments, and generally opportunities for me to write more. Instead, the vast majority of class effort and time is focused on reading the work of peers and discussing it. While this is useful and helpful to others in the same way you would hope to get a lot out of the workshop process, it is a lot of time spent on writing that is not fantastically stellar and on peer review. The experience is fairly class-dependent, and I wasn't sure that the instructor imparted as much of his substantial experience/wisdom as he could have.
TAKE THIS IF YOU CAN! Darcy is the most wonderful, kind, and thoughtful workshop leader. You will receive tremendous amounts of helpful feedback on your work, and come to understand yourself as a writer and person more. It's also a great classroom dynamic, and you get to know the people in the seminar in a way you don't even in another small course. Great if you're interested in journalism, personal essay, or simply writing more and reading good things.
This class is fantastic for developing a unique authorial voice, and for exploring topics and themes that you have always wanted to delve into.
