Very solid way to fulfill the Shakespeare requirement. Even if Shakespeare or the Classics aren't hugely interesting to you, Professor Whittington is a very engaging professor, and makes the material interesting. She creates a good balance of lecture and discussion in the seminar, is warm and conveys a lot of enthusiasm, and tries to integrate fun elements to the course, like film screenings and field trips. Interesting lens to study Shakespeare that you may not encounter elsewhere.
This is a great class. Prof. Whittington is committed, enthusiastic, and good at keeping seminar conversation going in a positive direction. As an English concentrator, you also get the rare opportunity to learn about antiquity and read certain texts (Horace, Virgil, Plutarch) that you've always felt like you should know, in addition to some lesser known Shakespeare plays (Coriolanus, Cymbeline) that are great but that you might not otherwise read.
Professor Whittington is unbelievably brilliant and kind. Her thoughtful, thorough feedback on my essay drafts has shaped the way I think about writing (and I'm a junior who had done a lot of writing before this class!). I found the subject matter a little bit less interesting than I expected to; I think the plays we read (Titus Andronicus, Julius Caesar, Cymbeline, Coriolanus, Antony and Cleopatra) turned out not to be as fun for me as other Shakespeare plays have been. I also would have loved to hear more of Professor Whittington's thoughts about the plays--this course would work well as a lecture/section sort of course rather than a  seminar. But overall, a very good learning experience.
This course is really wonderful. The topic of Shakespeare's Rome is surprisingly broad and fascinating, and it's framed really well by Professor Whittington at the beginning of the course. The work is difficult, but it's worth it to get to listen to Professor Whittington talk about Shakespeare!
Professor Whittington is phenomenal! Take this course just for her!! The class is the perfect blend of Shakespeare and Classics. The reading isn't too heavy each week, and you are able to really dig into the plays you read. Cannot recommend this class highly enough!
Overall, this course is really good! Professor Whittington is wonderful- she's always willing to work with students one-on-one and is very helpful if you're stuck on finding sources for a paper. The readings (apart from Shakespeare) are generally alright- sometimes they get a bit unwieldy. Overall good way to fulfill a seminar requirement.
This is a great course, and definitely the best (and most painless) way to fill the Shakespeare requirement for the English department. The course is intellectually fascinating, not much work at all, and generally enjoyable. Professor Whittington is one of the kindest and best professors I've had at Harvard. She is outstanding!!!
