Take it. Really, you won't regret it.
I recommend this course with lots of enthusiasm! Absolutely take it!
If you truly love writing and reading plays, you'll love this course! Sam Marks is a great, great teacher who seems genuinely interested and invested in the class and his students.
Solid intro to playwriting. I thought the selection of plays we read could have be stronger - there was a lot of disturbing avante garde stuff, which was not really enjoyable for me. Sam knows his stuff though is and very kind, so don't hesitate to take this class and share your writing in the workshops. You will learn a lot about your unique strengths and weakness as a writer from the feedback people give you and from seeing the work of your peers. Plus, by the end you will have written a one act play, which is an accomplishment you'll be proud of.
This is a great class. If you've ever been interested in theater and wanted to try creative writing or if you were just interested in creative writing and wanted to try something new this is a great way to get a introduction to that area of english.
This class is amazing!!! But really. You really get to explore your own writing style, and the class is much more about helping you develop yourself as a writer rather than teaching you how to write a play. That may sound bad, given that the class is called "playwriting", but if there's one thing I've learned, it's that writing is a very individual process, with no hard and steady rules. And this class really emphasized that personal development, which is great!
This was hands-down my favorite course this semester. You will be challenged to produce quality work, but it's a very fun challenge to rise to.
In no other class at Harvard are you encouraged to go nuts and write a play, whatever it may be. It's rather exciting.
If you have ever wanted to write a play or see what the Creative Writing department is like, this is a great class that will give you a positive experience of both. Also, contrary to popular knowledge, nothing is off limits when you're writing a play.
This class was my favorite by far of the entire semester. Though I had had playwriting experience before enrolling in English Ckr, I grew significantly as a playwright. At the end of this course, you will have written an entire one-act play, and that is an incredible accomplishment.
Good class, but I would have liked to be pushed more. Great readings, and Sam is great about being concrete and specific about techniques that accomplish things on stage.
If you've ever wanted to learn about what thought process (or lack thereof) goes into writing a play, or want an opportunity to improve your craft, definitely consider this class!
Harvard creative writing is phenomenal, and Intro Playwriting is not an exception.  Sam Marks is one of the most useful people to have criticizing your work, especially at the early stages.  Being able to write so much creative work for one class and get consistently solid feedback is absolutely amazing.  Everyone should talk at least one creative writing course at Harvard. Everyone.
This is the best class I have ever taken.
Helpful and constructive. Make sure you have your best work to bring into this class so you can get the most out of it.
If you have the opportunity to take a creative writing class.... TAKE IT. Sam Marks is great... he is insightful and funny... and he made this class very enjoyable.
Professor Marks is really engaging and the class size/format facilitates great discussion.
Playwriting was a completely new medium for me. And without sounding too cliche, Professor Marks really challenges you as a writer. He's more than willing to meet and talk out your stories and assist you in bringing them to life. It was difficult if you really take advantage of his suggestions. And at times frustrating. But that's what made it so worthwhile. Looking at the class as a whole, his quirky assignments are a lot of fun to write. Workshopping them is hysterical. The plays you read are surprisingly really helpful for your own writing. It's really set up for you to grow, which says a lot about the strength of the course. If you have any interest in playwriting or testing yourself as a writer, don't be afraid take this course.
Prof. Marks is completely amazing and the syllabus will expose you to a wide range of dramatic styles and devices, but this class is too big. You won't get as much feedback on your work as you'll want, which was frustrating for me as a first-time playwright. Take the class, but be sure to also take advantage of office hours.
Take this class!!!! This was the best class I took this semester! Sam Marks is the bomb, and from what I've heard from people who took playwriting before, he is a lot better than the last teacher. Write early and often. The course isn't a huge time commitment but I found myself staying up lat Sunday night because I hadn't written the assignment. And start thinking about your final play asap!
The hours are long (3 hours!) but the class is worth it in the end.
A great opportunity to take something out of your comfort zone.
This class was really fun. It surprised me more every time we read our plays how creative and fun the people in this class were, and how much more we all needed to learn. It's not an extremely difficult or demanding course unless your play throws you for a loop.
Liz is a wonderful instructor. For people just beginning, she is excellent at giving confidence and direction for a first creative piece. For people with a bit more experience, or for developing playwrights, she is fantastic at identifying the real ambition of each particular play, and giving guidance and suggestions for make the play successful. The workshop environment she creates is incredible. Students feel that they are invested in the success of their classmates' work, which makes the experience of providing criticism and advice on other plays, and seeing them through to completion, very rewarding.
Liz is a wonderful teacher and has so much experience and knowledge to offer.  It is incredibly fulfilling to come away from this class with your own completed one-act play, and the workshop format of the class teaches you a lot about your own writing while you're helping out your classmates.
This course was awesome. I learned so much about theatre and playwriting and now I have a one-act to show for it. It was lovely to have a break from the analytical and get the chance to write creatively. I think it helped my non-creative writing, too!
I would recommend it to people who are very self-motivated and have set aside time to complete the writing assignments.
If you have any interest in how play's work, you should take this course.
Take this class if you're interested in learning the basics of playwriting and coming out at the endwith a play that you actually wrote.
I looked forward to class every single week. I laughed more than I ever have in a Harvard classroom before, and I learned a ton about how to structure a play and what demands are put on a playwright during the process of creating a new work. Be prepared to have a blast, as long as you are willing to keep an open mind, try bold things, and put in the time (which you'll want to because it's fun)! It's a shame Ken won't be teaching this class again in the fall. He is an outstanding and entertaining teacher and mentor.
If you are interested in writing for the theatre at all this class is a must. Be prepared to challenge yourself artistically!
This is a really good class,  and it is quite easy to skate by without having to do a lot of work, but you will have a better product if you work hard throughout the semester.
This course is a wonderful opportunity to try your hand at creative writing at Harvard. Dramatic writing is incredibly technical and difficult and you will realize that as you try to create very simple scenes.
The amount of information packed into this course is a budding playwright's dream come true. A great way to be introduced to the craft.
This course demands more work than you may initially expect, especially if you are a perfectionist or have a genuine interest in improving your written work. The more time you put into writing and editing, the more your writing will certainly improve.
You get what you put in; a really different course
This is not an easy class, but it's definitely worth it. The small class size definitely helps to create an atmosphere in which you can focus on specific areas that need work. The end product of this class is a play, which is at once an exciting and extremely challenging experience. If you love theater and are curious about play-writing, definitely take this class.
lots of writing, but it's very rewarding to create your own play. if you have not done a lot of creative writing, it will be a very revelatory experience.
A great way to be immersed in theatre. I did not have any creative writing experience before this class, and I learned so much.
Sooooo amazing MUST TAKE if you have any interest in playwriting
This is a wonderful introduction to playwriting .  The course was a lot of fun and work. It taught me a lot and also gave me much food for thought as to how to develop my playwriting skills.
Take it. Liz is great, it forces you to write a ton, and there's always tons of peer feedback. The three hours each week flies by
Liz was amazing, best class I've ever taken.
Phenomenal class.
This course is a wonderful way to learn about the challenges of playwriting. Take seriously the feedback you receive and view each draft as an opportunity to try something novel and get to know yourself as a writer and your characters as actual people.
Christine is an awesome teacher and fun to work with. The class forces you to write, and if you put work into the weekly scene assignments, you'll get a lot out of the course. A lot of fun & very productive.
The class isn't mind-blowing, but it does provide probably the most important thing you need as a beginning writer: pressure to just sit down, focus, and write write write.  Christine is a lovely and patient listener/critic, but the homework in the first half of the class is often a bit much.  If you want to write plays, take the class.
I really enjoyed my experience in Intro to Playwriting. Reading work aloud and getting feedback was very helpful, and it felt wonderful to have completed an entire play at the end of the semester. If you don't enjoy reading and writing and putting a lot of effort into the course, you will consider it to be a lot of work. But if creative writing is something you genuinely enjoy, the coursework will provide a nice mandatory respite from some other less imaginative curriculums.
Be prepared to work hard and dedicate yourself to this course.  What you get out of it is very much link to how much work you put into it, and on weeks when you find yourself unable to give it as much attention as it deserves, you'll find you feel disappointed in yourself and don't enjoy it as much.  So try to take the course at a time when you can devote your full attention and energy to it.  If you do, you will love it and get so much out of it!!!!
As opposed to someone who merely muddles around with writing short scenes or plays, you will become an actual playwright with the ability to envision an entire drama on the stage.
Settle on a piece of work early on and work to improve it consistently.
It can be very different depending on who else takes the class with you, but if you want to write, by all means apply for it and write.
This class is really worthwhile and the best part is that you have a full play by the end of it!
A wonderful class. If you want to learn to write plays, you're going to take this class no matter what, because it's the only option. But it's a great option. Sam is a very sharp and engaging teacher.
This class is a great way to be introduced to playwriting and a range of contemporary plays. You don't need any experience or prior knowledge, although Prof. Marks may sometimes ask you about you "favorite plays" (it's okay if you don't really know plays), you'll read a bunch!
A really fun and worthwhile workshop. Sam is a great teacher and it's nice to have an imperative to produce work each week. However, if you are looking for a more rigorous playwriting experience or have any playwriting experience at all I feel like the Advanced course may be a better bet.
This is a very good course for anyone desiring to grow as a writer.
This class was a lot of fun. It was great to write on a regular schedule and to get interesting prompts. There is a lot of freedom in the class to do what you want with play-writing and I would recommend the class to anyone who has been interested in creative writing and theater.
This class is so exciting! Take it if you like creative writing, theater, plays, etc. You get the opportunity to write your own stuff but also read some of the best plays in the contemporary canon. Not a huge time commitment and also pretty chill :)
This was my favorite class I've taken at Harvard so far. Prof. Marks is engaging, fun, approachable and constructive. The workshop is invigorating and exciting. You walk away from the course with a full script, too. Definitely would recommend.
It's an amazing class - my favorite so far at Harvard. If you're at all interested in playwriting, take it! The final play project isn't as hard as it sounds and I'm really proud of how much writing I accomplished in this course.
This is the best class you'll ever take in your life.
If you're looking to break into the world of playwriting without any prior knowledge, OR if you already love playwriting and want a class where you can be free, this is it. Sam Marks can handle the student who knows everything about the subject already, as well as open the door for the kid who knows nothing. You will produce things that surprise you, and learn how  to keep expanding.
This class is great for anyone interested in the world of the stage, whether they are creative writers who want to write for the stage, or actors, directors or people otherwise involved in theater to look at plays from a new point of view.
great intro to playwriting! I had never written a play in my life and I came out of this class having written a full play that I was satisfied with. Concrete advice on playwriting, you read cool stuff and Sam is extremely encouraging and helpful. Loved my experience. Also learned a BUNCH from my amazing peers in the class. Talented writers teach each other a lot.
This is an excellent introduction to playwriting. Professor Marks is fantastic, and you are guaranteed of exiting the class having become a better playwright, and having produced a complete draft of a one-act play. Also, you get to read a bunch of wonderful plays and meet a bunch of interesting people.
This is a great class, taught by a wonderful professor. The feedback you receive on your play is very helpful, as is the emphasis the class places on finding your unique voice as a playwright. The plays read in class are a useful way to explore the possibilities of the stage, and explore ideas that work for your own writing.
Sam is a great mentor. The class doesn't ever feel as long as it actually is because he keeps it fresh and fast paced. And it's awesome to share your writing and hear other people's! Always share something, even if you feel iffy about it. Everyone is there to improve their writing so everyone is really helpful!
This class was incredible. I had never written a play or even a scene before in my life, and though some people in my class had written full-length plays before, the class was really great and accessible to all skill levels. Because it's workshopped based, interacting with your peers and hearing their plays/recommendations makes this class great. Sam Marks is truly an incredible teacher and always had valuable feedback; additionally, he was extremely encouraging and offered great advice about not only writing a play but also how to think about writing a play.
Sam Marks is a lively, extremely knowledgeable professor, the readings are stupendously well-picked, and this class is perfect if you're looking for a structured introduction to playwriting.
This class is an excellent way to get your work seen and heard within a safe an supportive yet helpful workshop setting.
Sam is so supportive and super accessible and is really great about encouraging your efforts! Super important for an intro class!
I loved this class. It is a great way to see if you like creative writing because you'll be doing it all the time. All the little writing exercises in class were really helpful and fun. It was great to write your own play (rough draft). Sam is an awesome guy and makes the class very laid back, yet exciting and structured. You knew what you were getting every time you walked in the room. It's sometimes scary to share stuff you wrote but Sam and the class were always very open and helpful. It was great, take it!
Best creative writing class I've taken in the department! It is a great blend of workshop, discussion, and in class writing.
Take this class! Sam is great, and the workshop setting is a great way to develop your voice as a playwright.
This is a great way to experiment with playwriting. Even if you aren't planning on becoming a plawright, you can learn a lot about rhythm, plot, character development, and cultivating your own voice from taking this course.
Great class!!! I really loved getting to try playwriting. This class really allows you to explore your creative abilities, and the small class size is great. Professor Marks is really knowledgeable, and makes the three hour class really enjoyable. The plays you read are awesome.
Sam Marks is a fantastic teacher and a great playwright himself. Harvard is lucky to have such a gem of a professor.
This class is a great introduction to playwriting. It exposes you to a lot of different types of plays and the workshop process is very helpful for developing your own writing style.
Sam Marks is a fantastic teacher who cultivates an atmosphere of honest and friendly discussion in his workshops. Definitely take this class if you have an interest in playwriting, even if you aren't confident in your work or what direction you'd like to take it in.
If you have even a vague interest in playwriting, take this course. Sam is incredible, and he does a wonderful job of teaching a relatively unfamiliar creative form. One of the best classes I took at Harvard.
If you are at all interested in playwriting, take this course. Sam is fantastic, and a delightful person to know. The reading list is fantastic, and the course is a safe and exciting environment in which to test out your writing and your ideas!
Sam Marks is an incredible professor. If you want to learn to write plays in a supportive atmosphere, this class is the one for you! The reading list is also fantastic, and you'll enjoy the plays you're assigned to read. The workload is not stressful, but the course is as challenging as you make it based on how much energy you put into your creative work.
