It is extremely interesting but also quite difficult.
TAKE THIS COURSE!!!!!! It was FUN. And as someone who loves the social and extracurricular parts of Harvard more than the academics, I have not yet encountered a class as enjoyable as this one. You read a play and a musical each week, which always felt like something I would do for fun, and learn from Professor Miller (biggest Broadway geek ever) about each's place in cultural and historical context. A lot of other students had experience with either music or theater, which I did not, but I never felt behind because of that- it was wonderful being able to learn just as much from my interesting peers as from the professor and FABULOUS TF Matt. Favorite class so far. You won't regret taking it. :)
This is a fantastic class. Professor Miller is a wonderful lecturer, and he does a good job of setting creative assignments that break up the monotony of other classes. Fun material, and very well-run. Very interesting, and worth taking.
This class was very interesting, and Professor Miller is a terrifically engaging lecturer. The workload is very manageable (and the only truly time-consuming assignment comes near the end of the semester), though I found two plays/musicals per week to be a bit much. If you like Broadway plays and musicals, you can't go wrong with this course.
If you can take a class with Derek Miller, do it. He is one of the most passionate, hilarious, amazing lecturers I have ever had at this school (I'm a senior so I've been through many many lectures). It was so awesome to have that kind of energy at 10AM during your senior spring. That's all. This class was awesome and I can't wait to see what kind of involvement Derek has in the new Media/Drama concentration!!
It was a cool topic area and fun to read many different plays. Lectures were not very entertaining and at times, awkward, as the same students spoke most days and it was kind of intimidating to participate.
This is one of my favorite classes I've taken in college. I actually looked forward to doing my reading for each class. Lectures are engaging and enjoyable, and the material can't be beat. This is a great class to take even if it has nothing to do with your field of study.
I enjoyed this course overall because of my interest in plays and musicals.  You get the chance to study awesome works and the assignments are pretty manageable - the final project requires quite a bit of independent research, but Matt is an excellent TF and the chance to use Harvard's great resources through the theatre collection was cool.  Also, there is no midterm/final.  My one reservation is that you have to be prepared for some snobbish theatre comments in lectures - so on the one hand you better know your plays/musicals, but on the other hand, not better than the Professor as he doesn't like to be corrected or challenged. Miller also has high expectations for the course and I'd imagine that next year would include more assessment as he expressed his frustration at lack of attendance and people coming in late etc.  But, he does provide engaging lectures that make you think and the works you're studying are awesome.  Overall, if you're really interested in this topic, want to read the works on the syllabus and closely analyze them each week, this is a great course.
This class is amazing! If you love musicals and want an excuse to read two plays/musicals a week (and earn course credit for it!) you should definitely check this class out. Professor Miller is energetic, enthusiastic, personable and extremely invested in making sure his students learn. Matt is also a great TF who really knows how to spark interesting discussions in section. Of course, be ready to work hard and keep up with the material. But also be ready to have fun and learn a lot!
This class is fantastically fun. Professor Miller, in true thespian style, seems practically to preform his lectures, which easily keeps the class engaged.
Wonderful class - get to read plays, listen to soundtracks, and write about them. Great class, not too much work, and you'll get as much out of it as you put in!
Derek Miller is amazing, and everyone should take a class with him. His interest in the workings of Broadway and the theatre industry as a whole is inspiring, and the data sets he works with to look at trends are fascinating.
Fun and painless
This course has fun assignments but you really need to commit to reading the plays to fill the blog posts for half the classes. I felt out of the loop not having a full compendium of Broadway/musical knowledge at the ready.
A lot of fun, and lots of interesting conversations in lecture and section. The workload can at times be a bit bigger than seems necessary
A fantastic lecture--Miller is energetic, the syllabus rich and diverse, and the assignments interesting if a little bit gimmicky and internet-focused.
This is a lovely, relatively lightweight course, a great way to complement an otherwise heavy semester. The professor and teaching staff are knowledgeable and enthusiastic, the readings are fun and reasonable, and the assignments are mostly cool and manageable.
BEST CLASS EVER!!!!! TF Matt is amazing and Professor Miller is the most entertaining and most exciting professor you will ever have!!!
Get your books at the beginning of the semester or you'll be in trouble; stay on top of the discussion posts!
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!! It was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. If are in any way, shape, or form interested (even remotely) in Broadway or theater, this is an excellent class. It really gives you a glimpse into how everything on Broadway works together, and it's lots of fun!
I would definitely take this class. It was interesting and Prof. Miller is very knowledgeable. Matt is so approachable and will help any time you need it. I learned so much and the course was really fun. This was my first English class and it made me consider English as a major.
This is an absolutely amazing class! If you have an interest in Broadway, enroll now! Professor Miller is an amazing lecturer and teacher and the time commitment is not too bad. The class is organized and fair with regards to grading.
fun topic material. a bit heavy on busy work sometimes. even with two plays/shows a week, reading is enjoyable and quick. lectures are engaging
This course is fantastic; if you like theater--plays, musicals, both, either--take it. Professor Miller is an outstanding lecturer--interesting, engaging, funny--and even if you are already familiar with some of the course texts, you will get vastly more out of them by studying them with him. If you're not familiar with them, all the better. I really cannot recommend this course enough; it's a fair amount of work if you devote yourself to it, but not too stressful and definitely worth it.
This is a super fun class, especially for anyone who likes musicals!  The reading load is fun and not too taxing, and Professor Miller gives really fun lectures.
Interesting class that is mostly painless.  Professor Miller is really nice and the reading is a good survey of Broadway in the 40s and 50s.
This course will make you excited to geek out about theatre.
This was one of my favorite classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Miller and Mat are both great.  The blog posts keep you accountable on the readings but the readings are enjoyable overall
This class was very fun, and very interesting
Great class! Prof. Miller is a fantastic, energetic lecturer and you get to read famous plays and see how Broadway works as a business when you look at it closely
