I would recommend if you're really into Wilde....
Excellent teacher and interesting materials--Oscar Wilde may grow tedious by end of class, however
Its a lot of reading, and you really do need to enjoy Oscar Wilde
Make sure you love Wilde ... a whole lot. Or not at all.
It is a bit more philosophically focused than anticipated.  Would have preferred more literary discussion, but still an overall excellent class.  Be prepared to participate or else two hours will go by slowly.  Also, Professor Kaiser makes the class that much more fun/interesting.
This class helps you to appreciate the works of Wilde.
This class is a lot of reading. Keep abreast of the readings and participate in discussion. You need to have an interest in Oscar Wilde specifically to really enjoy the class.
This was one of the most enjoyable classes I have taken at Harvard.  The material is both stimulating and entertaining and Professor Kaiser is fanstastic - really knowledgeable and challenging, while relaxed and fun.
This is a wonderful class and I would take it for all 4 years of college if I could! Professor Kaiser is engaging and hilarious, as well as incredibly well-versed on the subject. I recommend it fully regardless of concentration.
Kaiser is amazing, and Wilde is an interesting author with profound influence.
The assignments for this class are basically unstructured.  If you are looking to take an English class in which you'll have lots of room for creativity, this is a great class.  But if coming up with essay prompts and project ideas completely on your own doesn't sound like fun, I would rethink taking this class.
Take the course only if you really like Oscar Wilde.
This class is incredible. Professor Kaiser and Oscar Wilde united in one class is an epic experience.
This will be one of the best classes you take at Harvard! Do it.
Only take it if you really like Wilde. But if you like his work, it'll be great!
Matthew Kaiser is not the best at creating discussion within the class, but his insights and analysis are incredibly interesting to listen to anyway, so I enjoyed it regardless. It can sometimes feel a bit repetitive, especially since there are barely any secondary sources to supplement the Wilde readings.
Best class I have taken at Harvard period. Professor Kaiser creates a wonderful class environment with stimulating and challenging discussions.
You should take this class if you want a low-key and fun elective, and if you don't mind hearing more about Matthew Kaiser's opinions about Wilde than about other more mainstream opinions. Kaiser's positions are interesting but by no means common, and sometimes I felt like it was more of a class about Matthew Kaiser than about Oscar Wilde. Nonetheless, it was low-stress and interesting.
It was interesting and Oscar Wilde is a very interesting subject to study.
Amazing material and amazing professor.
Possibly one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. If you have any inclining that you might enjoy it and if you make the most of it, it will be incredible!
This was a really great course!  Kaiser's teaching style really lends itself to seminars and he manages to teach you a huge amount whilst making it very fun and interesting.
Professor Kaiser is witty, interesting, and incredibly knowledgeable. Although the seminar often becomes a lecture, his thoughts on the text make the lack of discussion acceptable.
