Professor Carpio is a wonderful human being, and you should seize the opportunity to take any class with her, if only for the excuse to talk with her one-on-one at office hours. At times, the larger discussion format can feel impersonal and monotonous, as weeks will go by where certain students monopolize the conversation. But that shouldn't deter you from taking a class with her, because the insights you'll gain by the end of the semester (while writing some fun assignments) make up for it.
This is a wonderful class with an amazing teacher. Professor Carpio is always encouraging you to think in complex ways about the books you read and to relate them back to the canon of which they are a part. She's also kind, understanding, and very reasonable. It is easy to tell that she cares about her students.
Professor Carpio is incredible. She is able to make a somewhat larger class feel like a seminar, and to direct the conversation in a way that encourages student participation without impeding her ability to give a comprehensive and structured lecture. I enjoyed some of the books on the syllabus much more than others, but overall the syllabus is fantastic. This is the way to fulfill Migrations! Take this class!
If Professor Carpio is teaching this class - if she is teaching any class - and you are free, sign up for it. Or at least shop it. She can do no wrong, and there is at least ONE book on this syllabus you have been meaning to read.
This course was absolutely amazing. Prof Carpio is a stellar lecturer/discussion facilitator, and knows the field of immigrant literature extraordinarily well. 

The other members of the class were also extraordinary; I believe only junior and senior English concentrators were in it, so we had an extremely high level of discussion throughout. I learned a ton from my peers this semester. 

Assignments were very well-designed; the response papers were very reasonable for the first 6-8 weeks or so, and then the essay came at a very nice time, I feel. 

Syllabus is jaw-droppingly stellar. I wasn't a huge fan of the first 2 works, but afterwards all the works were excellent. I was a particular fan of Rolvaag, Roth, and Diaz.
Professor Carpio is an extraordinarily kind teacher. The class is more like a seminar than most of the English common grounds courses, which is great if you are with interesting and hard-working students. The class made me think about the uneasy ethics and politics of literature and genre-classification, which was valuable for me as an English major, as someone who can take storytelling and naming for granted as a good thing. Not so difficult, but a whole lot of reading, and very possible to get very behind.
This is a reading list not to miss. Carpio is incredibly kind and an excellent facilitator. Brilliant too.
Professor Carpio is very enthusiastic about her work and cares about what her students write and think. I have never had a professor who both reads our response papers and even brings some of them up in class. She listens to different perspectives and acknowledges when new ideas are brought to the table. I also really appreciated the flexibility of the final paper in this course. Students could write on any topic and could even write a creative story that grappled with ideas in the course. Because I was excited about the creative paper, I felt that I learned a lot about the genre.
Do the reading
Professor Carpio is an awesome person to learn from, but this class needs to be adjusted. I think there were a lot of awesome books on the syllabus for this class, but there was far too much reading for the time frame given. Essentially, with response papers due on the Monday before classes, we were basically expected to read the entire book before that Monday (with our last class being on the Thursday of the previous week) so we could write the response papers, but prompts weren't given to us until about a day before on Sunday... This is a problem that occurs in a lot of english classes, where the class essentially functions like a seminar (a collaborative lecture style with much back-and-forth discussion, lots of reading) but since it is much larger, so it ends up only being engaging to about twelve or so people on any given day. I just think that everyone in the class could benefit a lot more from a smaller syllabus, since that means less reading that everyone has to balance with their other three classes. Just know that if you end up taking this class and you find yourself constantly feeling like you're falling behind/need to catch up, you're not alone.
Prof. Carpio is an AMAZING professor. You must take at least one course with her before you graduate. This course is particularly interesting as it moves into contemporary literature and creates a cohesive narrative that connects the texts. It also introduces provocative questions like What is immigrant literature? Is this genre category productive? Don't expect to just sit passively in class. This course encourages participation and engagement.
Professor Carpio's amazing, and the literature's pretty good. You're probably not going to find a better Migrations course than this!
Excellent Class. Prof Carpi is wonderful at leading discussions and keeping students engaged. The syllabus is great, and the assignments are totally fair. Hugely recommend.
Do the readings. You get out of it what you put into it.
Wonderful way to diversify your class readings away from old white guys and fulfill "Migrations." This class pairs an all-star reading list (spanning from the 1800's to Junot Diaz) with the enthusiastic, engaging, and thought-provoking discussions of Professor Carpio. Response papers give much room for creativity and personal interest, and Carpio, a must-have professor, gives wonderful, constructive help on the second draft of your (single!) term paper.
I would caution them that you have to have the time to read one, if not two, novels a week and write weekly response papers. It's definitely a time commitment!
I feel like this course should be almost a requirement for any person who is interested in the way that people represent themselves in the English language. This is not just a class for someone who is familiar with the immigrant experience or someone who wants to learn about migratory narrative; this course is also about expression in general, and how humans use language to convey mind-boggling and wondrous experiences.
Professor Carpio is an amazing professor and assigns fantastic books!! Take this course!!!!!!!!
A wonderfully composed class with material you should read regardless of concentration requirements. Professor Carpio truly knows how to facilitate discussion; I've never seen such powerhouse conversations in the Kresge Room. The class covers questions of craft, critical reception, canon formation, all while still managing to remain firmly grounded in the world of the novels. Can you possibly ask for more? I know many people outside of the English concentration who wanted to take this class, and continued to ask after it throughout the semester. It's a brilliant course, and if you're lucky enough to get in, absolutely take it. Don't question it for one second.
This class is absolutely amazing. Professor Carpio is a brilliant and funny lecturer, Janet is very helpful and friendly, and the books are great. If you have the chance, take it!
This is a great course that caused me to complicate my thinking on an issue that I thought I was pretty firm on. My only regret as a second semester senior English concentrator is that I didn't take a class with Glenda sooner.
A wonderful course. The reading list is eye-opening; Professor Carpio is one of the best teachers I've ever had.
This is a fantastic class. There is a lot of reading (about a book per week) but so long as you budget your time, getting the reading done is not a problem. I cannot stress enough, the importance of doing the reading. The difference between classes where I had done the reading versus when I had not are staggering and I got SO much out of lecture when I had done it!
This was a good class.  Not as life-changing as I had hoped based on the previous Q comments I read--but that could have to do with the fact that I was trying to survive thesis while taking this class. The syllabus was interesting, but a bit overwhelming and it tended to feel like we raced through books more quickly than I would have liked.  Prof Carpio is lovely but her lecture style was not one that strongly appealed to me--lecture often felt scattered to me.  Section was also good, but I did not like the format of discussing the work we had read for the previous week in section because it made it difficult to stay connected to the material.  Again, bc the syllabus was so dense it often felt like we didn't really get to dig into the texts in section.
This is such a fascinating course, and I highly recommend that you take it especially if you or your family have an immigration experience that is important to you. I was able to contextualize my own family's stories and feel a sense of connection to all of these disparate stories that deal with displacement and alienation. You might think that American Immigrant Literature is a really narrow category, but when you leave this class you'll be thinking about how universal the themes of this course really are, and how applicable they are today to everyone.
This course is a great addition to the English department as a way to explore a theme that is shockingly uncommon. Carpio is great; the books are great.
The topics explored in this course are more important now then ever and who better to explore them with than someone as generous yet piercing as Carpio. Take it.
It is extremely well taught, but it is a lot of reading so take that into consideration.
Wonderful course with a thoughtfully constructed syllabus. Professor Carpio is great at framing class discussions to discuss immigrant status and race in America through the 20th century to the present day. Expect A LOT of reading and consider if you have time in your semester for at least 200 pages a week.
It is an interesting class that will change the way that you think about immigration and immigrant literature. Be prepared to take on a heavy reading load without a lot of support throughout the class. It is generally disorganized but worth it
One of the best professors at Harvard, hands down.
It's easy to get behind with all the reading in this class, but also the work is not particularly difficult. The stuff you read is good if you have the time.
Great opportunity to read a lot of those books you might have been eyeing but haven't gotten around to. Enjoyed some of the discussions in class, although it was definitely dominated by excited freshman/sophomores. Would recommend taking earlier on in your Harvard career, especially as Professor Carpio and Nick genuinely put effort in to help improve your essay writing skills.
Wonderful teacher and very good books; make sure you have the time to read them or you won't get nearly as much out of the class
Great class, you'll learn a ton, and you won't have to work too hard.
