Brilliant course. Great selection of readings plus very insightful original comments by Scarry in turn. Requires a degree of individual initiative in that much is left to the student to formulate one's own views on the plays, but I relished this approach. Highly recommend to anyone with even a vague interest in drama. small class size was a real plus too!
Elaine Scarry's lectures are wonderful!
The readings are interesting, and Professor Scarry is clearly brilliant. It's a really good introduction to theater theories of the 20th century, and anyone interested in theater should consider taking it. If you're someone who has trouble paying attention (or staying awake) in afternoon classes, however, this is not the class for you.
This class is one not to be missed.  Professor Scarry is absolutely wonderful and very insightful.  It is plausible to keep up with the reading, which makes the lectures even more engaging and allows for true exploration of the texts.
i could have been an english concentrator if i had taken this freshman year instead of senior year.
Take it take it take it...even if you aren't interested in theatre, it is an awesome and interesting class to take.
Don't be fooled by the title of this class -- this isn't really about political art. However, if you are interested in absurdist theatre and different theatrical theories, this is a good course. If you are taking it to fulfill Core or Gen Ed, realize that it will probably be a little more demanding than bigger classes.
I'm very glad I took this class! A lot of the things we read are plays I probably would never have picked up on my own, but I feel are very important to read and understand--and I ended up really enjoying. Professor Scarry is a wonderful professor who any English concentrator should take a class with at some point.
I can't understand why so few people took this course.  Both Elaine Scarry and Margaret Rennix are wonderful, and the material is both enjoyable and timely.
English 192 has been one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Elaine Scarry is a tremendous lecturer and interpreter of literature and the world. I am so glad I was able to take this class before graduating.
Any opportunity to take Elaine Scarry's class should be taken. I was going to take 3 classes senior spring, but then I realized Prof Scarry was teaching a class. I decided to shop it (no pressure, y'know? just a taste, nothing serious). Instantly addicted. Juggled 4 classes and a thesis, a complete nightmare, and IT WAS COMPLETELY WORTH IT.
Take this class! Professor Scarry is spectacular. Do not miss an opportunity to form a relationship with her.
This is the class that made me certain I wanted to concentrate in English. Professor Scarry is amazing, the material is amazing. Take this class!!!
Heather Brink-Roby made this course worth taking. If she is not the TF and this has not become a seminar where direct interaction with Elaine Scarry is possible, do not take this course. As it is, she is difficult to get a hold of due to her lack of an email address and the lecture/exam format is very ineffective as a teaching tool. This is a course where the TF will govern your entire learning experience.
The reading list is wonderful, drawing from O'neill, Pirandello, Brecht, Artaud, and more. The reading is at times revolting, at times hilarious, and almost always fascinating and compelling. Scarry is a wonderful lecturer with undeniable charisma, and lecture is great fun. The class is called "political theatre," but the material often focuses much more on theatre than on politics. Heather is perhaps the kindest TF I have ever had. She genuinely cares about the students and about the material itself. The exams are rather heavily skewed towards regurgitation of arguments made in lecture, but the final paper presents opportunities for creative exploration. Definitely take this class before you graduate. You will read many wonderful plays that inform and challenge your sense of the aesthetic, the moral, the virtuous, the metaphysical, and the political.
You will not regret taking this course. Professor Scarry is by far one of the most fascinating professors I have met at Harvard. Even the lectures that go away from the syllabus or seem unconnected with the topic are fascinating, and her passion for student's ideas, thoughts, and their own theatrical work is incredibly commendable in an environment such as Harvard's. Be prepared to scramble a bit for the mid-terms, but they only sound tough. Be sure to read all the plays (which are all excellent and it would be foolish not to), and really use section as a way of discussing your own responses (It's a shame that the next time this course will be offered, Heather won't be TFing, but just so it's on record, she was the best TF anyone could hope for!)
It was only toward the end of the semester that I truly realized how special this class was. You will read a wealth of plays, and begin to really dissect and understand the patterns and structures that morph and change. Elaine Scarry is brilliant in a very unusual waywhereas many great Harvard professors study a very specific area of study, Scarry has an attention to literature that branches out to philosophy, politics, art, etc. Her perspective is so unique. (Heather, though leaving, was absolutely amazing, and if she ever returns to Harvard as a professor, make sure to work with her! She is dedicated, kind, and brilliant).
Be sure to stay on top of the reading, but definitely take the class. One of the most rewarding classes I took at Harvard.
If you put the work in, this class can be very enjoyable.
If you have any interest in the theatre of today and tomorrow, take this class!
It is definitely more difficult than your average Gen Ed (probably orders of magnitude so), but it is an incredible intellectual experience. I feel like a much more educated person having gone through this class.
The material is fantastic throughout, and the teaching staff was hands-down the most devoted and caring team I've ever had. This class was truly a joy and you will learn so much. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard and a must-take if you're interested in any aspect of theater (acting, directing, writing, or just watching). Elaine and Heather may have literally seen every student theater production that happened this semesterthey're dedicated and they care so much about their students, and it really makes the class amazing.
Professor Scarry is a brilliant lecturer, one of the very best I've had in four years at Harvard. She is a masterful teacher of the texts and inserts scintillating philosophical/political/aesthetic asides.
The lectures are confusing. and you don't discuss what was said in lecture in section. You just talk about other aspects of the plays which don't pertain to what was discussed in lecture. We don't get tested on what was discussed in section so I would have found it easier and better if we discussed what was said in lecture. You'll never get an opportunity to read all of these plays again, so in that aspect, this class is worth taking. Professor Scarry and Heather are both great and they are both very accessible, but I just wanted there to be more clarrification on the ideas discussed.
Elaine Scarry is an incredible, incredible woman, and you should jump at the chance to have anything to do with her. Although she won't be teaching it again, Heather was also one of the best TFs around.
This is an absolutely brilliant course. Challenging, rigorous, and intimidating, but you will learn so, so much, and the syllabus builds gorgeously. Professor Scarry and Heather are a dream team. You will look forward to lecture, section, and the readings each week, and that's a guarantee. Brecht, Pirandello, Artaud, O'Neill, Genet! If you want to be pushed beyond your intellectual comfort zone constantly, every week, then take this course. You'll have no regrets.
Literally a formative English experience, has changed the way I view the subject and the way I analyze works, write papers, etc. (it goes without saying all for the better). Professor Scarry is phenomenal, a professor you will not forget, and the works themselves are truly satisfying in every way. I strongly urge you to take this course.
This was a phenomenal course. Incredibly enlightening, engaging, and interesting, the course provided a wonderful introduction into the world of theatre. Students read works by some of the preeminent dramatists of literary history, and the ways in which students engage with the texts are amazing. You will learn so much about the plays, the playwrights, and drama, in general. I highly, highly recommend this course. Professor Scarry is a fantastic lecturer, and you really ought to take a course with her. I will say, though, as this was Heather's last year TFing the course, the future TF has some BIG shoes to fill.
If you're interested in getting more familiar with some important works in theatre, this is a great class! Professor Scarry is really interesting and Heather is fantastic.
This is a fantastic course that will provide you with a firm introduction to the different theories about and forms of drama. Workload is manageable and assignments are very fair. Great syllabus.
A spectacular, dazzling course.  Every single moment of Eng 192, I sat entranced in the profundity of Prof. Scarry's lectures.  She is brilliant and I want to take any class she teaches for the rest of my time at Harvard.  I am so grateful to be able to study with her--she is an inspiration to me every Monday and Wednesday.  Heather, my TF, was incredibly intelligent too.  These teachers hold a very high standard, and it is wonderful to inhabit this kind of space.  There is so much to be learned about the plays of Brecht, Artaud, O'Neill, etc.  In one hour, Prof. Scarry was able to move through so many subjects of analysis, that I know I appreciate the plays, and theatre in general; she was able to open a realm of thinking that is lucid and sensitive and beautiful and critical.  I would liken attending her lectures to reading a novel by Virginia Woolf--the sensitivity, humane spirit, detail, and thrilling-mental-journey are similar.  Thank you Prof. Scarry, and I will never forget this magnificent course.  It was the best I have ever taken.
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. I looked forward to lectures and sections. You learn the basics of theatre. You will know what Brecht/Artaud ect is. Note - this is an English class very much so, not a political science class.
Even if you are not an English concentrator, this class will be delightful and rewarding - something that cannot perhaps be said for many other courses that fulfill a Gen Ed requirement. Elaine and Heather are brilliant, funny, kind, and incredibly dedicated to their students - I couldn't have asked for a better experience. Read the plays each week or not only will you fall behind very quickly, (there are two plays a week - it adds up), but you will fail to note precious bits of wisdom given by Professor Scarry in lecture as well as Heather during section. Take this course!
TAKE THIS CLASS.
You will come out of this course with a better understanding of how to approach the dramatic works of the last century.
This class is EXCELLENT - Professor Scarry is a fascinating lecturer and you will learn leaps and bounds beyond what you imagine you would. The plays are interesting and diverse and the work load isn't too large.
No real background is needed, although it did seem that those involved with the theatre had a little bit of an advantage when discussing certain themes..
An excellent course for anybody interested in theater or thinking more deeply about how theater works. Professor Scarry is incredible, and the reading list includes many masterpieces.
This class is a truly wonderful opportunity to read and engage with some truly fascinating plays by Brecht, Artaud and Pirandello, and also to understand more broadly how theater has involved and what different models it has incorporated. Professor Scarry is an endlessly engaging lecturer who combines insights from philosophy and social theory with her close readings of the plays, in which she often identifies and describes visceral or emotional experiences we have in the course of everyday in beautiful ways. Among the students, the mix of people who are involved with theater and those who aren't but are interested in literature more generally makes for many deeply interesting discussions in section. Both Professor Scarry and Rebecca, the TF, are really accessible and always interested in hearing about students' ideas.
Prof Scarry is wonderful in lecture (though a bit erratic).  She knows the material very well and the course surveys some of the most important literary minds in the 20th Century.
Take this course! Rebecca is the best TF ever and you'll actually sort of understand Brecht and Artaud afterwards.
This is an amazing class. I wanted to take it because I didn't really know anything about theater (and there is a good mix of people like me and members of the theater community), and it was a very rewarding experience. Pretty much everything on the syllabus is a joy to read (and if not that, at least interesting) - the reading does become more difficult over the course of the semester (Artaud and Genet in particular). Professor Scarry's lectures are great, and she is really warm and accessible (don't be afraid to go to office hours). It will probably be a different TF the next time this class is taught, but Rebecca is also wonderful. I thought the workload was perfect - rigorous enough to be satisfying, not so intense as to detract from my other classes. Sometimes I actually wished section could be a little longer because it seemed that we had much more to say (or, given the number of texts on the syllabus, whole plays that we hadn't discussed yet).
This course was wonderful! The readings challenge the way you think, Professor Scarry's lectures are absolutely captivating, and section with Rebecca is always challenging and stimulating. If you have any interest in the structure or theoretical aspects of theater/drama, TAKE THIS COURSE. These plays hit you in the gut. You will not be disappointed.
Take this course! Where else will you read such a rich array of theater? I think theater is neglected in many English courses, but it is one of the most accessible, political, and sociable forms! You will enjoy life better for this course, and be able to enliven many conversations.
Excellent introduction to theatre and to a new -- frequently surprising and occasionally amazing -- way of looking at the world. On the teaching side, the Scarry-Kastleman collaboration remains formidable!
Taking this course was one of the best experiences that I have had at Harvard. I needed to fulfill my AI requirement and shopped this course because I thought that we would be reading plays that were significant because they impacted political life when premiered. Despite my misperceptions, this course was so engaging and interesting. Professor Scarry is one of the most enlightening professors at Harvard, and seeing her engage with texts is such a treat. Rebecca Kastleman, the TF, really made this class, though. I have never had a more caring, committed teaching fellow. She deserves every award in the book!
This is an incredible class. If you have any interest in theater--whether you make it or want to study it--definitely take this course. Professor Scarry is an amazing lecturer who will deepen your understanding of the texts and theatrical practice overall. This is probably one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
This course is fantastic, whether you like theater or not! Though if you are interested in drama, it's basically a requirement--you learn a lot about groundbreaking works of dramatic literature on which many contemporary plays are based. Prof. Scarry and Rebecca are so lovely and fantastic and really let you be creative in your work!! Highly recommend!!!
Midterm tests are HARD!!! They are like finishing an essay that's due in an hour in terms of hand fatigue and induced panic. One thing I must say though, is that they will teach you to think QUICKLY. Don't be put off by the tests though! If you do the reading, this course should be FUN and easy enough.
One of the most interesting classes I have taken.
It's interesting, but as the course goes on it's easy to lose some of the nuance and just divide things into Brecht/Artaud if you're not really paying attention
If you are interested in theatre at all, take this course! Professor Scarry's lectures are incredible and the course material is comprehensive.
This is a phenomenal course that I could not more enthusiastically recommend. Prof. Scarry is a superb lecturer, and Rebecca is among the most enthusiastic and effective TFs I've encountered at Harvard. This class is appropriate for students in any year coming from any disciplinary background. There's only one paper (and a few short response papers), and the exams are very reasonable (Prof. Scarry always gives the option to make up your own essay prompt). Take this class if you have the chance!
This is one of the best classes I have ever taken. Professor Scarry is unreal and amazing and wonderful. Rebecca is the best TF I have ever had hands down for a course ever. Take this class! Don't go through Harvard without it!!!
