This is an incredible class and Josh is an incredible professor. He creates an extremely warm, friendly, enjoyable learning environment and the 'class' becomes a really productive and fun time for everyone. It's the perfect place if you're looking for some help getting into/back into writing - not too strict but structured enough that you actually write and improve.
This class is so great and so worth it. As a part-time poetry hobbyist this had me start thinking so much more critically about my own work, and I think sped up my poetic development tremendously.
Josh provides extensive feedback on your work and allows you to develop your own voice and style. I gained an appreciation for poetry in its many forms through the varied styles and ideas of my classmates. Talking to Josh is also really helpful in learning to identify patterns in your writing that you can further develop. Definitely gave me the confidence to keep writing.
Josh always gives a lot of feedback and its full of insight into your poetry. It is exciting that someone has -read- your poem with full emphasis and subtlety. Additionally, this class would not have been as delightful as it was without my amazing classmates. Everyone had a particular sense and style to their poetry and it was incredible to be introduced to so many different ways to conceptualize words.
I would encourage anyone who is interested to take the class.
Please take this class if you get in! The people you meet in the class will really be a wonderful part of your experience at Harvard, and Professor Bell makes the class environment so open and caring and wonderful. This is probably the best class I have ever taken because every single week, Professor Bell gives you comments and feedback that are so helpful and kind, and it's really so obvious that he wants every single person in the class to grow (and they do-- grow). Work hard on the poems; write more than the assignment requires if you need to, and you'll get a lot out of it. Also, be really open to learning from other people's poetry, even if it feels like a foreign style to you, because that's part of the workshop experience. And definitely take this class!!!
Absolutely incredible class. Don't be put off by the "intermediate" title: Josh puts great effort into making this course tailored specifically to you, meant to challenge your own voice. I felt completely challenged, as did my classmates, even though our challenges were very different. Also, my poetry improved and developed dramatically in my mind, as I have begun to find my true, consistent voice. I think that is proof enough of the exceptional nature of this course. A class with Josh Bell must be included in your 32 courses at Harvard.
Josh is a fantastic teacher -- super insightful and works really hard to help students with their specific needs as poets and thinkers. Yet he is also very laid back and the class environment is really relaxed but also positive and constructive. I grew a lot in how I think about approaching the study of poetry as a whole (not just writing my own -- which I also improved at dramatically and had not had any previous experience with).
Easily my favorite class of my first semester.
If you have any interest in creative writing/poetry writing and you want to improve your craft, you should take this course.
This was the best class I've taken at Harvard. If you have any interest in writing poetry, take it! Josh is an incredible instructor who creates a comfortable class atmosphere where it's possible to take risks and try things out. The class didn't have a lot of work but I found myself wanting to spend hours and hours every week on my poems.
This class is incredible. Listening to Josh Bell talk about poetry and language in general is inspiring. He approaches all students' work with such respect and energy. Also, this is not just a class for English majors -- if you love poetry and have written some before, it's so worth at least applying, regardless of what you plan to do with writing in the future.
If you want to become a better poet, taking a workshop here is probably one of the best things you can do as a student. Professor Bell is super great at helping you tailor your work to your own aims. I definitely feel like I walked out with a greater appreciation of poetry and a better sense of my own style
You will explode in creativity through uncomfortable challenges that will only make you better--in English and in poetry.
Josh is awesome! It's a really fun course that doesn't require much work. It is what you make of it. There isn't much feedback in terms of grades, but Josh gives a TON of feedback in terms of your poetry work.
First, a shoutout for Josh. He has the unique ability to be both sharply analytical and encouraging in his comments about your poems. He is incredibly kind and understands what you are trying to get across in your work. He can also pick up on a whole range of subtleties that others would have missed (changes in tone, implications of your ideas, any other speakers/voices in the poem, etc) Incredible! 

There was a real sense of camaraderie in this course. We're all a little nutty. We write our life philosophies into our work. We try new styles. We dare. As I watched my friends innovate, I learned so much from innovating beside them. I also developed more confidence in my voice and a keener eye as I critiqued my own writing. I came out a sharper and more creative writer. This is education as it should be.
This class does not have a tremendous amount of work assigned (one poem to write and 15-20 poems to read a week) but in order to get the benefits from the class it is best to spend a lot more time than necessary on the work. It is totally worth it!
Take it. You will not regret it. Josh is amazing and your poetry skills will improve enormously.
Josh is an incredible teacher who gives the best feedback I have experienced at Harvard.  If you want to improve as a creative writer of any discipline, take this course.
Incredible course. take it if you like to write
A poetry workshop will change your life and help you see and hear thing you never heard or saw before. It really just makes life a lot better.
if you get it take this course no matter what it is one of the best courses at harvard and will absolutely improve not just your poetry skills but your analysis, editing, and all forms of your writing. it is awesome!
Josh is a stud. Take this class!
The thing I regret most about this class is that I didn't take a creative writing class sooner. Josh's comments (and also the comments of your fellow students) are SO insightful and helpful. While it's great to be a closet writer, allowing others to see, critique, and appreciate my work really helped me in developing my own style and understanding what I want from my own poetry. This class has been such a wonderful experience, and I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to write more (and better!)!
Josh is a terrific teacher; if you come in wanting to learn, he'll help you become a better poet than you were on the first day. His analysis was always spot-on, his suggestions clear, his demeanor (and thus the atmosphere of the classroom) relaxed. I've become a better writer and reader thanks to his perceptive criticism. And he's a treasure trove of poetic (and other) sources, influences, and references.One poem was due every week, which is the most regimented writing schedule I've undergone. But forcing myself to come up with a new surprise every week was immeasurably beneficial for my poetry.
An excellent class for studying poetry, but it is still primarily a writing workshop.  If you've enjoyed writing poems before, take this class.
A wonderful class!
This course is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.  It's quite stress-free and you take so much from it.  This course helps you develop a deeper appreciation of poetry not only by exposing you to poetry but making you think about your own position in the world of poetry.  The exercises Josh assigns are great and allow you to experiment with poetry in ways you probably wouldn't do on your own.  Plus, Josh is really really cool.  But basically, it comes down to this:  if you're passionate about poetry, there is absolutely no reason why you shouldn't take this course.  You'll have fun and learn a lot.  Personally, I always looked forward to both class and the assignments.  I can say that for few other classes and I think a class like that is pretty rare and worth your time.
This class has a big emphasis on reading, not quite as much on the writing process as the other workshop I took.
This is an amazing class and Joshua Bell is a fantastic professor. Definitely take this class if you get the chance.
At the start I left each class unsettled in the best way. By the end I felt much more comfortable writing poetry and sharing my work with others. I think it made me both a more effective reader and writer of poetry. The classroom was supportive and Josh's commentary was extremely thoughtful and challenging.
If you get the chance to take this class, TAKE this class. Josh is amazing. He reads every poem with such great generosity and seriousness, even when--toward the beginning of the course--you know your poems aren't great. By the end, you'll be a new writer with a developed approach to poetry and how it differs from other written work. Absolutely recommend this.
Josh Bell is absolutely amazing, and I would take this course all over again if I could, without thinking twice!!!
This course is an amazing opportunity to begin to discover your true abilities as a writer, and I would recommend it to anyone who is seeking to take their poetry seriously.
worth your time
it was so good, and the professor is so engaging, I would take it again if I could.
Lucie is a wonderful, magical thinker. If you're open to her suggestions, if you read the poems, your work will develop.
Lucie is a committed instructor, her comments are insightful, and her assignments stretch you without breaking you.
This class is awesome. Josh is super chill and very helpful in giving suggestions on how to improve your poetry. The class is also not super stressful when it comes to time commitment. Definitely take this class if you're at all interested in writing poetry. It was one of my favorites of the year.
Josh is a really good teacher and this class can give you significant insight into the way you write poems and the ways it's possible to write poems.
This is a fabulous class - you will love it. If you don't, you aren't a person.
Josh is a fantastic teacher, you should take advantage of every second you have with him.
The course is great. The discussion is bound to be not as critical as some of the other literature courses, but the class has other merits. Assignments are always fun to write. You get to respect other people's poetic voices. Joshua Bell gives subtly sharp advice.
Take this course. Josh Bell is a great teacher to learn alongside and a great guy to talk with for advice about poetry and life.
Take this class! Josh Bell is incredibly kind, very funny, very bright, and very helpful. You will improve as a poet and as a person.
If you are looking for a low-key class with an awesome, chill professor, you've come to the right place. If you're looking to broaden your understanding of poetry and read really great works from seasoned poets as well as your peers, I would strongly recommend this class. However, do note that the workshops are 3 hours a week, and you are required to write a poem a week, so while it is not extremely difficult, it is a lot of time if your goal is to just learn a little bit about poetry. If your goal is to really push your artistic limits or immerse yourself in a form a writing you are really passionate about, then this is the course for you. It depends on what you're looking for in a class.
Incredibly fun and creatively stimulating
You know that idea of what classes are like at Harvard, well this is it. Well taught, engaging, discussion oriented, and intellectual to the nth degree, this course will make you think and teach you more about life and your place in it than any other class. I wish I had taken this class sooner, because I feel so much better about my experience at Harvard because of it. Take this class! You'll be out of your comfort zone and you won't regret it.
You get to write poems, and they call it a class! Incredible!
This course is a refreshing guide to the transformation from writing poetry that is basic and average to writing poetry that plays with the minds of the readers and establishes you as a fully developed poet.
Take it. Bell is amazing. You write a poem a week. Everything is weird. Everything is fun. Everything is great.
It's great
One of the best classes I've taken here. Josh is a perspicacious, kind, and inspiring teacher.
If you get into this class, definitely take it!  Your writing will improve so much, and you'll get to read some fantastic poetry, by established poets as well as your own classmates.
This class is an excellent course with a fantastic instructor. The workload is very manageable, and the course in general is very enjoyable if you like writing poetry.
The best class ever. Josh gives such thoughtful comments on the poetry you produce and the class discussions are great
Don't be afraid to take advantage of the space for exploration the assignments and class gives you!
Take it, you'll love it. Josh is great. It's a low pressure class, but he's going to expose you to lots of new poets and point you in promising directions without ever coming near to overbearing.
Go in ready to write poetry!  The more everyone puts in, the more everyone else gets back, so please don't take this class just because you think it will be easy.I admit, I expected a lot more "feedback" in classes than I actually got--mostly what we did was just praise small details in each other's poetry.  But aside from that, the classes were great for getting me to write more poetry and to expose me to the poetry of my peers.  Josh is really laid back--I don't know about Jorie's style, but I really appreciated how smoothly Josh let the classes run.  I recommend this class not because I think you're "learn" anything, per se (because you really won't learn any "techniques" if that's what you were expecting), but the experience will be very informative.
This class is the highlight of my academic course load taking at Harvard. I would even venture to say it was the highlight of my year. I felt so supported throughout the writing process which built up a lot of confidence for myself. Meanwhile, class discussions were very engaging and helpful. Josh is absolutely brilliant and one of the best professors I've had. He truly cares about how you feel regarding english and gives you space to talk while offering feedback-the balance between listening and teaching is struck so wonderfully. I would not hesitate to take this course if given the opportunity. Also, the materials he gives for the course is phenomenal!
If you can get into this class, TAKE IT. You write one poem a week, and Professor Bell (or "Josh" as he generally prefers to be called) gives excellent comments, and, though you may not always like them, if you take them into account for your future poetry you may find that you produce new, exciting stuff that might even surprise you!Class itself works as a 3-hour seminar, where you discuss the poems of your peers and/or the ones on the reading list. The only criticism I have of this class is the time slot - sitting for three hours, even with a 5-minute break in the middle, can be challenging on the attention. But really, it's completely worth it.
Josh is the best. Each class was a lot of fun, and workshopping of poems was super helpful. At first it may be a bit intimidating to have your poetry talked about by other students, but it helps immensely in finding your own voice and whether you're effectively conveying your ideas. Very recommended!
Hands down the best class I have taken at Harvard. Given the nature of the class as a by-application workshop, everyone is super passionate about writing, so discussions are really interesting and productive, but at least in my class, it was also really relaxed. Josh is a great teacher and a great guy. He does a great job making the class enjoyable (The first day began with him saying "Hi guys, my name's Josh, and I can say with relative certainty that you won't have much trouble really getting into this class and enjoying it." And he was right. Then he talked about a dream with an opossum. If you like writing poetry and want to get better and meet other people who feel the same way, take this class. It is absolutely worth it and you have no good reason not to.
This class is phenomenal and Joshua Bell is a wonderful poetic teacher who has a wide range of understanding for many different types of poetry. I highly recommend with no reservations.
This class is really good because Josh is really good and I think it's unique for classes at Harvard in that it fosters community between classmates and doesn't emphasize grades at all. (I would definitely recommend this as a fifth class). That being said, keep in mind that this course is really geared toward beginners to poetry. It can get tiresome discussing work week after week and feeling like you aren't getting concrete feedback from your classmates, but it can help you create a portfolio to apply for more advanced classes where people really know their shit. (So I've heard. )
This class will, undoubtedly, foster a deep appreciation for poetry within anyone who takes it.
Josh has been my #1 source of inspiration and guidance as I think more and more about writing poetry post-grad. He's an incredible writer, speaker, and friend, and being in this workshop has helped me write and read in ways you can't learn in a lecture-style class room.
This class is a gem!
This was one of the best classes I have ever taken, and I feel really fortunate to have had the opportunity to take it. As a pre-med, it gave me the opportunity to explore a whole different side of myself and meet people in the Humanities that I wouldn't otherwise have gotten to know. This class really pushed me to improve and expand my writing style, and I think I am a much better poet as a result of it.
If you have an inclination to write poetry, you should take this class, even if you're nervous or lack experience. Josh creates an environment in which you are nurtured and learn how to do the same for others.
This class is by far the best class I have ever participated in while at Harvard. It is a refreshing change to pre-med requirements, is a class that allows you to develop your own writing style, and it always provides emotionally charged and enriching conversations. You do NOT have to enjoy poetry to enjoy this class, but I am pretty sure you will enjoy the art after you hear Professor Bell speak on the subject of poetry. PLEASE TAKE THIS CLASS!
TAKE THIS CLASS. JOSH BELL IS AN AMAZING HUMAN BEING AND IF YOU LIKE POETRY AT ALL AND WANT TO TRY IT JUST DO IT.
