Engell creates an educational rubric that is both rigorous and encouraging. I felt like a lot was expected of my classmates and myself and that the challenges were worth the sweat. Engell is fantastic to work with, allows a lot of creative freedom in approaches to critical theory.
Be sure to take a lighter load if you are taking this course -- you will want to be able to devote a lot of attention to it.
The subject and readings are of substantial importance and invariably useful, and Prof Engell is a knowledgeable and warm teacher, but the class is unstructured, discussions are frustrating, and the workload is overwhelming. Take your cue from the adjective "comparative" in the title and remember that the class is not a historical survey, but an invitation to think about "romanticism" as a concept. You will learn an immense amount, but you'll also feel that you could have learned a good deal more had the class been more carefully constructed.
Demanding and rewarding.
I would particularly warn them against taking a class with the burden of 5 reading journals.
The class is a vital consideration or reconsideration of a period central to all canonical periods that follow after it.  I'd recommend the course for its exploratory character, but I'd caution that it asks for a serious time commitment, i.e. the seminar wants to be major and not a minor part of one's semester.
Do not take this course unless you are committed and enthusiastic.  If you are, you will get much in return.  The coursework is rigorous and rewarding.  Be prepared to write and read a lot.
That the material is fantastic and the instruction excellent; but that there is a lot of said material, and that it risks being covered superficially.
A very demanding and very satisfying romp through the critical literature of the 18th-Century: highly recommended.
Come prepared to engage and collaborate throughly with fellow students.
I would recommend enthusiastically if the changes suggested above were implemented. It has the potential to be an incredible course, especially if Prof. Engell were to take a firmer hand in guiding discussions. You'll get more than a tour of some key texts in Romantic theory -- you'll get a deep engagement that will serve you very well, regardless of your specific field of study.
