It's a huge amount of reading (upwards of 10 lbs., as Prof Warren likes to say) and a fair amount of writing, but this course was pretty excellent - mostly because it's hard to mess up David Foster Wallace. They do an impressively good job of balancing discussion and lecture formats, since the course has way outgrown a pure discussion structure. Watch out for the final: they barely mentioned it all semester and then suddenly we had a three-hour take-home final with a two-day prep period and some really crazy complex and in-depth questions that we were supposed to answer within a VERY short writing time. Apart from that, though, I really enjoyed this class.
This course is fantastic, but I would only recommend taking it if you are already interested in the work of David Foster Wallace. This is not a David Foster Wallace primer; in order to take this course, you should be willing to throw yourself entirely into his work. If you don't like Wallace's writing, this course will be a nightmare.
This is an awesome course if you want a full overview of DFW's work, but it is also a ton of reading and a lot of little assignments that are easy to get bogged down in. Professor Warren and Will are great and super supportive, but it was definitely not just an easy English class to take for fun. Take it if you're interested in reading and learning more about DFW and want to think about some really huge topics like life, death, happiness, consumerism, love, time, and irony.
There is SO much reading; this is definitely not a class that you can blow off week-to-week. That being said, DFW is arguably the voice of a generation of American writers, and doing such an intensive examination of his career is fascinating. His voice is so perceptive and unique--I could really go on and on, but basically the reading is totally worth it.
I expected to like this course, but ended up hating it because it was an entire semester spent on one author who I didn't like nearly as much as I thought I would. Read at least a hundred pages or so of Infinite Jest in advance to see if it's something you would want to read 1200 pages of. David Foster Wallace's essays are great, but I found his fiction to be a drag and ended up loathing the massive amounts of reading I was assigned. Make sure if you take this class that you love him and are willing to devote an entire semester to his work.
Prepare to delve into the expansive, funny, and palpably sad mind of one of the greatest writers to appear on the American literary scene in the past twenty years.
The pacing of the reading can be a little difficult at times but it is a great course.
I really enjoyed this course, though I have a couple of important reservations. 

On the one hand, DFW is absolutely brilliant. The syllabus--both the Wallace texts and the accompanying works--is filled to the brim with absolutely marvelous works. If I had read them all fully I would be very proud of myself indeed. Lectures provided nice guidance towards understanding the material, and section provided excellent discussion time. Talking about the material with other students was very fruitful, and I definitely learned a massive amount from this course. Oh, and Prof Warren and Will were amazing. Prof Warren is super enthusiastic and knowledgeable and very accessible in office hours, while Will, who is like a walking compendium of theory, guided discussions with authority and verve.

On the other hand, DFW grates on you if you read too much of him in a short amount of time. I would keep getting to the point where I thought, falsely, that all his writing was just intellectual games and not want to read any more. I think in general people didn't do all of the reading, and if they did all of the reading they didn't do it particularly thoroughly, and that would occasionally show in section/personal discussions. I also thought that lectures were occasionally too wispy, focusing more on providing outlines and frameworks rather than clear-cut answers. I could very well be wrong about this--it's probably good to shy away from making super definitive statements for someone as interpretable as Wallace--but I felt lost at times and would've appreciated more concrete guidance.

I guess overall this was a very very good course that fell just short of amazing. I would guess that some of that is because it just transitioned from a seminar to lecture format; I imagine these issues will be less noticeable in the next iteration. I would absolutely recommend taking this course (I got a ton out of it) but would suggest being aware of the above issues.

Oh, and maybe read a bunch of the texts beforehand. I would've gotten so much more from this course if I had done that. As is it was simply infeasible for me to read the entire syllabus, and even if I had done so, it likely would've been at the expense of depth.
Wallace's work is awesome. It's an insane amount of reading but you can get away with not doing all of it- although I really wanted to, I just had trouble actually getting it done despite my best efforts. It's worth trying, because there are a lot of profound and exciting moments in Wallace's work. I definitely feel like I'm a slightly different person having engaged with his work, which I can't say about a lot of authors. If you give yourself a sense of how long you have to read a given text and how many days you have to do it and actually stick to the amount of pages you need to read each day you might get through it all, instead of just spacing out and thinking about it a couple days before you are supposed to finish. Sack up and take it, you won't regret exposing yourself to Wallace.
Beware: this class is incredibly enlightening but disturbing. You won't be able to forget some of the concepts when you're walking around trying to live your life.  If you want to remain ignorant and happy I wouldn't recommend. But if you like complexity you'll love it.
AMAZING readings. Even if your not a Wallace fan, this course will shake your existential foundations. Besides reading a very good and whole chunk of Wallace's work, this course took great pains to include amazing side readings that stemmed from influences such as Joyce and Pynchon, all the way to philosophy, film, psycho-analysis, etc. There was a massive bulk of readings for this course, but overall they worked well together and were insanely though provoking. IF you want a course that will answer the tough question of why Wallace has become such a literary phenomenon/cult, this is a great course to take. Think of it not only as a English course but also as a philosophy/film/social studies course. Do your self a favor and take this course. (it will also probably be fine tuned the next time around.)
This class was fantastic. It's certainly an intense workload, but getting to study an author at this in-depth of a level is a singular experience. Professor Warren cares so much about the material and puts so much time into the course. Section was also great with Stephanie.
There's a LOT of reading but if you're gonna take this class, you're the kind of kid who's ready for that. Warren is hilarious and compelling as a lecturer and it's so hard not to get excited, in class and in section. This class just makes you feel good about reading.
This class is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. If the purpose of a liberal arts education is to expose you to the sorts of things that are relevant for the world, this class serves that function. It produces smart, thoughtful, and culturally aware human beings. It was hard work but worth it!
If you like David Foster Wallace's writing and are willing to read a lot of it, I highly recommend the class. I always enjoyed heading to lecture to hear Andrew's take on the texts and being able to talk about Infinite Jest in sections adds so much to the experience.
If you want to appreciate this course, choose your semester's classes such that you are able to do all of the readings. Wallace is an incredible writer, and Professor Warren approaches the readings with good insights as well as a fun attitude.
I loved DFW before I took the class, or, at least, I thought I did. But now I know what it truly is to love DFW. I can think of few better recent authors to spend an entire class on. TAKE THIS CLASS
Make sure you like DFW BEFORE you register for this course. If not you might get stuck in the middle and realize you can't stand him. However, Even though I emerged a less than big fan of his, I still feel like I got a lot out of the course from professor Warren. The lectures were broad and engaging and I learned so much about what it means to write fiction and contemporary literature as a whole.
This classed kicked my ass, but it was amazing.  I've been telling people that after I took the class, I realized that I do not really like DFW, but I would take this class again and read all of his work in a heartbeat.
Professor Warren is excited to teach this class, and it shows. The lectures - inside and outside the classroom - are interesting and novel. The coursework itself is, of course, amazing. Just be careful of the gigantic workload.
Take this class! DFW had an intriguing path to when he "Broke the internet." Professor Warren is very enthusiastic about the subject and is extremely knowledgable and accessible. The assignments are interesting, the reading entertaining. It is intense, but worth it.
If you have any interest whatsoever in DFW, definitely take the class. As you'd expect, the readings are long, but if you do your best to keep up, you'll get so much out of the course. By far, one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard.
Take this class. Warren's a terrific lecturer who encourages you to figure out what's important to you about each text. (Go to his office hours!) Wallace is a titanic figure and so can be difficult to know how to approach--this class offers a multitude of perspectives (literary, philosophical, meta, meta-meta, etc.) from which to glimpse something of yourself in his writing. Because if you take this class and allow yourself to really get into it, you'll walk away with more than just an interesting English course--it'll lowkey change your life. It's a little eerie, in fact, how much of what's going on in Wallace's literary landscape echoes the experience of a young college student trying to figure out plans and trajectory. There's a ton of reading but you'll do fine gradewise without doing all (or even close to all) of it. However, if you're anything like me you'll feel bad because it's good writing and you'll want to soak it all up.
This is the first time the course was offered as a lecture class, so at times it felt like it was still fleshing out its identity, but overall it was a great class at the intersection of literature, philosophy, and art. Try to keep up with the readings, especially Infinite Jest, and also try not to be burned out at the end to the point in which you cannot read the last few Wallace works (because they do matter!). Whether or not you're a fan of Wallace (some of his work can be sexist, others can be a bit offensive to minorities), you'll learn a lot about how to think about literature and the relationships between the writer and reader.
David Foster Wallace wrote in very cool ways about extremely relevant ideas. I think it's worth reading him, and doing so in a course is a great choice I think (especially for a literature novice) since there's a lot going on in his work. Maybe be willing to think about life and get depressed a bit though.
This class was so good, it made me reconsider my choice of major, as a senior. DFW is a must-read for any modern reader who thinks about the major life questions all hungry readers think about. Warren is a gem, and is extremely accessible. His wealth of knowledge about DFW is probably only rivaled by Wallace's biographer.
There is a lot of reading, and you may come out of it discovering that you don't much like David Foster Wallace. It's interesting, though, to immerse yourself in a contemporary writer's work.
I LOVED THIS CLASS! David Foster Wallace is an incredible author, for some (myself included), but apart from that, his work is great to use when tackling modern ideas about consciousness, solipsism, emotion, and just life itself I guess. It's important not to trust him completely. It's important to listen to the gaps. TAKE THE CLASS.
It's a wonderfully taught class; the only reason I can't "recommend with enthusiasm" is because Wallace's work can be pretty alienating. You can be obsessed with it, or you can end up loathing it with a really Dostoyevskian passion. But if you end up LIKING Wallace, there's no better class you could take.
A great class if you like David Foster Wallace. Be prepared for Infinite Reading of dense language and prose, often mind boggling and impossible to interpret, that will leave you feeling superior to everyone around you just for having read it.
This is an amazing class! Professor Warren is wonderful, and the reading list is great. If you're at all interested in DFW or reading Infinite Jest, take this class!
There's so much amazing reading in this class, and Professor Warren really cares about the material and his students. The discussion here was the most engaged and interesting of any English class I've taken at Harvard. Stay on top of the reading, or even start some of the books before the class starts.
The more you put in, the more you get out. If you go into class having read pieces, it becomes an exploration and a challenge to what you have read.
Warren guides you on a curious romp through the mind of David Foster Wallace and beyond. Be prepared for a lot of reading and a lot of ideas that the two-hour seminar will struggle to contain.
TAKE THE LECTURE VERSION NEXT YEAR! I don't know if there will be a better opportunity for you to dig into DFW's dense readings. Professor Warren is awesome. He's funny, encouraging, and constructs the course to help us understand DFW. It's one of my favorite classes at Harvard, and I think it will be yours as well if you feel like you want to know what DFW has to say about modern American life.
