After taking this course, you'll be able to see and understand imperial influences in the way we think, speak, write, read, and interact with each other.
See my answers to question 1.
Great syllabus, occasionally difficult professor. The readings were a lot of work but were definitely worth discussing, although Bilbija's style of leading discussions could be improved (she can be pretty intimidating at times). A+ for great TF staffAndy is a star.
This course is great for the ways that it explores the pervasiveness of the British Empire and teaches you to do so as well, while strengthening your writing and argumentation skills considerably. However, the readings can be very dry, especially in the first 3/4 of the semester. It seems that they are chosen for the discussion points rather than the quality of writing.
While Professor Bilbija is very knowledgable and clearly has a wealth of information to give, I found this course to be somewhat monotonous.  All of the lectures were powerpoint lectures and sometimes the material was hard to engage with.
Dr. Bilbija and Andy are great, very approachable. However, the lectures didn't help all that much with furthering my understanding of the texts. If you take this class, be prepared to do most of the learning on your own, outside of class. But definitely go to office hours; those were super helpful.
This class gives a very good introduction to the theme of Empire and the role of culture in both propagating empire and being shaped by it. The course material is interesting (although quite a bit of reading!) and Dr. Bilbija is a good teacher. Lectures weren't incredibly interesting however. Overall though, I learned a ton.
This was a good class to fulfill the migrations requirement for English Honors. The literature we read was very interesting to look at comparatively, and it made me look at novels, such as Jane Eyre, in a different way when reading it through the lens of the way empire is represented in writing.
Overall a really good class. Professor Bilbija is great, and this class will really open your eyes to how complicated the social world is and how much empire plays a role in modern culture. It's not easy, though---be ready to do some complex thinking and writing.
This class can be disorienting at times, although that's part of the point of the material. I wasn't in love with the class all of the time, but I think it did help me learn a lot and changed me in ways I might not be able to appreciate yet.
