James Wood is absolutely brilliant, and his interpretations of 19th century novels will change the way you think about literature. This course is a must-take for anyone with even the slightest interest in English -- as a pre-med student with no college English background, I could not have asked for a more beautiful introduction to the department.
This is a great class for expanding the list of books you've read. Not too intense, just enjoyable.
The reading list is amazing, but it is easy to fall behind
This is a great class. The lectures were great. The professor is engaging, funny, and extremely knowledgeable and clearly has an appreciation for the beauty of literature. It's not hard to fall behind, but it's also not hard to keep up. Don't skip lecture, it's the best part for sure.
This is a really chill way to read some fantastic novels with the legendary James Wood. You get as much from this course as you put into it, so do the readings (all of them), go meet with your TFs and ask Professor Wood to lunch at least once. The readings are extremely manageable because Professor Wood wants you to really delve into the texts and learn how to close-read details. The whole no-prompt thing is a little intimidating, but it typify's the class in that you can really explore what you're passionate about. Section was sometimes a bit underwhelming, just because they were really big and the conversation wasn't super fluid, but the TFs are really nice and accessible when it comes to writing papers and talking you through figuring out a thesis.
Whether you enjoy this course depends entirely upon how you like to learn and what kind of lecturer you like. Professor Wood does talk at you basically the whole time, so if you would like to listen to him explain his interpretations of the texts (which are very interesting), then take this course. The topic and the texts are all excellent, but the course can be a little disorganized (the lectures run into one another based on how much Wood has to say). I would recommend it because I found it fascinating to listen to and to read (and the only assignments are promptless essays). The reading pace is also probably a bit less than most, though it is also uneven--some weeks you might end up reading an entire novel, and then others you might have two short stories.
Great class with passionate professor and TFs, amazing novels and lectures, and not too much workload-wise beyond the reading (although there is a lot). Even though there are a lot of novels covered, it never feels like Professor Wood is rushing--he likes to really dissect and savor each work which is wonderful. Only bad thing is the grade is only comprised of two papers and section participation so it's hard to know exactly how you're doing.
Take this course! Professor Wood is amazing and you will love everything you read.
Professor Wood gave me a newfound appreciation for languages ability to capture lifes intricacies. Ive become more observant reverent even. As I walk through the Yard, I notice the details that move writers to create and conceive new modes of being. When my block mate plays the cello in her orchestra, I remember the squeaking fiddler from Madame Bovary whose beautiful tune scattered, from far away, the little birds. Walking home to the quad, I see how the leaves turn crisp and stiff in the wind, just as Lily Briscoe promised they would. And, as the stress of papers begins to weigh me down, I remember Professor Wood reading from Effie Briest: What do I think about life? A little and a lot.
This course is likely the best I've taken at Harvard so far--Professor Wood engages the material enthusiastically and is a great lecturer, though his "lectures" are more like a book discussion with no grand aim, and I didn't mind that at all.  He really likes to "digest" works over relatively long periods, so the reading is not the fast pace of other literature classes.  You really get a feel for the books, both from your own slow reading of them and Wood's dissection.  The course is ostensibly about "consciousness in fiction," and it is, to an extent--but it could also be titled something broad like "19th and 20th Century Literature" and it wouldn't change a whole lot.
James Wood lectures are so fun- absolutely an English must-take professor. Also a good introduction to many of the Russian greats (eg Chekhov, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy)
The amount of writing required is pretty low, and the novels you read are fantastic (plus, you actually get to read them slowly, unlike with most classes). If you want a chance to read some incredible literature and hear a really smart guy talk about it, this is a great class.
The books are incredible. If you like reading at all, take this class. Do all the readings and go to all the lectures. Professor Wood is incredibly knowledgeable and insightful, and you'll leave the class having learned how to be a better reader.
This course, like many of Professor Wood's courses, is as much a book club as it is a class. The reading load is relatively light, there are only two papers, and the lectures are casual and always interesting. That said, the papers are graded seriously but fairly, and there are only two of them, so don't come expecting the easiest of As!
Professor Wood is an incredible guy with a lot of awesome things to say and (a plus) he does so in a great accent. If you are interested in the books on the syllabus, you will enjoy learning about them from Wood, who loves each book dearly and teaches you to love them too. However, I would recommend taking some other English courses before this one because, from what I've heard, this is not a standard English course. There are only two open-prompt essays for the class, the work level is what you make it, and the lectures are very unstructured. I think this class is perfect for some, and not so much for others, depending where you're at in the college process - just keep that in mind!
If you enjoy book club, this class is a gem.  Essentially all this class is composed of is reading classic novels and talking about them.  While the class does go through the books relatively quickly, the only assignments are two papers.  If you are looking for an easy way to explore the English department with a fantastic professor, this class is for you.
This class is entirely what you make of it; the readings are essentially optional because the class is in a lecture format, there are no section assignments, and the midterm and final papers don't have a specific prompt--just a length requirement. So technically, you could read one book/story per half of the semester and write your paper on it, and that could be the extent of your work. If you take this class, you need to understand that all the responsibility falls on you. The reading material is incredible and Wood's lectures are thought provoking--albeit all over the place at times--so it's certainly not a dud of a class, but it can be very easy to put reading on the back burner. I'd say take this class only if you want to commit to it, but that being said, it's also a nice fourth class because the readings are great and the work is light.
This is a great course in many ways--the reading list is awesome, the workload is light,  and Professor Wood is fascinating. Beware of the heavily weighted, open-ended papers and the somewhat disorganized lectures, though. A lot of the time, I felt like we weren't talking about the books thoroughly enough, or I wasn't sure how they really connected to the main theme of the class.
I took this class pass fail and it was great for that!
I am a Statistics concentrator who hadn't taken an english class since high school so I was pretty nervous about the writing component of the class.  That being said I am so glad I took it.  Wood is a phenomenal lecturer and the selection of books is phenomenal and core books/authors that everyone read at some point.  Plus the two essays and weekly questions was a relatively light workload for such a great class. I definitely recommend it.
There's not a lot of reading! It's really low-key for an English class, but if you want to do well on the papers, be prepared to read at least one text really really thoroughly.
I would tell them, take it! Soak up as much of Professor Wood's wisdom and humor as you can, because it ends too soon.
Decent amount of reading, but class is as much work as you want it to be.
To do the readings
Good class.  Participate in section and get TF feedback on the papers before you submit.
Take this class only if you can deal with a total lack of structure/supervision; you will have to rely on your own initiative to do the readings, seek help on essays, write drafts, etc.
This class is a great one to take if you love reading and will do the reading. You make the most out of this class as you put into it. There are only two essays for the whole semester and that's it. Given the minimal workload, you should definitely do the reading. If you don't then lecture and section is pretty much a waste of time. That being said, the TF's and professor seem to understand this in a realistic way. They don't ask much of you as a student except to do the reading, for which you are the only one to whom you are accountable, and write the two essays. James Wood is a great professor; amazing to listen to
Great books, great professor. Be sure to keep up with the reading, it makes for a more enjoyable section. Also, start thinking about paper topics early. There aren't any prompts.
Professor Wood will teach you to see things in fiction that you've not seen before. This class is an artistic form of critical reading.
You will read widely and learn to look at classics of the literary canon in a different, psychoanalytic perspective. Professor Wood deconstructs text in a very elegant, profound way, and I've learned a lot from him and his takes on some of the best works of literature.
This is a great class. Not too much work, books you'll want to have read, and Professor Wood was fantastic. It was also very different than most other classes I take, which added great variety to my schedule.
great reading list if willing to do it yourself. have to be self-motivated
James Wood is a brilliant lecturer and the course reading list covers a really wonderful, important range of books. I loved this class and would absolutely take it again.
The reading in this course is some of the best you will find among any class in the college.
Professor Wood's structure/ course tempo is different from that of other English classes I have taken at Harvard. I appreciated having more than two classes to discuss a lot of the works we read.
Professor Wood is the man. His lectures are really awesome. If you know what to expect from an English class, I highly recommend.
James Wood is unbelievable as an instructor and person. You will want to listen to every word he says, because everything that comes out of his mouth is superbly intelligent and wonderfully interesting.
This is a good class for anyone with an interest in learning how to read English literature and getting a broad overview of how literature has developed over time. The lectures are interesting, if a bit unstructured
Great course with great books. Wood's lectures are beautiful. Pace is such that you can actually do all the reading (very manageable.) Be warned: less papers mean less papers, it's true, but also more weight given to each one.
Few classes at Harvard allow you to really DO all the reading and to enjoy it every minute. I saved the work for this class for the end of every week when I wanted to treat myself. Wood hits up a bunch of texts that you need to read before you graduate, and he does it in a way you can manage and really fall in love with a few new authors. The workload is light, and there is a lot of freedom with the few assignments. One of my friends called it "Book Club with James Wood," which conveys the comfort of the class but doesn't do justice to the amazing ideas that come up in discussion.
English 160w is a great course for someone relatively new to English at Harvard. James Wood has the most incredible voice, and the readings aren't too overwhelming.
I do not recommend this class. Lectures do not teach you much, and get very frustrating. It is sometimes soothing to listen to Professor Wood's voice, but he doesn't get into as much detail about the books the class reads as I would like - if you want a more serious English class, I suggest you look elsewhere.
James Wood is an incredible lecturer--he really talks about things that have to do with your own life and allows you to reflect more deeply on it through the books we read.  This is, like his other courses, just a James Wood book club and to be a part of it is such an honor.  This class was the highlight of my week by far.  If you want a not too hard piece of magic added to your week--take this! You'll read books that help you grow as a person, and become a better noticer of the world.
Fun; good books; very intelligent professor; manageable workload!
This is an excellent and casual English class that fulfills what you want a college level English class to feel like -- excellent literature, philosophical meanderings, and a chance to explore without all the tediousness of pop-quizzes and summary assignments, etc. Would definitely recommend!
It is a treat to be able to listen to James Wood lecture enthusiastically about great works of literature twice per week. Who wouldn't want that?
This was one of my favorite classes this semester.  It made me excited about literature and opened my eyes to different insights and ways to analyze texts.  I thoroughly enjoyed the novels and short stories we studied, and the reading load was manageable.  The lectures were fascinating, and it was interesting to study how expressions of conscious and unconscious thoughts in literature have changed.  I loved that this course was not just about analyzing literature, but also about appreciating literature.  I highly recommend taking this course if you have the opportunity!
Taught by a brilliant and laid-back professor and covering some of the greatest 19th-20th century European novels, the freedom this class offers will remind you of why you love reading and writing.
take this if you haven't read every book on this syllabus. even if you have, it will change the way you think about the texts
Whether you love literature or you're simply looking to get a feel for the subject, this course will be a fantastic addition to your slate. James Wood is insightful, sensitive, witty, and down to earth. The books you read are great, but James Wood makes the class. His goal is to teach you "how to read," so that you can have that joyful and empathetic and productive skill for the rest o f your life. I loved how he connected the themes we were reading about to the real world, whether by reading aloud articles from the Crimson or by passing around editorials from the New York Times. I can't praise this course enough; it felt like what "getting an education" is really all about.
Take this course for the reading list alone. I enjoyed reading the novels in 160w more than in any other English course. Lectures are a bit disappointing - Prof Wood tends to go off on tangents in class. Wish I had taken this when it was a seminar. Section was great - Stella Wang was an amazing TF.
Take this class! Amazing books, amazing teacher. Wood is so perceptive and excited about the material. Tone of the class is very relaxed.
The course is great if you are interested in aestheticism and style less so than thematic content. Also, lectures are interesting but can be a little unstructured. Know that for the two essays that compromise much of the grade, prompts are completely unstructured and open. High participation component (participation in section)
This class is lovely. The books are amazing and you have time to actually appreciate and learn from them. James Wood is a wonderful lecturer.
Excellent class!  Read fantastic books and only write two essays.
Amazing! Dr. Wood is great and the reading list is fantastic. Allows you to really engage with the books at a relatively low-stress pace.
Professor Wood is a genius. His lectures are engaging, funny, all around awesome. However there isn't a lot of work except to read, so if you don't do the reading, lectures become pointless and you don't get a lot out of it.
Listening to James Wood speak about literature is an almost sexual experience.
Yes.
This class is great, but in order to get something out of it you really must do the readings. Unlike a lecture course, you can't really just read the sparknotes and show up to lecture and still understand what is going on. Professor Wood is amazing and it is worth putting the time in to get the readings done (which are also great) so that you can take something away from class.
This class challenges you to grow in analysis and criticism of important literary works.
This seminar is pretty big, so it can feel a bit like a lecture course sometimes.  However, the discussions and presentations by James Wood are top-notch.
Students should have experience with the authors prior to coming in, to determine if they are actually going to involve themselves deeply in the material. The expectations are low, until the papers arrive, so if you do not WANT to do the work, you likely won't, and you'll suffer for it later at paper-time.
Prof Wood is phenomenal!! Take ALL of his courses!
Light work load, but Wood grades rather harshly.
It's a great opportunity to discuss some stellar books with stellar people.
Excellent syllabus.
This class was one of the best I have taken at Harvard.
Excellent once all the big talkers in the room mellowed out.  Actually wound up with a very equitable division of speaking time.
One of the best English classes offered at Harvard. Don't miss a chance to take a class with Professor Wood! He is extremely insightful, and it was always a pleasure to come to class. The reading list was great as well! If you have doubts about your essay topics, I'd recommend meeting with Wood before - although he can be a tough grader, he is also extremely helpful and approachable.
You can leave this class feeling like you barely took it. It's a seminar in name only; Professor Wood lectures for two hours to an overcrowded room in which some students are sleeping. Expectations are scarcely communicated; without even an iSite to view a syllabus, let alone an email from the professor, I had to ask other students in the class how long the final paper was, what it was about, when it was due, and where to turn it in. Professor Wood is to be sure a brilliant critic, but he makes almost no connection with students in this class. The novels are classics, but the course is a frustrating experience.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Professor Wood is unbelievable smart, easy to talk to, and understanding. The books are all very interesting, and if you have already read them, Wood will still blow your mind with something knew. I cannot recommend it enough.
It's hard to get into but keep trying! He gives preference if you've tried before and it's beyond worth it. There's no better person to learn about these things from. Excellent lecturer and seminar leader. Really amazing books as well.
Though he's sometimes difficult to get in touch with, start seeing Professor Wood as soon as possible into the semester so you can get the most out of your time with him as possible.
Take advantage of opportunities to meet with Professor Wood one-on-one--these interactions were the best part of the course for me.
If you love literature, this is an amazing class. Professor Wood's insights are wonderful, and he maintains a relaxed atmosphere in the class. If you can get in, take it, actually read the books (you will have the time to do so--the pace isn't unreasonable), and participate.
If you have the chance to take this course (admittedly a big if) TAKE IT!!! It's like a book club led by the smartest person ever. Only two papers, no weekly responses, and the least strenuous reading possible (think: 2 weeks for To the Lighthouse). Wood shines in a seminar format and with little prompting will also share his opinions on contemporary authors he reviews, etc. I really feel like I am a substantially better reader and I don't even know how it happened, other than by osmosis of his skills. Some of the graduate students/classmates can be pedantic because Wood is so generous about speaking time but this can hardly qualify as a drawback. He inspires you to do your best on the papers and, best part, doesn't have a TF so he grades them himself! In sum, a perfect English class if ever there were one.
It's a lot of reading but if you put in effort Professor Wood's discussions are very rewarding.  Best English seminar I've taken.
Wonderful books, smart classmates, great professor. The discussions were good though could have been better with a smaller class - he did warn us about that though. The theme of the course gives you an interesting angle through which to study canonical novels. Definitely would suggest coming in with some experience in writing English papers.
Take this class if you are the kind of a student who enjoys flexibility and freedom in terms of organization and schedule. The class is not rigidly structured or guided, so it might be difficult to understand the novels and write the papers. Prior knowledge in consciousness or novels would be good.
This is the best class i have taken at harvard. It renewed and reinvigorated my love for reading, and confirmed my faith in the abilities of good writing to immerse us in the thoughts and feelings of others.
If you are fortunate enough to get into the class, you will have no better experience as a student of English/literature. James Wood is the world's leading English language literary critic and his teaching lives up to his work. One of the rare English classes in which studying these great books in a formal setting enhances your enjoyment of them. Do everything you can to get inif you fail as a junior, try again as a senior.
Take this class if you can! The books are some of the greatest you'll read, and James Wood offers really fantastic insight for each one.
It's difficult to get in, but Professor Wood's course is popular for a reason. It's a good course with a lot of reading.
Prof. Wood is absolutely fantastic. For the quality of the lectures, this has been my favorite English course here. His close analysis is unerring, and the readings really feel much richer after you hear his lectures. (Try to ask early and often about the paper deadlines, though, there's no dates on the syllabus and he usually waits until students bring it up to mention it.)The class size is a double-edged sword: it's big enough that at least you stand some chance of getting in through the lottery (it helps if you've tried and failed to get in before), but often it feels too big (~30 students) for the real seminar experience. If you are the kind of student that _must_ have lots of opportunities to express their opinion in class, this might be frustrating for you. I did wish this had been a smaller class, so that we could have had more of a discussion-style seminar. But, that said, I would take this class again in a heartbeat. There is really no other time when you will get to talk about the Greats with The New Yorker's literary critic. Definitely take advantage of this class offering.
Awesome class.  Great reading list (although we should not have had 4 classes on Portrait of a Lady), and one of the best professors I've had at Harvard.  I had the feeling (rare at Harvard) that Professor Wood thought of us as adults, and not as high school students.  Of course, some people didn't like the lack of strict paper deadlines, the sparcity of assignments (midterm and final papers), and a no-pressure environment.  But if you want to take an english seminar on some of the greatest novels in the language, with a world-literarily-renowned professor and critic who shares none of the intensity, awkwardness and ego of many of his colleagues, take this class.
About 100-200 pages of wonderful literature a week, only two paper (5-7. 7-10), and an amazing professor - highly recommended.
i wanted to take this my freshman year but had to wait. it was well worth it.
Write your papers ahead of time, before Wood sets his deadlines. It will be better for you in the end.
Possibly the best English class at Harvard.
Great Books + Great Peers, led by a Great Mind. What more does one ask for?
Take it! This class is AMAZING!
Taking this class is really a great opportunity to closely read a few great texts. The workload isn't very heavy which frees you up to really engage with the readings. It can be a little bit intimidating to take this class with a whole bunch of senior English and Hist and Lit concentrators but it's a good challenge and the level of discussion was generally quite high. James Wood is wonderfully personable and inspires considerable enthusiasm for the material.
Professor Wood is not easily accessible and you will have to be a very self-directed learner to enjoy and benefit from this class.
This seminar has a phenomenal syllabus and is taught by a fantastic professor; I would highly recommend it to anyone who can get into the class. Don't let yourself slack in this class though--even though due dates tend to be lenient, Professor Wood reserves flat A's for truly great essays, so you have to put a lot of work in to get that grade.
Take Wood if you love literature or want to. His enthusiasm and insights are infectious. The paper load isn't onerous, the reading load is reasonable, and the books are wonderful. To get the most from the course, be sure to take advantage of the opportunity to meet with Wood.
Readings don't get better than this. And James Wood is a gem.
As famous professors go, Wood is extremely friendly and helpful, and the discussions are great.  There's no pressure.  At the same time, it's hard to tell what he wants in a paper, and he takes his time letting you know.  The extremely laid back nature of the course is usually great, but sometimes confounding and annoying.
This class has the best reading list ever, and is thorough/slow-moving enough that you don't ever have to skim. And then, obviously, James Wood is an absolute genius. It's so wonderful to hear him reading Woolf- he clearly savors each word- and the chance to get to know him a little better in office hours was very exciting.
A bit of dense analysis with regards to what you read, but rewarding nonetheless.
The readings for this class are some of the best I've done at Harvard, and Professor Wood will make them even better for you. (I would never have finished Pride and Prejudice if not for this class.) Professor Wood's teaching style does, however, require a certain amount of patience from his studentsI would recommend bringing coffee for those times when he is happy to let students guess at his criticisms at length before finally chiming in with his own opinion.
It's a fantastic reading list and a brilliant professor, but the discussions were often flaccid and the lectures did not always seem thoroughly prepared.
Totally worth it, if you can get in!
Professor Wood is engaging and stimulating in class discussions. I have been forced to consider texts, and the move towards literature of consciousness, in a different manner, reading the texts more closely and carefully.
don't take this class if what you want is a conventional English seminar where you're fed a lot of information, and a lot of text. if this is what you want, read Wood's 'How Fiction Works' or 'The Broken Estate' instead, and spend a lot of time thinking about exactly what he says within the book.However, if you want to spend a semester reveling in the joys of literature and language, then take this class. But if you take this class, don't read 'How Fiction Works' or 'The Broken Estate' beforehand. It will only tell you the answers that you want to give in class, and by doing so, impress the other students who haven't already read those books, but ultimately deprive you of the excitement of coming to understand something. The class, at its best, recreates the ideal of the Socratic method, whereby Wood feeds you bits of information, hints at questions that you'd never think to ask, and tries to lead you to answers that are plainly stated within his book. You'll probably look at the book after the seminar is over, and realize how much of the course is picked up verbatim from the book, but no matter: the journey was magical. Take this class if you want to learn how to think, how to read, not learn how to learn.
While it is a very difficult class, Professor Wood makes the reading material quite accessible, particularly to those who listen closely during seminar and read everything slowly and thoroughly.
You will read great books and learn great things about them.  Taking a class with James Wood is a unique experience.
Remember, the teacher is STROOOONG!!!
If you've always wanted a chance to interact with James Wood on a small scale, here's your chance.
James Wood is an amazing teacher, but won't necessarily hold you accountable for the reading. You need to be prepared to do that yourself, especially come paper time.
If you've forgotten why you love literature and wish to remember, take this class. That's what it did for me. Sometimes it felt more like a celebration/ Henry James love-in than a critical seminar, but that's quite appropriate when you consider the gem-like reading list. Professor Wood is entertaining and insightful. Do it if you can!
James Wood is clearly an intelligent man and he will offer some very valuable insights to these wonderful texts, but the class is a less personal than you might expect from a seminar and he is notoriously difficult to get ahold of through email and he doesn't keep his office hours.  Maybe the best way to approach this course is to have a question each week about some device or passage in the text that you'd really like to have discussed by Wood.
This is the second course I've taken with James Wood, and both have been fantastic. It's more of a literature appreciation course than anything else, and worth it just to hear his thoughts on these fabulous texts. Of all my English professors, he brings together the most diverse group of texts, which makes for a fascinating and unique discussion in the course. He expanded the course to include more students this year, and I think a smaller class size may have increased the variety in our discussion, but that's the only thing I can think of that would've improved this course. Wonderful books, wonderful professor (he's very open to meeting with students, and very understanding), wonderful classtake it if you get in!
A fine, if cautious course,
This class was a great pleasure. The reading list is wonderful (containing a number of classics - To the Lighthouse and Chekhov etc as well as a number of books I'd never heard of before - Effi Briest, Niels Lyhne and so on). Wood emphasized an approach to reading that strikes a huge contrast with many other literature classes I've taken here: the pace of the syllabus is leisurely to say the least, and he really values reveling in texts at the passage and often sentence level. Also needless to say, he has a lot of acute and interesting observations about the texts we read. Often, he would just read passages aloud at length. However, the tone of the actual seminar was somewhat bizarre. Wood preemptively defended the decision to have around 25 people in the class when I'm pretty sure seminars are supposed to be around 15 max. This might be fair, although I feel a limit should be drawn when there are too many people to fit around the huge table (there were inevitably 5 or so people on the margins). I also feel an odd vibe was created by Wood's disclosure that he doesn't grade for participation, which in combination with a possible fear of making a fool of themselves in front of the professor (at least on my part) seemed to lead to a situation where there were maybe 2 people who regularly carried the conversation (besides him) and a handful of others who contributed besides. Regrettably I was among the 75% of the class who I estimate didn't say anything the whole semester. Even though as a shy person I think not being graded on section is wonderful, I also don't think we should be TOLD that we aren't being graded on section. As you can maybe tell, Wood takes a pretty lax approach to academics - the course had a slight improvisatory feel to it, even though it's been taught before. The syllabus wasn't available online, the respective weights of the two papers were never made clear, office hours were only by appointment, and even the due dates of the papers were made up as we went along. These things aren't necessarily important, but they indicated the tenor of the course. All in all, though, Wood was a warm and personable teacher, if slightly unavailable.
The best style-focused English class; James Wood is fantastic
An English course cannot get much better than this - a wonderful syllabus, a phenomenal professor, a relaxed attitude, and, at its core, a genuine interest in developing an appreciation for and understanding of the development of consciousness in 19th and 20th century fiction. Professor Wood begins each meeting with: "So, tell me what you liked, what made you laugh." It seems deceptively simple. A few students offer up scraps of dialogue or prose - and then Professor Wood is off, explaining, quite brilliantly why such a sentence or sentiment is striking and how it relates to the larger fabric of the novel. Odds are, by the end of 2 hours, you will walk out with a different perspective on the book, whether you started off liking it or not. With a light workload, flexible deadlines, and no participation grade - this course is all about enjoying the reading and discussing of literature. A gem course, if you can get a spot.
Professor Wood is such a gem--brilliant, kind, and a wonderful teacher. But this isn't a seminar because so many people don't talk. I found that really disappointing, but Prof. Wood makes up for it!
Professor Wood is always a pleasure to listen to, especially when discussing authors like Chekhov or Woolf. If you've any interest in how novels work, how fiction achieves certain effects, how sentences layer into paragraphs and into narratives and digressions, this class is for you. You probably won't stumble upon many of these texts on your own, so take the time to read them as the class progresses, and do read them slowly. The reading load is very manageable week by week, and discussion is always more interesting when you can throw your hat in the ring every now and then by mentioning a small, fun detail off to the side...
One of the best and least stressful English seminars you'll take at Harvard! Wood is an incredible professor, and it was a joy to learn under him this semester.
The reading list is really great.  Professor Wood is also wonderful and entertaining.  It isn't the most thorough English class you'll take at Harvard... it's pretty low-maintenance.  There are only two papers, which suits the low-key nature of the class.  If you aren't going to read the books... then it might be a waste of a class.  But having read the books, I really enjoyed getting to hear Professor Wood's opinions and interpretations (even though they are somewhat scattered).
I spent most of the class feeling as though we had no or very little direction.  It's pretty free form, and I still can't really tell you what the overarching topic of the class was (even if it's called "Consciousness in Fiction").  Discussions were interesting, but tended to go off in tangents.
This is a well-taught and thoughtful seminar. James Wood is a gifted instructor who offers careful, thoughtful insights on the material he teaches, and lively inquiry into the structures and assumptions of the literature he teaches. It was a pleasure to take.
The reading materials for this course are excellent, and there are very few assignments. Professor Wood's insight is also wonderful to hear. However, I would only recommend the course if the class size were lowered. A 25 person seminar makes it difficult to have real discussion.
james wood is a god
This is a fantastic class. Don't miss out on taking a class with Professor Wood during your time here. He approaches the text in very interesting ways and uses that approach to ask relevant and fascinating questions. You'll spend pretty much all your homework time reading, and the books are phenomenal. The essays are a lot of fun because you get to put into action the method of analyzing literature that Professor Wood has been demonstrating in class.
Get in this class any way you can if you're at all inclined to take it.
I would imagine that the quality of a student's experience depends a great deal on the commitment and participation of the other students; we had a good group, and so I learned a lot and really enjoyed the class.  Professor Wood has his own and sometimes very specific way of looking at literature, but doesn't prevent other ideas and points of view from being shared, so it's interesting to get the perspective of someone who knows both the world of academia and the world of literary criticism, etc, very well.
It's the best class I've taken at Harvard.  Take it!
Very interesting reading list, great discussions, students need to take a lot of individual initiative with their work because the professor does not provide much
I really preferred Postwar British and American fiction.
It will change your reading of Pride and Prejudice.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  Professor Wood was just so great!
One of my favorite classes at Harvard
This class is incredibly difficult to get into, but, once in, there are still restrictions.  There's very little attention to individuals and their education; it feels much more like a book club or a talent show....But James Wood is pretty fun to listen to.
Professor Wood is one of the best, if not the best, professors I've had at Harvard.
Hard to get into the course, but definitely worth the try - James Wood is a star
Make sure to do the reading carefully and thoroughly.  Enjoy the luxury of being able to study 6 books in a semester!
The class is a great alternative to those in which you have to read a whole novel in a week.  We go slower and deeper here.
