This course was a lot of reading, but if you don't do all of the reading you are missing out on soooooo much.  Osadetz is incredibly passionate about the material, which brings to life the few drier texts.  18th century sounds super old, but I promise you the texts are more accessible than you would imagine and are really fun and oftentimes quite funny
This is a fantastic class for anyone interested in the texts of the class. Professor Osadetz is knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the material, so class is never dull. He's also extremely understanding and considerate of his students. I think English majors in particular will enjoy creating connections between texts in this course and texts from other classes. Make sure to come to class with a willingness to discuss the texts with enthusiasm, as it will make the class a lot of fun.
This course is seriously flawed in both design and execution. First, the reading list seems to favor overwhelmingly many, very mediocre works (e.g. Burney, Walpole, Edgeworth, Inchbald) rather than fewer, more significant texts. It would be best to do away with the frill and just stick to Crusoe, Gulliver, Clarissa, Tristram Shandy, and Tom Jones. Second, because the enrollment was quite low, the professor decided to do away with the lecture format and just hold the class as a seminar. As such, there was little or no introduction to the authors, their works, or even major questions of genre, style, or literary history (except repeated references to "depth psychology," whatever that may be). It is really quite difficult to learn the course material from fellow students who have no expertise in the course material. Finally, the writing assignments didn't seem to have any purposethey were both quite short, and the midterm essay was not returned until the final week of class.
The readings and discussions are interesting.
Exciting lectures, lively discussions, and amazing texts.
Professor Osadetz is one of the smartest professors I have had. His knowledge is rich, and he will always be able to provide another perspective on a thought or another avenue for a discussion. There is a lot of reading, but I know some of the books may be changed next time the course is offered. It is worth taking the course to meet professor Osadetz, and to learn about novels that you probably wouldn't read otherwise. If you have never read eighteenth century novels before, you will be surprised by their vibrancy, though some of the issues that arise are intricate and delicate, and require serious thought.
