Professor Claybaugh is fantastic and you should definitely take advantage of the opportunity to take a seminar with her (although her lecture courses are amazing also!). Howells is a great novelist, but not well-known, so this is a unique chance to study his work. Eliot is also wonderful, but her novels are long, so it's definitely helpful to read her novels in a seminar setting.
Really fun class--we had some great discussions and got to know each other personally. Highly recommend.
Every English student should take a class with Professor Claybaugh. She's an incredible discussion leader, and does an amazing job of demonstrating methods of literary analysis during the seminar. The formal analysis that she performs on the texts is intricate and well-organized, and as a student in her class, you'll learn to think about texts systematically and with direction and purpose. Professor Claybaugh is also very accessible outside of class, and extremely helpful with the process of paper writing.
You should absolutely take a class with Professor Claybaugh.  Whether she is teaching a course on Eliot, Howells, or on something else, she is one of the best teachers I have ever had and this is one of the best courses I have ever taken.
Wonderful! Will expose you to some of the greatest writers of the late nineteenth century and teach you excellent tools for literary analysis in general! Professor Claybaugh is a genius!
Professor Claybaugh is fantastic!
This class is amazing! About 200 pages of reading a week so its a pretty heavy load in this way. But....it's completely worth it. Discussion with Professor Claybaugh is always so interesting and fun. Take this course!!
You'll probably end up liking either Eliot or Howells. I think the success of the class largely depends on the other people in your seminar, although Professor Claybaugh was quite good at leading discussions in an organic and casual way. Middlemarch and Daniel Deronda are great novels.
Professor Claybaugh is an excellent teacher and gives a clear and valuable account of how to read a nineteenth-century novel. She also makes a good case for the literary merit of WIlliam Dean Howells.
This is by far the best class that I have ever taken at Harvard.  Professor Claybaugh is inspiring, brilliant, funny, and open to discussion of all ideas.
This class redefined my views on Eliot and Howells.  That being said, without Claybaugh, I'm dubious that it will have the same effect if taught in future years.
I know that students who liked the book club format of the class had a really great experience, and I'd encourage future students to enroll if and only if it's a good fit for their academic personalities.
Best class I've taken at Harvard.
That it's the best class I've ever taken in the English department. Likely to burn as a source of inspiration forever.
Professor Claybaugh, for me, made the class what it was, although the reading list is extremely valuable on its own.  We had kind of a perfect storm of awesomeness that combined great reading, an involved and engaged class, and a truly rockin' professor--I can't promise that the reading list alone would be enough to guarantee the great experience I had.  However, if you're a fan of Eliot of Howells (or want to learn more about them), go for it.
