If you like contemporary fiction, take this course! Professor Claybaugh is FANTASTIC.
This class was the best seminar I have taken as an English concentrator. If you're at all interested in the contemporary novel or book review, apply.
Professor Claybaugh is extremely thoughtful about what she reads and what her students have to say  the seminar discussions I've been a part of this semester have been some of the most illuminating and insightful talks I've had since coming to college. Claybaugh also provides incredible feedback on your writing; you will come out of this class a better writer. Period.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Prof Claybaugh is fantastic and the books are great.
Professor Claybaugh is an excellent teacher who genuinely cares about her students. You will certainly become a better thinker and a better writer.
This course is like the best possible book club; works of literary importance, strong discussion of the works and how they relate to each other, and a really great classroom atmosphere.
If you're going to take one class in the English Department, take this one. It's fun, you read amazing books, and you learn a lot about your own writing and about the literary world in general.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Claybaugh is amazing, as are the books you get to read. There's nothing better than spending a semester reading books you actually want to read and then getting to discuss them with a group of really intelligent, thoughtful, interesting people. Plus, Claybaugh has great insights.
This is one of the best courses you'll ever take!!
If you are interested in law, it's a great and fun class that has a fresh structure.
This class is awesome!
Amanda is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard. Might be a little challenging/intimidating for non English majors (I'm Social Studies), but you get over that quick.
This is a fun class. The discussions are mostly evaluative (as opposed to analytic), but there were many good debates, and it's good to feel up-to-date on contemporary literary happenings. The class is great training for anybody interested in one day publishing book reviews or freelancing out of college. Claybaugh is a tough critic on students' writing, but an incredibly helpful voice in kicking your writing skills up to the next level.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  The syllabus is enticing and an absolute pleasure to read through.  Prof. Claybaugh is extremely gifted at directing class discussion to make it interesting, relevant, and fast-paced.  The writing and workshopping component of the class is quite well run, and the feedback and attention I received both in class and through the Prof. Claybaugh's grading process and feedback undoubtedly improved my writing (something I haven't been able to say about many Harvard classes).  I emerged from the class feeling like I have a good understanding of the state of contemporary fiction and feeling confident in my abilities to read a book, synthesize its plot and purpose, and write compelling reflections on fictional works put in front of me.  If you are lucky enough to get into this class (the selection process is quite competitive) then ABSOLUTELY take it.  Prof. Claybaugh is one of the best kept secrets in the English department and any class of hers will not disappoint.
This is a remarkable class, and if you have the chance to take it, do. Amanda Claybaugh is one of the best instructors I've had at Harvard. She puts a great deal of time, energy, and thought into making her class an opportunity to improve you as a writer and as a reader. She encourages creativity, and then supports your creative projects. Her class is unique, in that I feel that I've been challenged to think harder about the novel in this course than in almost any other, and have learned to communicate those thoughts in a freer (and thus, perhaps more difficult!) medium of the book review.
Fantastic course. Professor Claybaugh is the best. Cross your fingers and hope you get in. It will make you a better reader and a better writer.
TAKE THIS CLASS TAKE THIS CLASS TAKE THIS CLASS OMG DO IT
