I had never taken a poetry class before this one, and I was a little nervous about starting off with a seminar. But this was truly one of the most rewarding classes I've taken at Harvard. Peter Sacks is absolutely incredible - he excavates poems more deeply than anyone I've ever learned from, and his love and respect for the material is huge. If you take this class, you will read some fantastic poetry, and it will be illuminated for you in ways that change the way you think about literature. Take this class. Do it.
A lot of poems are assigned to read. Try to give them the time they deserve- definitely read a handful thoroughly for class so you have some thoughts to add to the discussion, but this class is worth doing the reading for because we are in the class because of the quality of the material, for the love of these poems. At first you might think a class like this is pretty inconsequential but in fact I've found reading poetry with Peter to be important for my development as a human. Definitely don't pass up a chance to learn from this brilliant professor.
This class is unbelievable, one of the best I've taken here. Professor Sacks has an ability to make you feel like a better writer, thinker, and person after every class. Plus the other kids in the class were pretty cool cats.
The breadth of poetic exposure in this class is phenomenal, and there's no one better than Peter Sacks to show it to you. Prof. Sacks had a very equitable approach to what poems we were most interested in discussing while still maintaining a clear vision of where we needed to go to evaluate ballads and sonnets as a whole. If you feel you'd benefit from depth, perhaps a class on one poet would be a better choice, as we did tend to jump around quite a bit (though the times we spent with individual poems were certainly fruitful and satisfying). But Prof. Sacks' ardent love for the subject matter was enough to make every class enjoyable and exciting.
If you can only take one poetry course, let this be it. Peter Sacks regularly keeps the class enraptured with his stunning interpretations and commentary, along with his remarkable recall of all sorts of poems. The sonnet/ballad framework is an ideal one with which to approach centuries of literary history, and there is an emphasis placed on form both in class and in the papers. It can be intimidating to put forth your own interpretation in a class of poetry superstars, but don't let it be - instead spend a great deal of time with these poems and you will be changed undoubtedly as a result.
