Be prepared to do a lot of the thinking part of the class outside the class meeting times, as those are mostly taken up for craft and fieldtrips. But the professors are very invested in the course, and it helps to go see them one-on-one.
This course is really unique, and is absolutely worth taking for the incredible field trips we went on. Experts came to Harvard to teach us how to make ink and paper, bind books, and use a printing press, and our trip to the Harvard Depository was also really great. You definitely won't find any other class that does all these things at Harvard. The teaching in this course was also great; Professors Price and Lepore were great at leading our class discussions, and Carla was an all around fantastic TF. A cautionary note, though: this course does require academic research, so if you are not experienced at using the library system here, definitely ask one of the professors early on to teach you what you need to know.
This is an interesting and unique class with top notch instructors. The assignments are fun to work on and fairly easy to do well.
This course felt fresh and scholarly at every turn. From various forms of note taking to engaging class discussions, the class was a constant delight. Profs. Lepore and Price proved to be an indomitable duo who sponsored a semester of creative and playful learning. Fellow students in the class were thoughtful and fully onboard. I loved reading their work; I was reminded how talented Harvard students can truly be.   Writing for the course became (to think!) actually enjoyable. This was academia at its best.
The assignments for this class are reason enough to enroll. I've seen very few professors at Harvard so willing to wed creative nonfiction with rigorous research methodology, and it's amazing how successfully it worked out. There're some really exquisite field trips, too: Bow & Arrow Press, the Old Burial Ground, Houghton. I mean, what more could you ask for? If anything, you'll emerge from this class knowing how to read Harvard College as a text. Professors Price and Lepore both brought their all, so the class never felt complacent or indulgent. If you're interested in exploring marginalia, the bounds of the novelistic form, artist's books, printmaking technologies, etc. then this class is for you. Give yourself up to the lunacy and you'll have an amazing time.
Though this course was somewhat quixotic (pun semi-intended), it was an incredible opportunity to work with two wonderful professors and was always engaging. You may be frustrated at times with the uneven pace and expectations in the course, but you will learn a lot from it about reading, writing, history, and English.
You will never take another class like this. A bit crazy, absolutely fascinating, and Jill and Leah are fantastic!
Really interesting way to fulfill the research seminar requirement.  I took it as a History concentrator and definitely thought it was worth it.  It does tend to be more English folk than History folk so the class discussions can lean that way as well.  The weekly reading was interesting but tended to be pretty heavy.  You can easily use sparknotes or just skip a week if it comes down to it though.
You might not expect this, but the assignments were the most enjoyable part of this class. Professors Lepore and Price are excellent teachers.
I really wanted to like this class, but the coursework just seemed "out there" and unorganized. At the end of the day, I didn't know what was expected of me, and the assignments didn't seem to correspond to the rest of what was going on the course. I'm not exactly sure how much I learned from the course. Grading-wise, I also felt like it was a bit harsh at times.
Interesting ideas and readings, but the class time always felt a little slow. I wish the discussion aspect had been more deliberate.
