This course is really amazing.  Even though I had little interest in taking it and only did so because it was a concentration requirement, it turned out to be one of my favorite English courses at Harvard.
Professor Claybaugh is amazing!  She is a wonderful lecturer who stimulates interesting discussion while challenging her students to think in new ways. The course is unique among the Diffusions offerings in that it demonstrates the ways in which "national" literature is "transnational."
Professor Claybaugh is one of the sharpest and most articulate teachers I've met. She really puts an emphasis on imparting the necessity of clarity and rigor in literary study, and her lectures, assignments, and hand-outs go a long way.
this is a good diffusions class, as requirement classes go. it has a broad time/geographical range and most of the readings are important. prof Claybaugh has great intentions behind the way in which the class is designed and structured, but it doesn't always work the way it's supposed to. Weekly reading quizzes seem to have become unnecessarily stressful for students, and for some reason the grading seems to be skewed as a result. Take common ground courses as early in your English studies as possible - it is just better for everyone involved.
It is a demanding course but very engaging and thorough.
Excellent survey of American and Irish literature, with an intriguing emphasis on post-colonial theory.
This course will allow you to read some amazing texts that will inspire you to think in new and critical ways. Amanda is a wonderful lecturer, and she provides insight into these texts that is priceless. Be prepared to work hard - there is no getting by in this class without doing at least the majority of the readings. The more you read, the more fulfilling this class will be.
Diffusions in general wasn't really for me, but of all the course offerings in that category, I'm certain this is the best. Professor Claybaugh is an incredible teacher. Even though I wasn't a huge fan of the readings, I learned to appreciate them more as she shared her insights. I also got great feedback on my work throughout the course. And I felt like Professor Claybaugh and our TF really cared about our experience in the course, often asking for feedback themselves and explaining the philosophy behind the syllabus, etc. You will walk away from the course with a much deeper knowledge of how to read a novel/poem/essay/play. You'll also learn some interesting American/Irish history.
This class is an awesome way to fulfill the Diffusions requirement. Professor Claybaugh is one of the best professors in the English department and will keep you motivated and engaged throughout the semester. Be prepared to do ALL the reading for this class--with the reading quizzes, descriptive exercises, essays and exams you will have to be doing a consistent amount of work every week. But the discussions that will come from it are worth it! This class will make you a more well rounded English concentrator
It was interesting. The professor is amazing, but I did not love the class
Don't take this class. I know everyone says you just have to bite the bullet and take a 60-level class at some point anyway, but don't take this one. The grading was poorly explained, the system of giving students both papers and three-hour essay tests is redundant and particularly painful in this class. The reading list was almost unbelievably unorganized, and the same could be said for the rest of the class. Each week the professor announced some new requirement or the removal of some old one, the result being that the course became less demanding as time went on but that it also felt like you were a cat watching a tennis match sometimes as the professor oscillated between pedagogical structures.
Professor Claybaugh is a really great professor to take a class with! This class is definitely challenging and the class discussions are intense but really great and you will get a lot out of it if you put the effort it!
This class was an interesting experience. Section with Laura was phenomenal and was regularly a highlight of my week. Prof. Claybaugh is a talented academic with some really fascinating ideas about the texts on the syllabus, but sometimes it was hard to appreciate her intellect because of her strong personality. Also, the reading quizzes were annoying because they forced me to prioritize this class over others when I felt that I should've been trusted to decide that for myself. Overall this class will be time consuming and occasionally frustrating, but it's not a terrible way to fulfill the Diffusions requirement.
This class is great. Professor Claybaugh is fantastic, and Laura is a very knowledgeable and friendly TF. The texts that we read were enjoyable and brought out some interesting discussion. If the midterm/final were changed it would be a really great course and definitely a good way of fulfilling the diffusions requirement.
Why would you ever take this course? One reason you might take this course is for the opportunity to study under Amanda Claybaugh. This would be a poor reason to take the class. For one, she will read 4 of the 50-60 pages of writing you will compose over the course of the semester, and that feedback will consist of an in-class remark that you made a good point and should share it with the rest of the course. Another reason why you might think it is a good idea take this course was provided by the professor at the beginning of the semester: given that it's an English Department requirement, you might as well take a course that will force you to read canonized works you had always meant to read. As a senior, I felt this reasoning persuasive and promising at the beginning of the term. Unfortunately, these works - Joyce's Portrait, Yeats's poems, Hawthorne's prose, etc. - were ruined by the experience of this class. Examples: Joyce was reduced to a debate over whether or not the novel could be considered a bildungsroman (in a lecture discussion), Whitman to a solipsistic chauvinist (section).
I found it difficult to find a diffusions that I really wanted to take, and sort of stumbled upon this one. It was a good course and I don't think you'll find anything to complain about, but you also might not feel super engaged or excited by the material. I think you should see what else is being offered within a semester or two range. If you like the syllabus the course will be great, because you can really go in depth with the works. If you aren't interested in Ireland or ideas about post-colonialism or nationalism, then you probably won't be interested in the class either.
This was probably the only course in which I felt intellectually engaged during every class. Professor Claybaugh cares deeply about her students and their educational experience, and it was fun to feel as though I was finally getting the small, student-focused education that Harvard claims to offer.
