For English concentrators, this course is a relatively painless way to get the foreign lit requirement out of the way. The grammar gets a little tedious, but Laura is awesome and the class is pretty fun and rewarding. Final project presentations are especially cool.
This course will be one of the better ones in your time at Harvard. Laura is a great professor, and it will be fun and engaging all the way through. And you'll learn Old English, which is awesome enough in itself.
I had a wonderful time in this class! You will not regret taking Old English with Prof. Wang! She makes everything very fun and she makes sure all her students understand the material. If you like Lord of the Rings, you will love reading and translating Beowulf.
Challenging, but if you're interested in the English language, how languages work, etc. then there's really not a better class to take.
This is a good course if you're very interested in translating and learning the roots of the English language. It can naturally get a little tedious with the simplistic nature of some of the material that's available for translating, but Laura does a good job conveying her own enthusiasm for the subject. It's essentially a fair amount of busy work, but can be fun if you take liberties with your translations and generally isn't very taxing as far as coursework goes (although sometimes 50 lines of translation can take a while).
Just her second semester of teaching, Professor Wang has truly figured the game out. A dramatic improvement from last semester, I am very hopeful for the future of this class. That being said, I found this semester very interesting, manageable, and honestly, the best course I took this spring.
There are a lot of different metrics to use when evaluating a course, but at the end of the day it comes down to the professor and whether or not she is passionate about the subject material. Does the professor take time to set out a considered, careful syllabus with varied assignments? Does the professor encourage and stimulate creative but rigorous work? Does the professor have a knowledge and understanding of students and their lives outside of the classroom that helps her structure her expectations inside the classroom? I would have to answer a resounding yes to all these questions for professor Wang. She takes a subject matter (Anglo-Saxon language) that may seem daunting at first and turns it into a real treat of a class. Count yourself lucky if you are able to learn Old English from professor Wang.
You need to be interested in the language learning aspect
Old English is a great, fun, and fairly easy way to fulfill your foreign language requirement for English. Laura is a great lecturer, engaging and fun and really chill, and always does her absolute best to meet her students outside of class to go over materials. Even if you're not trying to fulfill any reqs, Old English is still a great choice for a class with an interesting, unique subject and great texts that you might not come across anywhere else. If you have ever been curious about the language, culture, and people of Anglo-Saxon history, consider checking this class out.
I enjoyed this class in terms of the cultural and historical elements of the course. Translations (which were about 100-120 lines a week) are very tedious and can certainly be annoying but they are nevertheless a requirement of any course of this type. Beware translations may be pretty time-consuming, though the class is still not too difficult and ultimately very good.
If you liked English 102, you should definitely take 103. You get to read Beowulf!
