You NEED to work on essay early and write several different drafts before submitting rough drafts to Dr. McNiff. She gives exceptional feedback, so by submitting drafts you could easily improve, you are not utilizing the helpfulness of Dr. McNiff.
This is a good expos class. The assignments are genuinely interesting. There is not much reading, unlike some other expos courses, but there are writing assignments probably every week. The last unit, about resistance movements at Harvard, is really fascinating and highly rewarding. Kelsey was a great preceptor who provided useful feedback and really made me feel like I grew as a writer.
This is a great class to take to fulfill your expos requirement. Kelsey is very invested in your growth as a writer. The subject matter is also very relevant to worldwide resistance (Arab Spring, Occupy) today.
Regardless of how well-prepared you feel about writing papers, this class will help you improve writing academic papers and really orients you on what kind of writing Harvard courses from all disciplines expect. You learn how to get passed writing gimmicky introductions and basic paragraph structures.  Kelsey was a really great instructor and I was amazed at how detailed and helpful her feedback was consistently. I found the first unit a bit boring, but it picks up from there.
This is a fun class that is a pretty good expos class. Some of the readings are a bit long however. Still, I would take this class again if I had too.
Resistance is a solid Expos course. I was not fascinated by the material, though it may be changed in the next year. Kelsey, however, is a great preceptor who is very helpful in her thorough comments and frequent conferences. She's really laid back so I felt in a comfortable learning environment. By taking this class you will surely become a better writer, and you will have to work hard to get your papers polished and in on time, much like any other Expos course. However, this course is by no means the hardest out there, and I'm sure you'll do fine if you take it. It was relatively painless, though I did spend a great deal of time researching and writing.
The subject matter is intriguing, and Kelsey is one of the nicest people I have ever met. That being said, however, she is a pretty hard grader, and, as in all Expos classes, don't expect an A. If you put in the effort, however, you will definitely see yourself improving over the course of the semester. Make sure you're interested in the course material, however, or the semester could be long and painful.
I had a really great experience with this class, and I couldn't imagine a more engaging and relevant way to fulfill the expos requirement. I really enjoyed doing the readings and especially the research on student protests at Harvard for our final paper, because everything felt so closely related to what was going on in the news and even right in the Yard. I'm definitely really glad I took this class.
