very interesting and good class if you are actually interested in public health
I would tell them this has been one of the WORST experiences of my entire life. I hated almost every single minute of this course and learned very little. It was like pulling teeth. I took an upper level english class first semester and did very well in it and then I was forced to take expos in the Spring and it was like taking two steps backwards. We were forced to come to class to hear lectures and I cannot remember a single topic discussed. I enjoyed the papers we had to write and the feedback on our own papers because at least that made sense as a learning process. However, my expos course paradox in public health, gave hundreds of extra assignments all due before class on Monday and Wednesday and they completely distracted me from the actual learning of my papers and added infinite stress, time, and burden.
This was a great class and I have not only  improved as a writer, but I have also gained a lot of knowledge about Public Health (well 3 specific areas of public health, which coincide with the units). In addition, I found the readings (which are relatively short packets) are interesting. I will say that I thought that this class had a lot of 8 am deadlines that became very tedious as time went on. It is very important to stay on top of the schedule and don't fall behind. Office hours and the Writing Center are great resources that you should utilize!
Great great Instructor really interesting material that is engaging and will challenge your perspective on certain topics.
This class was enjoyable in terms of its interesting subject matter (public health topics) and class discussion but was very work intensive at times, and the timing of the final paper was not ideal.
This is a very good Expos class and Jerusha is an extremely capable instructor that really helps you understand how to write and where the flaws are in your writing. Conferences are incredibly useful and feedback should be taken extremely seriously. In terms of selecting Expos sections, this course has significantly earlier deadlines which is both beneficial for students but can make the beginning a little compressed. This section also has fewer response papers and unnecessary assignments which makes it more palatable. On the other hand, it's a scientific expos which can be interesting but is also significantly different from anything you'd get in the humanities.
Don't take this course.
It's a great topic to learn about and Jerusha is very knowledgeable and willing to help you improve your writing.
It is a lot of work and kinda hard but all the readings/papers were very interesting. Jerusha does an amazing job of making you a better writer and she gives you lots of feedback that you can use in later classes.
This class will provide you with a lot of busy work that does not feel like it will improve your writing. However, those same assignments really do teach you how to critically evaluate writing.
This is a great class for students interested in a career in medicine or public health. The subject matter is relevant, and it teaches you to write in the way expected in upper division classes within those departments. It will also challenge how you formulate an argument in general, and how to thoughtfully explain your ideas to others.
Paradox in Public Health is not just a public health course. It is applicable to ethics, philosophy, business, government, economics, human rights, law, and social studies. You are given a lot of ownership as to how you want to address topics and utilize information which makes the class incredibly easy to tailor to your interests. I found this made the class a lot of fun!
TAKE IT. Jerusha is a topnotch preceptor, the class is easy and enjoyable if you do the work and she is ALWAYS open to talk to and get to know.
Jerusha is a great preceptor.  She expects a lot of you, but that is true for all Expos, and that is probably the best way to make you work and to get something out of Expos.  There were a lot of readings, but they were mostly helpful.  The subject matter is scientific, but you are always welcome to take different approaches to it - philosophical, economic, etc. Make sure to participate in class and take advantage of office hours! Jerusha is very accessible, which is not true of all preceptors.
If you are wanting to take a class that is focused on analysis of public health publications and do scientific writing, this may be a good chance to do that on an introductory level. If you are more used to, and continue doing more literary analysis than scientific writing, this course may be less helpful.
I found Expos to be much less rewarding than others have claimed it to be, possibly because I don't think my writing has improved enormously and my future pursuits will require minimal writing anyway. That said, Expos is required, and if you enjoy public health, this class is likely one of the least painful ways to fulfill the requirement.
This expos section is awesome. The readings are mostly research papers, but they are not particularly terse and are very interesting. I always tell my friends that if I were in a dentist's office and one of the assigned readings were on the table, then i would pick them up and read them - they are just interesting ones!
This class is definitely for people who like public health policy/ethical reasoning papers. Be prepared to spend a lot of time revising and rewriting between the draft and final paper.
Definitely one of the more interesting Expos classes out there. You have a lot of freedom in terms of the direction you take your paper, and you get to choose your topic entirely for the third/final paper. Jerusha works hard on providing meaningful feedback, and you'll learn a lot if you invest time in the course.
This class was easily the best expos experience I could have imagined. Jerusha is a fantastic preceptor and person, and is always available to help. She gives really constructive and helpful feedback, which will help your writing improve tremendously. The written assignments were very fair, but take note of when homework assignments are due (as it may be difficult to keep up with). I would highly recommend taking this course, but it may be helpful to only take it if you are interested in public health.
