If you enjoy reading Woolf and Hemingway and theory pertaining to the two, then this will be probably be a perfectly enjoyable class.
The reading workload is bigger than other expos classes, but I found the readings to be very interesting.
If you are really into literature, this is the Expos for you. I don't think that you need an appreciation for Woolf or Hemingway to get a lot out of this course, though it might help. I personally didn't enjoy the Hemingway novel that we read but his short stories were fun and interesting to write about. I loved the Woolf that we read and found all of the contextualizing sources provided equally engaging. Dr. Becker gives some really great feedback and is willing to brainstorm ideas with you until you're both comfortable with where your paper is going to go. She's also generally quite nice. If you are into lit and plan on going into the Humanities, definitely consider this Expos.
Do absolutely everything the preceptor tells you. She doesn't care at all about your ideas, she cares about her ideas. You will do very well if you implement everything she says in your essay and talk to her beforehand as well.
This course made me happy that Harvard doesn't have a core curriculum; it is a good way to get rid of a stupid requirement. Professor Becker is a good teacher and the material we use is wonderful, but the class itself is pedantic to say the least.
Take this class if you love literature!
The course is an interesting and stimulating way to fulfill the expository writing requirement, and professor Becker is approachable, extremely helpful and thought provoking.
While this class is certainly time consuming and demanding, I found it to be incredibly rewarding.  I grew more due to Professor Becker than I did in all of college.  Her feedback and insight allowed me to grow a great deal as a writer.  Additionally, the Hemingway and Woolf short stories and novels that you read are amazing! I would definitely recommend this class!
If you're interested in literature and closely engaging with short stories/novels, this IS the class for you! Dr. Becker is absolutely wonderful--she is both kind and insightful and is, arguably, probably the best Expos preceptor.
While the readings (Hemingway, Woolf) are interesting if you are literarily inclined, Dr. Becker's teaching method, assignments, and preferred writing style were cumbersome and unsatisfactory.
Woolf and Hemingway is definitely a course to take if you want to read new authors like myself or even if you are thinking about the English concentration. The readings of the short stories and novels are done outside of class and are then talked about inside class in reference to other readings you do like critical essays. There are three papers. The first focuses soley on close readings with a short story, the second incorporates one contextualizing source with "Mrs. Dalloway" and the third incorporates secondary sources with "A Farewell to Arms." Conferences are extremely helpful but do tend to run over time. Overall, this Expos class is extremely enjoyable.
1. This class has a very misleading name - this class is not about modernism or gender gaps or placing Hemingway and Woolf side by side. We just read some of the most popular works by the two authors and write on a work that appealed to us the most. For instance, for essay 1 we choose a short story by either Woolf or Hemingway and write about it; for essay 2, we write about Mrs. Dalloway or A Farewell to Arms.2. There is absolutely no constraints on what you choose to write about; you can quite literally choose any imaginable focus area/topic area concerning the book/short story in question. 3. The preceptor, Christina, is an absolute sweetheart. She's unimaginably vivacious and effervescent , making the class an absolute treat; it'd be easy to pass her off as a classmate by the way she interacts with the students. For the same reason, attending class is an absolute joy! Just interacting with her in office hours/conferences/in the classroom/otherwise makes you feel SO MUCH MORE informed in the dynamics of extrapolating meaning and structure from works of literature. She is a ridiculously knowledgeable person when it comes to literature.4. this is most definitely one of the easiest expos classes out there in terms of grading. Unless you write an absolutely ridiculous essay that builds itself off speculation and doesn't cite sources, you will very easily get an A/A- for all three of your essays. 5. in terms of time commitment, this class is super chill. the major time consumers are the two novels(Mrs Dalloway and A Farewell To Arms) but both these novels can be completed in a three- four day spam if you're able to take out even an hour per day. For class discussions, there's usually one article to read per class that don't take more than 20 minutes.(I regret reading even those since I felt a lot of people only bs'ed in class without having done the readings at all) More importantly, the readings are very well chosen such that reaching/arguing/supporting an insightful thesis becomes very easy. Moreover, for the final essay, we need to use a minimum of two sources, one of which can be from the readings done in class - so essentially, you just need to find JUST one source through your own effort. This makes the much dreaded research essay almost like essay 2, and compared to other expos classes where you need to use a minimum of say 5 to 10 sources, the research essay in Hemingway and Woolf could be considered relatively pain free.honestly, if you want to have the best(and most painless) expos experience + read amazing works of literature + meet the coolest expos preceptor ever, JUST TAKE THIS CLASS regardless of whether you see yourself as an English major or not. (I'm not!)
Dr. Becker does a wonderful job teaching Woolf and Hemingway! If you like their works, you're bound to like this course. It's a great Expos course for those who enjoy English classes.
This is actually a very good Expos class to take. The readings are interesting because they are mostly short stories and novels. There is not a lot of busy work or extraneous assignments. Also, I really feel that my argumentation and expression skills improved as a result of taking this class.
This was a really great class. I found that it attracted students who really loved literature, which made for great class discussions in which most of the class was always engaged. Dr. Becker is a very thoughtful, caring preceptor. She was great at facilitating class discussion and always responded thoughtfully to students' comments and questions. She also put a lot of time into her comments and evaluations of our assignments. I had not been looking forward to Expos, but I think I really did get a lot out of this class and actually enjoyed a lot of the assignments. Though the secondary sources could be a little bland, the works by Woolf and Hemingway were so enjoyable to read and discuss. I definitely recommend this class if you love literature.
I would tell future students that if they are considering an English concentration, this would be a good course to consider taking since it definitely prepares you for literary writing. If they were not considering a concentration in the Humanities, I would recommend another Expos course.
It's Expository Writing, the only mandatory class at Harvard. No one really likes it - even if your Expos section is better than other sections, you're still unlikely to actually enjoy the class.
From what I have heard about Expos, I think I was very lucky in my experience. Dr. Becker is an absolute delight and does a fantastic job fostering open discussion. The reading is a fair amount, but less than the average English/literature course at Harvard.
The english class component is excellent, the expos component is frustrating.
