this is definitely a literature course -- no socio-political aspects unless you bring them in yourself
An incredibly engaging and intellectualy stimulating expos class.  You will learn a great deal about academic writing and the short stories are very enjoyable.  Readings are interesting, and they do not take too long to complete.
This is one course in which I almost wouldn't mind getting a bad grade; Dr. Mukherjee is so invested in her students and really tries to accommodate our schedules.  She is relatively flexible about due dates, etc. if it will help the class actually understand and learn from her copious comments and discussions.  She is clear on her expectations, but it is difficult because her standards are quite high.  This is definitely not one of those easy-A expos classes, but I assure you even getting a B in this class will be worth it in the A's you'll get in all your writing classes in the future.  Besides, will employers/graduate schools REALLY care about that random grade you got in a required writing course in freshman year?  Better to suffer through it now with a respectable AND respectful hand guiding you through the process.  My only caveat: this is a literature based course.  A lot of us thought it would be more sociology/anthropology based, but this is not the case.  Granted, as Dr. Mukherjee pointed out, literature nowadays is intrinsically tied to these disciplines as well, and there is a lot of room to think about them, but it is solely through the lens of literature.
This was my favorite course taken at Harvard thus far.  Sri is a fantastic preceptor and did a wonderful job structuring this course.   I feel that I have learned to be a much better writer, and more importantly,  I think that my analytical skills have improved tremendously.  Conferences with Sri were wonderful and enlightening.
If you like short stories, literary criticism, and improving yourself, take this course. You will be a better writer, and you'll get to read some great fiction along the way.
Sri is an engaging, brilliant, and very helpful preceptor. I've really noticed my writing skills improve not only in this course, but for all of my classes. Her feedback not only applies to the individual papers, but is more of a comprehensive review of your  writing in general. She teaches writing skills in a clear method, and these skills allow you to look at writing papers in a new light. The class discussions are very engaging and her conferences are very informative. I feel much more confident in my ability to write strong academic papers after having taken this class.
The readings are interesting and engaging, making the essays much less of a chore to write. Sri is a wonderful preceptor who really cares about her students. Her comments and suggestions were thoughtful, nuanced, and incredibly helpful for each of the papers. Contrary to the rumors about Expos, I actually really enjoyed this class and felt like I really improved as an analytical writer. Take this Expos if you can!
Dr. Mukherjee gives very clear and helpful advice and instructions. The reading was excellent and the expected reading load was not overwhelming. I have really improved my writing in an enjoyable manner and in a supportive setting.
If you are like me - primarily interested in the social sciences - this is not the course for you. Take On Liberty, or something of that sort.
Take this class if you want to enjoy your required Expos experience: it's the best Harvard's Expos program has to offer.  According to peer feedback, I think Sri's class is unrivaled by other Expos classes. Sri's exceptional teaching and thorough comments made the class very enjoyable. I found the subject material especially interesting and well portrayed. The work load is not heavy, but substantial analysis of texts is required.
This course is pretty good to fill the expos requirement. There is not an overwhelming amount of reading and Sri is a great preceptor. She gives very thorough comments and really helps you to finalize your papers. She is also very considerate with things in terms of being lenient with deadlines and such. And she is a rather easy grader (even she will admit to this). The material can get dry at times, but you can find interesting things within each unit since everyone is encouraged to write about different topics within the units. As you can see from the Q scores, this class is one of the best out of the expos options.
math/science majors do not be afraid! Sri's emphasis on ideas instead of grammer is a relief after high school english. Great class, makes me want to become an english major (almost)
Be prepared to spend alot of time on your papers. Begin work as early as possible to give you ample time for revisions.
Take it! I would DEFINITELY recommend this expos course if you (a) at all like reading interesting fiction/short stories and (b) at all like learning about the experience of immigrants in the U.S. However, this is not a social science expos though, so expect very little theory/historical study to come in. Overall, this course is great, and Sri is an awesome preceptor. She and the excellent course materials make this course!
Difficult to fall into correct mindset to properly do assignment.
This course will challenge you as a writer, but it is very rewarding and you will end up feeling much more confident in your writing and analytical skills. The readings were excellent, and the class discussion was always interesting and engaging.
Please take your conference edits/recommendations seriously and really do revise--you are graded on revisions!Try to make a good first draft so there's more to work with/discuss at conference; be prepared for you conference(review your paper beforehand and know your own weaknesses)
If your main goal is to improve your writing abilities then this is certainly a good course to take. However, be ready to engage yourself with college writing.
This class is challenging, but at the same time very rewarding because you grow as a writer. Before enrolling to the class I didn't know how to write in a college level. However, after much advise and help from Professor Sri my writing skills have improved dramatically. So, for these reasons I highly recommend this class if you want to further develop your writing skills.
While this class is definitely more difficult than other Expos classes, it really has helped me improve as a writer in a way that I don't think any other course could have.  Though the assignments are rigorous, Sri gives helpful feedback and conferences allow you to talk through any of your concerns.  In short, if you're willing to work, you will improve by leaps and bounds.
This course is very good for an Expos section. The reading workload is not very heavy at all and the instructor is very clear and helpful in working through each essay. The material itself is interesting, but really this is a writing skills based course and you should expect to be focusing your time on those skills with the content being somewhat secondary. Expect to be challenged by the assignments, but also expect that you will have Sri's support throughout your writing process.
It's a great course, but if you don't like reading and you are not into cultural dilemmas and stuff like that you won't enjoy it.
This class is incredibly enjoyable and definitely a great choice for an Expos class. The reading is light and very enjoyable. The subject matter is extremely interesting, and the class really makes you think about issues in dynamic ways. The highlight of the class is definitely Sri. She puts tons of time into making sure that your writing improves and also is great at presenting the material. You will definitely have a great time in this class while learning a lot.
I was not too fascinated with the subject matter of the course (I hated AP English in high school), but overall I definitely think that my writing has improved a lot. Sri is very good at identifying the problems in your writing and offering useful suggestions.
a great expos course - readings were a joy and I would have read them in my free time for pleasure. course helped me to develop my critical thinking and writing skills. I was able to learn loads
This is one of the best expos classes you can take, even though grading-wise, it's still an expos class.
This class is challenging but worth the challenge! I am a much better writer than I was when I began Expos20.
Great class. Pushes you to become a better writer. But, the content might not be interesting to everyone, and some may find it difficult, if not entirely prepared.
I would not recommend this course. I think I learned a lot, but the overall experience was really negative.
About Expos generally, I would encourage students to enter it with an open mind. I think because of it's required nature, there is a pervasive dread of Expos amongst freshmen. But I think that's largely socially constructed, and if students recognize that and disengage from it, they can find Expos to be not just tremendously useful, but perhaps even enjoyable. I certainly did. About the Cross-Cultural Contact Zones section, I would highly recommend it, to students who believe themselves capable of that open mindedness I described above. In terms of skills I gained from having her, Sri is up there with the best teachers I've ever had. There is tremendous potential for tangible improvement of writing in any class Sri teaches, in part because she asks a lot (in terms of daily engagement, effort, essay revisions, etc.) of students. For students then who just want to get Expos over with, that potential might not be fully converted then, and it may be a more pleasant experience for student and teacher alike if they seek other sections. For all others, I highly recommend Sri and Cross-Cultural Contact Zones.
This is a great class if you are strong writer willing to put in a lot of work to become an even better one and who is interested in the material. This is not an easy A and Sri is going to ask you to develop writing skills that may be overlooked in other Expos classes. She can come off a little intimidating, but if you listen to what she says, you will really grow as a writer and the material was really easy and fun to read.
While this expos is certainly more challenging than most, it will actually help improve your academic writing. You do not waste time on 'busy work' and learn real skills that can readily be transferred to other classes. Sri can be a bit harsh with her feedback but you get the sense that she really understands what constitutes good academic writing. One word of caution: do not take this expos if you do not like English Lit, as you will have to do quite a bit of literary analysis. Also do not take if you are looking for an easy 'A'.
The preceptor is sometimes intimidating but she has nothing but good intentions and is very helpful with writing suggestions and feedback. She tries very hard to cater to students' needs, take student feedback into consideration with regard to what we liked and disliked about the class, and make herself available for help with assignments.
On the one hand, the texts are fantastic, the discussion is usually very interesting, Sri gives copious and very helpful feedback, and my writing definitely came a long way. However, I have never been so intimidated to speak in a class in my entire life. Sri has a tendency to single students out and generally does not connect well to students. Nobody loves their expos class, and I would recommend this class to students who are either fairly confident and speak up regularly in class (I am already somewhat shy and found it nearly impossible to speak for fear that Sri would disagree with me in front of the class) or who really want a serious expos class which will really help them to become better writers. This class is very effective for improving your writing, but if an intimidating class environment sounds like too high a price to pay for that improvement, this may not be the class for you.
I got a lot out of this class, and I definitely became a better writer. Overall, I would recommend it to peers because I really felt like I actually learned how to think more critically about my writing even though I came in a pretty good writer already. The readings were REALLY light and allowed more focus on the actual writing itself. Sri is fair and helpful if you learn how to deal with her forceful hand at times and the uncomfortable atmosphere she creates in class.
Sri is very invested in giving good feedback and if you put in the time and take her advice, your writing will improve. The sections were a little tedious, and you do have to print out all of the stories and documents that are discussed in class. The subject matter was also interesting.
Absolutely amazing course that gets you really thinking about what the class is named after: cross-cultural contact zones, and not in the traditional sense either. You get to read and write about in a really complex manner because all of the stories are complicated forcing you to learn how to think critically and analyze.
The readings from this class were very interesting and I really wish there was more time to discuss the readings and put more time into them in general, but there isn't enough class time for that. I do wish Sri talked a little less during class because she sometimes gets sidetracked about certain things and goes off on tangents, but in general class was good.
If you a looking for an easy expos option, I would look to other expos classes. Sri really makes you think deeply about issues that come up in the texts you read and she grades the essays very hard, picking up on the smallest details. Also, this is a literature class, not a sociology or social studies class. Despite this, Sri really helps you develop as a writer. You will emerge from this class a much better writer and the skills that you develop will definitely pay off in other classes. Sri also cares so much about your progression as a writer, and she spends so much time reading your responses and helping you organize your thoughts.
The readings are interesting and the guidance definitely improves your writing
It's challenging, but you will leave the course at the end of the semester being a much better writer.
While challenging and rigorous, this course will really help you become better empowered to write at the sophisticated university level. Sri is a brilliant and talented teacher and identifies clearly what constitutes strong/weak writing. As long as you are willing to think hard and participate in class, you will get a lot out of it.
Sri is a really good teacher, and this class is fairly interesting material-wise, especially for an expos class. Make sure you know going in that this is a literature class, not a sociology one.
It took me a while to warm up to Sri in class, but overall this was a pretty good Expos class. The texts are really interesting and Sri provides incredibly helpful feedback on your assignmentsyour writing will improve a lot.
I would tell them you learn to be a better writer for sure, but it is not enjoyable at all as a course.
Be on top of your game when you take this course. It is quite challenging at times, especially if you are not used to this type of writing class.
Come in with an open mind and you will enjoy it.
