If you get placed into expos 10, then definitely take it. It gives valuable skills for the rest of your life.
This course is a great start to writing at Harvard especially if you aren't completely confident about your writing abilities.
It was the BEST decision of my freshman year!
Take this class especially if you were recommended for it!  It's extremely helpful especially because of all the individual attention we got. The workload is extremely manageable
Take this class if you have the opportunity to do so.  Rebecca is a great teacher and by the time you are done with this class you will feel prepared to take on expos 20 and future college writing assignments.  If you are at all questioning taking expos 10 or 20 take 10 first.  The skills you learn there will be extremely beneficial in the long term.
It is extremely helpful; if I had chosen to opt out, and just went into Expos 20, I would have had a very rough time. This class is definitely worth taking, even if you think you are a superb writer!
Its a great class and you should devote a lot of time to it mastery the material
This is a great class to take. I was on the fence about taking expos 10 or 20 and I'm so glad I decided to take 10. The progression of the course was so natural and I got feedback on every aspect of a final paper (through numerous response papers) which was super helpful when it came time to write the final paper. The work load isn't bad, not much reading, and everything we talk about is engaging even if you don't have an interest in art or education.
If you feel strongly that your writing is not strong, it's good to take because it definitely allows you to practice writing every component that goes into writing an essay.
If you are at all nervous about the essay-writing process or the fact that you'll have to write a great deal of essays in college and you don't feel ready, this course will give you all the tools and strategies that you need to prepare you for the rest of your college-essay writing experiences.
There are numerous writing assignments, but only two major essays and you have time to edit every assignment
If you are not confident with writing, take this class. This is a perfect introduction for expos 20, as well as other classes' papers.
If you feel at all uncomfortable with your writing ability coming into college, just take this course. I now feel much more confident in my abilities to write.
I would tell everyone that is thinking about taking this class to just take it because they will not regret it. I feel like my writing has improved so much and I am very thankful for that.
This class is great! If you are deciding whether to take expos 10 or 20, I would definitely recommend taking expos 10! Your writing will improve so much in this course, and it's fun.
This is a must-take course.
Anyone who is not confident in their writing style should take Expos 10. Not only does Expos 10 give you confidence, it also really helps you have a solid foundation by assisting the transition from high school-level writing to college level.
Very helpful.
It's a great course and you learn a lot about writing.
Keep a positive attitude throughout!
The preceptor gave me great advice, and tried to think of many ways to improve my essays.
If you feel that you are a border line good writer and you will be doing quite a bit of writing, which you will here at Harvard, then take 10 and just be sure of yourself going into expos 20. the alternative is just taking your chances in 20. If you take 10 you still have to take 20, but you can skip it and get through 20. The advantage is it allows you to take a course that you want to take rather than
It will make you a better writer. I came in with an okay style of writing but this class helped me hone some of my abilities.
It's truly helpful and beneficial. However, I kind of wished I had gone right to expos 20 so I wouldn't have to do two semesters.
If you are not sure about your writing abilities you should definitely take it. It is not hard or tough if you are willing to spare some time (3-4 hrs a week) to this class but on the other hand you learn a lot, seriously a lot, for that small amount of time.
The class is designed to cover every little detail about the process of writing. So if you feel confident about writing in general, the class might be little tedious.
It's a very easy course if you actually read the course material and write a thorough rough draft. The more work you put in to the course, the more you get out of it
