Dr. Watters is an EXTREMELY hard grader. Do not expect an A. Do not even expect a B. She is a great teacher and the course materials are interesting but I'm not sure if in the end it was worth all the trouble - especially since your hard work probably won't translate into an A
Dr. Watters is tough when it comes to feedback, but she's a fantastic preceptor. The course is taught skillfully, passionately and thoughtfully. Really, there's not much more you can ask for.
Professor Watters will take a lot of time to help you with your writing. If you reciprocate the effort that she is giving, you will get a great deal out of this course.
This class is interesting but the grading is too hard.
Dr. Watters will give you extensive feedback on your work and really push you to make your writing the best it can be. After all, you're ostensibly taking Expos to improve your writing: this class will absolutely accomplish that goal. Class itself was sometimes lacking in energy, but that's partly the natural limitations of an Expos class caught halfway between a literature class (...a little half-hearted) and a writing class (...better individually than in a group.)
The readings are actually interesting, you'll want to do them! Professor Watters is wonderful!
Stay on top of your assignments.
Dr. Watters is AMAZING. She is very critical (which is integral to improving your writing) but is simultaneously one of the sweetest people I've ever met. She always explains her expectations clearly and is willing to meet outside of her office hours if you need help.
I'm not a writing person, so Expos was just in general painful for me, but this class was really interesting, and I think it was probably close to if not the best Expos experience I could have had.
Family Matters is one of the best expos sections available.  The readings are really interesting and Professor Watters is awesome.  However, it is still expos, so expect late nights trying to finish papers and tedious readings.  Nonetheless, I would definitely recommend this class.
It's a lot of fun, but don't procrastinate and really soak in what you talk about in class discussions.
Such a good expos class! You have to take it, so you might as well enjoy the readings and the discussions - this makes writing those essays much less painful, as you have so much material (written and from discussions) to work with. The final paper can be about whatever you want. The subject matter and readings are really very interesting and being passionate about what you've read makes the essays so much better quality. Professor Watters IS a hard grader with very high expectations, but she is going to improve your quality of writing. Take this class if you want an interesting challenge - I legitimately enjoyed expos!
It's a good class. Readings are good and precepter cares a lot about the course. Sometimes she sends suuuper long e-mails with mostly unnecessary information. She gives great feedback. Just make sure you are on top with all the nitpicky assignments and don't save your work to the last second.
The only reason why I decided not to check 'recommend with enthusiasm' is that I feel it is comparatively more difficult to get an A in this class than in other Expos classes. So if you're looking for an easy A, look elsewhere, because Dr. Watters is going to demand that you do your very best on every essay, and unfortunately, there is always tons of room for improvement if you get what I'm saying.....
"Family Matters" is an unbelievable writing class. Professor Watters is an extremely dedicated professor and genuinely cares about her students' improvement throughout the term. Don't take this class for an easy A; grades tend to be a bit lower than those given by other Expos. professors. With that said, the class was definitely worth taking and will definitely help me in my writing assignments in other disciplines.
This is the best expos. It offers the chance to look at personal essays critically, but you also get exposed to essays from other fields as examples (so don't negate the course because it doesn't fit your concentration). You have HUGE amounts of support (in class/written feedback), so you never feel lost. Also, all of the response papers, etc are purposeful and aren't long for the sake of length. The most important part of expos is really the preceptor, and AHW is awesome. She really cares about preparing you and making you feel comfortable in college, but is accessible and approachable.
Great class. The readings are very entertaining and Dr. Watters is awesome. She is a hard but fair grader, and provides a lot of feedback. My writing really improved because of this class. Take this expos!!!
Dr. Watters is a phenomenal preceptor who gives extremely useful feedback and is available to help you at every step of the writing process. That said, this course does involve a lot of tedious prep work (short response assignments due almost every class) that not every expos requires.
This course is no joke. It demands a lot of work from you, but you are also guaranteed to come out of it a much better writer/thinker. Professor Watters is amazing! Listen to what she says, and appreciate the awesome feedback she gives. Anyone who wants to improve their writing skills should definitely take this class.
This is a great class! Professor Watters is definitely very approachable, and she wants you to do well. It is extremely important to use all of the resources available to you, especially those in your conference group, and the writing center. It is also important to do your very best on the first draft, so that your revision will be a lot easier, and you'll spend less time trying to figure out what exactly you are trying to say.
This is a great course. The workload can build up, but so does EVERY Expos class.
Dr. Watters certainly has high expectations, but do not let that deter you from taking the class. If you would like your writing to actually IMPROVE, this is the class for you. She is aggressive with her comments, but they are not superfluous and reading them will actually make you more aware of the problems that you should address in your writing.
This is one of the most challenging classes I took this year. I would recommend it to someone who wants to learn a lot about writing and about oneself, but doesn't care that much about the grades.
Think about family in an alternative way
