Actually quite fascinating
Take this expos. You will become a better writer from this class, and you won't complain half as much as your friends in other expos classes. This is the (objective) best expos, primarily because Lindsay is the best preceptor. The material was sufficiently interesting, but really I learned a LOT about how to write a paper because Lindsay was so great with feedback and instruction. The assignments are pretty straightforward, and if anything is unclear Lindsay is always there to answer any questions.
When speaking with next year's freshmen, I will say that this course was one of my favs and that I highly recommend when choosing an expos course.
Expos in general is a required class. But American Criminals as a class is one I would recommend. It covers all different types of crime literature from news articles to crime exposs to mystery novels, and you learn about three different types of essays over the course of the year. (Note: This is what I would say if the class was being offered next year, which it is not.)
Lindsay is an amazing teacher! The course material was also really interesting.
The best Expos (by all criteria - workload, difficulty, and subject matter)
It is a fun class if you like to read about crime.
It is a really interesting way to learn about college writing styles.
The section was very laid back and the assignments were very interesting.
Lindsay is an extremely lighthearted preceptor who really wants to improve your writing. The conference sessions are extremely helpful and she is such an easy person to ask questions. On top of that, she is extremely understanding.
As far as expos classes go, this one is pretty good. The material is interesting, and Lindsey was a great preceptor. The last paper especially is a lot of fun to write.
Expos is a struggle regardless of what class you take. Most of the reading in this class is interesting.
I can't compare the class to other expos sections, but expos in general is a pretty frustrating class, especially because everyone has to take it. The grading will be relatively subjective (and unrealistically harsh compared to other classes), so I think all expos classes should be pass/fail on this basis.
Lindsay is a good preceptor and will give you honest, thoughtful feedback on each of your essay drafts. She definitely will do her best to improve your writing, and I think that at least in my case, she succeeded. However, in my opinion, the title of the course is a bit of a misnomer, the first two units had very little to do with "American criminals." This was basically a literature expos class for those first two units, something I was not happy about. In addition, class is a drag and incredibly boring. Two hours of nap time a week!
The times in class are fun, but the writing is not as enjoyable as I had hoped.
This isn't one of those flamboyantly awesome expos classes where you're discussing really exciting material, but that said, this is definitely one of the better ones. Lindsay is a chill instructor who gives great feedback, theres not a lot of reading required but you learn a lot, and the material is pretty interesting. I would definitely recommend putting this as one of your top choices
This course is really interesting and fun. Studying different crime theories, reading a novel about crime, discussing reasons behind various crimes in class, and researching a crime on my own was really exciting.
