Professor Harris is great, the class is less so.
The material is boring and the preceptor does nothing to make it exciting. You're all doomed to the hell that is expos, but do yourself a favor and take one that at least has a good instructor who gives insightful feedback and actually helps you develop as a writer instead of having you figure it out for yourself.
This is an expos class for students who enjoy reading and writing, who like to look for the deeper meanings in pieces of literature and actually enjoy literary analysis.
I wasn't particularly excited about taking a class in cultural writing, and while some of the material was interesting, I didn't feel that I learned very much about writing in this class and I often didn't understand the point of assignments or lectures. However, it was not a very difficult course.
dont take it!!!
Be sure to read all the materials--this class revolves around student participation and discussion, and if you don't do your share, you will get little out of the course. Even the driest materials (mostly at the beginning of the course)have a purpose, so make sure to carry on to the end. Also, take notes on all the materials you read--it'll come in handy for the class discussions and will make writing essays considerably easier later on.
If you're interested in the social sciences, this is not a bad option for expos. Compared with what students have told me about other expos classes, this one is better than most; discussions can be dull with half the class playing Sporcle, but the material is challenging and the assignments are interesting.
This is a great Expos class! Greg is very helpful and instills a sense of appreciation for good writing in you as a student. The readings are interesting and full of new ideas for you to think about. This class touches quite a lot on anthropology and writing for the sake of writing, so you may want to make sure you are interested in these topics in order to reap the full benefit of the course. But, if these topics sound like something you could be interested in take this course!
Unless you really enjoy ethnography and anthropology, do not take this course.
