This is definitely one of the more difficult expos classes, but it is also a more rewarding class as well. Dr. Hahn is good at what he does, and I did learn a lot about building a "perfect" research paper. I would say that an interest in philosophy directly would serve oneself well in this course.
This was a very engaging course. The name can be a bit deceiving because the course really involves more rigorous philosophical concepts than it does "imagining." Nonetheless, I really enjoyed exploring the questions regarding animal consciousness and ethics posed in this class. If you are in any way interested in animals or philosophy or cognition, take this course!
Be prepared for philosophical discussion - this is not simply a class on animals.
Going into this class, I'd say I had a reasonably good high school writing experience, no philosophy experience, and no experience writing about animal consciousness. Unfortunately, when I enrolled in this class, I didn't realize how philosophy-based the course was, and I was severely unprepared and not particularly interested in the philosophy aspect. Because of this, I was very challenged in this class. However, my writing has definitely improved! I've learned how to thoroughly argue my claims as well as evaluate the reading materials very well. Dr. Hahn is very laid-back and engaging, so class discussions are always interesting. However, he intimidated me at first because he moves through his lecture slides extremely quickly and wasn't very approachable (at least at the beginning).
Preceptor is very caring and helpful. Definitely made the class what it is.
I have really mixed feelings about this class. On the one hand, I found the issue of dietary ethics to be really interesting to research and write about. On the other hand, section was often long and uninteresting and the weekly assignments were equally uninspiring. Dr. Hahn is a really relaxed professor. He doesn't obsess too much over small details, and I think he is a really fair grader. That being said, the way he structured section made for a monotonous class overall. There were a lot of power points and pre-planned activities and very few opportunities for debate or discussion. Professor Hahn also isn't great at giving feedback on drafts. To be honest, it doesn't really seem like he wants to be there teaching Freshmen students.If you're willing to sit through a dull section twice a week with a professor who doesn't give you much inspiration, and you're interested in dietary ethics, then I guess you could go for it. From what I've heard from other students, Expos isn't great no matter what class you take. That being said, I'm really hesitant to say that this is a good option.
This class is insanely abstract and you are essentially at the will of the professor when it comes to grading because philosophical argumentation can very much be up to a subjective opinion. I did not personally enjoy this style of writing or feel much growth from it.
It's a lot more work than expected. It is very interesting, but not enough to make up for the workload.
Probably the most interesting Expos out there, and the coolest instructor of them all.
It is a hard course, especially if academic writing is not something you are comfortable with, or have a lot of experience with, and because it is a philosophy course. However, the readings and discussions are very engaging, they make you think not just about animals, but about morals in general. However the main reason I would recommend this course is because of Professor Hahn. He is an amazing professor. He is so helpful when it comes to improving your writing, but he is also so interesting. Class is always interesting and he talks nothing for granted, making you think. He also respects your opinions and seems genuinely interested in what you have to say.
It's a philosophy course.
Professor Hahn is very approachable and helpful in his feedback. I learned the most about my writing from conferences and essay comments. The class is well-organized, and the reading is manageable. The style of writing is very challenging, but the skills from each unit build on each other, so ultimately, it's manageable. It is not an easy class, not only due the complex nature of philosophical arguments, but also because the topic itself is very abstract and difficult to grasp. The topic is interesting, but may become a bit repetitive by the end of the semester.
This class combines philosophy with science. The readings are quite dense and hard to understand sometimes and they are lengthy. I found it very difficult at the beginning, especially since I never read many philosophical papers in high school. Over time, I found it more and more interesting as I got comfortable with formulating my own arguments. Prof. Hahn is very helpful and comes in with great insights and ideas during class discussions and conferences. The class is a lot of work but I feel it got better as it progressed. It definitely improved me as a writer.
This class will surprise you.  It is not just a class about writing, nor is it a class about animal rights, or veganism, or cute baby animal videos.  It is an introduction to philosophy and ethical reasoning, an introduction to scientific paper-writing and interpretation, a welcome into the world of college-level discussion and analysis.  There is something for everyone here.
Great class with awesome materials and readings. Grading was fair (at least for the first 2 papers).
You have to take an expos, so you might as well take one on an interesting topic with a really nice and helpful professor.
This class exposes one to both philosophical and scientific discussions and teaches one to participate in both.
Take it if you like PHILOSOPHY. And discussing animals, animal mentality, the question of other minds, etc. Otherwise, you will find it a drag. The course helps you grow as a writer, no doubt. It's well-taught. But it requires a lot of effort--perhaps more than other expos sections. It certainly assigns more reading.
I hear that the course load is heavier than average expos classes; the reading could be up to 50 pages a week max, and we had response papers that we had to turn in almost every week. That being said, I felt that the material was extremely intriguing and thought provoking. If you just want an easy expos, this isn't the class for you. If you are interested in the subject, and you want your expos experience to be more than just merely fulfilling the graduation requirement, I recommend taking this class.
While hard, it really helps you improve as a writer.
From what it seems, this is one of the lower-stress Expos classes. Prof Hahn is awesome, and the reading isn't THAT bad. Still, Expos in general can be a pain, and this class is no exception.
If you are looking for great feedback on your papers then take this course! It is heavily philosophy based so keep that in mind. Overall, remember that this is a writing class and not about the subject matter really, but if you do happen to enjoy animal minds then definitely consider taking it because some of the readings were VERY interesting as well.
Dr. Hahn is positive, fair, constructively critical, funny, and simply "that cool professor." He adds the spirit to the course, expertly leading discussion, putting concepts into humorous, accessible terms, and always geared toward helping his students improve. That said, one has to remember to take this course seriously, as with any Expos course; for heaven's sake do not procrastinate on work, or you will have to rush to finish your assignments on time and in doing to miss out on the self-analysis and evaluation that the course is centered upon. The fact that each rough draft is only graded for completion should absolutely not justify giving it little consideration. The more effort one puts into one's rough draft, the more effective Dr. Hahn's feedback becomes, and by submitting an draft that is far from completion, although not the end of the world and understandable in some circumstances, one only injures oneself.
You REALLY need to like philosophy if you're going to take this course. Otherwise, it's expos.
I would definitely recommend this course. If you love animals and are interested in jumping into some really fascinating philosophy, take this course. If you want to become a better writer and thinker, take this course. Dr. Hahn is an amazing instructor, and if you are sectioned into this Expos, you will definitely learn a lot. But to all freshmen, I would like to caution that first, you should choose an expository writing section based on a genuine interest in the subject matter and second, if you're looking for an "easy way to get rid of the requirement," this isn't the class for you. This class will teach you as much as you're willing to learn from it -- take the challenge.
