No art background is necessary for this class! As a chemistry concentrator, I found this course compelling, fun and definitely worth taking. The readings are interesting, the professor is helpful and bright, and I learned to appreciate and enjoy art. This course helped me grow as a writer and boosted my confidence in my writing. There are a lot of fun field trips to museums I would have otherwise not taken advantage of. As an expos class, it is the best I could have imagined taking, especially hearing my friends complain about theirs.
This is an incredible class that provides the essentials needed for college-level writing. I am an engineering concentrator and I figured this class sounded interesting, and it completely was! Even if it is something you do not want to concentrate in, if it sounds interesting to you, take it! However, I will warn you that this class is pretty tough in comparison to the other expos classes. The subject itself was pretty new to most of us, which in turn made the writing more difficult. Also Prof. De Young is not one to fill you with compliments at all stages during the writing compliments (even if you think it's what you deserve). She is a tough preceptor in that she always has something for you to improve upon.
It is a LOT of work. Professor De Young has super high expectations for your writing, which is not a bad thing. You learn a lot, but it is stressful.
A lot of nudity.
It can seem very difficult at times, but you do emerge as a better, more incisive writer at the end. A lot of people will bemoan their letter grades; you can take that into account when deciding whether to take this course, but also know that that's why you have so many resources: the Writing Center is super helpful!! Also make better use of Professor de Young's office hours than I did (They're probably more interesting than your LS1a TF's but shhh)
The course is very art-specific and fairly intensive. Do not take this class unless you have a thorough interest in writing about and analyzing art.
This is an interesting, fascinating topic that Prof. De Young teaches exceptionally. Her readings and resources are excellent. However, the course seems significantly more rigorous than other expos, so I would not recommend it to someone not particularly interested in art history or looking for an "easy" expos (if that exists).
I will only recommend you to take this course if you are strongly interested in nudity art and prepare to have the most demanding workload you could ever imagine. As an expos class, Body and Art is unfit for its job. It extensively emphasizes on the art component of the class while largely neglects the true purpose of the class. Although the preceptor has expertise in art and fashion, her explanation and insight are often too abstruse to understand without a fair art background. I can I spent 80% of my harvard career on this expos. Reconsider twice before you take this course. Make sure you are both mentally and physically prepare for this highly art specialized and heavy workload class.
This course is challenging like most Expository classes are, but I found it to be very interesting and engaging. We were able to go on museum visits and see art first hand, as well as learn how to view and analyze art more generally. I learned a great deal about how to write about a piece of artwork and how to do research at Harvard, both in the online databases and in the library. I also learned how to engage with scholars as well as my own ideas and come to an arguable and original thesis. I have come out of this course with a deeper appreciation for art more generally and I now want to take more art history over the next few years.
You may not be interested in art, but this class will definitely make you. Partly because it covers topics such as nudity and nineteenth- to twentieth- century what-could-be-described-as-pornographic art, which in my opinion should naturally draw anyone's attentionat least a little bit. And partly because after observing many and many pieces of artwork, you'll learn to appreciate critiquing and throwing in your two cents about what is achieved or how great/bad, beautiful/ugly, pleasing/discomforting they are.
This is a very interesting class, especially if you are passionate about feminism, gender roles, or the sociology of nudity. It was insightful and pushed me to be creative and open-minded, which is an important lesson to be learned in college. The readings don't take that long and you can skim them often, but they're also usually pretty interesting and participating in discussion in class was always really fun. I felt like my ideas all mattered and that I was gaining something from the experience. I definitely considered taking more classes like this.
Unless you're really gung ho about the subject matter, I would not recommend it. If you're interested in art history in a minor way, taking this course as your first intro will kill that interest. Not that the course is bad per se, but expos as a course is hard enough already, and will not really foster a love for art, if that's what you're looking for.The prompts are super open ended. This course really taught me how to write better, I will give it that, but also was super difficult in the aspect that a lot of the time, the prompt was so open ended that it was scary. I would say this is a lot harder than most expos classes. If you're looking for a chill expos, look elsewhere.
Prof. De Young is very helpful and understanding. She helped me understanding the elements of a strong paper much more than I ever have.  This course exposed me to something very new (nude art), and it was fascinating to learn about writing in an unfamiliar subject area.  Even though it was challenging (though probably not any more or less challenging than other expos classes), it was probably my most rewarding class. Though this may depend one feels about nude art, it was an excellent choice for me.  I was astounded at how much I learned when it came time to write our final paper.  Everyone has to take expos, and I definitely recommend this option.  However, make sure you are truly interested in writing 6-10 page papers about nude art.  The class will be much more enjoyable if you are interested in the subject.  Either way, you will learn a lot.
This class has a lot of small assignments that are due on days that the class does not meet. Although Expos is technically only 2 times a week, I felt as though I was doing expos homework everyday.
This class and Prof. De Young are great. She will push you to become a better writer, and if you follow her guidance, you will become a better writer. The only case in which I would recommend this class less strongly is if someone is sure that they are only interested in science writing. This class will help most people interested in the humanities and social sciences, although it really will help everyone. This class did have more reading than other Expos classes, but it was really interesting and worth it in the end. I am so happy I took this class.
Don't take this class if you don't have prior background in the visual arts or have not had experience writing critically about art. Although the class purports to prepare you enough in these areas, at least enough so that the main focus of the class is to improve your writing and not have you get caught up in the actual art side of things, I don't think that this was actually the case.
This course has really interesting readings and a great overview of art history both for those who've taken art history before and those who've never taken art history before. As far as Expos classes go, I feel like Prof. De Young does a great job of introducing all of the complicated aspects of Expos essays and giving feedback.
This course was a lot of work, which may just be the nature of expository writing courses.  I also believe students in this course should feel comfortable with discussing the body.
I guess your expos experience is what you make of it. It's my belief that if you want to take an "easier" expos class, science-based expos classes might give you more structured assignments because science writing in general has more of a formula than those in the humanities.
This course will enlighten you in views about art while simultaneously improving your writing structure and efficacy.
This is definitely not the easiest of Expos20 classes, however, the subject is very interesting. The readings can be extremely thought provoking, but don't take this class if you want the easy way out of Expos20. De Young is an excellent preceptor in every respect. She genuinely loves the stuff she teaches. Her feedback is amazingly helpful (and challenging!). If you're looking to learn a lot about art and art history and not so worried about your grade, then take this class (no prior experience necessary).
Before you dismiss this course, know that most (if not all) Expository Writing courses are not enjoyable. So, in terms of "picking your poison," this class wouldn't be a bad choice. For those who haven't studied before in particular, it is very interesting to learn how to approach and assess works of art. The teacher is very knowledgeable on the subject, and I left the class feeling much more informed.
The readings are interesting and the feedback is useful. Your writing will improve. However, be ready to work considerably more than you would in other expos classes.
Expos is a difficult course in general.  If you enjoy art, you will find this course to be perfect for you!
As Expos classes go, this one is by far the best. Who doesn't want to learn about nudity with an engaging and hilarious professor? Although I would never have considered myself a person who was knowledgeable or interested in art before I took this course, I am now fully converted.
You can write papers without doing the reading assignments, but Justine will probably call you out if you're unprepared. She does a good job of providing feedback after you've turned in a first draft that definitely helps as you go through the revision process.
It is nice to explore a subject that is not commonly offered.  It is a nice break from the standard classes one might be obliged to take during freshman year.
I would take this Expos class if you  have any interest in art. The class is very open to you finding what you personally see in each artwork. This makes the essays that much more exciting to write because you will be very much attached to researching and validating your own opinions. This is one of the few Expos classes where I think you get a lot of room to be creative in your analysis.
If you're interested in art, art history, or naked people, take this course--full of truly fascinating discussions about nudity in art and culture, interesting paper topics, and great trips to the MFA. You'll be exposed to some interesting criticism and, probably most importantly, the quirky kind of person this class attracts. Plus, Professor De Young's feedback is always extremely helpful and you will definitely grow as a writer.
The subject matter is interesting, and relevant (in light of the MFA's current Degas exhibit). Many readings are similarly engaging. Prof. De Young is organized and meticulous -- so stay on top of the (many) deadlines, no matter how small the assignments are.
Though I did not appreciate the readings enough when I was in the class, I now realize how useful they were - surprisingly enough, even for other classes! If I were to take the class again, I would read every single word in every single article, because my teacher took care to pick only the most interesting readings, and I regret missing some of them.
This was an incredible class that has the potential to be a lot of fun. While our group of students was particularly lively, the readings and course materials really foster interesting and often provocative conversations. I also really feel that my writing improved. Highly recommend.
Best expos section ever. The readings are fun, you get to go to the MFA, and your writing will improve dramatically.
The stakes for this course are not very high. Do your work, plod along, get'er done, and try and be proud of the result. Otherwise, serve your time, and try to bond with your preceptor. They're cool. Also, enjoy the one-on-one action with your classmates. They're cool too.
Prof. De Young made Expos an enjoyable experience. Our class discussions were lively, the readings were fascinating, and the material was rich. Prof. De Young was enormously helpful. Her comments on my papers were amazingly thorough and insightful. She was also very available outside of the classroom. I highly recommend making the most of office hours.
Take this class!! The peers you'll have who sign up for the class are likely really interesting, confident people given the maturity needed for the subject matter. The class is a mixture of serious academic criticism, intense writer's workshopping, and moment of hilarity. I would recommend this class to just about anyone.
Great class.  Very relaxed atmosphere and the course material was very interesting.  You don't need any experience in art or art history to enjoy this class.  The in-class discussions were the best!
