Prof. Unrue is the best expos teacher. You want this class. It's a lot of work compared to the other expos, but this is the expos class that will help you grow as a writer. Prof. Unrue writes you pages of suggestions on how to improve your work and her comments are amazingly helpful.
It's impossible to classify Jane as anything but a great teacher, but the class can be painful at times, simply do to the sheer amount of work assigned. If you really hate writing and the idea of planning each paper multiple times, you might want to look elsewhere. Other expos classes just require a draft and revision per paper.
Great class. If you don't hate literature you will love this class. Jane is a very enthusiastic person (and this is really important, especially for expos). One thing worth noting is that if you are really not into literature this class may be a bit difficult/less interesting.
Fantastic Expos class! Jane is incredibly passionate about teaching this course, and about writing in general, so I would definitely recommend it. She gives great personal feedback on your writing and is very accessible. Yes, there is a fair amount of work, but I found the assignments in this course to be enjoyable, and my overall confidence in my writing ability has definitely improved because of this class. I feel very fortunate to have been in this course; while other people complained about their Expos class, I genuinely enjoyed this class as much as I could have hoped. No matter what Expos class you take, it will ultimately require three essays, so take one you think you will enjoy! Voice of Authority is a wonderful way to fulfill your Expos requirement.
In all honesty, I seriously dreaded the prospect of having to take expos, from what I heard my friends say about it. But The Voice of Authority ended up being my favorite class this semester! I was extremely fortunate to get put in this course, and feel that it really offers a wonderful opportunity to learn a lot about how to become a truly versatile writer (which, after all, is the purpose of Expos). Take it if you can!
This class is amazing!  Probably my favorite class this year and I took some other really great classes.  Great book in the first unit, such beautiful short stories in the second unit (we got to meet the author which was really cool) and the third unit you get to choose your own sources so that's great.  Jane is really fun and brilliant and you will improve a lot as a writer.   Her feedback is phenomenal.
Jane will certainly challenge you as a writer - she has a knack for pushing everyone to improve upon their writing ability, no matter how strong a writer you may be. She is an exceptional teacher.
Jane is quite simply the best.
The teacher of this class cares a lot about her students and about the materials that the course deals with. But I think many aspects of the class, especially writing assignments, were overly structured. On the surface, students were encouraged to be creative and to come up with original ideas, but it felt like we were really being pushed to write and to think in a very narrow way.
This is a fabulous Expos class - definitely request it. Jane is an amazing preceptor and I learned a lot from her. She is an incredible resource, and I really recommend getting to know her: participate in class, take advantage of the conferences, and go to office hours. You have to work hard on the essays, but I always wanted to work hard because the subjects are very engaging and I wanted to utilize newly acquired writing skills. Jane helped me improve my writing in subtle but important ways.
Expect rigid writing requirements. But otherwise this is the happiest, most broadly applicable Expos class at Harvard.
The in-class portion was terrific!
Although Jane is a great preceptor, this is one of the hardest expos classes. There is so much reading, and I could not keep up with all the work. I think I would have enjoyed a class with less work.
Most people don't like Expos, but the bottom line is you have to take it. This course was enjoyable and a truly engaging topic an instructor. I can confidently say I am a much better writer for having had Jane's support in the endeavor that is Expos.
I was wary of expos before enrolling in this class because I had heard a lot of less-than-positive feedback from my peers about it, but Jane really makes it fairly painless.  The topics we discussed were really interesting, and having the freedom to pick my own topic for the final essay made it a lot easier to care about it.  Jane has a ton of energy and really makes the class engaging, and some parts of it aren't so fun, but I think that's just a reality that you're going to have to deal with in any course.  I would highly recommend this course, and if I had to take expos over again I would still choose this one.
You must be interested in the topic and material to enjoy this course because it is not easy and is very time consuming.
Jane is one of the best preceptors for this course. I was skeptical when signing up for this class, especially since I wasn't the most enthusiastic about the topic and everyone the semester before had complained about their Expos class. While sometimes I'm confused by her sense of humor, Jane has a good heart and is wicked smart. Participate in class, pay attention for that one hour twice a week, work hard on SRPs and ask for feedback (VERY IMPORTANT SINCE SRPS USUALLY ENDED BEING HALF MY ESSAY), and you'll not only get a high grade but also learn quite a bit about writing analytically. You could BS through this course, but there's really no need to.
This class is probably the best Expos class in the program! Jane is absolutely amazing. She provides so much energy in the class and I feel really engaged all the time. The workload can be a bit much at times but it's really worth it since your writing will improve so much. Jane will help you with anything and she is always available. The books and readings are really interesting, even getting to meet the authors. There's a reason this class is one of the highest rated in the program, so I definitely encourage you to take it.
This class is definitely among the more challenging Expos classes, but ultimately worth the effort. Jane will challenge your writing skills and make you a much better writer, but only if you reach out to her for help.
This class is a lot of work, but unlike most Expos classes it seems, will actually improve your writing dramatically. Jane is amazing. She's so hilarious and incredibly helpful in the way she describes the ways Essays should be approached and written. The material is great too.
You will work really hard, you will most likely love Jane, and you will be very proud of your hard work in the end. As someone who never got very good criticism from teachers about my writing, Jane's engagement was amazing and so very beneficial. She may have been one of the best teachers that I have ever had. Get to know her as well!
Jane is truly incredible. I was unsure of whether I would enjoy Expos (or find it useful), but Voice of Authority ended up being one of my favorite classes of freshman year. Jane pushes students in her feedback. However, she offers an opportunity to improve your writing extensively. Furthermore, the subject matter itself is compelling. Engaging in the nuances of authority, you will connect and tailor the dialogue to your other interests, especially with the final research paper.
Jane is beyond amazing. Keep in mind everything academic that my peers will say about her class, and then keep in mind the fact that she carried me through some hard personalstruggles this semester. She changed the nature of Harvard for me, and I can't repay her.
Expository writing is required, but suffering in it is not. Out of all the expos classes, this one is fun and exciting solely because this class has Ms. Jane Unrue. She has without a doubt, been my favorite teacher so far at Harvard. She brings a passion and dedication to the classroom that I haven't witnessed since middle school. She made me want to take pride in my writing again. If you have the time slot open for this class, take it. You won't regret it.
If you can find a way to take this class, DO IT. This was one of my favorite classes this semester, and it is by far the best expos class offered. The materials are interesting, and Jane works tirelessly to ensure that every student's writing improves. She's the best preceptor there is. Don't miss the chance to take this class.
Take this course and see your writing improve. You will work. Jane will make you earn every word on that paper and every premise within your argument. The purpose of the course is to produce an argument that is necessitated and contextualized. Whether someone agrees or disagrees with the stance you take, they will appreciate the merit of argument and the rigor of the writing.  Go to her office hours-live in them if possible. If you do this, you can thrive in this course and see your writing improve tremendously because the process of writing will get more refined, argument more complicated.  Jane is the most useful component of the course. She is invested in  helping you improve as a writer and it is important to keep that in mind. She will give you thorough feedback with an amazing turn around. The course will be difficult and it may be hard to stay on top of the material, but it is possible if you go in with the mindset that you want to improve your writing. I am lucky to have been placed in this course and indebted to Jane for pushing me as not only a writer, but a thinker.
Jane Unrue is an absolutely fantastic preceptor, and this class is an amazing expos class. I enjoyed it so much despite all the hard work that each writing assignment requires. You will find yourself writing much better than you have expected, and your approach to writing will become much more serious after taking this class. It really teaches you how to write, how to analyze, how to think, etc.
Jane will push you hard, but you will be a better writer for it.
This is probably the best Expos class out there. It is still writing three essays two times apiece, it is still more work than you will expect, and it still will not make you enjoy writing, but I actually felt that my writing improved. Class discussions were useful, and Jane will more than match the amount of work you put in through feedback and conferences. Even if you consider yourself a good writer coming out of high school, you have a lot of room to grow. Do not expect the grades you received in high school for the same amount of work (or perhaps at all). I don't like the idea of Expos, but I liked this class as much as I could have liked any Expos class.
Great class to learn about how to write in various styles
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! This course was one of the highlights of my freshman year at Harvard (and that's saying something). Jane is probably the best professor(/preceptor) you will encounter at Harvard, and she is 100% comitted to putting in her time and energy to get to know us, and make the course a very valuable experience. It's not an easy class though, she will push you... and it will be great!
TAKE THIS COURSE! IT IS THE BEST EXPOS CLASS!!!! The Voice of Authority is more than just a class  it is a journey in which you will grow and mature as a writer and scholarly thinker. After this course, my entire perspective on writing has been transformed. I have learned that a thesis is derived from observations, not contrived. As a writer, you must always think about the audience and guide the reader. Each sentence plays a role, and you will learn how to write weightier paragraphs that have substance. Enter this class with an open mind and be prepared to learn a TON not just from class, but also from your peers and outside assignments. Although there will be times when you will be stuck in the library for hours, simply pondering the essay topic and trying to formulate ideas, each one of those moments are of the utmost importance. Writing is not easy, but it is extremely rewarding. Utilize Janes office hours! She truly cares about her students and the ideas and thoughts that are generated in conversation with her are invaluable.
It is going to be tough with a lot of hours spent on your work but it is an incredibly good class.
This class will teach you how to write without a doubt. If you are uncomfortable with writing, Jane will teach you how to do it technically and with persuasion. As a writer myself, I found parts to be a little tedious because I was already at that level, but Jane still helped me refine and perfect my writing. Fair warning, this is not an easy expos. Particularly in essay conferences and revision, Jane is going to ask an almost unbearable amount from you, and not just the easy things you can go back and fix instantly. Revision with Jane is pretty stressful. But the way she talks about writing really does make you believe that it is so important and so necessary for you to learn.
This is an amazing expos, contrary to popular belief. BUT if you are looking for an easy Expos this is NOT THE ONE FOR YOU. You definitely learn how to write, but you have to earn it. Even though the process is quite tedious with lots of rewrites and office hours, Jane is AMAZING. If you really want to learn and get something out of Expos and are willing to put in the time for it, I recommend this course.
Do the SRPs. Pay attention to what they are trying to teach you and put those things into practice.
Jane is a professional writer and is extremely knowledgable about writing. I have a lot of respect for Jane as a writer and for the feedback she gave me. I don't think very many students think that about their preceptors. Be warned that this course expects you to already be very comfortable identifying literary elements and then analyzing them, which I was out of practice doing, and it took me about a third of the class to get back up to speed. Overall, if you want to get something valuable out of Expos 20 instead of just wasting your time (which some courses will do), this is definitely a good course.
Most people say that there is nothing redeeming about expos, but I had an absolutely fantastic time in this class. Jane, the preceptor, is absolutely incredible. She is an expert in her subject and knows how to motivate her students to achieve to their full potential. Class discussions are always engaging and interesting, and the assignments themselves are not painful if you commit yourself to the concept. One thing to note is that this class, in comparison to other expos classes, starts off slow and then build momentum throughout the semester. This makes sense for me because it means the basic skills are developed first, but hopefully it does not come as a surprise to any students. All in all, a great choice for expos.
This class was very good and enjoyable. I felt like it was the best possible expos class I could have taken. The preceptor, Jane is amazing.
This class is a lot of work. But it is the kind of work that pushes you to want to do well, because you know that you CAN do well. If you want to improve your writing, take this class.
THIS CLASS IS AWESOME
Jane is a great preceptor who brings a lot to the course. This Expos section covers literary works, but also non-fiction and more academic works, so if you like variety, it's a good class. We also got the chance to meet an author working with the "Writers at Risk" program, which was illuminating
Jane is an outstanding preceptor. I always hated English in high school, and was skeptical beginning Expos, but she brought an infectious enthusiasm to the class. I also don't know how she has time for so much feedback-literally pages of response to your essays.
Jane makes this the best Expos available - it was my favorite class this semester. You are guaranteed to learn an incredible amount if you keep yourself open to thinking in a different way.
This is a great expository writing course. Jane is an amazing person and writer.  I recommend the class enthusiasm.  Please note that this isn't sports and the law.  There is significant work involved however Jane will improve your writing and you will enjoy the class unless you don't like to have fun.
Jane is absolutely phenomenal!! I feel so lucky to have had a preceptor that cares as much as she does.
Jane is a fantastic teacher and just a wonderful person.
This class is about getting out what you put in; if you try hard to follow the texts and spend due diligence developing analytic ideas about the readings, the course becomes exponentially more valuable.
Unfortunately, this is Jane's last semester teaching the class, but I do encourage you to meet with her if possible. She is an amazing person and extremely thoughtful.
Take this Expos class! You have to take Expos anyway, and this one isn't just "relatively painless", but enjoyable. Jane is extremely enthusiastic about writing and her work, and teaches you new ways to think about concepts-- her feedback on essays and in conferences will push you to think in twenty different directions about the idea about which you are writing. The essay topics are fantastic, particularly the second one, in which you read the works of two at-risk scholars and get to meet them. We also had a Speaking with Authority workshop, which was an interesting out-of-class experience which related to the subject of the class; it is always nice to relate classes to real life.
A lot of work (and often feels like busy work). But Jane is fun.
Stay on top of out of class assignments, namely handing them in on time.
Expos isn't always a fun class to have on your schedule. The work can be time-consuming and stress-inducing; there will be moments when you have all the time in the world and then suddenly you're spending all of your hours finishing an essay. But if you have to take an Expos course, I would definitely advocate choosing Voice of Authority. I'm not certain if this class will be offered again next year, but I will say that Voice of Authority was my favorite course this semester, despite all the bad rep that Expos courses get. Much of this comes from who is teaching the course. Jane is an amazing preceptor, who is passionate about her job and willing to help every student be successful. She always writes such detailed comments on your drafts and revisions; listen to what she says and your essays will really take shape and become great. Her energy is also infectious; she somehow always got me excited about the material, so that while my friends complained about their classes, I found myself fine (not exactly happy but nevertheless pretty content) with doing my Expos work. Also the material is really interesting and I love how second unit had us actually talk with the authors whose works we studied. In general, this was an awesome Expos course and I feel so happy that I got placed into this!
This was my most challenging and favorite course at Harvard thus far.
It's intellectually challenging, rigorous, and fun.
Considering that you are required to take Expos, the Voice of Authority is probably one of your best options. Jane is a fantastic preceptor who is enthusiastic and energetic, and her feedback will genuinely improve your argumentation and analysis.
