This class goes down as one of the most engaging, interesting and challenging classes I've taken here at Harvard. It is fairly hard, but it is important to always keep pushing yourself, making the most out of the guidelines that will be provided in class. Jane is a great preceptor; make sure to revise the draft before the conference, in this way you'll gain so much from the meeting which will go a long way in improving your revision.
This was a GREAT Expos! I would definitely recommend it to anyone. The texts are great, and not too time-consuming, and I get like I got a lot out of the revision process on my papers. Jane is fantastic -- she is charismatic and exciting to listen to in class; she also has really great advice when you have conferences with her. This is a tough Expos, and graded rather hardly, but definitely a worthwhile experience.
Take this class! Jane is an incredibly intelligent and insightful woman and your writing will improve tenfold because of her. The material is interesting, the assignments are painless, and the section itself is enjoyable. I wasn't looking forward to expos because I'm not very interested in writing, but this course completely changed my outlook on writing. I loved working on all three papers, which is unusual for me. TAKE THIS!
Although other people complain about Expos all the time, Jane's class is absolutely fantastic. She writes you pages of comments for every pre-draft assignment, draft essay, and final revision essay, which are incredibly helpful in helping you discover your general weaknesses in writing. I've never experienced such personalized attention in a class, so Expos was particularly valuable. Jane's class is, however, a bit more work than other Expos classes due to the pre-draft assignments, but what you learn from them and what you'll learn from Jane is truly worth the work load.
If you are looking for an expos class that is fun, interesting and makes you enjoy every second you write your papers regardless of the amount of readig, this is the class for you. Although Jane has a lot of small assignments besides your final paper, every bit of the small work she gives seriously helps you to better your writing. In addition, Jane is the most interesting, quirky and most fun teacher you could ever come across. There is never a moment where you will feel bored in her class. Put Voice Of Authority a your first expos choice and you will never regret it. I am one of the few people in Harvard who can say I LOVED EXPOS because I made the right decision. TAKE VOICE OF AUTHORITY AND LOVE EXPOS AND DISPELL THE RUMORS OF HOW EXPOS IS HORRIBLE. Jane makes every attempt to make your education a great experience. And you learn a lot too.
I enthusiastically recommend this class. It was one of the best experiences of my freshman year. Jane Untrue is an amazing and dynamic teacher. She creates a stimulating classroom learning environment that is challenging but also incredibly supportive.  You'll look forward to attending class as the classroom discussions are always lively, interesting and thought-provoking. Jane gives a lot of personal attention to her students, and she has meticulously organized every aspect of this class in a way that serves to help students become better academic writers.  Her feedback on writing assignments is detailed, timely and provides helpful and understandable strategies for improving work during each stage of the writing process.  Another interesting aspect of the class was the opportunity to meet with an Iranian author, a "writer at risk," who faced threats in his native land because of his writing.  The experience of meeting with this writer enhanced my understanding of his works and also served as an inspiration for my own writing.  The handouts that Jane provides are also excellent, and if you read them carefully and use them consistently as a guide (and re-read them throughout the semester), your ability to communicate your ideas will be strengthened.  This class will give you a strong foundation in which to approach all writing assignments throughout college and beyond. While the class will require you to work hard, your writing will improve dramatically. Overall, it is the best expos class!!
Jane can be very frenetic and wordy.
Be ready to work and you will get sooooo much out of this class.
Your skills will improve, and you will meet one of the most passionate teachers in your life.
Challenging, thought-provoking assignments, interesting readings and materials, and the most charming, funny, and brilliant preceptor on campus. Jane's Expos class is more difficult and time-intensive than most, but it's totally worth the extra effort. You'll improve tremendously as a writer and love every minute of it.
This was one of the best of my entire life. I loved it and it changed me for the better.
This class is easily one of the best expos sections out there and can actually help you with your future papers at Harvard. But, you must know that this class requires a good amount of work to do well. If you are a around 20 hours (or more) of classes and section per week, you might find it difficult to keep up to pace at times.
This is an awesome expos class. Jane is great and the subject matter really allows application to any specific subset of interests you may have. I always looked forward to class and actually didn't mind doing the work.
Jane is a enthusiastic, hilarious, smart preceptor. While this is still (unfortunately) Expos, Jane's positivity and humor make the class much more tolerable. She caters to those who are passionate about writing, and, a writer herself, has a great understanding of what makes some writing strong and other writing weak.
This class makes expos less painful than in other classes.  There is a lot of coursework to complete outside of class compared to other expos classes, but it really is interesting and intricate. Jane is awesome, too.
This is a difficult expos class, and it has weekly assignments along with the essays that require time. You need to consider whether you enjoy analyzing literature (a lot) before consider putting it as your top choice, because that's what you'll be doing for your first 2 essays. You will spend plenty of time discussing the works instead of developing strategies for writing, which is something to keep in mind. It's even harder if you haven't done a lot of writing before, and even if you did, you'll soon find out that's not what your preceptor wants to see.
The preceptor Jane was very engaged and active within the class and is always willing to help.  She writes a ton of comments on your essays that are sure to improve your drafts and writing overall.  However, I felt like this Expos class in particular demanded much more time that the normal Expos class.  The readings were great and class overall was entertaining, but beware that there is a lot of work in the class.
I believe it's Jane's last year of teaching next year, but definitely take this course. The material covered is really exciting, and Jane gives great feedback.
Good Expos class. I loved many of our class discussions and the topic was interesting. Jane is a very good teacher but she's also super fun, sweet, and helpful! I wish there was more time to think about some of the topics though. But I think that applies to almost all Expos classes.
This class requires a lot of work but when you put the work into it, I think it's really worth it because it not only is an expos class, it becomes a literature class and a comparative literature class.
This course really has less to do with authority than it seems. I came into this hoping that learning about how to understand and view authority would engender an interesting writing process for this class, but rather the approach was focused on writing, with some authority thrown in for discussion's sake. Kind of a disappointment.
Expos is never a great class, but Voice of Authority is definitely the best of the necessary evils. It gets a little tedious sometimes but the readings are great and the topic is wonderful for writing. I would take it again if I had to do expos over again.
TAKE THIS COURSE! It is honestly the best expos. Before this course, I thought expos was one of those requirements that you don't enjoy or need, but you just had to get over with. Jane and this course has proved me wrong. No matter how good of a writer you are now, you will learn so much from this class. You will work extremely hard, but it is all extremely worth it. I have never cared so much about a paper as I did with EVERY SINGLE PAPER for this course. Jane is the most AMAZING preceptor; she is so funny and enthusiastic, that you can't help but look forward to class. This is honestly my favorite course of this year!!!
Jane will give you several ideas on how to improve your writing and how to make your ideas clearer. You must simple, ask her for advice.
This is the best expos! No kidding. The workload is abit more than average, but it's all worth it because they are useful materials and also Jane is really inspiring and can make you look forward to every expos class!
Jane is the BEST preceptor you could hope for. This class will inspire and amaze you daily. Try your best to put forth your best work, and you will be rewarded.
Jane really helps improve your writing - she is very experienced and this is evident in her teaching style and feedback given on her students' papers. The class name "Voice of Authority" centers on, well, authority, but this is flexible enough to include a wide variety of topics. Unlike other expos classes, it is not focused on one topic, which I actually liked. Jane is very encouraging and spirited.
Try not to blow off the SRP's. Doing them well make the draft and the final essay much easier. If you stay on top of your work, do the readings, participate in class you will get a lot out of class. Besides, Jane is a fantastic teacher. She's fun to talk to outside of class, and in class she facilitates great conversations.
Jane is incredible. This class is incredible. You will love this class, whether you have previously loved or hated writing, whether you're thrilled or disgusted that you're taking expos this semester. It's hard work, but it's so worth it.
This is a literary analysis class - check the courses readings and make sure you're interested in not only reading them but also closely analyzing them. I didn't enjoy expos as much as I maybe could have because I didn't particularly enjoy literary analysis; I personally felt that I was making up more and more about the readings and that my writings didn't have any particular meaning/value. That said, Jane is a fantastic preceptor; she gives very helpful feedback and is always very accessible. I'd suggest choosing Expos based on three criteria: 1) amount of work 2) quality of preceptor 3) topic. On the first axis, the material, while interesting, can be a substantial amount of reading at the beginning of units (expect 100+ pgs/week the first week or so of each unit). MAKE SURE TO PUT TIME AND EFFORT INTO SRPS AND DRAFTS. Your future work will be substantially better because of them.
As good an Expos as exists. Really a great writing class.
it is hard, but you will actually SEE your writing get better, and you will feel it.
Jane is a great Preceptor if you are prepared enough to take advantage of what she can give you. Being ready with questions at conferences was always very helpful for me.
Take this class! I not only learned how to identify the power of authority through materials we worked with, but I also found my own authority over my writing.
This course is one of the best Expos classes offered. Jane is a very enthusiastic preceptor who makes it very clear what she's looking for and has put together a fantastic curriculum for the semester. Reading One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, followed by learning about the Cambodian genocide, and then finally pursuing any topic you want was a great sequence that was interesting for the entire semester. Of course, this is an Expos course, so there is a significant amount of writing, and you may struggle if you are not a good literary writer, but I don't consider myself a good literary writer and I did very well (at least on the first two essays). Anyway, this is truly one of the best Expos classes and should be on the top of your list for Expos choices.
This is a really amazing class that will definitely expand your thinking and force you to delve into your mind.
Jane is amazing! Expos is no freshman's favorite course, but Jane makes the process as engaging and interesting as possible.
