This class is remedial grade school English.  Dr. Watters is smart, but her overemphasis on "the rules" and the culture of expos drains your creative freedom and will make you hate writing, even if you previous enjoyed it immensely.  Also, the material just isn't that interesting.
Dr. Watters is an amazing preceptor. She really challenged us to produce the best work possible. I loved section discussions and looked forward to class. She gave us a great deal of freedom on our essays and was very helpful in office hours. Take this class!
Dr. Watters is an excellent preceptor. She will give you extensive feedback, is always willing to meet up outside of class, and will challenge your own conception of yourself as a writer in a very positive way. Don't expect an easy A (or an easy B!) but getting a a slightly lower grade than your friends in other Expos sections is worth the improvement you'll see in your writing.
Family matters was a great choice for me because we were allowed significant freedom as to what to write about, which allows you to chose topics you like fathered than topics thrust upon you by a teacher.
Prof. Watters is absolutely fantastic. Although grading is hard, a really great class dynamic is fostered through discussions, and feedback is very helpful. Readings are always interesting, whether they be Malcolm Gladwell, Paradise Lost, Batman, or a New Yorker article. Great way to get rid of expos.
Readings are very light (quality) for a serious school. I took this class because it was the only one that fit in my schedule, and I regret not rearranging my schedule to take a better one. As it was with the focus on quasi-popular literature and extreme political correctness, there was very little meat in this class and it was a total waste of time. Feedback was not helpful at all (less than I got at a huge public high school and not useful in content either). Watters also assigns a lot of small writing assignments that are totally useless and we do not receive any feedback on. Would certainly not recommend for anyone who wants to learn about and write about serious literature or literary criticism.  If you are politically correct and want a class with entertaining discussions, light readings, and little substance, it might be ok.
The reading materials for this course are great. It's called "family matters," but you get to read Batman and Paradise Lost. Dr. Watters provides amazing feedback on the essays - you *will* improve as a writer by taking this course. You might be looking for an easy section of expos, but it's not going to happen (grades are normalized across sections anyway). You'd be best served by picking the section that you will get the most out of, and this is a great choice for that.
Family Matters is, by far, the best Expos class offered. The books are incredible, the feedback is helpful and thoughtful, and the preceptor is the kindest, most intelligent person I have ever met.
THIS is the expos class to take.
This is a hard class. But it's a hard class worth taking. You'll learn a lot about writing, and about yourself. Dr. Watters is amazing. The readings are amazing. Late nights on the strugglebus: slightly less amazing, but in the long run, you'll be grateful for what you come out knowing.On Dr. Watters: Dr. Watters is a writing god. She is also a minor deity in the editing/revising tradition, the patron saint of thoughtful feedback, and the angel of literary analysis, who wields the flaming sword of questions-which-breed-yet-further-questions. She is the alpha and the omega, the beginning and the end, she who will shepherd you through your painful, glorious entrance into the world of college writing, and she who will guide you out into the world unknown, That Which Is Beyond Expos. NBD.
Family Matters was one of my favorite classes this semester. Not only do I feel as though I really grew as a writer and critical reader, but I truly enjoyed every class.
This course has taught me an unimaginable amount about writing. Want to improve your writing skills? Take this class. Dr. Watters is not an easy grader, but the amount you learn is MORE than wroth it. It's your freshman year, you shouldn't be worrying about GPA yet. Besides, the writing skills you learn will help boost it later. TAKE THIS CLASS!
This class is absolutely worth taking. The texts you read and the class subject itself is interesting, but Dr. Watters is an AMAZING preceptor. You really need to take the class to understand how awesome she is, but she stimulates learning while keeping it chill.
I LOVED this class! Family Matters was my favorite class of the semester! The course topic is really interesting, and Dr. Watters is AMAZING. She is the best and most effective teacher I think I've ever had. She is very accessible and really cares about helping her students improve their writing skills. I learned so much about writing for college in this class. I promise that you will not regret taking this course. This is the best Expos class there is! Please take it!
Compared to other classes, there is not a lot of reading at all, so what you should spend your time doing is tackling the writing assignments early instead. I wouldn't go in expecting an A on your first paper, but if you work hard and pay attention to the critique given by the preceptor and your classmates, you can definitely improve!
the instructor teaches not just for the sake of teaching but really to help you get better at writing!the reading material is pretty good, too. the feedback you get on papers and the help she provides inside and outside of class will be good enough for you to learn what you are expected to learn from expos.
Be prepared to be challenged and don't equate success with a particular letter grade. THis professor has high standards and wants her students to reach their potential.
We read an unlikely combination of materials, and we end up having a lot of interesting conversations about how families make us who we are.
This is the Expos to take if you would like to improve your writing. But if you want to get by with an easy A, then it's not for you. You will learn a lot about not just writing but issues applicable to the real world.
One of the best classes! DR WATTERS IS AMAZING.
Dr. Aliza Watters helped to dramatically increase my writing skills at the college level. The class gave my a strong writing foundation.
This class allowed me to look at my writing objectively and decide what my strengths and weaknesses were.  It provided me with the foundation I need to grow as a writer and successfully complete papers at Harvard and beyond.
This class is a lot of fun. You read the best contemporary literature out there, discussions are amazing and full of life and Mrs. Watters is an amazing resource for writing. The readings are pretty light compared to other expos classes but she is not an easy grader so don't expect an easy A for this class.
Dr. Watters is a pretty harsh grader.
I really enjoyed this class because the work load was relatively light and the subject matter was interesting, but don't expect to get a very good grade on even the strongest of essays.
It's going to be hard--but you WILL learn a whole bunch (if you choose to).  Dr. Watters is a wonderful resource and a very kind/caring instructor and person.  GO TO HER OFFICE HOURS!!!
This courses changes the way you view your family; it also exposes you to some great books.
