This was a very interesting class, and Tad is a great preceptor!  I feel that I definitely enjoyed Expos more than most other freshmen because I had this class.
Prof. Davies is a great teacher and the class is always very engaging. The Q scores pretty aptly describe the course.
Other than the inevitable three sets of long nights working on papers, this Expos doesn't require nearly as much work as most others. Other than reading other students' past essays and doing a few exercises on style, there is very little homework, and it doesn't take long at all. There is also minimal reading since the first unit is on commercials, the second on architecture, and the third on movies, which made a lot of my friends really jealous. Tad is also really chill; if you're having a tough week or something just let him know and he'll try to accommodate you within reason. It could get frustrating when we didn't get papers back for a really long time though.
Tad is the best, hands down. You'll really enjoy the topics that you'll be writing about, and Tad is really good at helping you refine your writing style.
Tad is an amazing preceptor who is extremely helpful and laid back.  The course explores political theory and relevant current issues.  The final research paper comes with a lot of freedom to choose a topic you personally find interest. As far as Expos goes, this is definitely one of the best classes you can take.
Many people complain about Expos, but this course was really very tolerable in comparison.  There are few readings, and the ones assigned are pretty light.  The course also incorporates commercials and movies, which is a refreshing change of pace for a writing class.  Tad is humorous, kind, and flexible if you are in a bind.
It's expos, ya gotta do it. If you like American politics, history, etc take this one.  The readings and movies are not too much work and they are usually really interesting.  Tad is a great preceptor, he's really nice and flexible about extensions.
The class is a lot of fun, however, it is harder to write essays on a commercial or a movie rather than to write an essay about a written project.
well you have to take expos and this is clearly one of the best ones out there, so i would suggest it.... basically no reading (first topic on political commercials, second on architecture (u just stare at a building and write), and final unit is on movies), Tad is super funny and laid back about due dates, and every essay is very open-ended (this could be a good thing or bad thing depending on the person). one draw back is tad takes a loooong time getting stuff back to you.
This class has a very good preceptor and a very interesting theme for those interested in Government. It has a fair amount of work, not too much and not to little.
Tad is a wonderful preceptor; he gives great guidance and the course challenges you to develop your critical thinking skills. Additionally, the readings and assignments are interesting!
Expos sucks in general, but if you have to choose one class this seems to be one of the good ones. Not a ton of reading (huge bonus), really interesting course material, Tad is brilliant and really gives good comments on writing (very interesting), and he is pretty chill about extenuating circumstances. Take this expos.
As far as Expos goes, this is a great course. Tad provides great feedback on your ideas/writing. The homework is not all too bad and the material is mostly interesting (I personally did not like analyzing architecture, but thats me). My only criticism is that assignments are not returned in a timely fashion, though this actually benefited me at times as I received an extension on my essay.
One of the "easiest" expos classes. Compared to the other expos sections this one seemed to have the least amount of work and a great preceptor.
teacher was nice and helpful but took way too long to return papers. most of the topics were extremely difficult to write about. however, Tad does make this class better
The class is not very unified, which can make it difficult to figure out what is expected of your essay. However, it does have some very interesting readings, and it is nice that you can take your writing in just about any direction you want to. Tad is also very flexible and really nice, and gives good feedback. Overall, a pretty good class.
Tad is great - a really nice guy.  Material and readings are not super difficult.  Painless, interesting way to fulfill expos requirement.
Although the material isn't too interesting all of the time, you get to watch presidential commercials, conspiracy movies, and tour the MA state house for the three papers that you'll write. Also, Tad is a really good guy and so you'll never have to worry about whether or not he'll grant you an extension. He's always very understanding. Finally, the workload is super light and there was little to no work other than the three papers that is standard for all expos classes. So, if you're even slightly interested in government, this is a good expos to take.
Not that much work and very interesting
This class is interesting but does not push you to grow a lot in your writing abilities.
The course material is nice in that it is not readings, but rather more entertaining things like commercials or movies, but you may have difficulty navigating around the vagueness of the assignments.
The essays are not fun to write because it is very hard to care about the topics. For me at least, being inspired is key to writing a decent essay.
Tad is an excellent preceptor. Very helpful and willing to accommodate your schedule, but also slow to get assignments back, which made it tough to work ahead on assignments. The end of the semester had a much heavier workload than the beginning (but still not unmanageable), I would definitely recommend this course, it seems to be better than most expos classes. Those who are interested in government/politics will definitely enjoy it.
Great way to get through Expos. You hear a lot of horror stories, but this is not one of them. Great class, few enough assignments that they're interesting, but not too many that they're stressful.
This class doesn't necessarily teach you anything about American democracy or government. However, writing about architecture, commercial campaigns, and conspiracy films is very engaging. The individual section meetings are not always very engaging.
The course topic isn't extremely prevalent through out the semester. It is a general guideline for the essays, so don't let it stray you away from the class. There was minimal reading, unlike many other expos classes.
Amazing professor and material, Tad is one of the most understanding and genuinely helpful people I've met at Harvard, definitely rank this Expos first (also helps that it's not as popular as like Sports in the Law so you'll probably get it)
This is a great way to get the expos requirement out of the way. The class is fairly easy as far as Expos goes. Tad is great and is incredibly accommodating with deadlines and extensions. Feedback is great. If you're interested in politics, definitely take this. This class was very heavy on people interested in social sciences which was great.
Take this expos. Rank it first. There is very little reading involved throughout most of the course, and the course topics are really interesting. You get to choose basically whatever research topic you want for the final paper.  Tad takes forever to get assignments back to you, but he is also super understanding and flexible with submission deadlines.  This course is fantastic.
I have heard all the horror stories about Expos and expected the worst, but this section was a pleasant surprise.  The readings were very reasonable and light and the subject matter is actually really interesting.  Very painless way to go through Expos.  Tad is a great preceptor and super chill.
This is an incredible class with a fantastic, knowledgeable, kind instructor who really wants to help you get better at writing. My writing skills improved significantly after taking this class.
This is the best Expos 20 section. You explore the fascinating idea of the institutions that shape daily life and government. Also Dr. Davies is incredibly helpful and understanding in respect to deadlines.
This class is very interesting and offers a fairly positive experience (in terms of Expos classes). The workload is low, but assignments are not returned on time and you may find yourself unsure of how to improve.
It's an engaging, enjoyable class with an interesting subject matter.  Professor Davies is laid-back, extremely nice and approachable.
It is very minimal work but I didn't feel like I learned anything new about writing or the subject matter.
If you dont want to taste the bitter side of Harvard Expos 20, take this class. For me, learning came so easy and I still was able to improve my writing.
If you have a remote interest in anything politics/government related (coming from a pre-med here), take this course! Tad is actually interesting to listen too and you don't want to be stuck in a public health expos that isn't as well taught just because it's about public health. Expand your horizons through expos! Especially this expos. It will not be stressful because Tad is INCREDIBLY understanding in terms of deadlines and high-stress periods of the semester (read: other classes' midterms), but you'll still learn all you will in any other preceptor's course.
This is a fantastic course. You will get to write about many different media, such as commercials, architecture, and film. Tad Davies is incredible helpful and attentive to everyone's writing development.
It's a pretty good Expos. The reading is light, and never too dense. The other materials are fairly interesting: campaign commercials, architecture, and conspiracy films (provided you are at least somewhat into these things). Tad is a very reasonable and flexible preceptor, and is great at helping you to further develop your ideas and significantly flesh out your writing. Beware, a lot of your assignments will often be returned late, which makes things more difficult as you only get to work with Tad's comments later on, but again, he's flexible, so it shouldn't be too much of a problem. Ultimately, the course is useful practice in writing, without as much stress as a lot of other Expos classes apparently have.
Tad is the best preceptor ever! He is extremely chill and the class is awesome, especially if you are interested in government. The last unit is watching movies, and the readings are actually interesting and not hard. Tad gives great feedback (although kind of slowly) and I think I learned a lot about writing. He is fair with grades and deadlines.
