Dr. Mumme is a very friendly, helpful, and knowledgeable preceptor.
This is a good expos class. I think my writing definitely approved. If you want to read novels for your expos, though, I wouldn't recommend it. You learn a lot of interesting things about psychology that I definitely found fascinating. I am a person interested in the humanities, and sometimes I was sad that I didn't get to read novels. Also, humanities classes don't use APA style citations. However, now when I take a psyche class, as I plan to, I will know how to cite when I write my papers.Regardless of any science/humanities issues, I think this course did improve my writing and provided me with interesting information.
Expos, by definition, is a contrived and forced concept. But this class is about as good as it gets - Dr. Mumme is great and is very fair. The class also isn't that much work.
One of the best expos classes. This is one of maybe 2 or 3 expos classes that I have not heard people complain about, and I certainly cannot complain about it.`
Dr. Mumme is great! I actually likes expos, instead of hating it
This expos class is definitely one of the best choices because you have to write just as much as any other class, but the material in this class is so interesting that it is fun to write about. Also, this class is extremely beneficial for potential science concentrators.
This is the best expos ever! Seriously, you are at a loss of you don't take. Not only is it engaging but the topic of the course was something I had never contemplated. Dr. Mumme is dorky, smart, and truly genuine psychologist who knows what she is talking about. Please please take it!!
A great expos class with someone who really cares about how your writing develops!  Nothing like how most people describe expos.
Expos is supposed to be an in depth writing course, which it is.  For me, any expos would inherently be a pain.  However, at least this material was really interesting and the readings were not as bad.  Writing about something interesting makes the process a little easier to bear.  Since you are going to have to take an expos anyway, might as well take this expos which is at least interesting and has a good teacher.
This is a great course, way better than other expos courses. Try not to procrastinate though, I stayed up late the night before each draft was due.
I thought the readings and topics we would be writing on sounded a lot more interesting than other expos courses.  Dr. Mumme is so sweet and is very helpful in trying to make your writing the best it can be.
This course was veyr interesting. I recommend it if you are not looking for a writing class that focuses on literature. The reading was not very heavy and the assignments were all very relevant.
This class was very interesting and I found myself engaged in the class discussions and essays. Dr. Mumme provides very helpful, detailed feedback, and is willing and available to help you work on your writing. It is a great way to fulfill your expos requirement!
Take this class for the preceptor. She's incredibly helpful. Readings aren't too bad, either.
The essays that you write are science based essays, so the format is different from general humanity essays
Expos isn't the greatest experience, but I feel that this course is one of the more painless ones, especially for science concentrators. The readings are applicable, interesting, and not super time consuming and Dr. Mumme is great.
As far as expos goes, this class is one of the best. Dr. Mumme is fantastic. She really pays attention to your work and give insightful comments. The material is pretty interesting, and the class is especially good if you would prefer not to right essays on literature. Expos can be a pain, take this class!
Be sure you're interested in the subject matter.
THIS IS A PSYCHOLOGY, ETHICS, AND PUBLIC POLICY CLASS. It is highly generalized - I'd envisioned more of writing about particular individuals who had been experimented on/telling their story.The readings are minimal, which I appreciated.Obviously, don't write your drafts/revisions the night before, as I attempted to do every time. You'll hate yourself.
Being placed in this class is the equivalent of winning the Expos lottery. Dr. Mumme is, without a doubt, one of the best preceptors out there. Really interesting material (particularly if you're not excited by the humanities), substantive writing assignments, and fantastically helpful feedback on all your work. 5/5 A++++++ would take again
Dr. Mumme is one of the most amazing preceptors in expos - a lot of people say that your preceptor is really matters and it is completely true. I don't come from a psychology background (I'm in the sciences though) and I never felt like that was a hindrance for me. She makes class very comfortable and open, and her feedback on assignments really is one of the best things about this class. Even though writing is not my strongest suit, I enjoyed this class, and I feel like I got something out of it. Definitely try for this section of Expos, as it really is one of the ones that I have never heard anything negative about - you won't regret it if you take it!
Dr. Mumme teaches a great course but she expects a lot from her students. If you want an interesting course that will not have boring readings this could be great! Yet, this course also requires students to spend time on their work, longer readings and assignments.
This expos class is unbelievably amazing. Dr. Mumme truly cares about each of her students and she was really helpful throughout the writing process. The class content is interesting and you learn a ton. I never once complained about Expos, which is practically unheard of. Take this expos class!
Graded kind of hard, pretty fair class though - reading is not very heavy.
This expos was (1) an awesome way to satisfy the requirement, because of Dr. Mumme and (2) comes with some takeaways in terms of knowledge gained, because of the course content.I recommend it absolutely.
It's fun, and way better than most of the Expos classes out there.
Expos sucks, but this class sucks the least. Dr. Mumme gives the most helpful comments that really help your writing to concretely improve.
This expos course is great. It is a reasonable amount of work that is very manageable and you learn a lot. Dr. Mumme is awesome and gives great feedback. Your writing will improve.
I was originally not very enthusiastic about taking a course about writing, but I soon realize that expos is not about practicing writing, but about learning how to get your ideas across through writing. You will be writing a lot, but you will be thinking more about the topics, and it is important to take an expos class that you're curious about. Personally, I loved learning about about human experimentation, and Dr. Mumme (a psychologist and researcher) has designed a course the syllabus in a way that makes everything you learn applicable to real examples. For example, you first learn about the psychological mechanisms that make people more likely to harm people who are different from them, and then focus on studies where racism played a key role in the researchers' misconduct. This structure makes writing papers very easy, and gives you the sense that you're writing about something you know (not just giving your opinion). Besides expos, it's an awesome introduction to behavioral psychology and research ethics!
This class is probably one of the best expos classes you could choose. The information is very interesting, even if you are not particularly interested in psychology. The readings are also very short compared to other expos classes. Dr. Mumme is a great preceptor as well, and the comments she leaves on essays are always very useful.
A very psychology-focused course.  May not be exactly what you're expecting in terms of topic, but that's not super relevant for an expos course.  Everyone always complains so much about expos, but I don't think it is warranted for this one.  It's not entirely useless, and it's certainly not as painful as most people make expos out to be.
