Jonah makes Expos as painless as possible. Granted, it's Expos, so you're probably not going to "enjoy" it unless it's your cup of tea. But why not take the opportunity to go through the course with one of the most awesome and helpful preceptors in the department?
You can try to pick your expos section by its subject matter, but really all that matters is the quality of the preceptor. Jonah is the best. Period. He teaches you how to write clearly, and even how to think about writing so that you can focus on an insightful thesis, back it up with evidence, and really change someone's mind. The tools he gave me to construct strongly written arguments have become a permanent part of my writing process for every essay I write. Even though he teaches you a lot, he doesn't assign unnecessary work, and he is extremely understanding of our busy lives. I went into expos thinking it would be useless, boring, and the worst class I could take at Harvard. I was sooooo wrong.
This was a very good expos, as expos classes go. Jonah was an incredible preceptor and always made the class funny and interesting. He gave a lot of helpful advice for improving our writing and I felt like the class was very effective in making me a better writer. The course materials were interesting, but the best part of the class was definitely Jonah! There wasn't that much work on a weekly basis, and the essays were reasonable and Jonah allowed for a lot of leeway with topics.
Jonah is sarcastic but he will take you seriously and do everything he can to help you do well in his course.
Take this course!! So many people hate Expos but having Jonah as your preceptor will make it not only bearable, but truly enjoyable.
Expos sucks. It's a fact of life. But as far as Expos classes go, you can't go wrong with this one. In fact, I'd say that it's the best expos, primarily because of the preceptor. I think that Humanities expos classes tend to be harder than scientific/history expos classes because you have to generate all your own ideas whereas they are mainly synthesizing information, but I think that the topic--tragedy--makes it worth it. We read Antigone, Oedipus Rex, King Lear and then had a film unit in which we got to pick our own films. So the material is entertaining. You should be warned, though, that you don't really discuss the material in class. Rather, the bulk of the class is devoted to discussing writing technique. So the course material is basically for your consumption outside of class. As for Jonah, he's a tough grader, but extremely supportive. And amazing. He made us cake and is extremely understanding about life and is reasonable about extensions. You should take this class. I have no regrets choosing /Tragedy and Everyday Life/.
Jonah is a harsh but fair grader and the subject matter is very interesting with plenty of different angles from which to tackle the writing assignments
If you are into serious literature or the "tragedy" theme, or approaching things from a contemplative/ dry wit manner, take this. If you aren't literary, I may look more into science options or less heavy/classic lit.
Jonah is one of the funniest, most hard-working, and most helpful instructors I've ever had. I really loved going to class each day because of all his jokes and insights into the life and writing process. He prepares a lot of handouts, model essays, and critiques of your essay that you'll find helpful. He's also really chill if you need an extension on an assignment and understands how busy life can get with all your other classes happening at the same time. Actually he's pretty chill in general and basically lets you write about whatever you want for drafts and response papers as long as you can produce a good essay in the end. With that said, he also grades final Expos papers very hard. It's difficult to get an A unless you put a lot of time going over your paper several times and seeing Jonah outside of class a lot for help. Really tough but easily one of my most enjoyable classes!
Jonah is a great and engaging teacher who creates an atmosphere that makes you want to go to class. He gives great feedback to help you improve your writing and is a very reasonable and nice guy.
The less painful Expos can be.
For an Expos class, this seems to be as good as it gets.
Jonah is a great preceptor and will really challenge you to better your writing skills, which will come in handy for any humanities class you take later on at Harvard.
I really enjoyed this Expos course. Although students usually do not have great things to say about Expos, I felt the preceptor really made an effort to make the class enjoyable. He made sure we knew why some of the the more tedious assignments were necessary. The workload of this course was not very time consuming.
Tragedy in Everyday Life" is a misleading course title.  This class is actually a lot of fun!  Jonah is very personable and offers targeted and thoughtful feedback.
Jonah is an excellent preceptor, and I would highly recommend any course that he is teaching.  From what I have heard of other expos courses, I know that this is an exceptional class that will have teach you a lot about how to write.  Even when discussing tragedy, this class was light-hearted and interesting, making each day enjoyable.
I would like to tell future students not to be discouraged by this class. I know expository writing classes usually do not have the best reputation, but the workload is very manageable. Aside from the three large papers, the other assignments are not time consuming. If you really make an effort, expository writing can be a truly worthwhile class.
Jonah is a tough grader, like many expos preceptors, and that's NOT why you shouldnt take this course. He's a great person, and very smart. I recommend >with reservations< because he doesnt give the best constructive criticism about your essays. He focuses on bigger issues such as 'orientation' and 'argument' and does not give as specific advice as other preceptors. You might like this more, though! And class was always enjoyable - I never missed a class and never wanted to. Though I do not think my writing improved all that much, and I had received better grades on papers in elective courses in the fall (so Expos hasnt killed my confidence!), this was a solid way to get through Expos.
TAKE THIS CLASS, or any class being taught by Jonah Johnson. Expos just generally isn't the greatest class, but Jonah makes it so much better than I ever thought it could be and he really helps improve your writing. Take his advice for the feedback, it will make your paper better. I'm not really a literature/humanities sort of person, but in expos a good preceptor makes all the difference, and it's worth writing about literature to have Jonah as a preceptor.
This should be every student's top choice for Expos. Jonah is an absolutely wonderful preceptor, and I could not have asked for a better Expos experience overall. If you are someone who likes literature, this Expos is perfect, as you will be reading quite a bit and participating in some fast-paced in class discussions. Jonah also does a great job of leading you through the response paper - draft - revision process, and the comments he provides for every draft conference and in emails are invaluable - GO and set up meetings with him. Unfortunately, parts of the course are a little boring since, as it is an Expos class, Jonah has certain topics he just has to cover, like annotations or citations or creating a thesis or peer revisions. These parts aren't so bad, and actually can help make you a better writer. This really is a wonderful class, and I recommend it highly.
Jonah turns what could otherwise be a painful expos experience (because of the expos format, not the specific course topic) into a great class that I am so lucky to have been in. You get to learn how to analyze not only plays, but also films. Analyzing films was a new experience for me, and I really loved having that new experience within the structure of a required course like expos. Jonah creates a very relaxed and fun environment with his jokes, but still makes sure that his students are learning. My writing definitely improved a lot because of this course. If you are looking for a fun and interesting way to fulfill your expos requirement, take this course.
expos is not a great class. but jonah is a fantastic teacher and makes expos the best it can be
Jonah is really chill and very flexible/understanding with deadlines. However, I thought there was something lacking in his feedback. I think it's most important to take this class with a good preceptor but do not neglect the subject matter just for a good preceptor because you will be miserable trying to write a paper about something you don't care about/are interested in.
Jonah is a great preceptor. Expos is never something you _want_ to do, but Jonah recognizes this and does everything he can to make it work for you. I can't guarantee the course will improve your writing, but you'll get out what you put into it.
This expos class is definitely one of the best. The readings were so interesting, Jonah is AMAZING, and the essays were as painless as essays can be. Take whatever expos class Jonah teaches.
Jonah is an awesome professor.
Please take this course.  Expos is not an evil giant like everyone says.  Expos is wonderful with Jonah.  I could not be more enthusiastic about this course.
Jonah is a great person, always understanding about issues if you email him. Class is well taught and fun.
This course is so much fun! I highly recommend that you spend a decent amount of the time with the readings and discuss them with Jonah. Jonah gives great feedbacks on essays. Over the course of the term, I felt that I became a more detail-oriented writer.
This is a great Expos section to be in. The content was pretty interesting, and the classes were pretty good as well. Jonah is really flexible and caring for his students, and he is quite reasonable if something comes up and you can't perform as well as you could be doing in this class.
Take this expos!! You'll hear from so many of your peers about how terrible their expos preceptor is -- Jonah, on the other hand, is one of the nicest and most effective preceptors that the Writing program has to offer. It's nice to have time for both discussion about the texts we read, as well as get very constructive feedback on papers.  I feel like I actually became a better writer through the comments that Jonah gave.
Jonah is a fantastic preceptor that genuinely cares about your writing, and he is always willing to help you improve.
Definitely take this class. It is very interesting, not overly difficult but still challenging and engaging, and the instructor is amazing.
One of my favorite courses at Harvard
You won't find a better expos than this one.  Jonah makes the requirement painless and interesting.
take advantage of the conferences
Expos is what it is so a good preceptor is really important and I would recommend Jonah's course. The topic is kind of secondary to the enjoyability of Expos.
Jonah is the most relaxed, relaxing and intelligent Expos teacher out there. His feedback while seems so profound that you will kick yourself for not having come up with it yourself. It is an Expos class, granted, but Jonah has fascinating views on tragedy, and brings the topic alive. Take this class!
Dear Future Students,Expos 20 is required, but Tragedy and Everyday Life makes the requirement not so bad.
Best expos section. 10/10 would expos again. Fantastic feedback on assignments, keeps things interesting.
Jonah Johnson is one of the best teachers I've ever had.  His good-natured sarcasm and enthusiasm for the subject matter is incredibly infectious and endearing.
Jonah is a great instructor. He is extremely understanding and friendly. He creates an effective learning environment that breaks any ice between a teacher and a student and lets the student take charge of his/her learning. A very unique and constructive experience.
If you have any interest in learning more about tragedy, I would highly recommend taking this course. Liking expos really has to do with liking the material you are going to be writing about. The reading list here is very good and spans antiquity to modern-day. At the end of the class, you'll get to read texts by Arthur Miller and watch films by Ingmar Bergman and Alfred Hitchcock. Jonah is an awesome preceptor who creates a really stimulating and fun class environment!
This course was difficult, but definitely rewarding. I feel like a learned a lot about writing and am much more confident in the structure and style of essay-writing. As well, the literature that we worked with was very interesting, and the course did a great job of exploring it while still teaching the important elements of writing.
This course will not leave you complaining about expos like so many other students do. The instructor is amicable, helpful, and understanding.
This is a really great Expos to take. Jonah is hilarious and engaging, and the pacing of the coursework is really excellent--I felt that I had enough time to do the readings, write a well-considered draft, and make proper revisions. The response papers were all helpful in writing my essays. The readings were also very interesting, especially if you enjoy classic tragic plays. I would definitely recommend the course.
The professor makes this class amazing. He is relaxed, funny, and emotionally-attuned to each individual student. He gives extremely constructive feedback, and you will walk out feeling you know just as much more about writing as about life.
Jonah is awesome!!! He's super understanding about deadlines and the general health of his students. TAKE THIS CLASS!
This was probably my favorite class of the semester, which isn't supposed to happen with Expos. Jonah is a fantastic teacher and will really help your writing improve. He's also just chill and honest and hilarious. Pick a fun topic for the final essay and go crazy.
