I normally detest writing essays but this was the most enjoyable writing experience I've ever had. Dr.Hahn did an incredible job teaching me to become a better writer in general and also introducing me to the debate over animal ethics.
You should be aware that this course involves a lot of heavy thinking, especially in the second and third units.  People should take this course if they're interested in philosophy, ethics, or in depth study and analysis of animal minds and behavior.  It's not what I expected - I thought it might be about animal behavior and research - but it is a lot of abstract thinking and writing.
The treatment of the course material was wonderful. I think all of the readings we studied were very well-selected; they gave a clear view of the issues at hand. Writing for the course was a pleasure.Great professor. He understands the goals of expos very well; the essay prompts were well-designed, his feedback clarifies a lot about your writing. Also he knows the field in question very well.Effective introduction to a style of writing that differs from that which one has probably done in the past.
This class is worth taking. Even though you may not enjoy writing, this class expands your view on a topic you may not have been familiar with before.
It is a excellent class, but I highly don't recommend un-native speakers who aren't fully fluent with the language,like me, to take the class. Since it's a little bit overwhelming if you start your English writing from a difficult topic.
Be aware going into this course is not just about animals, but focuses mainly on the philosophy along with understanding animals.
Some of the readings are very difficult, so be ready to devote serious time to them. However, the class time is often great to decipher the complex arguments, and Professor Hahn is very much available and helpful if you are confused or unsure about an argument for a paper. You learn a lot about how to construct a compelling argument in this class.
About the best you can get for expos. Are all the readings thrilling? No. But the amount of reading is pretty light for expos. If you've had a lot of experience writing essays before, much of it will be repetitive. There will be people who have had much less experience writing essays in every expos section, so you just have to deal with it (the repetition).  Really take advantage of Professor Hahn in conferences - his lectures generally aren't wowing, but if you really engage with him on the substance of your paper he'll really engage helpfully back.  THIS CLASS GETS BETTER AS IT PROGRESSES. The readings and assignments for the first unit are orders of magnitude more boring and frustrating than for the second and third units. You might have to put in a bit of extra intellectual effort, but in doing so you can make this class interesting and actually get something out of it - even if you come in with a ton of confidence in and experience with writing, as I did.
This class is both interesting and useful for learning how to formulate compelling arguments in any topic. It is also heavily a philosophy-based class, which has ties to the writing techniques learned.
The course is philosophical. I thought it would be more scientific, about thinking about animals in evolutionary terms, etc. I was not really expecting to discuss animals' place in modern thought. Fortunately, I learned a lot, and my views on animals are more sophisticated and nuanced.
This class is interesting for those who have questions about the importance of animals in our world, and how/where they belong in our society and environment.
Take this class knowing that you are not going to come out with answers, rather philosophical theories that you will be thinking about for a long time. You will be discussing the discrepancy between the mind and the body, ethical theories, and know that you will come out of the class wanting to become a vegetarian.
I do not recommend this course.  The class very quickly becomes stuck in deep philosophy before really teaching you how to write.  Professor Hahn is nice but quick to talk and slower to listen.
This course does not actively try to convince you to become a vegetarian, however many of the later readings and discussions bring a heavy focus on ethics and the treatment of animals which really make you think about it. Ultimately, the class teaches you how to argue, and from it you can learn to argue why one should or should NOT be a vegetarian, so just come with an open mind.
I wouldn't recommend this course.  Take some of the other expos classes that have been around for a while.  They read more interesting books and watch better films.  At least that's how I feel, as a man who prefers classic works  rather than the latest pop literature/philosophy.
Take it if you have a genuine interest in learning about animal consciousness.
I would say that this is a great expos if you have an interest in animals.
If you like philosophy and animals, this course will be your favorite class. Be prepared to come to discuss in every class.
As an expos class, this one was totally bearable. Prof Hahn is fair and provides directed feedback.
This really turns out to be an amazing class! The content and discussions continue to get more and more interesting as the semester goes on. Professor Hahn is fair and patient and gives helpful feedback on essays. His enthusiasm for the class also adds to the experience!
This class was absolutely wonderful . Really great for even those who aren't interested in animal rights, because we discuss ethics and philosophy through the lens of animals. The end of the course definitely picks up the slow start at the beginning. It's a nice lead up.
If you're interested at all in animal consciousness/ethics/intelligence, this course is for you. Hahn is an excellent preceptor, gives good feedback, and loves to play devil's advocate. Look forward to interesting readings and discussions that combine aspects of both philosophy and science.
I strongly recommend this course if you are interested in animals and/or OEB. My feeling about Expos is that you should really choose it based on the topic and not the Q Guide--if you're passionate about something, then you're going to want to write about it and express your opinions, and you're going to want to learn how to do it well. As a future OEB concentrator, I especially gained a lot from this course's readings, which introduced me to a lot of scientific literature and more informal writings about animals. However, it is important to note that this course is philosophy-based and focuses on logical analysis of these texts. You won't necessarily be discussing the scientific experiments or findings, themselves, but the logic of the argument being made. Even though it wasn't exactly what I was expecting--or what I plan to study--I do think that this is an important skill for scientists to have.It took me a while to understand Prof. Hahn's humor and style, but I grew to really appreciate him as a teacher, especially through our one-on-one conferences. He is a great resource for talking through your thought process as a writer, and he seems to care about making the course relevant to you and your academic goals. As a quieter student, I felt that he made an effort to show an appreciation for what I said when I did speak up in class, and he seemed to understand me well through my writing.As someone who didn't get a lot of helpful advice on my writing in high school, I was grateful to finally get some constructive criticism, and I will be taking away several new writing skills that I think will greatly improve my writing process and results.
Do not take this class. The material is boring and Hahn leaves no time for discussion of the material. You will end up dreading every meeting.
It sucks but you don't really have a choice. The imagining animals version is nowhere near as creative or fun as it seems.
