Expos is a great way to become a better writer. At times it may seem like the class requires many unnecessary assignments and has a lot of busywork, but it's a Harvard requirement so you have to get it over with.
This course is pretty solid for an expository writing course. I was able to connect with the preceptor and write about public policy, which was enough for me.
This Expos class was absolutely incredible. It is easily one of those classes I give my highest recommendation to. Especially for anyone interested in public health, this course guides you through some very fascinating and controversial case studies and then equips you with the skills to identify and research a paradox in public health of your own. Jerusha is a phenomenal preceptor as well, and it is clear that she cares deeply about all her students. She is very well-versed in the field and an excellent resource if you ever any questions.
I would tell students that if they have any interest in public health policy that they should strongly consider taking this course to further explore their interest.
I loved this class! I really recommend it to anyone interested in public health/ medicine or someone who is just looking for an interesting expos class
It was very helpful in improving my writing. I found that my whole mindset around expository writing was shifted in a way that made it much easier to write effectively and quickly. Jerusha really cared about helping us and she made herself available if you wanted to seek extra help. The readings were much better than any of my friends' expos classes'. We mainly did shorter case studies while some other expos courses require you to read full books. Jerusha also made the homework relevant and we did not have very much. We only had one short response paper in the first unit and all the other homework was work to start our big papers.
You get out of this class what you put in - if you participate in class and work hard on your drafts, you'll have a more constructive experience.
The class takes a lot of time for the readings and writing.  It doesn't necessarily teach you anything about writing per se.  However, it makes you practice writing a lot.
I though this was a great class. I found the content of the course relevant and very interesting, especially in the third unit, where we can choose to write about anything. Could be a intro public health course in its own right. My writing improved dramatically after this course, but it is what you make of it. Take advantage of drafts and conferences. Get started early on the draft and revise it before handing it in. In conference, come with prepared questions and ideas to discuss. Conferences + essay feedback (and office hours) help tremendously. Don't be afraid to make huge revisions, such as complete rewrites (often need to for successful essays). If you're even remotely interested in health, this class is a good way to get through your EXPOS requirement.
This is a great expos class if you are interested in public health. You learn a lot about public health while also improving your writing skills.
The course is awesome because of the preceptor.
There is a lot of reading, more so than other expos classes. The deadlines can kick you in the butt if you forget about them. Jerusha is an awesome preceptor who gives good feedback though!
Challenging and time-intensive but so rewarding. Regrettably, I went into the course with the impression that expos was uninteresting and tedious. I later found out this perception was wrong. An open-mind allowed me to take full advantage of the course.
Although it is called "Paradox in Public Health," it is applicable for anyone interested in science or medicine. This course teaches you everything that previous English courses might have omitted in terms of scientific paper specificity.
- readings are short and interesting- engaging for students with interests in science, public health, medicine, ethics- seemed more interesting than the other Expos classes- instructor can be strict but will try to make the class fair- speak up during class- go to office hours for help with essays
