Super low time commitment (except when paper deadlines roll around, but this comes with every expos class) VERY CHILL and easy to get along with and easy to connect with preceptor!! Low time commitment but you get so much out of it = perfect combination.
Like most Expos courses, it's a lot of work but is most helpful if the material interests you.
Perhaps it may sound morbid, but Tales of Murder is an extremely fascinating course.  The writing you will undertake is unlike any writing you have done before; for example, we were not once given a solid essay prompt, only asked to "advance an original thesis."  This flexibility in content is difficult to crack at first, but when the essay is finished, you feel like there is that much more of yourself in it.  Tales of Murder helps you create, craft, and perfect your ideas, and although it is a course based on murder stories, will improve your writing dramatically.
This class, while challenging, really helps develop you as a writer and gives you writing techniques that you will use in the future.
If you're gonna take an Expos class, take this one.  Dr. Shelton is great, the material is pretty interesting, and you're gonna learn a lot.  Highly recommended expos.
I now understand why the College mandates that everyone take Expos their freshman year. This class has completely revolutionized the way I approach papers and even analysis in general. Defending a thesis in a paper is no longer a formulaic topic sentence + evidence task; rather it has become finding ways to create an engaging and insightful argument.
I really recommend this class, mostly because Emily is a really good preceptor.  She has been teaching Expos for a while, so she really knows what she's doing and has a very clear conception of what the course should look like.
Do not expect to find a deep, enriching experience with the subject of murder as the title suggests. Instead, know in advance that this class, like all expos classes, is geared to a development in writing. So, do not expect anything necessarily intriguing about murder or any similar subjects. Instead, be ready to write, critique your writing, and eventually look back on the course as a necessary step to becoming a more articulate communicator.
The Tales of Murder section is the quintessential Expos course. Challenging; requiring complex exploration of ideas, but rewarding too.
The class is difficult, and Emily expects a lot out of her students. At the same time, it is a great expos class, and because of the high expectations, I definitely feel my writing has improved.
It is heavy on analysis of fiction- the research paper included.
Expos classes are going to be hard no matter what, but all the readings and movies for this class were actually entertaining, and the preceptor is extremely nice, a fair grader, and WILL make you a better writer.
Tales of Murder is extremely beneficial to the process of analyzing subjects and coming up with interpretations.  Know that this is very difficult, though.  If you feel you struggle in such areas, and coming up with your own motives for writing, I'd probably recommend a more fact-based Expos course.  That being said, though, Tales of Murder is a good Expos course, and Emily is fantastic and truly committed to helping you succeed.
The writing may be frustrating but it is a well developed writing course.
The expository writing part of any expos class isn't all that exciting, but since you have to do it, might as well pick sometime with an interesting topic.
The readings aren't too heavy. Emily tries so hard to help each and every one of us as best she can. This is a great expos to take. Sometimes the concepts seem a bit flowery and hard to pin down, but just take some time to ask questions and clarify what they are at the beginning and save yourself some worry later.
I found the subject matter and the material in the course to be really helpful in writing the essays. I was really interested in the course title "Tales of Murder", so I was really motivated to write because I found the material so interesting. The course didn't focus as much on certain aspects of murder (like the psychology of the murderer or something like that) than I would have hoped, but it was still really interesting.
This class in particular is structured so that it is easy to get your ideas on paper. Dr. Shelton requires an initial "Discovery Draft" before writing the conference draft in which one just writes to write. You get your ideas down on paper, no matter how scrambled they may be, and there is no pressure to have a strong, correct paper for it is not graded. This draft helps immensely in writing the conference draft.
The amount of effort and thought Emily puts into her feedback is so important in a class like this. While there are only three essays, the number of hours put into each of those papers is incredible, and it is so helpful to have someone so willing to work with you to help guide your thoughts.
Dr. Shelton is a very hard but fair grader. She encourages and pushes you to improve as a writer, so the class may seem difficult at first. If you put the time and effort into your final drafts, though, it's possible to do well in the class.
While this course has interesting readings, it is an incredibly steep uphill battle to do well. I found it strange that I was doing markedly better on my papers in a grad level History course than in a freshman expository writing class. The grading is incredibly tough and Dr. Shelton, while an incredibly kind woman, has the most roundabout way of giving feedback, making it hard to ever give her what she wants.
Emily has an incredible amount of writing and reading knowledge and is very open to share!
It's tough but interesting and good.
I have heard a lot of bad things about expos classes, so i would definitely recommend this one. Topic is interesting and Dr Shelton is really good and is very helpful if you are struggling to think of a topic to write about.
The subject matter of this course is very interesting, and papers have minimal requirements which allow you to use your creativity during the process. There is minimal reading assignments.
Emily is an amazing preceptor! This course makes the Expos 20 requirement at least bearable.
Emily is amazing and the subject matter is actually interesting. Expos is required but this class had the kind of elective feel that made it much less painful.
The readings can be tedious, but overall I think it is one of the better expos classes.
Emily is a great teacher and really supports you no matter how far along you are in the writing process. She is very encouraging and very passionate about the topic, and super flexible about issues you're having or difficult situations.
It's a hard section, but the material is interesting.
This class is a good class to take. Emily is an awesome teacher and the class has some interesting subject matter.
work hard you'll do fine
Sometimes your class experience is governed by your preceptor and Emily is amazing.
Expos is not terribly fun, but Emily is a good preceptor. Since you have to take it, this is as good as any, especially if you like English.
I was a little bit apprehensive about the subject at first, but Emily's teaching is awesome and the subject matter gets more and more interesting as the class goes on. I know my writing improved vastly over the course of the semester.
Awesome preceptor and itneresting course material. Very cool discussions.
