A great course; Dr. Mumme is fantastic at presenting the information. Grading is a little harsh though, as is with most Expos classes
This is probably the best expos there is to take. The material is very interesting. Dr. Mumme is also a great teacher and extremely nice/Unfortunately, it is expos, and therefore probably still will not be enjoyable.
One of the better expo classes, I've heard. Essays were not too difficult to write about (except possibly the last paper...), and the workshops/conferences with Dr. Mumme were very helpful.
The readings aren't difficult; they are actually very interesting. Be ready to write a lot and revise a lot!
Excellent for all concentrators, esp those in the sciences. Very light reading, excellent feedback and much learning. The topic itself generated much interest.
This course has to be the least painful of all of the expos classes. Dr. Mumme is potentially the sweetest person on the face of the earth and she truly cares about your success in the class. There are no mysterious in this class and she will truly show you how to succeed. Furthermore, if you are interested in any type of science degree TAKE THIS CLASS. The scientific approach to writing in this class is invaluable.
A really great Expos course that is both interesting and educational. If you're feeling hesitant about literature, then pick this Expos instead.
This class is definitely one of the better Expos choices. The workload is definitely manageable, not to mention really interesting, especially for those interested in social psychology. Class was well split between discussing the material, prepping for essays, and going over writing mechanics. Dr. Mumme is awesome -- her feedback is very useful and she's extremely easy to talk to. I learned a ton and really enjoyed myself in what I thought was going to be an extremely boring and dry required class!
This is a really nice Expos class that I looked forward to attending each day. The assignments, readings, and discussions all contributed to the overall writing process, so nothing felt extraneous or like busy-work. The topics are all very interesting, so I felt motivated to do the readings and complete the assignments. In class discussions were engaging and often quite entertaining. Dr. Mumme is very clear in her feedback about drafts, so I knew each time exactly what I needed to revise. She is also very accessible for additional help outside of scheduled conferences.
This class has lots of interesting material and assignments tailored to students who want to learn more about psychological experiments and scientific writing. We read about controversial experiments such as Milgram's shock experiment and the Tuskegee Syphilis Study, and we were able to have very interesting class discussions about them. I enjoyed all of the assignments, and even though Dr. Mumme expects a lot from you, I feel that this class helped my writing in terms of how I organize my essays and critique my own essays during the revision process. The workload is also very light in terms of readings. The essays themselves vary because it depends on how much effort you want to put into them. I would recommend you get started very early and turn in the best draft possible because Dr. Mumme puts a lot of thought into her comments on your essays. She's also very accessible through office hours and email. She will definitely help you become a better writer.
Only one reservation - you might feel guilty when your peers are complaining about expos while you have this class! Couldn't imagine a better expos.
This is a fantastic class! When they tell you you have to take Expos, rarely anyone mentions that it can be fun, challenging, and enjoyable at the same time. I certainly didn't expect it, but this was my most enjoyable class of the semester. Dr. Mumme is not an easy grader, so if you are really in for an easy A, don't take this class. That said, if you know that you have to take Expos and are thinking along the lines of "might as well learn something", this is a good shot. Feedback is serious and thorough, Dr. Mumme always has time to go over everything you need, deadlines are more than reasonable, and topics are supremely interesting. If I could go back and choose again, I would do it again regardless of how hard it was at times, just because I learnt a great, great deal while having a great time in class. It's pretty precious :)
if you like psychology (even a little bit), take this class!
This is a great expos class. The reading assignment is not too heavy and the workload is easily manageable. Dr. Mumme is an excellent preceptor and is always willing to answer any questions you may have.
Everything you've heard about Expos is true.
You learn a lot from it.
Expository writing is no fun. But Dr. Mumme makes it more bearable though. Readings were interesting and conferences are helpful. Choose this as your expository writing! It's one of the better ones!
This class provides both a thorough look at some of the major controversies in research ethics from recent decades as well as comprehensive work on writing in the social sciences. It definitely accomplishes these goals well, and as such is a good choice for anyone who has any sort of interest in such topics.
This class is the perfect choice if you like science and are interested in psychology. It is also beneficial because what you learn goes beyond just writing essays. You learn practical information
This expos course was very fun. My friends in other Expos classes often complained about their preceptor being good with returning things, giving feedback, etc; Dr. Mumme is really great and super friendly! I would definitely recommend putting this Expos class as one of your top choices! One small thing i didn't realize about the class was that it emphasizes writing psychological/science papers in APA format. This was slightly challenging for me at the beginning, because I was used to writing literary papers from high school. However, as a potential science concentrator, it was useful to learn and definitely more fun for me than writing literature papers!
This was a good way to fulfill the Expos requirement. The material was interesting and the essay assignments really pushed you to improve different aspects of your writing. The feedback on essays is thorough, detailed, and very helpful. The workload is very manageable. I definitely learned a lot!
Make sure you put as much time as possible into your essays. College writing is much harder than high school writing.
Definitely recommend. This class is a low-stress and interesting way to fulfill your expos requirement, especially if you like social psychology (if you don't, it's still great). Dr. Mumme is really helpful, and the readings are pretty short yet substantive.
Honestly the best course I have taken at Harvard!
Definitely one of the better Expos classes! Readings are not very time consuming and pretty interesting.
This is a class focussed on psychology concentrators which is what I was not planning on doing. My class mates definitely knew more about the topics than me so if you know about some ethical issues in human experimentation than this is the right expos 20 class for you.
This class is a great way to fulfill the Expos 20 requirement. Dr. Mumme is a great professor who is very helpful during the revision process. If you go to her office hours or schedule an appointment with her, she will always make your essay better. This class is also very fun if you are interested in psychology or if you might be a science concentrator because it teaches you how to use APA formatting. Dr. Mumme is also very friendly and sometimes brings in food for the class. I highly recommend this expos
This has to be the best Expos around. Dr. Mumme is awesome, the course material is interesting and the workload is light.
The reading is really interesting, and for an expos class this is pretty painless. Dr. Mumme can be a hard grader but she has good feedback.
This is probably the most painless expos out there and I'd definitely recommend it. It is geared toward scientific writing, though, so just keep that in mind. Like any course, you get out what you put in. The response papers are designed to get you thinking about your draft (not busy work) and the conferences are designed to get you thinking about your revision (some come with questions!). If you do the response papers well and pay attention to comments, then everything will go really smoothly.
Take advantage of meeting with Dr. Mumme, it's very helpful!
It is  very good way to fefine your writing skills.
