pretty painless and interesting as far as expos goes
Being American is an excellent Expos 20 class. The material is interesting, there is a low amount of reading, and Laura, the preceptor, is great.  The final research paper was not as painful as I expected it to be and I really enjoyed learning about how the teaching of history has changed over time. Overall, I would highly recommend it.
One of the more enjoyable, less strenuous Expos classes. All the assignments are helpful, not busy work. The course raises interesting questions of American identity and history, and forces you to think critically about our countries past. The essays are cool, fun to write and the feedback from Laura is great. She is a very relaxed but insightful preceptor and is always trying to help you improve both your argument and your writing skills. You really get what you put into this class, but if you work at improving your writing, you will benefit greatly from this class. Some days are not terribly exciting, but overall I really enjoyed this Expos.
After all the horror stories I've heard about expos I was not expecting much coming into this course but as far as I can tell it was one of the better expos courses offered and the material was really engaging for the most part.
Laura is great. She is flexible with due dates, and is there to help you. The topic of the class is as interesting as you make it.
While I wasn't too excited about the subject, Laura made it as interesting as she could.
This is a great course to take if you want to learn to write solidly about intellectual arguments, but not ideal for history lovers, as the content is actually not very history-centric.
As far as Expos classes go, this is definitely one of the better ones. There is very little work not related to your assignments, so all of the work you do goes directly into writing your paper. There is very little busywork so you feel that your time is well used. Laura is an excellent preceptor and is very approachable and understanding if you're having trouble with the assignments. Also, Laura gives incredibly helpful feedback and you will definitely come out of the course as a much stronger writer.
