A great choice for expos. Professor Wilson does a great job with making Shakespeare and academic writing approachable.
If you want to take a Shakespeare class, you should take a real class in the English department. In this class, you only talk about the plays for a couple of days out of the whole term. That was really disappointing. That said, Wilson knows tons about Shakespeare and is really helpful when you are writing papers. If you are looking for an easy Expos, this class is not the one. A lot is expected of you.
You really need to love writing about Shakespeare. This class isn't a discussion class, analyzing the different themes and double meanings within the plays with your peers. Rather, it's all about writing, structuring your essay, and learning how to write - which is very important. That being said, you really should have a good background in Shakespeare. Since we don't discuss the plays in class, having experience with knowing how to decipher his language while reading his plays within a week or two is incredibly important.  Many people do complain about Expos, but this class improved my writing immensely! Wilson is super passionate about Shakespeare and teaching such that the class passes by very quickly.
This Expos is hard, but very rewarding if you have a genuine interest in Shakespeare or literary analysis (and, often, the analysis of how history and literature combine). Wilson is a beautiful writer and puts a lot of effort into crafting his assignments. However, you also have to put a lot of work into those same assignments!!Overall, as Expos goes, I think this by no means an easy class, but I think it is also one of the more educational ones.Final note---little discussion of Shakespeare occurs in this class, so don't come in with the wrong expectations. Obviously you are reading and writing about Shakespeare, and Wilson could talk forever about him, so you'll definitely get as much Shakespeare as you want from the class, but the emphasis of the class discussion is on how to write paper, not themes in Shakespeare's plays.
The preceptor is great!  It's a fun course if you enjoy Shakespeare.
Can be an annoying class but can also be very helpful if you put the time in.
Take this course if you really like Shakespeare and be prepared to do a lot of the thinking about your thesis on your own.
Make sure you're really interested in Shakespeare before taking this class or you'll really regret it. It's a lot of reading, and could probably be amazing for analysis and thorough discussion so long as you have a strong interest in the material.
I didn't expect to enjoy this class as much as I did. Though Shakespeare can appear to be daunting and difficult, his writing is actually very entertaining and not too difficult to understand (and I speak as a student who had read very little Shakespeare before this class). It really makes you think, and it makes you more culturally literate to read. At the end of the day, this is a writing course, not a Shakespeare course. Also, Wilson is an awesome preceptor.
Make sure you love Shakespeare. As in would read Shakespeare during the semester even though you weren't assigned to this Expos class.
This class not only teaches you constructive ways to write and think academically. It also teaches you how to analyze the world around you and to challenge yourself to interpret it in your own way and find your own truth in it.
If you want to probe the greatest questions of existence, this is the course for you. What beats Hamlet and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead? Think existentialism, empiricism, objectivity, subjectivity. This is the place to be if you're interested (as you should be) in discovering the truth of everything. You might experience an existential crisis--simply growing pains.
This is definitely one of the easiest Expos classes available. It's extremely doable, and the readings are not too much at all. Wilson is also a fantastic human being, who will share the wackiest, most hilarious personal stories with you. He also likes to make really hilarious jokes all throughout class, so it's an overall very enjoyable semester for a class that's required. However, you should have some affinity or interest in English literature (especially Shakespeare), or this class will be pretty uninteresting to you.
