Professor Terrones is a great preceptor! He provides excellent advice during draft conferences and is always willing to help out his students when they have questions! The topic of the course is interesting and immediately relevant and I think everyone who takes this class will come out with a more educated view of HIV/AIDS in culture.
The information and readings are fairly interesting! Just be warned you will not get prompt feedback on your essays or very detailed suggestions for improvement.
Joaquin is amazing, the reading list is amazing, everything is awesome.
Joaquin genuinely cares about his students. He is not only a great preceptor, but also a great mentor and role model.
Joaquin takes a unique approach to the generally mundane expos requirements. He truly engages you and makes you interested in the topic. This course could easily be an analysis of the biochemistry behind the drug work, but instead it becomes a discussion on the sociological context through which HIV/AIDS was found. You get an understanding for both social activism, and the way AIDS affected gay life in America. Though you do discuss the mechanics of writing, the in class discussions go beyond that and Joaquin refuses to linger on tedious information that you could easily just get from a hand-out. Instead, the class is structured so that you build on the topic while also learning to write - something his feedback and his draft conferences will really help you do.
This course completely transformed the way I thought! I came in thinking I only liked math and sciences, but after taking HIV/AIDS In Culture, it opened my eyes to realities of the world and to fight for what you believe in.
This class is likely one of the best of the expos program. Joaquin, the preceptor, is wonderful; he's a strongly passionate, kind, and intelligent individual. The required readings are reasonable as well (and you can pretty much just skim some of the accessory materials). Joaquin is no easy grader, but hey, very few expos preceptors are. If you want an expos course that will leave you satisfied, inspired, and a better writer, then take this class.
I would take this course again and again! It definitely helped to broaden my understanding of the world as it really is.
To say this class changed my life forever is not an exaggeration. I cannot imagine a more important class. You will learn so much more than just how to write well. My eyes were opened to how there is so much more to saving lives than science. This class will make you a better person. Not taking would absolutely be something to regret.
Joaquin is an incredible preceptor and he made the class very enjoyable. I learned not only about HIV/AIDS in culture but I feel that I have improved myself as a citizen and human being, too. As long as you keep up with readings and due dates, you will be fine. My biggest recommendation is GO TO OFFICE HOURS! That is the best thing you can do to get your paper exactly where you and Joaquin want it.
I highly recommend this class! The subject material is intriguing and diverse (readings, films, etc.). You also learn a lot about writing well in this course that will be useful across all academic disciplines.
This is an incredible course. Totally transformational experience. Changed the way I think, the way I write, and the way I approach social issues. The feedback you'll get from Joaquin is amazing. Make sure to put effort into your drafts and response papers to get the most out of this feedback. Don't be afraid to engage with class discussions.
Very engaging class. You learn a lot about writing at Harvard and all aspects about the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
This course gives great insight into an epidemic that occurred not too far long ago while developing writing skills.
very interesting class
Any expos class involves a lot of essay writing, but if you're genuinely interested in learning about HIV/AIDS, you'll really enjoy this class.  Joaquin is a wonderful person and a wonderful writing instructor--there's a lot you can learn from him!  While many of my friends constantly complained about Expos stuff, I never really thought of this class as my "Expos" class--I thought of it as my class on HIV/AIDS in Culture, which I truly loved.
Joaquin is a great preceptor and he's very fair. He also makes an effort to help students in any way that he can, whether that's with being flexible with deadlines or having fun movie screenings for us
This was my favorite course this semester. While many of my peers in other Expos classes complained about their courses, I really loved this class. While I considered myself a strong reader and writer to begin with, I learned a lot of incredible research and writing skills that will be extremely helpful as a college level writer. Discussions in sections were incredibly interesting. The reading was always relatively engaging, though some secondary texts felt unnecessary at times. Take this course - you won't regret it.
It is a great class. Joaquin is a great professor and he grades very fairly. He surprises you at the end of the course as well.
As far as expos classes go, I enjoyed this one much more than many of my friends enjoyed their classes. Joaquin is a great preceptor and I really learned a lot about writing from his class.
This class is so interesting. Joaquin is a great teacher and he helps make the readings accessible and tackles writing in a very engaging away. Not to mention, the subject matter is fantastic and there is a lot of room for creativity. I felt as though my writing has improved.
This class is not terribly difficult. That being said, it is not a walk in the park either, and Joaquin is an excellent instructor, therefore I recommend taking advantage of the opportunity to work with him.
In comparison to the expos my friends were placed into, I lucked out. The professor is great, not too much reading, and the grading is EXTREMELY FAIR. If you do what he asks during your draft conferences, you are guaranteed to get an A/A-. Overall thought me a lot about the social aspects of AIDS, and changed my perspective on it.
It is a great topic to read and write about. The topic itself is not overwhelming; it comes fairly readily and it is therefore easier to analyze and delve deeper and focus on writing quality papers.
The class really is interesting for anyone even remotely interested in HIV. There is a decent amount of reading involved though, but all response papers and final papers get individual responses in a timely manner.
This class introduces you to many forms of writings on the AIDS epidemic, and Joaquin is very good at facilitating discussions about the readings. The papers are not too hard, and they assist you throughout the entire writing process.
It is definitely one of the better Expos classes and Joaquin tries ot make it as painless as possible.
It's interesting and not too much work.
I found this course very insightful into how HIV/AIDS is perceived by society through art. Coming into the course, I wasn't aware there would be such a strong focus on HIV/AIDS in Culture in Latin America, but I am glad there was because I felt that Dr. Terrones had a special connection with HIV/AIDS in Latin America which made him more invested in teaching it and made the class more interesting. I found the course work to be very varied, so some weeks there would be a lot of work and others very little. In the end I think my writing improved, which is the point of the course and I am glad I took the class.
This class is one of the better Expos classes. The preceptor is kind and good at giving feedback. The readings in Unit 1 are really weird and might make you feel uncomfortable.
Even though Expos is required, this class ended up being one of my favorites this semester. The material was interesting and the class discussion was productive. Dr. Terrones is great and I would highly recommend you take course.
This class is culture based and there is no focus on scientific writing, but still very interesting and sparked my interest in studying health policy.
This class is not a science class but it helps one understand the impacts that science and public understanding of it can really alter society. This class really served as a wake-up call to some injustices in society that remains unresolved today, and one can derive all that from examining a book about AIDS X-person wrote.
This class is absolutely great. Joaquin is an amazingly patient, helpful, interesting, engaging preceptor, and you can tell he is passionate about the class. The texts we read in class are at times difficult but without a doubt interesting, eye-opening, and layered.
I would recommend this class to people who want an Expos class that doesn't have too much reading. Even though the class is about HIV/AIDS in culture, please note that the readings and class discussions only focus on a specific demographic of people with the disease. AIDS in the hispanic and black communities is basically ignored, and AIDS in Africa is barely, if at all, mentioned. That said, the class is still good and you will become a better writer.
This was my 6th choice but I was not disappointed by it at all. I did not have a particular interest in AIDS/HIV before taking this class, but I was pleasantly surprised by how applicable this topic actually is to everyday life.  Readings are definitely manageable, some more interesting than others, and Dr. Terrones is helpful and reasonable even though he takes a while to get papers back.
You will receive back very little work, so if you are looking for a course where you get a lot of feedback to improve your writing, this is not the course for you.
Joaquin is an excellent preceptor. He's readily available to meet with you and work individually on your concerns and worries about your essays. Although he tends to return the papers rather late, he provides insightful comments. Overall, I felt that I learnt how to properly craft an essay and my writing abilities (particularly in terms of organization) improved considerable.
Very interesting class, loved all of the readings and materials, but the Preceptor is not good at communicating and giving back work.
The design of this course, and the readings I encountered in it, made HIV/AIDS in Culture one of the major highlights of my first semester. Expos, which apparently is a tedious and unpleasant experience for most freshman, engaged me and really helped improve both my knowledge of the subject matter and of academic writing. Joaquin, however, despite being a wonderful person, was an inconsistent preceptor. Though I still recommend this course, keep this in mind.
If you are interested in reading interesting sources then take the class. However, if you want to improve on your writing via feedback from the teacher, then think again because the essays are not coming back.
Be prepared for a lack of feedback.
Class was amazing, but don't expect essays back on time. If you're okay with that, then take it.
This class is great if you have a genuine interest in HIV/AIDS and/or the representation of disease in culture.
Joaquin never returns emails within 24 hours and some emails he never returns at all. He turns back our essays 2-4 weeks late, which is hard because I had to write the draft of my second essay without the feedback from my first essay. I'm now working on the final draft of my third essay and I still haven't received my second essay back (nor has any other student yet). I also heard that some students last year never got their third papers back at all. I talked to a junior who took this Expos class and he said that many students in his class never got their papers back either and a few students never even got their second papers back. Joaquin also did not give feedback on any of the 9 response papers we wrote. The draft conferences are helpful though and the feedback on the one assignment he's returned so far (first essay) was also helpful.
The readings are interesting but very stark and depressing (as could be expected), although of very manageable lengths compared to other expos classes. There was much more emphasis on the development of AIDS South America during the late 70s and early 80s then I would have thought from the course description. The professor is VERY slow about grading and feedback.
The topic was interesting, and I am glad I know what I now know about AIDS, but there are better expos classes out there.
Such a good class take it!!!
Great Expos class if you are interested in the way a disease manifests itself in society; the course readings are great and the essays were pretty fun to write.
BEST EXPO CLASS HANDS DOWN!
I loved the content of this class! Some of the readings are particularly interesting, and I learned a lot about HIV/AIDS from a cultural perspective, something that I had never really done before. Writing essays can sometimes be tedious as in any Expos class, however, Joaquin really makes an effort to be available and give you great feedback. Bear in mind that much of the writing will be text analysis on how HIV/AIDS is viewed through poetry, short stories, works of art, plays, etc, so it has a considerable amount of literary content.
Informative about the AIDS epidemic, but reading the syllabus is a good substitute for the class.
If you are interested in knowing the history of AIDS then this is an interesting class.
an unharmful expos
Take it if you're interested in HIV/AIDS otherwise, it may be uninteresting
Class discussions were usually dull, but most of the readings were interesting. It is also nice to write a paper on a topic you've picked, that you find interesting.
