Kelsey is a great teacher! You will learn a lot and get great feedback from her. She is a tough grader, but you will benefit from it. I highly recommend taking this to compelte your expos requirement.
Make sure you read the syllabus and are interested in the topic. That way, writing would be easier.
This is an extraordinary Expos class if you're even mildly interested in the subject of resistance. There are a few response papers but they are always directly to the essay you have to write. The preceptor is extremely helpful.
take this expos course if you're genuinely interested in the history of resistance, which you should be because few things are more fascinating (really miraculous) than the small and powerless standing up to the big and powerful
Great preceptor and interesting topic!
I really liked this class. Most people complain about expos, so I was happy to find one that I enjoyed. There is not a ridiculous amount of homework; you can get by with only doing minimal work. Not a major time commitment, but when papers come around you will have a lot of work (just like any expos). The topics are interesting. We looked at everyday resistance (an artist and a college-aged girl), Apartheid in South Africa, and Resistance in Harvard history. I found the final paper very interesting because I had to go to the archives to look at primary sources from Harvard's past. That was really cool. (It is not mandatory to go to the Archives.) What's cool about the final paper is that you get to look at anything you want in Harvard history; it is your chance to be a historian. It takes a lot of work, but if you but in the effort it is DEFINITELY worthwhile. Also, Kelsey is great! She grades tough sometimes, but she is so nice! You will always feel comfortable talking in class, and you will receive good, thoughtful input regarding your paper.
Expos is a class everyone has to take.  It's going to suck no matter what. This one was painful but I have a feeling that it was one of the least painful.
This is a great way to fulfill your Expos requirement. Kelsey is an absolutely wonderful preceptor, and she will definitely help you to improve your writing. I was someone who didn't have a lot of writing experience before Harvard (other than writing AP-style essays), and now I feel much more prepared to write future essays. Some Expos courses have tons and tons of reading, but Resistance has just the right amount, in my opinion. Also, the last essay where you get to investigate a Harvard resistance movement sounded a bit odd to me at first, but I actually had a lot of fun doing it! Just make sure you don't wait until the last minute to start your research, because you will probably run out of time.
As far as Expository Writing as a whole is concerned, this is by far one of the best choices; Kelsey is enthusiastic, kind, and helpful, and the subject matter is engaging.
This class is awesome! Kelsey is a great preceptor too.
This course is awesome
While the topic is Resistance, it's not really too much about resistance movements in general. The first essay is about resistance as a broad concept, the second essay is about apartheid, and then the third essay has you examine a Harvard resistance movement.
This course is helped me become a better writer. The readings are really interesting and there are many opportunities to get feedback. I'd encourage you to take advantage of office hours and the writing center, in addition to the conferences. At times the grading is a little difficult.
I have heard of many Expos 20 horror stories, but this Expos class actually helped me discover a newfound interest for writing, something I never thought was possible. I came in as a student who disliked writing to a student who has gained a lot of insight and sees passion in it. I believe that Kelsey was an extremely important element to the class. She was always optimistic, enthusiastic, and extremely helpful with her comments and the way she guided discussions.
Expos is a hard class, but this one is not that bad compared to what I have heard about others, This particular one was pretty interesting, essay topic wise.
This is a fairly high work, high reward class. Kelsey is a very competent, considerate and helpful instructor, who is very organized, returns work back completely on time (with very helpful comments), and cares for you individually. She also grades fairly. However, it is a relatively high work class, because the final research project will require you to spend time in the Harvard Archives and Libraries which can be a lot of work.
it's a lot of work
One of the better Expos classes.
Awesome class, although the preceptor is leaving so that may change things.
The subject is engaging and you definitely learn how to write but there is a lot of reading that may not always be easy reads.
Kelsey is a wonderful teacher and she really makes the class. I probably would have totally hated it had I not had such an awesome preceptor.
This course uses an interesting lens of resistance to give you key research and writing tools that are very applicable to historical and analytical writing in other Harvard courses.
The course material is very engaging and fascinating. Definitely take this course if you're interested in social change and social justice!
This is a really great expos class, I think its definitely the best way to go for Expos. Kelsey is an AMAZING proctor --she is super receptive and will always do her best to help you. The material is fascinating and you don't actually have to read all of it if you don't want to. The class itself is not at all time consuming --only the weeks where you have essays really hit you hard.
I found this course very interesting. Overall, there is a relatively light workload from week to week. Kelsey is so excited about our work and really wanted us to do well. Overall, a pretty painless way to fulfill the expos requirement.
Kelsey is an amazing preceptor. She really pushes you to go beyond the standard five-paragraph, and gets you to think about topics in a more complex way. I think I have definitely improved as a writer through this course, and I am really glad I took it. The curriculum was also really interesting, and I enjoyed our sections. However, I think that the grading was kind of harsh, but that seems to be the norm in many expos classes, not just this one.
This expos is amazing! I loved it so much. Everyone seems to have had a negative experience with their expos classes, but mine was amazing thanks to Kelsey!
The instructor may be quite enthused about your responses, and have lots of positive feedback. However do not by any means assume that she will grade easily. Rather she grades fairly, but sometimes constructive feedback is not given in full until the final revisions for a particular essay has been returned to you.
Very interesting course content. Could seem like a lot of work at times, but I learned a lot about research. Kelsey was very enthusiastic, thorough in her feedback, and very helpful.
If you really want to improve your writing, learn about some incredibly fascinating moments in history, meet a fantastic preceptor who will be likely the most approachable person you meet this year and who will give you unparalleled feedback (in a timely manner!), take this Expos class. Just be prepared to work hard on your essay (and get some hard grading, although in a completely lovely and fair manner, she just has high standards). However, in return, you won't get a lot of busy homework or busy reading. The readings are truly limited and pack a massive punch.
