Family Matters is a great Expos class! Dr. Watters is incredibly intelligent and insightful and inspired us to become our best writers and thinkers by setting an amazing example. The readings were really interesting--pretty scattered, but it's up to each student to make the most of their time in Expos. She is a harsh critic, but she helps improve your writing immensely, and if you engage in the class you'll get so much out of it. The assignments are scary and hard, but working through them is a worthwhile process. She also tried to help us a little with our presentation, giving mini-oral presentations, etc.
As Expos goes, this seems to be one of your best options. Once you get to the writing discussion, it isn't that great, but the discussions of the readings are great and Professor Watters is a good professor. I would take it.
Dr. Watters is a fantastic teacher.  The readings are dynamic and creative.  Essays took me a ton of time... the commitment really ranged from 3-15 hrs a week... I took a lot of time for my papers.  She may not be the easiest grader, but my writing has improved immensely.  Some of the other expos classes don't seem to compare.
Family Matters is difficult to do well in but it's the texts are manageable and really interesting! Get ready to have to completely rewrite your revisions though because the workshops can really rip your drafts to shreds.
It requires a lot of work and dedication, but it does not go unrewarded.
Dr. Watters is extremely smart, nice, and caring--she will give you the best feedback on your drafts, and you should take it. Be prepared for harsh grading, but you will improve so much in your writing that it won't really matter. Have something to say for every class because you will definitely get what you put in, and discussions are the best when everyone participates.
It's a great class that gets you thinking about the relationships and dynamics between people and their origins - very thought-provoking
Dr. Watters is definitely not an easy grader so don't take this class if you're looking to get an easy A. That being said, you will learn A LOT and improve A LOT, which will help you more later on. I recommend this class to anyone who really wants to improve their writing and is willing to put in the effort required to do so.
I strongly recommend Family Matters, it's a great option for Expos.
Great class but it is much harder to do well in this class than other Expos classes. You wil learn to rise above grades lol.
This class is wonderful. It is super hard, and Dr. Watters is a hard grader. But, you will learn so much from her. This class taught me so much about writing. While it was hard, it was rewarding. Plus, Dr. Watters is perfect and she is an amazing person to get to know.
Dr. Watters makes Expos a worthwhile experience. The readings are mostly enjoyable, and the class discussions are engaging. Dr. Watters may be one of the more demanding preceptors, but this is only because she cares deeply about making all of her students better writers. Her draft comments are extremely thorough and helpful.
When choosing Expos classes for ranking, remember that you likely will not get your first choice. That said, you should consider adding Family Matters to the top of the list. Dr. Watters is not an easy grader (I don't think any of the preceptors are) but she truly cares about your improvement as a writer. You can see it in the amount of time she spends per paper (1.5 hours per draft you turn in). She will write ALL over your paper until it isn't recognizable. But although it's scary, you learn so much more from these annotated drafts than anything previous in your lifetime - I guarantee it. Her ability to tease out the issues of your writing and suggest ways to improve it is truly astounding. In conference, she will sit down with you and give constructive advice that, if you take to heart, will make you twice the writer as before. To do well though, you need to put your heart into it. You need to actually do the reading, come up with questions and comments, and prepare thoroughly for the writing conferences with her. If you do that, you may very well get an A and more importantly improve tremendously.
The readings are very good, the class discussion is very interesting. Professor Watters is simply great, and creates a nice group environment. She is also very demanding and a tough grader, but she provides very good feedback.
RANK THIS COURSE AS YOUR #1 and #2 AS YOU SECTION FOR EXPOS. Let me tell you why...You will either love this class or hate this class with a passion. I experienced both. You will love this class because the reading selections are short, interesting, and funny. The young energetic preceptor makes the time go by fast with fun and light discussion about the text. There is not a lot of extra unnecessary ungraded work like a lot of other expos classes have. The preceptor is not particularly strict about exact deadlines (although she may seem so in her syllabus). DO NOT LISTEN TO WHAT OTHERS SAY ABOUT THE PRECEPTOR BEING A HARD GRADER! She is not a hard grader at all. She is quite fair. In fact, I thought that she was a pretty lenient grader. So, if you are a decent writer, this class will be a breeze for you. If you are a terrible writer, you might not get an A but the class will still be pretty easy. I only spent about 2 hours per week preparing for class time  and 12 hours for each paper, and I did pretty well in the class overall and in terms of grades. The preceptor also invites you over to her home for tea after the course comes to an end! Now for the other component. Some Expos classes are literature-based classes while others are more research/science-based classes. This course is a full on English class. So for all those science nerds, do not take this course unless you love analyzing every sentence of every line in stories. A large part of this class is just discussing the reading assignments. So, if you don't like to analyze or participate, you will hate coming to class. Also, the guidelines for the writing assignments are very vague. So, you do not have much direction to go off of. This class basically is a place for you to practice your writing and read others' writings. You don't learn much about life or such. If you were a good writer before, you will be a good writer after. If you were a bad writer before, I can't guarantee that much will change. In the end, the only thing I learned was how to use the library system at Harvard to look for sources. In terms of writing, I didn't learn much.HOWEVER, RELATIVE TO OTHER EXPOS CLASSES, Family Matters is one of the best to take. After talking with my other friends who spanned across a number of different genres of Expos classes, we all came to the conclusion that this one exceeds the majority of the other ones offered. So, read what I wrote above another round. My advice to you is this: If you are lucky enough to get Family Matters, TAKE IT.
This class is very good. Dr. Watters does a great job of engaging students with the material and is very accessible and helpful. Also, the readings and assignments are relatively short, allowing for more energy to be spent actually analyzing the texts and writing the papers. In this way, I felt that I learned a lot without being overwhelmed with the workload.
Take this course if you are interested in a literature-based Expos. Don't worry about the grades. Just enjoy it. Family Matters is a true gem.
If you have a chance to take Family Matters with Professor Watters, TAKE IT!  The readings are varied and interesting and Professor Watters will go to any length to help you write better and do well in Expos.  Believe the rumors that she is a tough grader but trust me when I say this makes you a better writer in the long run. She is critical but fair and will give you the most honest and helpful advice she can. Take this class!
Getting an A is a challenge, but the skills learned in the class are very valuable and the readings are some of the most manageable of all Expository Writing courses.
It's a fantastic and informative course that is really interesting, but will leave you really disappointed in terms of your letter grades received on your essays.
It's hard but you will learn a lot from it.
It's a great way to get Expos out of the way. The reading is not overwhelming like in a lot of other classes, so you can focus con improving your writing skills.
I would definitely recommend taking this course as the materials are fun to read and frankly there aren't even that many of them. Probably a story a class night (2 stories a week), sometimes a couple a night, but they usually aren't long. Definitely manageable.
Take it for the readings.
Very interesting class, and the workload is not too intense.
A lot of fun, but hard to earn good grades.
The material is relatable and Dr. Watters is an amazing teacher. You will have fun in this class if you really engage yourself.
If you are looking for some great discussion of texts (novels, short stories, essays) similar to those in high school English courses, take this course!
Professor Watters is a fabulous teacher, and if you have the opportunity to have her as an Expos teacher, you are lucky. Expos was my favorite course this semester (something that few people can say), and she was largely the reason this was the case.
Expos will teach you a lot if you choose a class based on your interests instead of perceived difficulty level. I loved Family Matters and I feel like my writing has become a lot stronger since I have gone through this rigorous course.
Dr. Watters is amazing! This improved my writing greatly and engaged my thinking.
This is an excellent topic for Expos. Expos itself is difficult but very useful. Try not to be caught up in the general discourse of 'Expos-hating' that seems to take over most Freshmen - there is no reason why you have to 'hate' Expose or be negative about the work. If it's taken seriously, it gives skills that will obviously be valuable throughout everyone's Harvard career (and later career too). No doubt, having taken Expos helped me in the other two essay classes I took this semester. I could see in very concrete ways that I was applying the principles that the class had taught.Of 'Family Matters' specifically - it is easy to heap praise. I would say that the choice of Expos topic is vital and Family Matters, fortunately, was a great choice. Dr Watters is very supportive and direct preceptor. The subject-matter and course materials are interesting. The research paper gives students a lot of scope. The course also explores themes that are very relevant to anyone starting college - ideas about identity, our own histories, memories and the things that matter to us most.
This course transcends the purpose of expository writing.  Yes, it will teach you how to engage in the college writing and research process, but it will also teach you valuable information about how people's identities are crafted from their heritage and who their families are.  Finally, it will most importantly teach you about yourself and help you discover who you are.
the class has a fantastic, fun, and interesting reading list
