Food is definitely a lot more about the writing and specifically, writing in the social sciences, than the food. You should choose food not because you have a thing for food, but rather because you have a thing for psychology or the social sciences, because that's what the content is more focused on. The workload seemed marginally less than other Expos, and the feedback from Dr. Mumme was excellent.
Dr. Mumme is an absolutely amazing preceptor!  Everyone always warned me about how Expos was going to be my worst class freshman year, but I have to say, I actually enjoyed this class.  The readings were always interesting and our in-class discussions were always informative and fun.  Every once in a while Dr. Mumme would bring in food for us to try (one time she brought in cricket cookies during a discussion about alternative sources of protein!).
I enjoyed this class more than I expected too, and I feel as though I had a better experience than many of my friends in different classes. If you are at all interested in food and stuff, the essay topics should be thought-provoking and not too difficult to write about. My main complaint about this course relates to how much useful knowledge I actually took out of it. My writing, of course, has improved, but I feel as though I didn't learn as much about a subject as many of my friends did in their expos classes. The readings, especially those related to psychology, are interesting, and have taught me many interesting facts, but haven't really made me feel any increased mastery of the topic. Take this class if you are interested in controversies surrounding food, but not because you want to become an expert on food-related topics, such as psychology or economics, as independent reading would probably help you more.
This is probably the best class (as far as I know) to fulfill the Expos 20 requirement. I took this course thinking Food would be an easier topic than interpreting poetry or ancient Indian philosophy. I was surprised at how complex a simple idea like food can be. Be prepared to be original in your writing and come up with solutions to various problems. I would highly recommend this class. It will change the way you think about your food.
This class is definitely one of the better expos classes.  Not only is the reading interesting, but there is also sometimes yummy food to eat.
The readings are very interesting, and Dr. Mumme will give you great feedback on your writing!
Take this course! It was by far my favorite class freshman fall. Topics were engaging, and I always had fun writing  the essays.
This class is easily one of the best Expos classes.  The coursework isn't too difficult, and Dr. Mumme is a wonderful professor.
It is interesting, Dr. Mumme is great, but it is only about psychological writing so make sure that's what you want to focus on
