Encouraged to voice my own opinion through my writing unlike following a formula like in highschool. You're encouraged to develop your own writing style which brings a new hope to writing essays.
It will help you transition from high school to college writing.
I think it is worth taking because it is a light writing course that teaches you a lot!
It is up to you to improve your writing to the magnitude you would like
Expos 10 is a highly beneficial experience. If you are placed into the class do not take it as a negative, it is a joy and is very helpful in preparing you for Expos 20.
You will definitely see your improvement with every writing. It is such a helpful course.
It's better to take this class preceding expos 20 even if you were not recommended for it; this class can raise you to a better place in your writing through attentive care before expos 20.
I strongly recommend taking this course if you don't have a strong writing background, because it's a smoother introduction to college level writing and will better prepare you for Expos 20.
My advice is that if you've placed into Expos 20 but you're still unsure of whether to jump down to 10, take 20.
The preceptor is amazingly funny, friendly, and simply put, awesome. You will love being in his class. If you're going to take Expos 10, it's a shame not to take it with Professor Weitzel. I could never imagine taking it with anyone else. He knows how to highlight your problems, your strengths, and show you how to turn everything into even better strengths, all while making you laugh.
Expos 20 may be overwhelming. If you have doubts about your academic writing skills, this is where you should start.
I would absolutely recommend taking this course. It really helps improve your writing and give you a lot of confidence in your writing abilities. If you have any doubt, take it!!!
A great way to strengthen your skills in academic writing! I was told I could take 10 or 20 and am SO glad I opted for 10, my writing, especially in things like formulating theses and citation, has been strengthened greatly.
I felt that it was informative but it wasn't necessary to take.
Expos 10 usually has a stigma attached to it, and many students feel that if they are placed in Expos 10, that they are less skilled writers. This is not the case, I think that Expos 10 was incredibly essential to learning how to write a college paper, and I would encourage everyone to take it, regardless of whether they were placed in Expos 10 or 20.
Worth to take.
Even if you get placed into expos 20 really consider taking this course! It was not a huge amount of work and it was extremely helpful learning about college writing in a non-stressful environment.
It definitely helped me gain confidence in my writing and learn different writing styles--persuasive, research, etc.
If you are placed into expos 20 but still not confident enough of your writing skill, especially if you are an international student whose native language is not English and have never written any analytic writing before (which is like my case) I highly recommend this course. The course serves as a wonderful introduction to college writing. William is a fantastic preceptor- he is patient with all the questions, quick thinking, and extremely helpful.
Great introduction to analyical writing. Good launch for Expos 20.
This is class is not hard, but it's challenging. The readings are really interesting and the class discussion are thought-provoking. I really enjoyed it and would completely recommend it.
This is a great course to learn the fundamentals of analytical writing! Highly recommended!
Take this class if you want to learn how to think and analyze in an advanced level. This course will definitely solidify the foundation in writing for your future Harvard career.
This class is a great place to build confidence in your writing. It helped me ease into college writing, and will hopefully help me in my future classes.
Take it if you are recommended for it, because it will get you back into the groove of writing before you have to just walk into college and start writing a bunch of long papers!
While it may seem like you are placed in this class because of your lack luster writing, this class is designed to not only improve that writing, but also increase your ability to think and organize your thinking in a way others can follow. And that is the most important piece of writing. This class does not mean you do not know how to think, but rather, need help translating thoughts to paper - a task that is difficult.
If you feel that your writing is shaky, take expos 10. It will definitely help.
