A great Expos course. The material is really interesting and the readings are super cool. But take this class because Michael is awesome and he really loves the subject matter and is a great person to talk to about life, philosophy, or anything.
This class is an interesting introduction to the basic schools of thought in Hinduism and Buddhism. Readings and discussions make dense material understandable, it is definitely interesting and thought-provoking but also a very difficult topic to write about. The preceptor is very friendly and helpful, but has rather rigid and traditional expectations for writing.
Taking an expository writing class on philosophy is difficult, because philosophical writing pushes the student to describe very difficult concepts and with the same clarity asked for by all expos courses. If you're ready for such a challenge, however, or if you like philosophy in particular, this course teaches the themes of expos in a uniquely impacting way precisely because of this added difficulty.
Michael is an amazing preceptor who does a great job of introducing Indian philosophy even to students with no background in philosophy. The readings are manageable and quite interesting, and Michael provides useful feedback for each paper.
Expos in general, but this material specifically is the death of intellectualism.  The subject matter gave you no depth and no grounding anywhere.  You write papers that are the intellectual equivalent of "Catholicism vs. Protestantism: the 6 page paper based on two 10-page excerpts."  That said, Michael Allen gave a good faith effort and was a helpful writing coach.
The course is hard, but oh so rewarding! It was mainly hard because the readings and philosophical concepts were sometimes difficult to understand (and thus difficult to write a paper on). However, Michael has given me some of the best feedback I have ever gotten on an essay, and he really goes out of his way to help you do well. It takes time and effort, but it's really worth it.
Great instructor but topic can become kind of boring after a while.
If you have any interest in Hinduism or Buddhism or the meaning of life at all, this class digs very deep at the heart of these religions and concepts. This is an excellent self-reflection course, if you can find a self in you at all.
I really enjoyed this course. The readings and writing assignments were manageable. Also, Hindu and Buddhist concepts are taught in a way that offers multiple perspectives.
If you have an interest in the material, this class is an excellent way to fulfill your Expos requirement. Michael gives incredibly helpful feedback on everything from style and writing to analyzing these often very difficult texts. The course is very organized and the readings are all super interesting. Take this Expos.
Open your mind and you will be blown away by this class!
I took this class with no previous exposure to philosophy or Indian religions.  I was able to take a lot out of the readings as Michael took his time to provide detailed background notes.
This is a tough expos. Michael will make you really work for your grade. That being said, I never thought he was unfair in his suggestions or grading. This class really doesn't feel like expos--it feels like a philosophy course with a little extra attention on writing. If you're already a decent writing and want to learn how to make your writing clearer and stronger, this is the one!
This class has been one of my favorite classes this entire year. Preceptor Allen is one of my favorite teachers ever and the readings are pretty interesting as well. I highly recommend this class to all freshmen.
It will change the way you think about yourself, others, philosophical questions, and the world, IF you take it seriously and engage with all the readings.
Although everyone seems to hate Expos, I really enjoyed Dr. Allen's teaching. This was even my favorite class (at times). Also don't procrastinate on the essays--but my telling you that probably isn't going to change who you are.
I don't think this is being offered next year, but if it is: take this!  It's great fun.  The philosophy in this course is really productive to think about, and might help you out if you are depressed or something.  If you are just melancholic or something though, it might make you depressed.
General outside reading on Buddhism and Hinduism would help.
It is not often that you hear that Expos was an enjoyable course. Even more seldom will you find someone that tells you that Expos was their favorite course. But I can emphatically say that this Expos was the best course I took all year. Dr Allen is a fantastic instructor: funny, approachable, engaging, and inspiring. Like most Expos, if you have an interest in the material, the assignments will be considerably less painful. I had a fair amount of background and a very strong interest in Buddhism and "Eastern" philosophy, so writing the mandatory expos papers was surprisingly fun.
If you like studies of Eastern religion, you'll probably enjoy this course! Michael's an incredible instructor, too.
It is a good course, but hard. I think this is one of the harder expos 20 courses.
Such a shame that Mr. Allen is not teaching this class anymore. I learned a great great deal about Indian Philosophy and definitely did think about it a lot!
