If you're more into the sciences, then this is an expos course that will give you a decent level of exposure to various psychological concepts.  It's actually quite interesting to learn about them and then decide how to apply them to cases in the real world.
This course has the potential to make you a better writer. For one, Professor Tierney clearly puts a lot of time into her feedback on the essays and the material she prepares for class. Also, the topic of the course makes for good writing and research material (if you are interested in it). I would say the two main focuses were structure and clarity, though the class really covered a lot of different aspects of writing. The workload was not to overbearing, and I was pleasantly surprised at how much I got out of this class.
This course is very interesting and you will actually learn a lot about the psychology of risks. The course is, however, very focused on health risk (something I did not realize when I signed up for it). The material on which papers are based can also be difficult - you will actually have to take time to read it to understand it. The final project is very fun and an opportunity to explore almost anything you wuold like.
This is an excellent Expos course for those interested in psychology or scientific writing. The topic (the psychology of reasoning about risk) is fascinating, and the readings are very light. The grading seems to be slightly tougher than the average Expos course. The most important thing about any Expos course, though, is the preceptor, and Professor Tierney is fantastic. She's incredibly knowledgeable, a dedicated teacher, and a really great person.
This course will likely make you a much better writer, and if nothing else will make you more confident in your writing, and especially in structuring essays and putting forth a strong argument. Professor Tierney gives great feedback and does not assign superfluous assignments. The reading for this class is very low, and when there is reading it is never dry.
This class is very interesting and I learned a lot about why we do what we do, but the essays are graded difficultly, so be prepared to do a lot of work on the essays.
This class is honestly a great Expos. The essay prompts are really interesting, there's a lot of feedback, and you really learn how to become a better writer.
Expos is a mandatory class and no Expos class is perfect. That being said, On Risk and Reason has light reading (huge plus!) and is very interesting, even for someone who has no real interest in psychology, so it's very manageable. Professor Tierney is a fair grader, which means your grade won't be very high and you'll have to work hard to get above a B+ on an essay.
I definitely grew as a writer and learned from this class, and it was interesting being able to think and write about how we reason about risk. Although the papers and other work seemed to be busy work at the time, they really pushed me to become a better writer.
It is an interesting and, at times, difficult topic to learn and write about.  Professor Tierney expects a lot from her students but gives great feedback and really develops you into a better writer by the end of the course.  If you are interested in psychology and looking to get your expos requirement out of the way, this is a good class to take.
On risk and reason is an excellent choice for your expository writing class. Professor Tierney is an excellent instructor.
This course helps you learn how to write clearly and logically. It is a great class to take if you are interested in science and psychology especially.
TAKE THIS EXPOS CLASS!  It was actually probably my favorite class this past semester.  You will receive meaningful feedback on your work, and the topic is really interesting.. whether you are interested in the sciences or the social sciences, this class will probably be of interest to you.
This was a new Expos class, and I think it will be even better next year. Dr. Tierney gives great feedback on your essays, and I really feel like I am a better writer than I was before I took the class. The topic is also very interesting, though I think some of the readings and essay prompts could be improved. All in all I definitely recommend On Risk and Reason as a great way to fulfill your Expos requirement, especially for scientifically-minded people interested in learning about writing for psychology and the sciences.
Timely and useful essay evaluations from preceptor. Interesting neuroscience articles that are not too heavy.
TAKE THIS EXPOS!!! The material is extremely interesting, there are not a ton of readings, and Dr. Tierney is an amazing preceptor.  She is very nice and super accessible, and will give you really helpful comments on your drafts.  Class was very informal and fun and my writing definitely improved.
A lot of students complain about their Expos 20 classes, but even though I usually dislike writing expository essays, I found this class to be fascinating inside and outside of the classroom, through our readings, discussions, and writings. Take this!
Expository writing is a class where enjoyment depends on how much you like the subject and how much you like to talk about your opinions and thoughts. Grades are somewhat as good as your relationship with the professor, so make sure you talk plenty with him/her and in class.
This was a fantastic expos section! The preceptor is very nice and understanding, while also very thorough in her feedback on your papers. She returns things incredibly quickly and always has thoughtful and useful feedback for you, even in the revisions that you send in. She puts a lot of effort into the class, which really pays off for the students. The reading for the class was not nearly as heavy as it is for other expos sections, and it is even interesting for most in the class. Overall, the class was extremely enjoyable and the best way to fulfill the expos requirement, especially if you are interested in the course topic. She is a fair grader, so you might not get the grades you are used to getting, but she always explains why she gives these grades and they are always reflective of the quality of the paper. Unless you come in a fantastic writer already, your writing will improve significantly because of the thoughtful feedback she gives on all assignments in the course. Take advantage of this fantastic expos course! You will not regret it!
start your essays early
The class looks at risk from a science perspective so make sure that you are interested in this.  The discussions and articles were interesting.  The biggest problem was the structured nature of the essay prompts that didn't allow for originality in the essays.  Hopefully, this will change because it could then be a great expos.
This is a great course for people who are interested in science and psychology. The readings are interesting and we learned a lot about the way people reason.
I would tell them that the subject matter is very engaging, and that it exceeded my expectations for an Expos class.
Make sure you like psychology.
It's a fun class if you're into cognitive reasoning behind decision making. Second choice class for me, but I'm glad I was put in it
This is a good Expos class. I learned a lot about writing and greatly improved as a writer by taking this class. The material is quite interesting, but it is quite science-based, so be warned if you aren't truly interested about science and the brain.
If you want to challenge yourself, then take this course. If you don't want to be pampered with A's all semester, and what to see your writing actually improve in the context of an intense, interesting topic, take this course.
If you are interested in exploring psychology - take this course.
Good expos.  Interesting subject material, not much reading, thought-provoking prompts (but be careful about your choice of subject on the last one), solid preceptor.
You definitely need to put work into it and I think it was a little more rigorous than a lot of other expos classes from what I've heard. But the material was definitely interesting and it taught me how to write in the scientific style.
It improves your writing skills but the process of getting there is very difficult.
Great class focused in psychology and human reasoning. Has real life applications and get to read some interesting literature. The Unit 3 research tasks allows you to opportunity to research fields other than health.
Take this class! The sources are really interesting, more psychology based so they aren't long but have a lot of material to work with. Professor Tierney is really legit, she knows what she is doing and she will help you immensely if you reciprocate the effort! I loved this course, and I think it can help anyone develop strong writing skills. You can get extremely helpful feedback and Professor Tierney recognizes hard work really well. She will work with you through any problems you have. I even had the worst writer's block for my final paper and in the midst of panic she consistently answered my questions and talked through materials with me until I was absolutely thrilled with my final paper. I would definitely take this course over again!
