As far as expos go, I loved this class! Professor Becker is so lovely and made class go by quickly. She is very helpful over email and meetings if you have any questions about your essays. However, she likes "overhauls," so you will have to basically rewrite the whole paper after each rough draft, making it seem like you write 6 whole papers over the semester. You will be writing 13 short stories by Hemingway and Woolf and two novels (one by each), and will have to engage with them for each essay, so it definitely helps to be interested in at least one of the authors. The final research paper only requires you to use two external sources--and one can be one of the sources used in class discussion.
This class generates very interesting and engaging discussions. If you enjoy Woolf, Hemingway, or literature in general, then you are likely to enjoy this course. Take advantage of the preceptor's thorough and insightful feedback on your papers.
Dr. Becker is really cool, really nice, and (most importantly) gives really great feedback on drafts, proposals, essays, etc.  DO NOT take this course if you don't like writing lit papers or if quality literary analysis does not come easily to you.  This was a HUGE struggle for me, and made the class way less enjoyable.  Otherwise, cool course.
This course was lovely and I was interested in the material, but as far as Expos classes go it was a lot of work and required a lot of reading, so I would recommend it only if you have a strong interest in the subject and are willing to dedicate substantial time to the work.
Make sure to stay ahead of the scheduled, and fully understand everything covered.
The readings for this class, both primary and secondary sources, are excellent reads which makes doing the readings themselves as well as written work for the class really enjoyable. Professor Becker gives excellent feedback and the class provides a great forum for discussion with other freshmen.
If you have never read Hemingway or Woolf this class is a great way of getting to read and learn about both.
All Expos classes are the same regardless of subject
If you like Hemingway and Woolf, its for you!
I would tell students that the texts examined are magnificent, but the class itself is not entirely useful.
Even though the class is mandatory, it was incredibly helpful for understanding college writing.
To really read the books ahead of time so that you can engage in class discussions and have a good understanding of the text when you write the papers.
Have a real inclination towards Woolf and Hemingway.
I would recommend this course to a specific individual looking for a highly literary based and more traditional English-Lit style expository writing class. If this is not what you are looking for, then it might be best to choose a different topic
This is a wonderful course in that it helps you develop your writing skills while also reading some works from two great 20th century writers. The professor is also very nice, engaging, and gives great feedback on your papers. This is a definitely a great expository writing course to take!
This class was the most constructive fun I had all semester. My writing skills greatly improved, in an environment that challenged my perceptions of the text and encouraged me to write to the best of my ability. A mixture of small group peer editing, one-on-one evaluations with the instructor, and regular seminar classes made for a good variety of learning opportunities. The expectations for students in this course are high, but the standards set by the instructor are a motivating force throughout the course.
Interesting topic/good reading but the professor inspires lame conversation, and doesn't at all compare/contrast the authors but treats them separately.
Pick an Expos you actually like.
Writing papers can be extremely frustrating at times. Often more so after taking this class. The better writer you become often the harder it is to write something satisfactory.
Make sure to do your best on every assignment. Even while it may seem unimportant, all of the exercises contribute to your growth and will make you a better writer.
