Participate in class discussions and make the best use of your expos conference! Oh, also make sure to go watch movies too- if you miss it, it's really hard to get a copy of the movie and catch up!
Mr. Weitzel is a very good preceptor.  He helps you strengthen your essay by challenging you to connect your body paragraphs in a substantial way to your thesis statement.
This is a great class that teaches about writing using wilderness as a lens. The books we read (into the wild, cry of the Kalahari) are interesting and the assignments will make you a better writer. If you're interested in the wild, this is a great Expos option
Extremely interesting and relevant, very good class if you are interesting in wilderness and the outdoors, otherwise you might be bored
can get dry very occasionally but the instructor i had managed to work through the rough spots. a oscillation between no work at all one 1/2 week or week to a lot of work another
It's a great subject and it's taught by an enthusiastic and experienced teacher.
I feel that I did not learn much from this class, and that much of class was spent inefficiently--listening to other students' ideas (though if they neglected their readings, these were not productive).  This is not the most rigorous or intellectually stimulating.  We did not analyze texts in depth.  The readings and screenings were fairly interesting, but you can learn a similar amount by reading them on your own.  I feel there must be better expos 20 classes available.
Make sure to put in the effort to do the readings, do the drafts on time and most importantly listen to the advise of your preceptor in revising your drafts because that's where the actual improvement in writing skills occurs.
As far as Expos goes, Into the Wild is one of the best. But it's still Expos, and still feels sort of useless, and is still just a required class that you have to take--a required class the university really needs to improve.
The teacher has a lot of energy and the readings are interesting
The topics are interesting and William is a great teacher. However, the essays are very challenging and they can be difficult to write if you don't have a deep interest in wildlife and conservation. If you really enjoy nature and would be able to write about it, then this is a great course. However, if this is not the case, this course could be less interesting.
This course is great especially if your interested in the wild. It does not require a lot of out of class work and certainly not as much as other expos courses. If you like the wild and don't want an overwhelming course TAKE THIS! Great course.
William is the man, and this class actually got me excited about writing.
Great way to fulfill Expos! William is a kind and encouraging preceptor.
It's expos. You have to take it. This is one of the least painful ways to do that as the instructor is very chill and the papers are relatively short.
This class is a great way to get through the Expos requirement. William is an amazing teacher who cares deeply about the wilderness and environment. He makes himself very available to students, and leaves ample comments on your papers. This class didn't result in a seismic shift in my writing ability, but it was interesting, challenging (but not too challenging), and overall quite enjoyable.
Take the course with the easiest Q rating, because I got my first choice, and I would have preferred a less interesting topic if the writing was easier.
As far as Expos classes go, this is one of the better ones. I greatly enjoyed the reading assignments and the material we talked about. Also, William was a very cool guy.
If you love the outdoors or are interested in wilderness, then this class is excellent for you. The coursework is very challenging, but the material and discussions are always very interesting.
The readings were interesting but the essays were brutal
Expos is Expos, but this is a fairly painless way to meet the requirement. William is a great preceptor- he makes sure that everyone is included in the discussion and always brings our readings back to writing, so they don't feel pointless. The readings themselves are pretty interesting.
Professor Weitzel is one of the best teachers on campus. It is an amazing class in which you'll really have fun and learn a ton about a wide range of wilderness literature and media while greatly improving your writing and critical thinking skills. It's a fantastic course that I would highly recommend, plus the amount of work won't kill you like in so many of the other Expos courses. It is really efficiently and effectively planned out. I loved the entire semester!
You have to be into that nature trip
It is a very interesting class that allows you to explore various aspects of expeditions in the wild.
This is a really great and painless way to satisfy the Expos 20 requirement. That being said, you probably ought to like the topic. If you're interested in expeditions and the environment, you'll enjoy the readings and discussions.
The instructor, William Weitzel, is a great man and one that you would want to be your teacher.
The readings are all non-fiction and section is often frustrating.
It is easily the best class I took all year and definitely the best expos out there.
Excellent class, definitely improved my writing a lot. Will is a great guy and is really good at criticism that builds your writing in a constructive way.
