Before you take this class know that it is about the manner in which we study history and the implications this has on our society as a whole. But if you are at all interested in history or social science be sure to take this course! It was phenomenal and I really learned a lot. I hear about a lot of people who do not enjoy their expos class but I can say with certainty that I really liked this class and I never felt like it was a burden or that I would rather take something else. Overall very good!
I started off the year thinking this was my least interesting class, but only because all my others were so great and this was required of me. By the end, it was at least on par with the others. For those interested in American history, the essay topics are excellent, and Dr. Adams is a strong preceptor.
Take it if you are interested in American History
Take this course only if you have a strong interest in History.
This class is helpful and you analyze a lot of different parts of history which makes in interesting.
This class is for anyone who loves reading about history, but it isn't a history course by any means. I loved it, but be prepared to analyze what historical narratives mean.
The course is less about US history as it is the sociology of history. The grading is pretty straightforward. If you follow the (generally helpful) directions given in conference when revising, you will likely receive a good grade.
You can't go wrong with Laura Adams. She provides excellent feedback and has you write three very interesting, diverse and unique papers. It sometimes feels like  you learn just as much about "social memory" as you do about writing! Laura even shows you examples of her writing in academic journals and points out both the things she wishes she wouldn't have done and the things she considers strengths. She is lively, interesting, and an expert in Central Asian Studies. She wrote the book on Uzbekistan...literally. You will leave this course a much better, more articulate writer!
Very good course. Also, light reading
I would take this class because Laura Adams knows her stuff. She's able to critique your writing in a constructive manner and give you a thorough explanation on how to improve your writing. She made me a much better writer and I really appreciate all the feedback she has given me this semester.
this is a good course, but really focuses on analysis of others historical interpretation.  Its not really about analyzing history but peoples interpretation of history.  just know that.
This class was really cool because its main focus was on the portrayal of certain controversial events in US history in literature. You gain a better understanding of history, while at the same time, learning how to write an effective essay.
It's not easy. Try to get an expos class that doesn't give you that much work.
The preceptor is amazing!
You have limited choice as to who you get for Expos, but I doubt you will find Laura not to be a good teacher. Her Expos class is fun and you may find yourself learning something you never knew about U.S. history in the process. The class is not time-consuming, you won't need all the readings for any given essay, so the bulk of work is in the essay. You will come out of the class feeling like you earned your grade, as opposed to being given it.
The topic gets pretty dry halfway through. However, that may just be because of my own personal interests. If you are crazy about American history and examining the meaning of American-ness than this is certainly the class for you.
This is a course on analyzing history textbooks, not history itself.
It is very interesting and the teacher is great.
it's expos...
This class is more focused on American identity rather than American history
This class is ok.  The readings can get a little boring but you'll get a lot out of it if you put in the work
Th topic of the course is far more of a history and educational course than an actual course on demographics or American identity
You get as much as you put into this class, so if you can, put a lot of work into your drafts and revisions!
