Need to be interested in the course material to enroll. Otherwise it will be boring.
Doesn't feel like the stereotypical Expos class; very interesting; great preceptor
I strongly reccomend that you take this class. It was the best class I took all semester. The information about writing and the more general information that we learned about HIV/AIDS was very valuable. Joaquin is an amazing instructor and always kept section very interesting. He was very fair in his grading and gave great feedback.
Joaquin is a very good instructor and writing coach. He has done a lot in this semester to help me become a better writer and to think about many things differently. The only thing that causes trouble at times is how quickly he responds to emails. At times you may have important questions you need answered about assignments that may take him a while to get back on.
as expos courses go, this is a pretty good one. i felt like i didn't hate it like some of my peers hated their expos courses
More so than I anticipated, I found this course very engaging, interesting, and enjoyable.  Joaquin is a compassionate instructor who makes it easy to comfortably approach a sensitive topic.  Having only been tangentially interested in the culture surrounding HIV/AIDS before, I now intend to further explore the topic on my own.  In terms of the writing assignments, Joaquin offers very fair, constructive criticism.
Expos is just one of those things you have to get through, and having an amazing teacher like Joaquin is the only thing that really helps make it better.  The topic is great and interesting but there's not a ton of relation between the topic and the course requirements, but Joaquin's feedback is the most important part anyway.
Take this class! Joaquin's great, the reading's are all manageable and interesting, and the class discussion is enjoyable. Definitely one of the best expos classes.
Great expos class!!! Joaquin is such an amazing teacher and person in general! Definitely take this expos class if you're at all interested in the portrayal of HIV in culture or even in disease in general because it definitely gives you a different perspective on HIV. Honestly, expos is a pain that every freshman is going to have to take, but I'm so happy I chose this one!! Definitely recommend!!
I would highly recommend this course for the Expos 20 requirement.  Most people hate expos, yet this class is so enjoyable.  Joaquin has such a broad range of knowledge, and is so helpful in terms of writing that I got so much out of this course, in terms of writing and AIDS education.  Whether you're into science or not, this class is a great look into the culture of the country during the AIDS crisis, so it gives you a completely different perspective.  Joaquin is the best, and you should definitely take this class!!!
So incredibly interesting. This class evokes passion within the people that take it.
Prepare for a semester of insight and education through art and literature that will give you a much broader perspective of the AIDS epidemic! I highly recommend it!
Joaquin is a great preceptor that really makes your writing better and seems to grade fairly. The class is pretty interesting.
In comparison to other EXPOS sections, this class was great. We received better writing advice, feedback, and grades than what I've heard from other EXPOS students. Joaquin is a great preceptor who really takes an interest in his students. This is a great class!
This class is an excellent way to complete the expository writing requirement. Joaquin holds very engaging classes and the material is very thought provoking. I would highly recommend this course even if it was not required.
Expos is a requirement each student must get through, and this course is an excellent way to fulfill it.  The readings are interesting and class discussions stimulating.  Although draft and revision times may be stressful, it is better to have an interesting topic to deal with than to not.
This class is arguably one of the best expos classes. Though the material is often heavy, it's engaging and very easy to read. The prompts are all thought provoking and very fun to write to.
This is a great Expos class as it exposes students to a perspective towards HIV/AIDS that is not much discussed in our culture. It is a very enriching course, and therefore, the work for class is never tedious but rather very fascinating.
he takes a while to respond to emails and return work but is a great teacher and when at his best he really creates an environment that not only is interesting, but leaves you at your seat wanting more.
Joaquin is an excellent TF and you will undoubtedly learn to become a better writer, HOWEVER, make sure you select an expos course with a subject matter you are interested in and passionate about..Not because it has a high Q score. The class is great, but as the course progressed I found it hard to find things to write about since I was not very passionate about the subject.
You have to take an expos class, and this might be your best option. It focuses on a perhaps overlooked part of our history-- the AIDS crisis in the 80s and 90s-- through the lens of American and Latin American culture, making it fascinating and unlike any other class I've taken.
Great course. Not too much work, very informative about writing and HIV/AIDS. The essay topics are very interesting (you usually get to generate your own), as well.
The material and readings for this class are always very interesting and Dr. Terrones does a great job of both explaining the writing process and conveying the material/leading conversations in an interesting and engaging way.  When I began expos, I was of the opinion that obtaining an A was impossible and grading was never fair.  However, I believe my papers were graded very fairly and there was always an opportunity for more feedback, though I didn't always think the papers were completely relevant to the subject.  Overall, a great expos course and preceptor for anyone interested in HIV/AIDS, medicine in general, or history.
Enjoy it, just enjoy it.
Very good Expos course. Even if you're not interested in the subject, you'll quickly develop a liking for it. Instructor is great.
Dr. Terrones is a great teacher. He knows the material incredibly well. He managed to make the course feel less like a mandatory Expos writing class and more like a multidisciplinary humanities course.
This course presents a different way to view HIV, AIDS and terminal illness. Some of the medical jargon gets in the reading, but most of the course focuses on the cultural impact of the disease. The course reading can get pretty depressing, but it is interesting.
This is an excellent class that teaches you how to transition from high school writing to the more formal, academic style of college writing. I'd highly recommend this class to anyone taking Expos 20 next semester.
This is a great Expos course to take.
Put an effort into the class if you want to get anything out of it. Dr. Terrones is incredibly helpful and a highly effective writer. Take advantage of office hours, draft conferences, etc.
It is a class that focuses on material in the humanities.  There isn't much of a scientific component to this class.
HIV/AIDS in Culture is definitely an amazing course, with very relevant and interesting material presented to teach about the start and continuation of the AIDS epidemic. Dr. Terrones is an amazing teacher as well as person and gives very coherent and helpful advice to really focus the goals of essays, which makes what may initially seem like intimidating writing subjects into manageable and interesting research topics.
Professor Terrones will guide you through the writing process, allowing you to make meaningful connections between the readings and artwork, and ultimately teaching you how to think clearly and critically to write a cohesive essay. You will leave this course with the confidence to tackle any essay you may encounter over the next four years of your undergraduate career. Professor Terrones will help you find your voice to effect change in society. I strongly recommend this course.
The material is interesting, but be warned: it is not a science-based writing course. I went into the course thinking it was more focused towards science majors but it is a literary writing course. Professor Terrones is so helpful and passionate about the subject and as a result the discussions are really interesting. The only downside is that the pace of returning feedback is slower than for most other expos classes though.
This class is very focused on the writing process, and less focused directly on HIV/AIDS. It is an extremely interesting course in its reflection of the epidemic and takes more alternative routes to look at the information.
Be prepared for certain periods of the semester which are dense with work.  You must do quite a bit of reading at the beginning of each unit, and obviously you'll spend much time writing the unit essay toward the end of each unit.  In the middle of each unit, the workload tends to be lighter.
I learned a lot about writing essays and the AIDS epedimic in this class, and I really enjoyed the readings we did. They were all of a combre tone, but a lot of them prompted me to think about how we view and treat other humans and they really humanized the AIDS epidemic for me. The preceptor is also a suuuper nice guy, and he gives really useful feedback. I often felt that he had the ability to figure out what I was trying to say, and he'd guide me to the most effective way of presenting my argument in our draft conferences.
This class was the best class I took this semester. Joaquin is an amazing professor, and I really liked the way he taught the class. The individual conferences were extremely helpful.
You can get away with doing light readings of articles and only reading the primary sources you like/plan on using in your essays.  This makes for a very light workload for an expos class.  Only do as much reading as you need to put in a few insightful comments in discussion.
Joaquin is a an amazing person who is kind, easy-going and is very good at facilitating discussion during class.  However, if you do choose to take this class, expect to rarely get responses to emails, and to rarely get papers back in a timely manner.
I would tell them the literature we read in class was very interesting but that organization may have been lacking in the course, as in the case for example, of receiving assignments in a timely fashion. I could say I learned how to write really well though.
As far as Expos courses go, this course is interesting and not too much work. Dr. Terrones is really helpful when it comes to drafts and essays.
I would tell the students this class is eye opening, fun to be a part of, and very informative--I would definitely recommend this with great enthusiasm!
I would tell future students that is an interesting class, but you may become tired of learning about the AIDS epidemic if you are involved in other courses in that area. I would consider how interested you are in the main topic of the course. However, the essay assignment were reasonable and varied.
Great class with a manageable amount of work and a lot of benefits. You learn a lot and improve writing skills too. Not stressful at all and no tests or final exam is awesome. Love having a final paper instead of final exam.
Its a good class if you are interested in womens and gender issues and HIV/AIDS epidemic.
Make sure this is a topic you are very interested in.
its waaaay too much work for what it is
In class discussion is painfully awkward because very few people do the reading because it doesn't help you write the essays.
I feel that, in retrospect, you might appreciate this course more than you do while taking it. Yes, you may have your share of awkward silences and moments of confusion, as we did, but overall, the positives outweigh the negatives. You may feel like you only took a few things away from this class, but those few things are essential to strengthening your writing. You may enter Harvard pretty confident about your writing skills based on High School, but this class really shows you that there is always room for improvement. The course helps you look at your writing from another perspective, letting you explore different ways you can get your ideas out in the form of a cogent essay. Furthermore, what you learn about the HIV/AIDS crisis is moving, distressing, and highly humanizing. This course really lets you see how a disease is so much more than a medical phenomenon or a set of statistics.
Although this was not my first Expos course option, I am extremely glad that I was placed into Joaquin Terrones' HIV/AIDS in Culture. Come in with an open mind and prepare to have your views on HIV/AIDS altered for the better. This course is an eye-opener. The readings are very relevant, engaging, and thought-provoking. Joaquin is a fantastic professor, having studied at both MIT and Harvard, and his enthusiasm and knowledge in the subject area is astonishing. His feedback on essays is invaluable. He makes himself easily accessible to students with draft conferences and weekly office hours. In the event that he is off-campus or if there is an essay deadline approaching, he will hold office hours via Skype. I especially appreciate the fact that he made most readings available on the course website, saving me a lot of money. Your enjoyment of this class is only dictated by the effort put in, so it is recommended that you set aside a few hours per week for the readings and essays.
it's hard because i felt that the narrative (aids is bad, poor gays were stigmatized, big bad government didn't do anything) was pretty set & the only discretion we could exercise was HOW aids was bad/gays were stigmatized/government was inactive. that said, the materials were interesting & it's a topic that i wouldn't have explored otherwise.
