The subject is general enough to be relatively interesting to just about anyone. Generally well organized, sometimes the essay topics are very general.
Though the instructor for this class is very nice and willing to help, I'm not entirely sure that this class improved my writing.
This class is an nice look into the social and political entanglements of archeology, but not as much into how work in the field is actually conducted.
A nice option for the dreaded Expos requirement. The topic is interesting and the instructor approaches it with great excitement. The readings are not substantial, compared to other Expos courses, so it is a great option for someone looking to learn a bit about archaeology with light work and fulfill the Expos requirement. Plus, the paper prompts give you a great deal of freedom.
Expos 20 (Who Owns the Past?) is an interesting Expos class for anyone interested in archaeology. It delves deep into archaeological issues and material is very comprehensive and enjoyable to read. Its workload is medium; readings/assignments can be nuisances, but the class is not too bad. Essays are manageable (there are only three). Overall, if you have any interest in archaeology, take this Expos. You shouldn't be disappointed.
This class is not particularly interesting, and nearly every aspect of it is forced.
Janling is a great preceptor. He gives ample critiques on your drafts, so you know what to improve before the graded version is due. He also is very thoughtful - planning movie events and barbecues to bring us together as a class! Overall, I had a great experience, and I wouldn't choose any other Expos. I can objectively say his suggestions always improved my draft, and made me a better writer. He really wants to help you, and really cares about the class! The readings aren't incredibly time-intensive. However, I would caution that you should definitely have an interest in archaeology before taking this class. I found the readings enjoyable, but I could see how they wouldn't be if you weren't interested in the subject.
Who Owns the Past? is, by far, the best Expository Writing class.  I initially went in with the mindset that Expository Writing is one of those requirements that you just have to deal with and won't enjoy it.  That is absolutely false with this class.  Janling is an amazing preceptor and is always willing to help.  All the course materials are really fascinating.  I highly recommend this class!
This specific EXPOS class was great in terms of feedback but maybe a little lacking in guidance. Janling is great, though, and you'll enjoy the material.
I have heard such awful things about Expos, but I liked this class, other than the fact that three papers are a lot to write for it, especially as they are graded so hard. Out of the choices for Expos, this seems to be one of the best.
Expos is somewhat of a hand-holding experience, and Janling is a great preceptor who understands the goals of the program very well and well help you. Fear not about expos if you are in this class.
Take this class! Besides the papers and readings, there's very little work, and Janling makes in-class discussions enjoyable and keeps the subject light.
Although this course is titled "Who Owns the Past," it really focuses more on the political and social aspects rather than the philosophical ones. Much of the course's content deals with nationalism and the legality of archaeological finds.
This class is based on history that isn't normally taught in most history classes.
If you are interested at all in archaeology, this is a great Expos option! I'm most likely concentrating in Gov or Bio, but I've found archaeology to be an interesting subject and I really enjoyed learning more about it through this course. (I found the topic made the course so much more interesting - I'm not sure I could have made it through Expos with a different subject!) All the course material is interesting, and the course is pretty well designed, so I would recommend it to anyone who finds the subject interesting.
This class is pretty interesting, even if you don't have any particular prior interest in archaeology. The workload is also fairly light in general, and Janling was always very fair with deadlines and giving extensions. I highly recommend choosing this class for expos
Pretty decent for an expos class.  It's not the most exciting material, but there isn't too much reading and you do get a glimpse into the field of archaeology.
Expos is painful for most students. Choose the least painful expos class.
take the rough drafts seriously; if you put a lot of effort into those, your final will be a lot stronger; your rough draft doesn't have to be perfect, but it should have some key ideas so you can build for the final
This is a great expos that is really interesting, particularly if you have an interest in archaeology, and does not have a lot of work at all. Class discussions can be really interesting if you have a good section and the better the discussions, usually the less assignments (such as reading summaries) you have.
Take this class. I'm a pre-med, not remotely interested in archaeology, and I took the class upon a friend's recommendation. Janling is the best preceptor out there, and he really cares about you learning something about archaeology and why it's important.
Expos is a necessary evil and one of those things you just have to push through. This particular expos class (Who Owns the Past) is a bit of a bummer. Very little of it is actually about archaeology; most of the course actually focuses on the implications of archaeology on society as a whole, which can be a little abstract when students don't have the much-needed base of archaeological knowledge that the course assumes. Still, watching Indiana Jones is pretty awesome, and the paper on it isn't half bad. Overall, this class is fairly decent, but don't take it simply because you love the idea of archaeology--only take it if you have some interest in the greater applications of archaeology.
As an expos class the writing assignments are fair. The main advice would be only take this course if you are interested in archaeology otherwise the readings and some of the assignments are pretty boring.
