This course is very demanding but it really gives you the opportunity to take Expos seriously and truly improve your writing. It completely changed the way I approach texts and construct my arguments.
A lot of reading, very specific paper topics, essays graded mostly on structure on format, not on ideas.
It won't always be easy, but this class definitely has its merits. You'll likely do more reading for Expos than any of your friends, but the books (despite their density) are intellectually stimulating - and the discussions perhaps even more so. Dr. Chen might come off as intimidating at first, but he's a fantastic preceptor and an inspiring thinker. His critiques will undoubtedly help you improve your writing style and his guidance will leave you with a very profound understanding of the major works of political philosophy.
It is a lot of work but highly rewarding.
Although there is a lot of work and the material isn't easy, it is worth it.
The class was very difficult, but don't get intimidatedyou learn a lot, and it's certainly worthwhile.
Dr. Chen comes off a little hard on your writing at first, but he really does help to improve your writing skills. The course title is a little misleading, expect to spend most of the time on ancient Greek concepts of the ideal State.
This class is extremely rewarding, but should only be taken if you have a lot of time in your schedule to devote to the readings, which are heavier than just about every other Expos course.
Professor Chen is great! Stay on top of the readings and work really hard on the first draft of your papers.
This class is engaging, and you will learn a lot about philosophy over time. But, it can be difficult at times.
This class helped me hone my writing and gave me a greater understanding of what goes into an argument. The readings, on the whole, are interesting, and Dr. Chen knows his stuff. The discussions are lively. if sometimes tangential, and there is a good class atmosphere. This is what I expected from an expos class.
It is a lot of work
It's certainly one of the more intense Expos classes, but if you're prepared to put in just a little bit of effort, you will be rewarded greatly!
While this is probably one of the hardest and most reading intensive expos classes, it is probably also one of the most interesting. Dr. Chen is fantastic, and he works really hard to get good discussion going in section, and give people useful feedback on essays. Section discussions are usually great, although they can occasionally get bogged down in minutiae. Ultimately, you also come out of the class having read at least some of Plato, Aristotle, Toqueville and Rousseau which is pretty cool.
The reading material is interesting and challenging, and the class discussions are sophisticated and engaging. Compared to most other Expos classes, this one has much more reading and work involved, so don't sign up for it if you are already taking a heavy course load. Owen Chen is a great preceptor and gives useful feedback in conferences.
It's a decent amount of reading but the assignments and discussions will be worth the effort. Dr. Chen is outstanding and has a lot to offer.
It may be a lot of reading, but it is definitely worth it.  The topics are excellent, and Dr. Chen does a fantastic job of facilitating meaningful discussions. Easily my favorite course of my freshman spring.
Read the required texts at least everyday to keep up with the reading. Review the reading packets given to you by Dr. Owen Chen from time to time.
Do all the reading
There is a lot of reading for this class, but it is all very useful. If the class sounds interesting, and you're willing to do the work, I'd definitely say to take this class.
Great class, compelling discussions, interesting material. Dr. Chen is very knowledgeable and understanding.
