This class is really interesting. The professor really helps improve your writing style and works with you to improve your drafts.
This class is so interesting, and the professor is amazing! Keep in mind, however, that it is very science-oriented.
If you're the science type and have to take a writing course, this is the one for you.
Honestly, this is one of the best Expos classes you can take. It's science-oriented and has some very interesting ideas and discussions that make it a much better option than many of the expos courses offered.
Helps you grow a lot as a writer, maybe sometimes a bit tedious (I don't like writing much) but definitely a class that develops important skills.
One of the best Expos sections. Do not save your essays for the night before, and write drafts as if they are your final copy. You can do quite well if you put in the time.
If you're expecting a "science class," this won't really be one - it's really focused on writing and the science is very social science-oriented.
This is an amazing class! Everyone who took it, loved it. It can be difficult to get the grade you want, but you won't care because you will learn so much information relevant to your lives.
You must be able to read data papers and draw information from them
This class is great if your are into the sciences. If not it can be pretty challenging.
Very appropriate for students who are interested in evolution, darwinian theory and social aspect of relationships.
Not too much work, and its very interesting, Professor Krakauer is really nice and helpful.
Get feedback frequently! It's so helpful!
Very interesting class! The topic was very modern (and not too scientific) and allowed students to pursue their own interests/topics in the last essay. Probably one of the best (if not the best) Expos classes.
This is a really interesting class because it applies to the modern-day life of a college student. I now view male/female attraction completely differently and am much more aware of the science behind it all. It was difficult at times to understand some of the readings because they were written for a scientific audience, but it gets easier with practice.
Definitely one of the better expos classes, but pretty much no one absolutely loves expos, but obviously it's a mandatory class so yahh
This class is so helpful! Elissa did a fantastic job with picking the literature. This class completely changed the way I look at people and and is probably the most interesting class I took this year. Expos can be very tedious, but the literature is short and interesting.
If you are interested in scientific writing, take this course. If you are not interested specifically in scientific writing but would like an unusual and very fun and interesting topic, take this course. If you hate scientific writing or looking at science from a fun perspective, think twice about taking this course.
This is by far the most interesting expos class out there, you will won't see the interactions between the sexes the same after you take it. The subject makes it engaging to write essays and what you learn through the readings can be applied to everyday life.
If you're interested in the topic, definitely take this course. I enjoyed my Expos experience a lot. Even though I don't know whether I'm going into the sciences, this course let me grow as a writer in general. And the preceptor is a super sweet, cool person who knows lots about monkeys!
This is a very fun class. Often times people will tell you that Expos is a synonym to suffering, and while writing is an arduous task, this class truly makes the experience very enjoyable.
Awesome topic, interesting enough to be a part of a class in and of itself, but also teaches writing.
Interesting topic, but it is still an expos class, which means you still have to write papers. It is quite fun to read all the sources and even collect data on your own though!
you will read a lot of data papers in the class. you have been warned. while this topic is interesting, it is sometimes difficult to write about.
Darwinian Dating is definitely a fun and engaging class; the topic of human attraction is really interesting and relevant. However, the papers we read and discuss in class are scientific in nature, and our writing assignments are expected to mirror that tone. If you are considering this class, it would be good for you to have some background or interest in biology and scientific literature.
This is probably the best Expos you can take. It doesn't have too much reading, you definitely learn how to write because Professor Krakauer is brilliant at pinpointing weaknesses in an essay, and it's a great Expos for those more science-oriented.
Best class to fill the Expos requirement with!
If you don't have enough time to do very long readings, and if you are looking for an Expos class with considerably less work than the other Expos classes, then Darwinian Dating is the way to go. If you actually want to learn how to write in a non-scientific way, then choose another Expos class.
Definitely choose a topic for Expos that you are interested in, because otherwise, it can be very difficult to write several papers about it. Compared to other Expos classes, Darwinian Dating is probably one of the more fun topics. Professor Krakauer was an amazing preceptor and her constructive comments were always helpful. Don't be afraid to go to office hours to ask for her help, no matter what stage of writing you are in.
If you are a person who doesn't really enjoy reading and writing very much, this is a great expos to take! The reading is never too much as compared to some of the other classes and the writing topics are fun. Any expos you take will require you to write the same amount of stuff, so it just comes down to the topics you'll be writing about. This class is not super scientific as you may think looking at the title. We read super interesting articles about human attraction and what men look for in women and what women look for in men. I feel that almost anyone can enjoy this class, and Elissa is a GREAT professor!
The class is definitely more interesting than a lot of other expos classes ive heard people talk about. Expos in general is a pretty annoying thing that you just have to get done so may as well talk about sexual preferences!
If you're taking an Expos, choose this one! The material we write about is fascinating and the readings we are assigned for the papers are interesting in all three units (especially the last two). Doing independent research for the last unit was also a lot of fun and Elissa is a great teacher who gives in depth and constructive comments on the both draft and final papers.
It is difficult and presses you to really critically consider your argument, but very interesting material and helpful feedback. The more you use what she tells you, the better your experience with the writing and the course.
Go into this class knowing that yes, you will talk about what men and women want in dating partners/spouses ( lots of fun believe me :) Prepare to be enlightened); however, you have to realize that essentially it is a writing class and that it will push you to write in ways that you never thought were possible. Dr. Krakauer is amazing and she expects only the best from you; that is, if you are willing to do the very best you can. Reach out to her( Heavens knows that I did so many many times) and she will help you. This class helped me grow as a writer and I feel so much more comfortable with writing assignments now, considering that I came from an academic background that was more problem set oriented
For an expos class, this is one of the best ones.
Darwinian Dating was a very interesting topic. The essays were pretty fun to write
Take this class.
This class is by the far the best expos class. The professor, Elissa, is amazing and the material is so interesting, I mean who doesn't want to learn more about human attraction. Honestly, I would not trade the experience I had in class for anything. This was an amazing class and I would strongly encourage everyone to try and get this expos.
This is a great Expos class if you enjoy science and do not want a class that is too literary. The readings are all science papers but are very interesting, and it is very easy to grasp the concepts. The challenge lies in putting together a creative idea into a strong thesis, but that is the essence of Expos writing.
You have to read a lot of scientific sources and studies
This is one of the best Expos classes. While the subject matter is inherently interesting (human sexuality from a biological perspective) the instructor is also friendly and helpful. The readings are not at all heavy and usually they are engaging as well. Good if you want a writing class that teaches you about writing for both the humanities and the sciences.
Grading is a bit more harsher than other expos classes, but writing the essays for this class is rather painless, consider the topic. If you want something interesting to write about, then this is a good class for you. However, be weary if you are trying to get a 4.0.
Use writing center. Go to office hours. Ask questions whenever you have them - the professor is very nice and helpful. But don't expect expos to have too much an effect on your writing skills....... Always keep that in mind no matter which expos class you end up in - it's just a..systematic...thing.
The topic is interesting, but that doesn't mean the class is easy.
Of all the expos classes, I wouldn't choose a different one. It has a great topic to research and a great preceptor.
I really enjoyed this class. The in-class time itself was very chill, and it was nice to get to know the other students. There's a fair amount of felxibility in the papers to go in a direction you're actually interested in.
From feedback I've gotten from kids in other Expos classes, this is one of the most enjoyable and interesting. Elissa's a fantastic preceptor who really is willing to make herself available to you to improve your writing skills.
It's a fun, interesting course, but grading is a bit on the hard side
Great class. The workload is manageable and you do not need to buy any textbooks for this class! Definitely one of the best EXPOS classes at Harvard. Take it if you can get in!
The material can be interesting and there isn't too much work outside of the required papers, but it's still Expos.  If you don't enjoy writing, don't expect this to change your mind.
Elissa is an excellent preceptor. It's a lot of work, but definitely worth it; you learn so much about college writing in the humanities as well as in the sciences.
it is very helpful for understanding relationships and what men and women look for in each other
Grading is hard but it is worth it
Expect to do a lot of work that doesn't have to do with writing, and lower essay grades than you are used to.
Be happy this is your Expos class - you will learn a lot of actually interesting material, and have a great teacher!
It is a great course with a lot of interesting material.
Great class. You will learn how to write well in the sciences and in the humanities, as well as about the differences between the two. Additionally, you will learn a great deal about evolutionary biology, human attraction (very revealing!), and how to approach scientific literature. You will also have the chance to perform independent research on the topic, which is a great opportunity that you hardly get in other Expos classes. Take it.
This is a very interesting class and allows you to view human attraction in a whole new light. It was a good balance of sciences and humanities.
