This is definitely a gem class, especially if you've ever done anything like it! You definitely get as much as you put into it, which is also awesome!
This class is amazing! It really is a gem and extremely special. Lottery as many times as possible until you get it.
A must take. 10/10 would recommend. The skills you learn in the course are applicable to so much you will do after college, from job interviews to presentations. Margie and David are also great. Get to know them!
I want to give a very honest review about Expos40 because I think the past evaluations might be a little skewed, and I would like to give a balanced perspective. I think Expos40 is a wonderful course and is probably one of my favorite courses that I've taken at Harvard, but to say that it is the most life-changing course and that you have to go to all extents to take it is a bit of a stretch. I'm still giving this course a 5 because it was very well-structured, the material was interesting, and the course overall went smoothly, but it's difficult for me to say that this course is the MOST AMAZING course that will transform you into a superstar speaker. You will most likely improve as a speaker as you get feedback from your peers, and the mere practice of speaking is always beneficial, but I think you get out as much as you put in. The material was particularly relevant and beneficial for me as I think the techniques I learned through the readings helped me think about speaking from a critical perspective. Expos40 also aims for you to get more comfortable with yourself by making you do silly exercises and activities with your peers, so this is also another big plus. But I think it's important to keep your expectations in check. If you are very shy and withdrawn, you probably still won't be able to speak with full confidence in front of a huge audience. This is partly because you speak to the same section for all your speeches, so you get closer and more comfortable with them as time goes on. In terms of the difficulty of the course, I was pretty stressed each time an outline was due or a speech was coming up, but I think that's just the nature of the type of work involved (creativity and public speaking are inherently difficult). However, overall, the courseload was manageable, and the assignments were reasonably spread out. I think, overall, if you put in the time and stay on top of your assignments, you will enjoy this course and benefit from it. With that said, if you don't lottery in, don't be too sad or upset as there are a lot of opportunities to practice speaking if you seek them out.
More work than you would expect, but HIGHLY recommend. one of the most rewarding classes I've taken at Harvard.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. I not only managed to learn a lot about myself and improve my public speaking skills but also got to know the students in my class fairly well.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! I lotteried so many times before getting in and Im so glad I did - this class is phenomenal, partially due to Margie and David (the two most supportive, caring and passionate faculty on campus), and partially due to the fact that because the class is only 30 students in size, the classroom actually cultivates friendships that go beyond the class. The skills you learn are applicable to anything you may end up doing, and will affect the way you speak and hear speech on a daily basis. Bottom line: you will learn so much and come out a better version of yourself.
def a must take
This is an absolutely fantastic class, everyone at Harvard should take it before they graduate.  It's incredibly unique in the way that it fosters a sense of community among the students in the class, and I would definitely recommend it.
Lottery and take it if you get in. I'm not eloquent or articulate and I'm terrified of public speaking, but learning from my peers' performance and my watching my past speech videos really helped my public speaking. You really get to know about your peers, their stories, their passions. One thing I wished I had done more was making announcements in the beginning of every class. You only get to present 4 speeches, therefore, seize every opportunity to practice (volunteer to make announcements, to act during impromptu speaking / acting).
I lotteried 4 semesters for this class and it was definitely worth it. This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard and you learn a lot about how to be not only a better speaker but also more analytical about other people's public speaking. You hear some amazing stories from other students and it makes you appreciate the resources Harvard gives its students. This class is a gem.
This class is incredible and life changing! Public speaking is a skill everyone needs to have and this a fun and low-stakes class to take in order to gain a skill that will actually be applicable to many real life situations. Plus you get to know your classmates on a deeper level than in any other class and that is really what makes the class so fun and interactive.
Expos40 is one of the few classes I've taken at Harvard that I will actually a) remember the material from and b) use all the time in other classes and in my post-grad job. It is such an incredible opportunity to be challenged to improve yourself in a way that you hardly get to at Harvard, where so much is based on non-verbal assessment and tests that measure IQ and not EQ. Not only do you learn a lot about public speaking and communication on a broad and specific spectrum (i.e. gender and communication), you will also become incredibly close with the class, especially your specific color section. I rarely get to know the other people in my classes, but as the semester went on, many of the people in the blue group (my class) especially would walk back to their dorms together after class, get clover together, etc. People share some pretty amazing things during their speeches, and it builds a really tight sense of camaraderie. It goes without saying (but I will say it anyways!) that you should absolutely try to take this class if you can.
At least lottery. It will change your life. And you will meet people who become some of your greatest friends at Harvard.
I couldn't feel more fortunate to have taken this class. It is so unique at Harvard to have a class environment that feels so positive and inclusive - it really was like a little family. I learned an incredible amount in this class, not only how to be a better speaker, but also how to be a better listener. Additionally, I learned so many important lessons from my classmates on all different sorts of topics and through all different sorts of speaking styles. I can't recommend this class enough!!!
Expos40 is the one must-take class at Harvard! Although it took many hours per week, you learn so much about your classmates and about public speaking that I feel like I better understand not only political rhetoric but also the diversity of experiences here at Harvard.
This is a wonderful experience and I wish everyone at Harvard had the chance to experience this. Apply early for this class and keep applying if you don't get in. The instructors, David and Margie this year, were amazing and made class fun. You'll learn so much that you'll be able to use in the real world. If you're more comfortable with public speaking, this class will be much easier and you won't need to prep as much, and you'll still improve through various rhetorical strategies. For someone that has difficulty with it, this class will take much more time in terms of prepping for speeches, but you'll get so much out of it.
This is without a doubt one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard. I was skeptical at first, but if you buy in this class is an incredible opportunity for personal growth. There's a huge range of speaking abilities coming into the class--the course head's do a good job getting a mix--so don't be scared off by the really impressive people the first day. Start lotterying now, underclassmen!
Great class! It has more of a theater influence than I expected, but overall a great class.
THIS CLASS IS AMAZING!!!! You will learn how to speak in front of a large group, become aware of your voice and body language. Most importantly, you will make strong friendships and learn a lot by watching your peers present their speeches. I dropped a secondary and a citation for this class and it was totally worth it because I gained life long skills that I use everyday.
No matter what your interests are, public speaking is something that's always helpful. Margie and David do a wonderful job at creating a welcoming atmosphere for everyone, regardless of their experience. The activities done in class are great, and I think they definitely aid in reducing anxiety and stress before speeches. I would have to say, though, that there aren't as many opportunities to speak in front of the entire class since you're separated into 2 groups for speeches (everyone's together during non-speech days). Sometimes you might get stumped at developing your argument and/or topic, so make sure you reach out to Margie/David or a PST (Peer Speaking Tutor) in advance! Overall, would absolutely recommend!
A must-take class at Harvard
Truly an incredible class that has allowed me to get to know a cohort of amazing Harvard students through their passion and aspirations. Margie and David are not only fantastic and hilarious instructors but also wonderful and empathetic people. They made the class feel comfortable from the first several minutes and created a very safe space for us to push ourselves. I thought I wouldn't take the class because I figured I would have plenty of opportunities to practice my public speaking outside of class -- DO NOT DO THIS. TAKE THE CLASS. It is so much than a public speaking class. It is an opportunity to learn more about yourself and a group of amazing people. One of the best classes offered at Harvard, truly.
If you're lucky enough to lottery into this class, make the most of it! Looking back, I wish that I had tried even harder. Kate and David are there to help you improve, and I don't know if I'll ever get another opportunity to have such supportive and insightful mentors who are devoted to making me a better public speaker.
An amazing course that everyone can learn a great deal from. It's fun and very lay back. The only advice I could give would be to make sure you read the instructions carefully on each assignment to not stupidly lose points.
You will hear so much eulogizing about this class. I agree with most of what they say. What I'm here to tell you is that it has its drawbacks. This class will require four mandatory hours per week of your time, in class. It will require that you inevitably embarrass yourself in front of your peers on at least one occasion. It will require that you be criticized by your peers for your viewpoints and performance in public speaking. That said, I am not trying to dissuade you from lotterying or taking this course. I am trying to help you succeed if you are lucky enough to get in. With the current structure of the course and its simplistic rubrics, the way to do well is in fact not to challenge yourself. You should pick topics that you are very comfortable with for your speeches, check all the boxes, and have fun. Be organized, as the curve is tight, and many of your classmates are not at this school to learn. They are here to do the work expected of them. With a cookie cutter class like this, you need to work at or above the standard they set. You may think of this course as an opportunity for growth. It is. But it is also a class, and it's easy to forget that when you're having so much fun, but don't.
Even if you only have one elective spot total during your time at Harvard, you would really be missing out to not choose Expos 40 to fill it. You will make friends, increase your confidence, learn about nuancing your beliefs, and become passionate about your future!
This is a truly incredible course!!  so much growth in how to deliver a speech and connect with an audience....also, you form such strong bonds with your classmates!
If there's one class which will have more practical application to your life than any other, it's this one. Take this class.
This class will change the way you behave and think about not just speaking in public, but also to speaking in general, standing, talking, even breathing.
This is probably one of the most useful courses offered at Harvard. If you have minimal or no public speaking experience, you will learn what is necessary to craft an effective speech and to present it effectively. If you have some prior experience, you will greatly refine your skills and learn to speak with greater clarity and confidence.
This class is an amazing opportunity for you to become a better speaker, a better writer and a better student.  If you have the space in your schedule, TAKE IT! This class will revolutionize the way you think about so many things (i.e. writing, speaking, sections at Harvard, Harvard).
This class will open your eyes to body control and structuring your arguments.
No matter your academic pursuits or professional aspirations, this course will help you improve as a writer, a speaker, and a communicator, something which all stand to benefit from.
This class is really one of the best classes you could ever take at Harvard.  The knowledge you gain is practical, and not limited to speaking--your critical reading and listening skills will greatly improve as well.  This class offers individual interaction with a great instructor, ample opportunity for learning from and working with peers, and plenty of room to personalize assignments so they are most relevant to your life and your interests.
"This is, hands down, the best class I have taken at Harvard. The instructor is amazing, knowledgeable, and creates an environment perfect for enhancing your public speaking skills."
It's probably one of the most useful things you could take. BUT, not merely for the sake of "speaking well." Learning how to speak well actually underlies our ability to communicate well, period.  And this much more directly so than is the case in learning how to write; the way that writing instruction is set up in Expos and in many of the concentration tutorials and other classes, students often as not only learn rudimentarily how to structure essays, with the pressing need to fill the page requirement, just fill the page requirement, usually overwhelming the foundational skills needed for good argumentation. (I've been there.)  Long-windedness or complexity of vocabulary and grammatical construction is not a substitute for clear thought. This course, by nature of its emphasis on direct, clear, focused communication between an arguer and listeners all semester long, does much better to teach good writing than many of the courses that have huge writing assignments.  In fact, it'd be ideal to integrate the tenets/assignments of this course with those of Expos, making every incoming Freshman having to take a mandatory yearlong "Argumentation and Effective Communication" course that would serve as the foundation for further studies.  Similarly structured assignments could then be seeded in different Gen Ed classes to continue/strengthen the practicing of these foundations throughout the undergrad years.  Imagine Harvard students actually beginning to learn in a cohesive way how to make clear their thoughts, convince others, and challenge ideas. Expos often takes a lot of credit for being the paradigm of writing instruction throughout the country. But the model is incomplete and inconsistently executed as is. The College needs to take the difficult step and start the reform now.
You should go into the class with an open-mind. You may be asked to do crazy warm-ups that you are uncomfortable or nervous about. But, if you just let loose and do it, you will learn and grow so much through out the course.
This class is an absolute must. It will not only improve your writing and speaking, but it will also improve your confidence in everyday conversations, debates, classes, and presentations.
This is, by far, the best class I have ever taken at Harvard.  More than any other class, it has prepared me for real-life situations in which I will have to formulate and evaluate arguments.
By far one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Not only is it practical and self-reflective, it was also really fun.
While the class succeeds in laying out the basics of preparation and presentation, it fails to adequately simulate "real-life" speech scenarios. The most unfortunate aspect of the course is the impossibility to imitate the "public" venues in which one might hope to put their public-speaking into practice. For organizational purposes, students end up giving four speeches to a small, intimate audience of peers in a similarly small, intimate classroom. Of course, this set-up does come with benefits! The relative comfort of the setting makes A) presentations less nerve-racking (especially for those prone to stage-fright), and B) the ability to experiment and take risks much easier. So, in short, if you are interested in this course, realize that you will not be making grand presentations to thousands of strangers in Sanders Theater. You will, however, be better prepared to make that grand presentation after taking the course!
This is BY FAR THE BEST CLASS ANYONE AT HARVARD COULD TAKE!!! Among the countless strengths of this course, the very close bonding you form with your classmates is priceless. The teaching staff is also AWESOME.. BOTH OF THEM!Above all, I believe the main strength of this course is the way it affects your character.. This class made me discover so much about myself and made me a much a more confident person!!
The quintessential Harvard course. More than just a course, I couldn't wait to go to every class just to interact with everyone in the classroom.
Get ready to make a lot of wonderful friends and be pushed out of your comfort zone!
Best class ever. Life changing.
This is the class you must take by the time you graduate. It teaches you skills you will actually use in real life. Saying you will learn to prepare speeches and deliver them confidently in front of an audience doesn't do the course enough justice. You will also become friends with the people in the course and you will know everyone's name by the end. If Margie and David still teach it, definitely take it.
Take this class....seriously. No better class at Harvard for working on a real-life skill and getting to know your fellow classmates in a genuine way. Instructors are awesome and knowledgeable.
This course will in all honestly change your life. I've never been in a class before in which I learned such practical skills and was part of such a great class community.
This was a very helpful and practical class - one of the few that Harvard might offer.  You not only develop your own skills but are able to meet new people and see their progression as well.  Great class.
The class is so useful. Speeches every few weeks can be nerve-wracking, but that decreases over the course of the class, and that nervousness is important. Great class camaraderie. Very valuable experience. As always, the class does the most for you when you put time into it and think about applying it to other parts of your life.
This is a phenomenal course. It's a great class to take any semester of college and I highly recommend you apply as many semesters as possible so you get a chance to take this class. It is eye-opening and life-changing and you will actually learn so much- not just about public speaking, but about how people view others and all of the small intricacies that make up social interactions.
You only get to speak in front of the class four times. The rest of the time is spent hearing your peers speak and having the rest of the class provide feedback. This feedback gets really repetitive. You give presentations to the same 16 people to whom you get incredibly close--could explain why people get alot better at their public speaking. Most students come in already being incredibly proficient at being on stage.
THIS IS THE BEST AND MOST USEFUL CLASS YOU'LL EVER TAKE AT HARVARD!!!! I Can't even begin to describe how this course have changed my life and my confidence.
By far the best taught, most useful, and most impactful class I've taken in my four years.  I wish everyone who applied to the class could take it!!  Marjorie and David were the most approachable professors I've had at Harvard and they give every student an enormous amount of 1-on-1 help with their speaking.  You will notice both immediate and sustained improvement if you put in the practice.  The skills you learn carry over to making presentations for other classes/work and also in your day to day speaking opportunities (in section and with friends).  Your classmates will become friends by the end of the semester.  I truly looked forward to class everyday!!
There is no other class like Expos 40 at Harvard. The structure of it makes it very unique and the fact that it is the only Harvard class that focuses on public speaking makes it a class that immediately stands out. I would definitely recommend taking this course if you have the chance to but at the same time, don't be too discouraged if you don't make it through the application process. Expos 40 is a great class but the hype is somewhat overrated, solely because it is the only public speaking class at Harvard.
If you can get into this class, take it. Expos 40 is in the top 2-3 classes I've taken here, and it's the one where I've definitely come out of with the most practical life knowledge. You WILL grow more confident hearing yourself speak and in siuations where you have to speak. The teaching staff truly cares about you and are absolutely wonderful. Work every week is low (mainly readings and writing speeches), and class can be long at times (2 2-hour sessions a week), but you will come out of it for the better.
Fantastic course! Definitely worth your time. Great opportunity no matter what level of public speaking experience you have
BEST CLASS YOU CAN TAKE AT HARVARD. JUST DO IT.
Anyone who want to work on their public speaking should take this class. Don't worry if you are really good or really bad. The class has a diverse mix of skill levels and we all learned from each other.
This is one of the three best classes I have taken at Harvard. Elise and Margie teach you immensely helpful skills that you will use every day for the rest of your life. But more importantly, you learn as much, if not more, from watching the other students in the class and getting feedback from them. Take this class.
TAKE IT!!!!!!!!!!!
Possibly the most useful class I have taken at Harvard and definitely the most fun and interesting. I would absolutely recommend this class to every single student at Harvard
great course! take it. Elise and Margie are great :)
I beg you, TAKE THIS CLASS!!! It will change your life FOREVER.
This will be one of the most valuable experiences of your Harvard career!
A fun course in which you will gain real-life skills that can really be applicable everywhere. Also, this course requires enthusiasm but not a tremendous amount of work at all.
The best course I have taken at Harvard! You will see tremendous progress in your public speaking skills in only three months!
TAKE THIS CLASS. This is easily the most useful, applicable course I have taken at this university.  The instruction is amazing, the feedback is great, and you will walk away with tangible skills that you will use no matter what field you go into.  Whether you go into law, academia, business, medicine, or anything else, your ability to present yourself is paramount to your success.  The instructors do a phenomenal job of helping you build you ability to present yourself in a safe, comfortable environment.  I strongly, strongly, strongly would recommend this class to every single Harvard student.
This course is absolutely amazing. Do yourself a favor and apply for it as many chances as you get. If you've ever wanted to take a class where you can see yourself grow over time and have skills to show it, expos 40 is for you. Not only did we learn how to write and deliver speeches, we also learned about conduct during interviews and about gendered speech -- super interesting and fulfilling course!
Best class ever. Don't let the lottery prevent you from applying- will be more than worth it. Harvard should put more resources into this subject so that more than 30 students a semester can participate most tangible and relevant material I have ever learned.
Expos 40 is a fantastic class, especially as a fifth course. The workload isn't too heavy, and you really begin to internalize skills and awarenesses that are key to become a better public speaker as well as a better critic of public speaking. The environment is very friendly and very comfortable, so you get lots of room in which to experiment-- both within speech assignments and within impromptus done in class. Take it for that environment alone, for having a group of peers to work with on public speaking over the course of a semester. Margie and Elise are both fantastic; they have very different teaching styles and you get to interact with both of them, which makes for a very enriching experience overall.
This is without a doubt the best course at Harvard. You must take it. Every assignment is thoughtful, and Elise and Margie are wonderful. Both are incredibly helpful and generous with their time to help. However, the single best part about this class is the section and the people who take the course. I have never been enrolled in a class where everyone was as invested in my improvement as I was. Everyone offered really insightful and thoughtful feedback on my speeches so that I could improve as a student and a speaker. Everyone can take something from this class. A gem at Harvard.
This class is phenomenal. It not only made me a much better public speaker in formal settings but improved the way I interact with people on a regular basis. I left the class much more articulate, confident, and comfortable with myself than when I entered, even though I hadn't felt I had much to gain in these areas when I entered. It was a pleasure to work with Elise, Margie, and all of the other students who took the class excited to improve their public speaking abilities. I recommend this class with enthusiasm to anyone.
If you take no other class at Harvard, take this one. Easily the most rewarding, practical and exciting class I have taken here. I looked forward to class every week. Prepare to be challenged and encouraged by your peers and the teachers (Elise and Margie). You will grow as a speaker, a writer, and a listener. Really, do yourself a favor and take this class. You will not regret it.
First off, this is an exceptional course regardless of your background with public speaking. Both Elise and Margie are amazing teachers and they do a gerat job creating a safe environment where every other student feels invested in your improvement and success. I've made quite a few friends through the course.If you feel like you're a bad public speaker, have an absolute terror of public speaking, or anything like this, I'd hands down absolutely recommend this course. If you feel you're pretty good, you'll still get a lot out of the course (I know I did), but I think you'll also find that it's what you put into it and what you choose to really refine. I'm glad I took the course even with being a pretty good speaker going in, though I should have realized that my improvements are naturally going to be more on the margin. That said, I've seen how useful many of the simple skills I've picked up have improved my confidence and effectiveness even in everyday conversation. And in either case, you'll get really exception feedback, and the grading is based on your own progress rather than some absolute scale of quality.
Take this class if you can. You won't regret it, particularly if you're in the middle of recruiting or the medical school admissions process.
Phenomenal course! Great professor. Highly recommend.
This is an amazing class. You learn a lot about public speaking, but also about other people in the class. Definitely find room in your schedule for it-- you will not regret it.
be prepared to have the best class experience of your life!
BEST CLASS I'VE TAKEN AT HARVARD! WISH I COULD TAKE IT AGAIN! Elise is amazing and the environment in the class is so positive and uplifting. I learned so much in such a short amount of time
Take this class. There are many reasons, let me list several:1) You will drastically improve your ability to speak publicly, to perform on interviews, and to work on these skills on your own. 2) The skills developed in this class are essential for almost any career path you will choose.3) Working with people as you do in this class creates an atmosphere of friendship and support that makes you anticipate and enjoy class - so different from so many other courses at Harvard. Thoughtful discussion, fascinating people, new friendships. A new social scene. 4) This class is just perfectly taught. All assignments are well thought, instructive and with a specific goal in mind.5) It is one of the few classes that will change you as a person. Overcoming stage fright, hearing (kind) criticism of your performances, gaining skills that are useful on a daily basis - these kind of effects do not come easily or often in other classes at Harvard.Put effort into the application, bug the professor if you don't get in for a spot - do whatever you can to get into the class.
This course will build your confidence and make you think critically about words and how they are constructed in the world. You will learn how to craft an organized and convicing argument. You will become more comfortable speaking in front of the classroom, the members of which will become like a family to you. This course will cultivate critical thinking, provide you with a forum to engage with an audience, and you will learn about components that create effective speeches. You will learn to become more poised, be more thoughtful about your hand gestures, and practice vocal variety. This is one of the few courses at Harvard in which students are actively invested in each other's growth and learning. Expos 40 created an intimate atmosphere that also helped students grow as skilled critics of public discourse through practicing how to provide insightful, comphrensive, and detailed feedback, which is suppmeneted by encouragement and suport. You'll learn to cut the "ums" and filler words from your speech to build your credibility. This was a great space to develop self-confidence through practicing writing and actually giving speeches. We had several assignments that explored and exercised different communication skills. This course drew on the creative energy and ideas of students. The professor was among the most engaging, caring and helpful people I have met in my time at Harvard. She is brilliant, enthusiastic and incredibly well-spoken.
Start applying for this class now.  Even if you don't get in the first time, apply again until you get in.  This is by far the most practical class I took at Harvard, and every day you are learning things that get applied to your life the moment you leave the classroom.  Also, this course is incredibly well taught and has the potential to connect you with a beautiful, thoughtful, articulate group of Harvard students whom you will come to love.  Elise is an amazing teacher, and there is a good chance you will end up with an amazing group of classmates whom you will deeply regard.
I strongly strongly recommend this course! If you get the opportunity to get in this is definitely not something to pass up on. This is one of those rare gems at Harvard. It is a fun experience and something that will be useful regardless of your concentration or where you end up in the future. You spend a lot of time delivering speeches and actually practicing.  The feedback you receive in this course is also invaluable. Elise catches everything and has a suggestion for everything. The best part is that you yourself become better at giving constructive feedback by giving it to your peers after each speech. The workload mainly consists of preparing for your speech and working on your habits. It is a completely different type of workload from other class and can be a very nice break from the intensive pset or reading class. It is such a great experience and I was able to bond with everyone in my class. There developed this feeling of mutual support for each other that is rare in other Harvard classes. We were all cheering for each other to land that speech and the bonds that arise from this class are just as big a part of the experience of this class. We all know how important it is to present ourselves as confident and knowledgeable speakers and there is no other class like this one that specifically targets those issues. The class also offers the opportunity to discuss the issues of gender and class in a manner that is much more open and allows you to express your opinion. I learned about a variety of issues through other speeches. We covered economics, the neurobiology of love, inequality, abstinence before marriage, senior thesis, and so much more. It is such a great experience and I cannot say how much I have learned from this class and how much I enjoyed it.
I cannot recommend this course enough. If you are going to take any elective, this is the one you want. Applicable to every single concentration and for anything you ever want to do - you walk away with improved control over your public speaking through practicing, learning, and watching others. Not a difficult class - but you do want to spend time practicing and writing your speeches. I'm not sure how the class will be with two sections per semester - but I presume that it will be even better given how dedicated Elise is to making this an excellent course.
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard.  If you have the opportunity to take it (especially with Elise as the instructor) then it is an absolute must.
The work is challenging but the payoffs are immeasurable.
Expos 40 was one of the best courses I ever took at Harvard. The people were phenomenal and never have I ever had such a course where I was able to see the progress I made in front of my eyes. Since we taped each speech, I was able to watch myself progress and compare my first speech all the way through to the last speech. It's only as demanding as you make it. If you really want to give your best, write the best that you can, and rehearse as much as you can before giving each speech, then you will learn and grow. You have to believe in yourself and push yourself in order to commit to this class and you emerge not only a stronger public speaker, but a stronger person with more confidence and clarity in your life! Here's an anecdote that I thought would be worth sharing: I remember the first day of public speaking class, when we all trickled in shyly to the Northwest Labs, uncertain about whether or not we would be put on the spot immediately or if she would secretly be judging us to rate the choices she'd made when she filtered the applications down from 140 to 14 students. We all sat nervously, not really making eye contact with each other, and tapped our pens, waiting for her to start the class. Once it was seven minutes past the hour, she cleared her throat, smiled around the room, and said, "I want to start with announcements." We clicked our pencils, uncapped our pens, and opened our composition books to fresh sheets, ready to take down notes. She cleared her throat again. "I want to start with announcements from you." Now we exchanged nervous glances. Had we missed something from the isites? All that had been up there were a syllabus and a cleverly filmed trailer for the course. We hadn't prepared anything; we'd been hoping to be talked at some more about the effective modes of public speaking. Elise noticed the obvious rising tension in the room, as glances shifted and nobody said anything. "When I was going through your applications, I noticed that all of you had a lot of varied interests. You're involved in different clubs, parts of diverse organizations, and neat groups that are all doing something on campus. So, what I like to do is start each class out with announcements. What's something cool going on at Harvard right now? This week?" We exhaled relief. Then, one cautious hand went up. "Women's Week is coming up." Elise smiled and nodded warmly. "What's going on during Women's Week?" "It's a week dedicated to, um, coming out as feminists. There are like these really cool activities going on, like poetry slams and film screenings." Elise nodded again. "That's great! But watch the 'um's and 'likes.' We call them filler words in public speaking. It's similar to the 'kinda's. We don't 'kinda' do this or 'kinda' believe in that. When you feel a filler word coming on, just replace it with a pause. Why don't you try that again?" "Okay--it's a week for feminists and coming out as a feminist. There are cool activities that happen, including poetry slams and film screenings." Elise grinned at the speaker and then turned to the class. "Did that sound better?" Heads bobbed in agreement throughout the room. Elise nodded as well and then pointed out, "But next time, don't start out with 'okay.' That's an on-ramp word. Similar to 'so.' Instead of starting with 'okay' or 'so,' just launch right off. Pens scribbled on paper as we furiously took notes. Elise added, "Something else that you can emphasize in a simple announcement is the WIIFM. What's In It For Me. That's always a concern for the public speaker when he or she is relating to the audience. Why should we care? Why should we buy the product? Why should we vote for the politician? Why should we see the movie? Something that you always, always have to keep in mind whenever you're speaking in public is the WIIFM." "Any more announcements?" We were only five minutes into our first class and already steps towards self-improvement.
If you have the opportunity, take this course!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Take it. This is the absolute BEST class I've taken at Harvard. It's given me immense confidence and understanding of public speaking. It's the only class I've taken with a caring professor, a personal learning environment, AND immense practicality. I always felt that the work I put in would be rewarded - and Expos 40 has never disappointed.
While the excercises seem silly at first, they're really incredibly helpful and you sohdul throw yourself into them.
This class is invaluable to learning how to communicate effectively, and extremely useful for any career choice.
Public speaking is such an important skill to any profession you may want to pursue, and sadly it is often neglected. This is one of the most useful courses offered at the college and if you have a chance to take it, grab the opportunity!
My favorite class at Harvard, one that will help you for the rest of your life (guaranteed).
Fantastic course and you learn things that will help you for the rest of your life. Public speaking is a skill that not everyone has.
This class is easy, fun, useful, and interesting. Quadruple Threat. A MUST-TAKE. Top three class at Harvard no matter what your background or discipline. Especially awesome for senior spring.
This is probably one of the most useful and unique courses you could possibly take as a Harvard undergraduate. The course revolves around everyone giving 4 prepared speeches to the rest of the class, and the class along with the instructors giving feedback. You will get a lot out of this course if you put sufficient time into preparing for each of the speeches. It would be very easy to not put in too much effort in this course and still get a good grade, but you won't get as much out of it. Please take this course - it's awesome! You have to apply to get in, and it's pretty competitive, but they put  a lot of weight on whether or not you've applied in the past - so sophomores, start applying now! And maybe you'll get it by senior spring.
Strong public speaking is a useful skill for everyone that is honed greatly through this course. Keep in mind that this course will probably not by itself increase your public speaking skills immensely, but the comments and thoughts to consider will allow you to identify public speaking concerns and address them both during class and on your own time. This is important because as mentioned in class, improving public speaking will take far longer than this course alone. The community of students and a place for listening and providing unrestricted constructive comments is a rarity on our campus, which makes this course excellent. Highly recommended to any student!
Of the 33 classes I have taken at Harvard, Expos 40 was BY FAR the most fun and informative class I have taken here. You learn so much about yourself, and your own public speaking skills, and you learn from other people's successes/mistakes as well. Expos 40 has been the only class where I have really gotten to know well a great group of people - it was in itself a bonding experience. I looked forward to class every week because it was always so fun and just a great, productive, happy environment to learn it. If you are lucky enough to get into this class - DO NOT HESITATE. TAKE IT.
This is a great class to make you aware of your speaking habits, whether they be good or bad, and provide a safe space for you to improve or take risks in how you speak. I don't think it's accurate to think that this course will turn you into an excellent public speaker, but rather it is a course that will make you aware of yourself -- perhaps both on the inside and out :) Harvard does not offer nearly enough resources to improve speaking, so definitely take advantage of this. Also keep in mind that this course is really what you make of it. The grading is easy as long as you prepare for the speeches, but it is up to you to take advantage of using these 4 speeches to your benefit to improve your speaking based on the feedback that you are given.
Great course. Take it if you get in!
Best class here!
This is a phenomenal course. If you have the chance to take it and actually want to improve your public speaking, do it.
Best and most practical class I've taken at harvard, bar none.
TAKE THIS CLASS. CLEAR WHATEVER SCHEDULE CONFLICTS YOU HAVE. Yes, it's that good that it deserves all caps. It will be the MOST relevant, helpful, useful class you will ever take at Harvard, and your section-mates will become good friends by the end of the semester. You will have personal growth from this class. DO IT.
Take this! You will learn so much about public speaking!
Take this class if possible.  Apply as many times as you can.  Public speaking was one of my greatest fears.  I'm so grateful to my peers and the instructors for pushing me and for being so supportive.  I met such wonderful people through the course.  An absolute pleasure.
Take this class! This was one of the most practical classes I have ever taken. I'm so glad I took it before graduating because the things I learned are going to be useful for life. I know that my day-to-day communication skills have improved tremendously in addition to my ability and comfort speaking in public.
Everyone at Harvard should take this class. Apply at least one semester before you actually want to take the class, though
This class is awesome! Everyone should take it! Be prepared to devote time and effort, so that you can get the most out of it. Margie was the best, so hopefully she's teaching again. Advocate for yourself--the college should clearly expand the offerings in this course, and as a graduating senior I'm not in a position to work toward this, but make it happen! It's unacceptable that there are not more sections.
TAKE THIS CLASS!! This is probably the best class I've taken at Harvard. It is so fun and you learn so much... I absolutely hated public speaking before taking this class. This class made me feel more comfortable standing up in front of a crowd and delivering a speech and it also made me aware of the things to do to give a better speech in terms of delivery and organization of the speech. Plus, easy workload, no exams, only one short paper. Really chill and laidback professors.
You should definitely take this class. This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard by far. It is fun, constructive in something that is actually practical, and not challenging in a grade sense. It's challenging in that it makes you work hard on a skill that (at least for me) is difficult for me. But, it is not challenging to do well and get a good grade.
I didn't learn much from this course because much of what is taught is sort of common sense, but it is still a great class because it is unique and very practical for life beyond Harvard
This class is led by a wonderful team and will improve your life skills dramatically.  You will learn a lot about yourself as a speaker, and you will grow because of it.  I hope you are one the lucky applicants to be selected among the large pool.
TAKE THIS CLASS! This is easily the most useful class you will ever take at Harvard, or anywhere else for that matter. Before the class I was completely terrified of public speaking, and I almost dropped it after my first speech because it went so badly. But I stuck with it and I am really glad I did. My public speaking ability improved immensely, and I am no longer (as) nervous to speak in public! I never would have thought I would be able to do any type of public speaking, but now I am excited to try out everything I learned taking this class. I could keep going on about how amazing the class is and how much it changed my life, but I will end it by saying again, TAKE THIS CLASS!!
The most useful course you will take at Harvard.  Take it and come away a better speaker.
This was refreshing and I grew a lot over the semester.
Take this course! You will apply and probably not get in the first time, but keep applying! You will learn so many critical public speaking skills and improve tremendously. Plus, the class environment couldn't be better. You get to know the professors and your classmates so well, and you'll look forward to going to class. Can't speak more highly of this course!
A must-take class before you graduate, for sure. I came in viewing public speaking as this unhelpful, unpleasant thing; I left viewing it as a strategic game almost, and now enjoy thinking of ways to persuade the crowd! Speaking should be a tool, not a terror; and now I have definitely improved my nerves, my word choices, and my steadiness in front of a group, though am still working on improving. Also, this is maybe the ONE class at harvard where you'll actually get a range of people from different grades, concentrations, and interests, who ALL actually WANT to be there (unlike a gen-ed, usually). I got to really know a great group of 15 students that by the end I enjoyed speaking to and hearing from.Finally, you do the work because you want to improve, which again, is not always the case in any college course.
You can learn a lot in this class!
Expos 40 is a wonderful class that gives you the skills to present and speak confidently in a variety of settings. The preceptors are all fully invested in the success of their students. The small environment of this class made it particularly unique and truly a place to learn from peers.
OMG this is an AMAZING class! Freshmen: apply for this class until you get in. Seniors: amazing senior spring and elective course. The instructors are fabulous, and you learn SO much no matter what skill-set you have coming into the course. One of the best and most practical courses offered at our lovely institution !!!!!!!! A MUST TAKE !!!!!!
Definitely take the course!!! I have absolutely no regrets about enrolling. Even though I entered as a fairly confident public speaker, I still got a lot of specific tips on how to improve. I will be far more confident in interviews and throughout life. It is such a practical, necessary skill to have. The workload and nature of the course made it extremely fun and painless, which is why I would especially recommend the course to seniors. I made friends in my section and felt that I was part of a supportive community. Also, Elise is an amazing person and role model. Get to know her!
This class proved to be invaluable for interviews and presentations.  It made public speaking much less stressful and allowed me to reach outside my comfort zone.
This is a great class to practice public speaking.  I would try to take it earlier in your Harvard careers if possible because by the time you're a senior you've picked up a lot of the skills they teach.
I LOVED this course.  It was so much fun and so practical.  It helped improve my speaking skills tremendously.  It is not difficult and you will actually ENJOY doing the work and preparing and writing the speeches.
Most useful class at Harvard. It should a requirement for graduation.
Best class ever.  Take it!
This is a very practical course that everyone should take. People of all levels improve. The class is also not too demanding but you still learn a lot.
This course was not just a lot of fun I really learned something useful!
a truly amazing class - arguabley my favorite ever at harvard. the work is consistent but never overwhelming, the teaching staff caring and insightful, and all the lessons applicable in the real world. if you have the chance, take it.
This is an excellent class. When you step back, it's almost unbelievable how little we focus on our most frequently used method of communication. We are all taught extensively how to write, but being able to speak (in both formal and informal settings) is just as crucial to success. This class will teach you so much about yourself and will give you a great deal of confidence. Apply hard and apply often - even if you don't get to take this class until your senior year it's still a worthwhile class to take.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Period. Even if you think that you won't do well because you are not inherently good at public speaking, I have seen students go from doing poorly on the first speech to excelling in the last. The class changes you.
You have to take this course if you get the chance.  You will be so happy you did.  Elise and her TF helpers are awesome, and you will learn so much about the way you personally communicate with others.
you learn so much! Don't be scared to take this course. Everyone is so supportive of your growth in public speaking.
BEST CLASS I HAVE EVER TAKEN. PLEASE APPLY AND RE-APPLY EVERY SEMESTER EVEN IF YOU DON'T GET IN! I SWEAR AND PROMISE: IT'S SO SO WORTH IT!!!!
Believe the hype. Expos 40 is a game-changer for so many students, myself included, and if you're on the fence between this course and another (given the good fortune of lotterying into this course), let me make the decision easy for you: SAY YES TO 40. There is no other course like it at Harvard, and that's a shame-- but so long as this course exists, it can do you a world of good and make you a far more dynamic member of every community you belong to, academic and otherwise.
Such a fantastic course. Obviously, take it if you're offered. Then, dedicate time to your speeches!! Go see the peer speaking tutors! You will get as much out of it as you put into it, so the only reason I would say don't take it is if you don't have the time to dedicate.
If you get in, definitely take Expos 40. It is as good as advertised.
You will not regret taking this course! but if you do not get into the course, there are so many ways to practice public speaking on your own too so do not fret! Reach out to your resources!
This course not only teaches you practical skills regarding speaking, it improves personal confidence and helps develop a deep and meaningful community within each section.
Take it.
If you can get in, definitely take it!! One of the most useful classes I have taken in my four years at Harvard.
Great course WITH CAVEATS. You will learn a lot about your own speech and the act of practicing is so helpful. But, it is also very frustrating. You have to spend a lot of time listening to others speak with various levels of content and delivery. Quite a range. The feedback you get is varied. Overall a great class. Especially junior/senior year.
Margie and David were extremely supportive instructors. I think everyone should have the opportunity to take a public speaking course in college. From the weekly assignments to the four opportunities to give a speech throughout the semester, the structure of the course was meant to challenge us but in a way where anyone can succeed if they put in the time and effort.
If you WIN the lottery, take this course!!! If you are reading this as a freshman - start applying now, since the more times you apply, the higher the chance you will get in! If you have a conflict, drop the other class. Expos 40 is incredible! Definitively one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Everyone in the class is truly invested in the progress of everyone else, so it's a wonderful, collaborative oasis within the competitive academic environment Harvard generally fosters. By the end of the semester, I knew the names of everyone in the class and even started hanging out more with some of the people. In addition, the class is very practical and the skills you learn in it will be applicable, regardless of your future plans - whether you'll be a doctor, a lawyer, a tech whiz, an actor, you will need to communicate with people in different ways. Expos 40 will teach exactly how to approach various situations - from an impromptu delivery to a full scale n-minute presentation to change an attitude.
TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU CAN. Reapply as much as possible.It comes as advertised. The hype is, for the most part, real. Don't be afraid to take this course. Margie and David are there to HELP you. Your classmates/peers, who will be amazing & talented in different ways, are there to help you and eager to watch you improve. You'll get to know these classmates pretty well (starting from the Speech of Introduction at the beginning of the semester), so this will quickly help you feel reassured about yourself and lessen the nerves you may initially have. Personally, I came into the class being a little nervous, but with my peers' help, I came out much more confident in my speaking abilities.One quick tip: make sure to spend time not only crafting a good speech/argument but also REHEARSING them. You won't regret taking this class, especially as a senior spring class!
Best course I have ever taken here.  One of the few I have taken that has imparted real life skills
If you get in, congrats! But, don't start out with too high expectations. I found that the course is highly overrated. Still, it's a good course to take to practice giving presentations. I don't know how much you actually learn or improve though.
Take it if you're accepted.
TAKE THIS COURSE! Expos 40 is the most useful class at Harvard and also one of the most fun.
THE BEST COURSE I HAVE TAKEN AT HARVARD! If you are lucky enough to get in, DO IT!!
The best course of your college career.
TAKE IT! IT'S AWESOME.
You HAVE to take Expos 40 before you graduate (ESP if you are afraid of public speaking, there's a lot of people in the class who are just beginners). Start lotterying early so you can get in.
Competition to get in is stiff for a reason. If you think you ever want to take this class (you should, it's the best class at Harvard!) start applying early. The number of times you apply and get rejected counts on future applications.
Take this class! This is the class that will help you grow in ways you never expected and help you make friends that you will grow very close with. If anything this class really teaches a student to be comfortable with him/herself. And I think way too many students, especially at Harvard, need this. I know I needed it. That is why I suggest this class to anyone and everyone I see.
You'll walk in day one and have to do some weird warm-ups and exercises that seems to have nothing to do with public speaking, but it levels the playing ground. Everyone's goofy! It creates a safe space for you to really put yourself out there in front of your classmates, get to know them; and once you do, you know whatever criticism of feedback they give you is coming from a good place. If you really want to be a better public speaker, get to know some amazing people at Harvard in a close and unique way, do whatever you can to get into this class. This was the best Senior Spring class I could have taken. You have a great deal of freedom to pick your topic and the challenge of presenting it in a manner that will be best received. Most of the time it was the students who had such an eye for minute details that if implemented, makes you so much better.
Such a great class!  If you get in, you should definitely take it.  It has such practical applications regardless of what career you go into, and Margie and David are so helpful and nice.
Apply every semester until you get in. Taking this class is an absolutely phenomenal experience and one of the coolest things you can do at Harvard. It will change not only the way you speak in front of an audience but the way you talk with everyone in your life, the ways in which you think about communicating. One of the most important paradigm shifts I've ever had.
If you are lucky enough to lottery into this course, absolutely take it! If you don't lottery in your first time, keep trying (it took me three times). It's one of the few classes at Harvard where you get to see yourself and your peers actively improving in essential speaking skills. Margie and David are phenomenal instructors, and they give you a lot of detailed feedback (your classmates as well) and are incredibly supportive and caring for us students.This class is probably the most diverse class you'll be in at Harvard, and one in which you will learn a ton from your classmates- arguably as much as from Margie and David. I looked forward to each class because I felt a sense of community with the students and really appreciated the safe space in the classroom for working on your public speaking repertoire. Keep in mind that everyone in the class starts out at different points in terms of comfort with public speaking. I was pretty nervous and shy while others had done a lot more public speaking than me previously, but it's not a competition. It's all about your journey, and the only person you're compared to is yourself, from the beginning of the semester to the end. Take the class!
Amazing class, one of the best I've taken at Harvard! Public speaking is applicable in almost everything we do, and Margie and David make the class both extremely helpful and fun!
If you get into this course, drop whatever conflicting course you have and take it. It will be one of the best decisions you ever made in your Harvard career. I only wish I'd taken this course earlier.
Honestly, everyone can improve on public speaking and you won't do it unless it's a more formal setting.
one of the best (and definitely most fun!) classes i've taken here. start lotterying a few semesters ahead of time - if you're questioning it just take it. so worth it!
This class is amazing. Take it. Public speaking is so important and there is no one better than Margie and David to learn these skills from.
Must-take class at Harvard.
This course is amazing--basically every other Q review says the same thing and it's true. The assignments are great, the course is SO fun, it's great for senior spring, everyone is invested in each other's progress, you gain so much from this class. I came in with no experience public speaking and absolutely loved my experience the whole time--HIGHLY recommend
A great class - would highly recommend. Especially useful if you struggle with speaking. Super relevant content. Use the thoughts in it within daily convo.
Take this course!! It is incredible and it should be required of every Harvard student. You will learn so much about yourself as a speaker and become aware of other's speaking abilities.
Absolutely take this. Easy A, great feedback, essential for being an effective human being in my opinion. Don't think this is just for the future jerks of politics or Wall street. The content is relatable even down to you Pre-Med or Engineering folks out there reading this and thinking the humanities/arts/social sciences are beneath you.
Best course I have taken! I am so thankful for taking it -- i've really improved in my speaking ability and self-confidence.
The hype is real. Take this classit will change how you approach communicating with other people.
This class was so different than most other classes I've taken at Harvard. The most meaningful part of Expos40 was how much I got to know my peers in the class and how supportive we became of one another. In this environment, it became much easier to really learn the material and challenge myself to take risks while practicing my public speaking. It was so unique to feel as though my classmates really did care about what I had to say and thus provided me very constructive feedback. This class is a lot of fun but it's definitely one of those things where you get out of it as much as you put in. If you want to breeze, you can but if you really invest yourself in pushing yourself and applying feedback for improvement throughout the semester, you'll get so much out o it.
What a great course! The best course I've taken at Harvard. Honestly, if you get the chance to take it, please do. It's refreshing, you learn so much about refining a skill that's very important, and it really emphasizes learning for the sake of learning, unlike many things you'll be doing here at Harvard.
Expos 40 is one of the top two classes I've taken at Harvard. Margie is amazing. I improved as a public speaker, made a couple close friends, and enjoyed every class. Cannot recommend this experience more highly.
Definitely take the course. It deserves all the excitement it gets. Not only do you learn a ton about public speaking, but you also get a really great sense of community within Expos 40.
Expos 40 made me improve so much as a speaker. Because this course has multiple speaking opportunities during the semester, it really helps you identify the aspects you need to work on, and then enables you to improve on them throughout the semester. The sections have a perfect size (15 students), and it really feels like everyone is on the same team. Kate is a fantastic instructor. She made everyone feel comfortable opening up and pushing themselves. You should definitely take this course if you're at all considering it!
Easily the best class at Harvard. You must take this before you graduate. I took things away from this class that I'll still use far into my adult life.
Take this course. A truly enlightening, interesting, fun gem at Harvard that will improve your life. You will become a better speaker and more confident person from Expos 40. Expos 40 really does create an incredibly close-knit community, in which you will make new Harvard connections and friends with everyone. Workload is absolutely minimal and fun. You will look forward to class every day. Lottery multiple times if you have to (I lotteried twice). Take Expos 40!
Fantastic class! Worth the hype. A wonderful opportunity to develop a super useful skill in a supportive environment. Kate is amazing.
Take this class!! It's not that hard, and the grading is pretty forgiving, as long as it's clear that you have made an effort to incorporate the theories and techniques covered in class. You will walk away feeling more aware of yourself and your self-expression, and you will also become friends with the other students in your 15-person section!
amazing class that everyone should try to take. i learned so much in this class that will truly stay with me beyond college. also just a great contrast to other types of classes you take and also a really fun way to get to know other students very well. this class if really what you make of it, so if you do take it, you should give it your all!
Take this it will change your life!
Great class to face an important fear. EVERY STUDENT SHOULD BE REQUIRED TO TAKE PUBLIC SPEAKING. You are very smart, but you can't change the world unless you are able to express those ideas and connect with people. This class is an excellent way to challenge yourself and learn about yourself. Workload is primarily preparing for speeches, which is small.
Every Harvard student needs to take this class. Not only do you learn real-world skills, but you also have so much fun doing it. David is amazing, hilarious, and really cares about each student developing and growing as a speaker. The work is extremely manageable- but you also get more out of this class if you make an effort. Definitely lottery and if you don't get it, keep trying!
This is the best course I have ever taken! I improved my speaking skills and got really close with the people in my class. Definitely a class that everyone should take before graduating.
A must-take class at Harvard, learn to engage with the audience and get out of your own comfort zone.
Absolutely apply to take this course! Ive been recommending it to my friends and acquaintances all semester. The improvement exhibited by the 15 of us was phenomenal, and David never failed to encourage us and give us constructive criticism. This courses focus on constructive criticism and a judgment-free environment really made us comfortable with experimenting and bonded us so much more tightly together. As David says on the first day of class, this truly is one of the few courses at Harvard in which you can really get to know everyone in your class. If I could take this again, I would.
Keep entering the lottery for this class because it is 100% worth your time.  You will watch yourself become an infinitely better speaker over the course of the semester, and will make new friends while doing it.
An incredible experience - you will get to use parts of your body and brain like no other class. Very fun, engaging and the right amount of challenging.
Favorite class at Harvard. It's so different and so much more engaging than any other class I've taken. You just get to be totally weird and do fun stuff and get so close with the people in your section and come to learn so much about yourself as a speaker and gain so much practice. You get out what you put in, but if you're at all interested you should definitely try to take this class.
TAKE THIS COURSE. Not only is the class itself a great time and a nice break from reading- or pset-heavy courses, but I have also walked away with a real skill. I was skeptical that the class could live up to the hype, but it honestly exceeded it. Fun, rewarding, challenging without being hard or too much work. Easily the best course I've taken at Harvard.
Expos 40 is a must-take. Public speaking is important for all jobs and this class gave me the opportunity to practice and learn how to be a better speaker. It is very daunting at first as I am very shy and soft-spoken, but this class gave me the opportunity to not be a ghost and truly speak out in class. This class was definitely one of the best and most useful classes I've taken at Harvard.
Best course I've taken here so far. So much growth happens in this class, though of course, you get more out of it if you put more in. Instructors are so lovely - they care so much, are so personable and approachable, and are incredible guides for your public speaking career.
This is the best class I've ever taken. It's so amazing!! Light workload, graded easily, very enjoyable, and you learn a lot. Couldn't be better!!!
This class teaches you not only just about how to be a better speaker, but also how to be a better person. Take it. You won't regret it. Best class I've taken at Harvard.
This class is great! It definitely lives up to its hype, and the friends you make here are ones that you're going to keep. You get what you put in, so make sure to do the readings and keep up.
Expos 40 was one of my absolute favorite classes at Harvard.  I had the pleasure of taking the class with Margie who did an excellent job and organizing the class, giving constructive feedback, and creating a comfortable environment for everyone.  Expos 40 is not the most demanding course, but you do get out what you put into the class.  If you take the class (which I think everyone should), I recommend putting your best effort into the class -- you will see the results!
This is the best course I have ever taken at Harvard by far. The teachers will push you outside of your comfort zone, but that is truly the only way to become a better public speaker. I made massive improvements to every aspect of my speaking from day-to-day conversations to speaking in front of crowds. I'm so much more confident now with my speaking, and it seems so much easier for me to translate my ideas/thoughts into clear, articulate sentences for others to understand.
This is an amazing class -- do yourself a favor and take it before you graduate; it will be one of your best academic memories from Harvard.
AMAZING CLASS! Take it! Couldn't recommend highly enough. This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard- so practical and useful. I looked forward to class every week. Even if you're afraid of public speaking, take this class. It'll help you overcome your fears. It's such a comfortable environment. This is also one of the few classes at Harvard where I felt like I really got to know my whole class and came away with 15 friends.
Big things expos 40 does well: providing a supportive environment with lots of practice and feedback to improve as a speakerRoom for improvement: treatment of the cultural biases of speech, having a person of color on the teaching staff would likely improve this.
This is an excellent course for all levels of individuals in improving your public speaking. I was really surprised at the quality of the readings in this class which create a really nuanced dialogue about how identity and speech intersect. This class does an amazing job at creating community and creating an environment in which to take risks and make mistakes. I can genuinely walk away from this class knowing that I know my classmates on a personal level atypical for a Harvard class. The course load is pretty light. Give your best work in the speeches so you can actually get good advice on how you can improve.
This is definitely a course that lives up to the hype. It is on of the most fun and engaging experiences at Harvard. Besides helping make me a more confident speaker and writer and providing me with a better understanding of persuasion and forming strong arguments, the class lent itself to forming strong bonds between students, and I feel that I got to know my classmates much more than I have in any other class at Harvard.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! Best class I've taken at Harvard. Incredibly helpful, well organized, and fun!
You've heard about it, it's good for all the reasons people say. Just take/lottery
Let go of all of your inhibitions.
This is a great course where you'll get to practice your public speaking skills, learn about making speech outlines, and impromptu speaking and also learn applications in interview skills, storytelling, and more! You'll also get to meet and know others in the class because of all the interactive activities. It was an awesome experience to critically analyze my public speaking skills. If you're nervous before taking the class, that's probably all the more reason you should be taking it.
May not be that helpful necessarily for public speaking if you have experience, but made so many friends through this class and love the community so much
Expos 40 is one of those classes which improves your life. Although it's billed as a public speaking workshop, it really covers so much more. From a review of basic techniques for public speaking (that we all know, but don't do without practice), the course then expands to include interview and storytelling techniques, effective warm-up exercises, elements of rhetoric, identity, and reflection. You will also get a LOT of feedback on impromptu speeches from your classmates, and it really becomes a personal experience. Take this class. You WILL love it!
Great course, great professors, you learn a lot! Still find public speaking nerve-wracking, but learned skills that I will apply. Felt a little like a theater class at times, which I didn't like at first but you get used to it.
I know everyone said EXPOS 40 is a great class, but I still want to use my perspectives to tell why this is a MUST-TAKE class. 1. David and Kate are wonderfully accessible faculty. They provide DETAILED feedback in your speech outline, and most importantly, they provide instructive feedback when you are on stage giving your speech. They also know how to encourage and motivate students. 2. Because of the nature of the class, you know your classmates so much better than the ones from other class. As a sophomore in the class, I really knew so many amazing upperclassmen, many of which graduating seniors. I wouldn't have met them if it were not for this class. 3. You do gain confidence of your public speaking  in the end and skills 4. some small tips to get in: write a real story! I wrote about my childhood experience back in my country. Also write to the back page of the application sheet... And make the efforts to meet the instructors after the first class
This class will change the way you speak and think in a public group setting and will make you a much more confident speaker.
Take it! Kate and David are amazing
This is a very special and unique course that teaches you important life skills with a very cool group of students -- take it! Workload is not bad and it is challenging in a different way than memorizing facts or cramming for exams.
This is a truly unique opportunity at Harvard for so many reasons (lots of practice preparing and delivering speeches, as well as the chance to really get to know 30 of your classmates). I would highly recommend it!
This class is absolutely amazing and I would highly recommend everyone to lottery for it! I was really hesitant to enroll because I did not have a lot of experience from public speaking but I am so grateful that I did and the skills that I obtained certainly made me a better public speaker.
This was hands-down one of the best classes I've ever taken. I improved an incredible amount as both a public speaker and, almost more importantly, as a human being. Each of the 4 speeches is designed to teach you something new about giving a speech and structuring an argument, and I found that I learned something about myself for each speech as well.This class is way less judgmental than I thought it would be. Kate and David do a fantastic job of making EXPOS40 a non-judgmental zone there is literally no embarrassment when you make a mistake. Kate and David are very funny and ensure that everyone in the class is enjoying themselves and not taking themselves too seriously. They also bring in a famous actor during class to help lead speaking exercises.All in all, you have to take this class. Every one of us will have to employ these skills both during college and after graduation, and those that don't actively work on their public speaking will be behind!
JOIN THE EXPOS 40 CULTWarmups are incredibleBlue section > red sectionMargie ftwBest classBecome so much more comfortable in giving a speech or presentation in front of your fellowsHave fun commenting on the speeches of others
Take this course if you want to learn about speaking and yourself.
Coaching and feedback are the stars of the show. Speeches very rewarding. Warm-ups and exercises sometimes quite silly and theatrical, often to a fault. Occasional readings sometimes quite tedious.
Dope course, should be mandatory.
The feedback that you'll get from your instructors and your peers will be invaluable. You'll really get to know your Expos 40 peers and will bond with them. You'll emerge with a newfound confidence in yourself. Apply for this class!
Although some of the discussions about the readings could be more in-depth and useful, many of the readings are good. Giving the speeches and getting feedback (any activity that requires us to step outside of our comfort zone and learn by doing) are fantastic though. These things will stick in memory for life and are so so useful.
This class gives you an opportunity to not only hone your public speaking skills but to also grow in confidence while stepping out of your comfort zone and trying new, fun things.
One of the best classes at Harvard.
Want to learn how to be yourself? TAKE THIS COURSE. It absolutely changed my life. I used to be shy and introverted, now I feel so comfortable speaking up, even in a large lecture class.
This course is very fun and practical, as the name suggests. Each class is very interactive and you get a ton of practice with public speaking. Between the practice and all the feedback you get, you will almost certainly improve as a public speaker.
This class is a must-take at Harvard. Not only did I come out of this class with a richer knowledge about the art of public speaking, but I came out with 29 new friends. Seriously, this class fosters community like few others I've attended at this institution. Plus, the feedback/speech practice component of the class is hugely helpful. I wish I had taken this class sooner, as I found myself applying the techniques I learned in Expos 40 to all of my other current classes.
This class has a lot to teach, and is one class where you will get to know more about yourself, and what you want to improve. I enjoyed getting to meet and know more about my classmates, and it has been my favorite class in my entire time at Harvard.
Hands down the best class I've taken in my four years at Harvard. There are a thousand practical reasons why you might want to take this class--from acing job interviews to feeling more comfortable in section, this class will give you the confidence and skills to straight up improve your life. The structure of the class makes it super easy to meet new people and make new friends--a critical plus for anyone in the humanities who doesn't have the luxury of making p-set friends.
TAKE THIS CLASS! You will gain so much from it. If you are looking for a class with practical life skills that is fun and enjoyable, please take this! It's amazing!
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. If you're considering NOT taking this class because you're nervous about public speaking, this is exactly why you should take this class! The environment cultivated by the teaching staff is so warm and supportive that it makes it so easy to stand confidently in front of an audience. I have actually noticed myself getting more comfortable and confident in public speaking situations of all kinds!
Really try to open up and expose yourself in order to get the most out of this course
Terrific class.  A great way to end my time at Harvard.  Don't give up if you weren't accepted the first time you lotteried for the course.  Took me four times.  It was worth the wait!  Best part about the class, beyond the fun environment and energetic instructors, is getting to know the others in your class really well, and learning from them as well.  Highly recommend, both for those intimidated by the idea of public speaking and for those who already feel confident speaking in public.  There is much to be learned!
One of the best classes you will take at Harvard.
Expos 40 may be a cult, but it is a cult you should join.  It is without a doubt one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  It combines a fun learning environment, an interesting subject such as breathing, body control, voice intonations, while the whole time, being extremely applicable in literally any field except maybe an astronaut stuck on Mars.  Sorry Matt Damon.
The best class I've taken at Harvard. what I learned is so interesting, not to mention practical for any daily-life situation
Definitely worth taking. Even if you consider yourself a strong public speaker, you will learn a lot. There is certainly still a good amount of work involved with the class as well.
Overall, the class is so unique and formatted so differently that it is definitely worth taking. At the same time, for me, it did not live up to the hype. The instructors seem to have a bit of an attitude that they are doing God's work and changing the lives of 30 helpless kids rather than treating us like real adults. I don't feel like the assignments really built on each other at all--they were all basically the same. The major takeaways from the course could be taught in only a few weeks and there should be more opportunities to give big speeches. But, again, the class is really refreshing in how different it is/will be from the other classes you are taking.
Expos 40 is an incredibly valuable, fun, and worthwhile experience. TAKE IT!!!! Incredibly helpful, not a lot of work. Public Speaking is central to our day-to-day lives, as well as any profession you could possibly want to go into. The skills and tools this class gives you are the most significant of any skills you can learn at Harvard. And the class is SO MUCH FUN!
Great experience. Very unique Harvard course. My public speaking ability and confidence improved tremendously throughout the semester. More importantly, I have learned a set of principles that will allow me to continue improving in the future. Aside from the practical knowledge that the course offers, you will also have the opportunity to learn a lot about your peers, who always have hidden talents and remarkable stories to share. I always looked forward to going to class.
Best class I have taken at Harvard. Helped me get over some difficult social anxieties, and proved to me that I have the ability to stand in front of a group of strangers and speak about any topic of my choosing. Simply giving the first speech was a huge confidence booster. Also watching yourself speak through video review provides useful insights into your own mannerisms, pros, and cons. Overall helped me think critically about my speaking and rhetoric skills. An undervalued course at Harvard that should be offered to the entire class, if not a mandatory requirement. Public speaking/rhetoric is not something that necessarily comes naturally, and this public speaking practicum goes a long way towards teaching us the fundamentals and giving us the tools to improve moving into the future, whether it's in our personal or professional lives.
If you get in, TAKE IT! Even if it's a 5th class, It's worth it. You will make a new group of awesome friends & will come out more confident in your voice and in your ideas.
Great class. Really pushes you out of your comfort zone, forces you to speak but it's honestly such an important skill. You'll feel much better about structuring and delivering your speeches after this class. And you'll make some great new friends!
Everything you've heard about this class is probably true. Margie, David, and Katie are excellent teachers and they facilitate discussion in a very open, yet safe environment. The sense of community within the class is probably the best part. Apply. Go to the instructors' "speaking workshops" throughout the semester. Get to know them. This course is incredible and every bit of effort is well worth it.
By far the best class I've ever taken at Harvard. It's a rare combination where you have a ton of fun but also learn a lot. I also felt really inspired from getting to know my classmates and seeing their progress.
Expos 40 is just a must-take class before you graduate. The bonds you form with your classmates, and with Margie and David, through this class are just incredible. This is what every Harvard class should be like.
Everyone MUST take Expos40 before they graduate! The class is literally life-changing. This class doesn't just improve your public speaking skills, but also, you will likely learn more from listening to your peers' speeches than you will giving yours. The class truly reminded me of why I love Harvard.
Margie and David are great! I have become a better speaker because of this class. Take it if you can!
This was, hands down, the best class I've taken at Harvard. As a senior, I haven't felt so connected to a group of students, as I have in Expos 40. Margie and David create an amazing atmosphere that really fosters growth and understanding. Public speaking is a skill that everyone should invest time into and it is a great opportunity to get to know peers at Harvard that you otherwise would never take the time to get to know. TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU GET THE CHANCE!
If you have the opportunity to take this course, do it. I have not learned more about the experiences, beliefs, and passions of my classmates in any other class I've taken at Harvard. The course helped me step out of my comfort zone, and identified both positive and negative aspects of my public speaking abilities.
Expos 40 is one of those classes you MUST have heard about from someone. And maybe you don't see what the fuss is about but trust, the fuss is there because of a reason: this class will change you. And not just in the sense of making you a better public speaker and making you more aware of what goes into being a good public speaker. The class creates a community of peers and professors who support, teach, and help each other. It is worth trying to get into this class every single semester until you do. Margie and David are so thoughtful and amazing at what they do that I always always looked forward to class.
This course gives you a real life skill and you learn things that you will apply in everyday life.
Take this class if you want to improve your ability to speak publicly, no matter what level you are on. You could be one who fears public speaking, or you could be a confidant speaker. No matter what level you are on, the teachers will meet you there and help you improve.
The community of peers that you get to work with, and the support, is unmatched! I wish more classes at Harvard reflected the philosophy of teaching and level of reflection that this class allows!
As a former debater, I have always thought of myself as a strong speaker. Boy, was I wrong. This class made me conscious of all my problematic verbal tics, distracting hand gestures, confusing presentation flow, etc. etc. etc. Everyone could benefit from this class. And surprisingly, the readings are really awesome and supplement the class discussion in a real way that's unlike in other classes. Do the readings and you'll benefit!
This is probably going to be your favorite class ever if you end up getting in. It really is a special experience.
Amazing class. You develop a great relationship with those in your section. Margie and David are great at coaching and offering advice (although I wanted more of this!). Beyond this, I think these two are incredibly supportive and invested in the development of their students. Overall, the class makes public speaking a lot more approachable, particularly with planned speeches, but also a bit with impromptu speaking as well. I feel a lot better equipped to identify effective components of a speech, as well as pinpointing what is effective (and ineffective) for me personally. I feel like I have the toolbox to continue to improve my public speaking in the future. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Take this course if you can! Margie and Dave are extremely caring, and the other students in the course will teach you an incredible amount. Make sure to take advantage of the time spent in class: do the exercises as well as you can, fully participate in class discussions, and put into practice the techniques that you learn in theory! I think one of the most important things you learn in this class is how to critique other people's speeches - acknowledging what is done well and not-so-well is perhaps just as important as knowing how to speak well.
Keep applying for Expos 40 until you get in, and apply as many semesters as you can.  I can say with certainty that this will be the most useful class I will take at Harvard.  The structure of the course is so well-suited for learning - I know I will remember the tips and tricks from this course many years from now.  Margie and David are two of Harvard's finest teachers, and over the course of the semester, the class really becomes a community, which is something I haven't experienced in any other class.
This is class in INCREDIBLE! Definitely lottery it for every semester until you get in. Margie and David create a supportive, constructive classroom environment where you will have the opportunity to get to know everyone in the class personally and grow immensely as a public speaker. The skills learned in this class are applicable to every aspect of your life and honestly I think Harvard should make this course a required course for graduation. Such a great experience!
Expos 40 is an absolutely amazing class and if you get in, you must take it!! Margie and David create such a supportive environment where you really feel like you can try anything out, and they really want you to get the most out of it that you can. Utilize the PSTs early and often, and practice your speech to other people, not just in front of a mirror. Expos 40 doesn't only improve your public speaking skills, it helps you out in all aspects in life--makes you better at giving feedback, listening, and interviewing. Take this class if you can!
APPLY! APPLY! APPLY! Expos 40 is a gem. It gave me a community of 29 other students that saw me grow as a speaker and as a person. Margie and David are so approachable and you can see how proud they are of your progress from your first speech to your last. With the coaching I've received in class, I've been able to take what I've learned and help my roommates and friends prepare for class presentations.
Take this class. It is unlike any other class at Harvard.
EXPOS 40 is everything it's hyped up to be and more. Everyone, no matter their level of comfort/skill, has a lot to gain from this class. Definitely take it if you are lucky enough to be selected!
