Since you have to take Expos, this is the one to go with. You certainly won't have many other opportunities to write a research paper on Harry Potter or a Disney movie! The material is very interesting, and there is not an overwhelming amount of work.  However, I did find that the papers were graded somewhat harshly and the feedback was not as direct as I would have liked.
Dr. Martin is a great preceptor- he's clearly enthusiastic about the material and makes it very engaging and interesting. We look at witchcraft from multiple angles and there is lots of freedom to do what you want with the final research paper. His feedback on drafts is extremely helpful-- there is always enough guidance provided to make your papers excellent and Dr. Martin is always willing to help if you reach out.
You're working against all odds to do as well as you'd like in this class. At times, it seems grades are given arbitrarily, and comments are often vague and unhelpful. Whenever I tried to ask a question, I never received a direct answer and was often greeted with more questions that left me all the more confused. Your quality of writing and style don't matter. What's most important is creating a thesis that the preceptor agrees with and finding an overabundance of sources and quotes to pad your papers.
I was initially convinced that the abundance of negative feelings toward expos was merely a product of the fact that the course is required of everyone, and college students are bound to gripe. Only after the course began did I realize that the griping is indeed well-founded; the course is actually quite painful, and took away multiple nights of sleep, because of how meticulous one must be with the structure of every sentence and every paragraph. Through the course is arduous, I would recommend this section, as the quality of the preceptor can make a big difference in the experience, and I found Ricky to be an excellent, friendly instructor who was a great help in developing my essays and made class enjoyable.
This class is amazing. The preceptor is wonderful and the kids who end up choosing the topic are a fun lot too. Ricky is a really good teacher and he knows how to explain things clearly and with context to make comprehension easier. And if you're fans of Harry Potter, Bewitched, or pretty much any magical community, this is definitely for you.
The class is what you make of it. If you go into it with an open mind and try to find enjoyable topics to write about, then you'll definitely appreciate the class.
My writing greatly improved thanks to this class. I have no expos horror stories to tell! I also loved being able to write my research paper about Harry Potter.
This is a great class to explore another unique area of writing.
This is a very engaging class. Reading about witches and witchcraft is a lot of fun and you might even get to write an essay on Harry Potter. From talking to students in other expos sections, it seemed as though this one was a little bit more challenging than most and moved a little quicker, but it is definitely doable so don't be afraid of that. I recommend this class if you are at all interested in witchcraft/Harry Potter/anthropology. We read mostly works from anthropology and they were extremely interesting.
Not about Harry Potter.  I repeat, not about Harry Potter.  It's expos, you have to take it so I guess you could take this one but there are better ones.
