While the content is fascinating, it can be difficult to write in a completely different field than usual and receive an A. Writing in general is a process that takes years of working on your craft in that field to write well, but in expos you will only have three months. I recommend that you stick with areas of writing you are familiar with when selecting expos so that going through the semester you can improve on that. Then, find an alternative way to learn how to write in the sciences. While it is great to learn how to write in the sciences, I think there are more efficient ways that would give you better feedback and help you better.
If you are personally interested in psychology or how emotions play a role in your life and life choices, take the class. Its worth it. Teacher is awesome, tools you learn are awesome.
This class is very helpful in developing writing especially if you are interested in psychology or a concentration that requires scientific writing.
The topic is fascinating and relevant to any student, regardless of their academic interests, because of its relevance to human life.  The preceptor for this topic is also really great, as she really knows and is passionate about the topic, and she is also a great writing teacher.
This class was interesting if you are really into psychology or neurobiology, but it would be a bit of a hassle and overwhelming at times if you did not have a big interest in the subject.
Take this course if you are really interested in learning about specific processes that occur in the brain. Although it is not necessary to have a lot of science background, it is beneficial to do so since certain readings are highly scientific. Also, be prepared to evaluate various theories that will at times seem to contradict each other.
Taught me the meaning to writing academic essays.
This class is very interesting for those interested in neurobiology and psychology. It can be very jargon-y at times and is ultimately a writing class but it does a good job at providing insight into the field of psychology and neurobiology as well as the research that occurs in those fields. The writing styles you learn are actually very interesting and provided me with a new more structured way of writing and thinking about essay and research paper writing.
Spending a lot of time learning from the feedback in conference and from your peers will make improvements happen quicker. Don't procrastinate on drafts and take them seriously. Write like its a final draft because you will get better feedback.
