This course is a great option if you are interested in the sciences or in medicine.
The class is super helpful in developing your writing, however it does take a lot of effort to be able to get out a lot of stuff.
The class is extremely helpful in improving your writing quality for current and future classes in any discipline, but you must be willing to put in a considerable amount of work. Despite the fact that it is a course that fulfills a requirement, it is worth focusing on and prioritizing.
Good writing takes time and multiple revisions; don't procrastinate!
The discussions in class are fun and interesting, and the work load is manageable if you work steadily throughout the course.
Just try your hardest, don't procrastinate, and utilize office hours
Don't fall behind on readings, but this is definitely an interesting class.
This was a great course that made me a much better writer, plus brought up some very important and interesting issues in public health.
I recommend this course with great enthusiasm because Paradox in Public Health is fascinating and Jerusha is an amazing professor. Jerusha is knowledgeable and has very effective teaching techniques. I feel very well-prepared for writing in other courses at Harvard because the way she structures her course allows us to progress one step at a time to ultimately be ready to apply expos skills to other classes. She is also always there for us and helps each individual student with the specific areas on which they need to improve.
If you like to write about science, then this class is for you!
At first, this class may seem like a lot of work, but in reality our workload seemed similar to that of most other expos students. Jerusha is extremely well organized and always prepared. She has refined the class so that every reading and activity has a purpose and helps you become a better writer. Though the course is challenging, she pushes you to improve your writing and address areas of weakness. I recommend taking this class if you think you might be interested in public health, though the topics we cover in this class are fairly broad and will give you a better understanding of the world even if you have no desire to pursue public health. This year, topics covered in this class ranged from vaccinations to smoking laws to salt iodization programs. From talking with peers in different classes, this is definitely one of the better expos classes to take. As an athlete, it also gave me the chance to meet more non-athlete students than I would have if I had taken a class like Sports and the Law. This class is not the best, but it is certainly not the worst, and I recommend taking it.
The class material is somewhat uninteresting and very repetitive.
I liked this course more as the semester went on. The material was interesting, and the assignments were fair. The workload for this course was generally not very heavy except for the week of the paper drafts.
In comparing my attitude towards expos after taking this class to that of my friends', I can make one suggestion: take an expos class that focuses on a topic in which you are interested. One of my friends applied for expos classes entirely based on Q-score, but hated writing essays because the one he got was a subject in which he was wholeheartedly disinterested. I really enjoyed what I learned this semester about public health (there were times when I was doing research for the final paper that I was actually EXCITED about the material), and I feel that my writing has improved as well. This expos is good for anyone who is interested in health or science in general - I took this class with no prior knowledge of the public health system and  liked it.
This class can seem tedious at times, but if you are interested in the sciences I would highly recommend it.
The instructor is great and makes class time fun and productive, but you have to be interested in public health to some extent to take the class. You'll learn a lot, but the readings aren't always the most interesting.
The more work you put in, the higher quality of work you will produce, and the better your outcome. It takes a lot of time, but if you find the topic interesting, it's not that bad. Be sure to stay on top of readings and assignments, and keep yourself organized. I think this class was very useful, and by the end you can see an improvement in your writing.
Dr. Achterberg is fantastic, the material is interesting, and you will definitely become a better writer.
Students thinking about taking Paradox in Public Health should absolutely know that they are interested in Public Health and in specific incidences of disease outbreak. If you are unsure about whether or not Public Health issues are of interest, I would not recommend taking the class. Jerusha is an excellent TF; however, it is hard to get through the dense readings and homework assignments if you do not enjoy the topic.
I would say that they should be fully aware that this class has a very heavy course load, and they should not consider taking this course if they are expecting it to dive deeply into the paradoxes of public health.
You will learn a lot of new writing techniques that will improve you both as a writer and as an editor of your own writing pieces. I would recommend that you start writing down a list from the start of the class of all the major takeaway points that Jerusha addresses in class, because these points will serve as a checklist of what you need to do to improve your drafts and your future writing pieces in Harvard. Come prepared for your conferences by coming with a list of questions on your draft, and in conference, take all of Jerusha's comments and suggestions to heart. As you read through your course materials, take an ample amount of notes on the readings, which will facilitate your writing process.
Paradoxes of Public Health is a great intersection between public policy and medical sciences, forcing students to consider the ethical implications of legislation as well as the rationale behind it. You do not need a strong background in the medical sciences to take this class, but being familiar with the style of reviews and case studies is helpful. Be prepared to partake in contentious discussions and have your ideas challenged.
TAKE THIS EXPOS!!! It was so interesting, and Jerusha knows absolutely everything about public health and about writing. She assigns fascinating readings and then discusses them with enthusiasm and wherewithal. She's also really dedicated to improving your writing, which was much appreciated. THIS IS THE BEST EXPOS CHOICE YOU CAN MAKE!!!
