challenging but rewarding
This class was phenomenal, not only because of the subject material, but also because of the way Dr. Fee helps to shape his class and encourage them. He truly cares about every person, and it shows in the way he spends time with each of us, helping us work through our drafts.
Do all the readings and make sure you write about what you are interested in, not what you think the professor wants to hear.
Although the sections are enjoyable and you won't have a lot of work, you'll definitely be frustrated when it comes to grades.  Dwight is a great guy but a pretty subjective grader.  I don't think, even on the last day of class, that any of us actually knew what he was looking for.  The material was pretty uninteresting and super fluffy, and his comments sometimes seem like he didn't even read your paper.
Dr. Fee is so encouraging, and the class itself is very chill! I would definitely recommend taking this course if you've ever wondered about the details of your friendships. Friendship can be a really abstract subject though, so if you feel like it's not something you care much about, then this may not be the course for you. Otherwise, it's a great way to make new friends and really better understand your own personal friendships.
Dr. Fee is the best preceptor you could ask for to begin your writing career at Harvard. He's kind yet direct, and is keen on helping you improve. After speaking with friends in other Expos classes, and in general, I am appreciative and significantly more confident in my writing skills.
If you like analyzing friendship (why they work, how to improve them...etc.), you should definitely take this class. Dr. Fee is extremely nice, approachable and helpful. Also, I felt that in a class about friendship, the people tend to be quite friendly.
Dr. Fee is a great instructor and the course is probably one of the most bearable of all the Expos classes. I would just be weary of the course material and readings, as they can be very abstract and one's writing can easily get caught in the clouds with the material. If you're more of a concrete, analytical writer, stray away from this class.
Dr. Fee is a wonderful preceptor and he works hard to help everyone as much as possible, but the topic itself is hard to grapple with. It's a little abstract.
It is a great course, especially oif you have an interest in social studies
TAKE THIS EXPOS CLASS. Everyone was complaining about their's all semester, and seriously I LOVED this class, and I've recommended it to all of my friends (and I've heard a lot of kids in my section say that they suggested it to their friends too). I was between this class and another expos class that had gotten a good rating, but seriously this one's the best. Dwight is the man, he's super chill, sweet, shares about his personal life, and really wants to get to know the students in his class. He's also chill when it comes to grading. There's minimal reading (and the stuff you have to read is really interesting). Dwight's wife bakes food for essay workshops (delicious, delicious baked goods). Discussions are really thoughtful/you learn a lot about people in the class because the topic is friendship. The essays are interesting, one about Emerson's essay on friendship, one where you get to interview people about social media, and one relatively painless research paper. I'm jealous of you all who can still take this class, it's relatively easy, chill, fun, and painless way to do expos. Enjoy it!
Great class! By far the best Expos I have heard about.
For a required course, this class was actually very enjoyable, and although helpful, not too stressful.
This was a great expos. I have heard awful stories about other students' experiences with expos, but I did not find any of that to be true in this course. The preceptor was very relaxed, but still gave great feedback, and helped a lot with my writing. The topic was also interesting, and something that you might not be able to study in any other class.
The preceptor, readings, essay topics, and people are all amazing! Of course, each term the people differ, but it seems like people who want to take a friendship seminar tend to be, well, friendly. If you enjoy sociology and like analyzing how and why people in society interact the way they do then you will enjoy the subject matter and will have a great deal of motivation. However, this is still an Expos class so the grading is fair and hard. Dwight provides great advice and comments on the drafts and I definitely grew a lot as a writer.
Dr. Fee will work with you on deadlines and forgotten work (believe me), and the readings are interesting.
It is amazing! I learned so much about friendship and about the writing process.
Yes--This class is a great class. It's steady and often enjoyable.
It was a very fun, interactive and engaging class!
This course was very interesting and the assignments were very relevant and helpful for constructing the final paper. I was very pleased with this Expos course. No complaints
I would highly recommend this course because it deals with friendship - something that we deal with every day, and it really stimulates us to engage in self-reflection and determine what friendship really is.
