As is the case for many freshmen, I was a little apprehensive about taking Expos.  Contrary to what I had expected of an Expos course, I had a fantastic time in Slave Narratives. I not only got a very clear idea of what is expected of me in a college paper, I learned so much about American slavery.  On that subject, I was a little apprehensive about taking this particular course, because I had thought that I had already gotten a fair understanding of slavery.  I have been studying it since elementary school, and I thought it might be a dull subject because of that.  If anyone reading this has that same thought, I hope it does not deter you from taking the course, because I felt this class not only added a lot to my knowledge of American slavery, but the subject matter turned out to be extremely compelling, because it challenged some of my deeply-ingrained assumptions about slavery.  For instance, I learned about how white abolitionists were often extremely manipulative of how slaves could tell their personal stories.  I was also apprehensive about Expos because I heard a lot of complaints from people who had taken Expos in the fall about preceptors who wrote confusing and sparse comments on drafts.  In stark contrast, Dr. Becker was a wonderful preceptor who gave great and extensive feedback on written work.  I also thought his lessons both on writing and on the history of American slavery were extremely well-taught and effective.  I wholeheartedly recommend this course.
This course may not have the longest or most dense readings, but the grading is very difficult. It can be hard to tell how the preceptor will grade, since he does not provide a set rubric.
This class' syllabus and preceptor are amazing, but having a class with students who aren't enthusiastic or invested can really damage the experience
This is a very good class if you are interested in History and Literature, or just want to pursue something different.  There is a lot of reading - sometimes not the most exciting readings - but you will learn a lot and get a lot of help form Professor Becker.  He is awesome, chill, and always willing to lend a helping hand.  Professor Becker is awesome and thoughtful.
This is a great expos class!  The subject matter is very interesting and allows you to learn to write through a history and literature lens.  I did not feel that I would have preferred to be in any other expos class.  Before choosing this class, I do recommend, however, that you read a bit of Toni Morrison's Beloved to see if you like it.  That book was hard for me to comprehend and engage with, and as a result, it made the second unit extremely challenging.
While the class topic is great, the preceptor grades harshly. Don't expect to pad your GPA with this class.
There is a lot of reading, but the reading is interesting! Professor Becker provides vert good feedback on drafts, but he expects a lot from you, and that you are on track with all the assignments. You also get to watch and analyze Django Unchained which was great!
Professor Becker is a demanding professor but he will ultimately help you become a better writer.
When you have a question, don't hesitate to ask. It will benefit you more in the long run.
Please try to opt for a different expos class. The preceptor is fairly unresponsive and most time in class is spent on busy work/writing while completely ignoring the overarching literary and historical background behind the slave narratives. For the writing aspect, you take literature and focus on seemingly inconsequential, precise aspects of it. The preceptor never really explains why we analyze these instead of overarching themes. In addition, I do not feel my writing improved--in fact, I had to write at a high school level again in order to get goods grades in this course.
Peter Becker is an amazing preceptor - he genuinely cares about the progress of his students' writing abilities and is also very knowledgeable about the content of the course (slave narratives and their modern interpretations). If you've never taken an African American class or don't plan to, take this for your expos requirement! It's so stimulating and rewarding. Personally, the main texts that we studied were an excellent choice, and taking this class has expanded the way I think about African American culture and literature. It was definitely a great experience - I HIGHLY recommend it. You will be challenged at times and pushed to think hard, but it helps with your writing.
Expos is not fun, but Slave narratives made it bearable, you get to watch Django, i like Django
No one really likes expos.  But the readings for this class are interesting, and it's not that heavy a workload.
I would tell future students that they will not be able to dive too deeply within the entire history of American slavery; rather, they will be exposed to the narratives of the slavery.
I think Slave Narratives made Expos more of a step up from high school writing instead of a huge leap. Using familiar works as pieces of literature instead of texts about the cruelty of slavery really helped ease into college writing. Instead looking at plot, we looked for looked for any relevant motifs, diction, and scenes that held a deeper meaning. I truly enjoyed this class and did not find it to be the pain that many upperclassmen made Expos out to be. Dr. Becker gives really great feedback and I think my writing has improved because of his help. The workload for this class is not terrible; there are a few supplemental readings in addition to the two main texts (Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass and Beloved) and the one movie (Django Unchained).
I absolutely loved this course!  In fact, after taking this course, I have decided to concentrate in English!  I highly recommend it.  While the prof can be a bit harsh at times, he is very helpful and I liked that he would tell it as it is.  The topic is very interesting and fun to work with, and I am very happy with my expository writing experience.
The workload was relatively small compared to that of the other expos classes. The content is pretty interesting and the readings aren't dry. I, personally, hate writing and so that aspect was hard for me, but any other expos class would have had that effect on me anyways. Dr. Becker is a very nice, easy to talk to preceptor. It can be challenging to figure out exactly what he's looking for in your writing, so his conferences aren't that helpful for this reason.
Dr. Becker is a great expos preceptor. Get to know him! Slave Narratives is a very reasonable Expos class to take.
As expos courses go, Slave Narratives is a good choice. The texts -- Frederick Douglass's autobiography and Toni Morrison's Beloved -- are wonderful... You'll look forward to doing your reading for this class. Writing assignments are reasonable as well (there is enough time to complete them, grading is fair etc.). One drawback is that the course is a bit narrow. It's completely centered on close reading, which is not for everyone. Essays are rewarded for the level of close reading, not necessarily for the quality of the writing itself or for creativity. Also, the revision process is difficult, as Dr. Becker often has very specific guidelines in mind, which can be hard to figure out.
Excellent Preceptor, interesting material, great final paper material
This is a fantastic choice for Expos. Dr. Becker will vastly improve your writing skills-I had already had lots of experience in this sort of writing heading into the class, but I learned an incredible amount from him about how to think and write about literature. The subject material is interesting, and if you like literature, it is sure to keep you engaged all semester. The texts you look at (Douglass' Narrative, Morrison's Beloved, and Tarantino's Django Unchained) offer many different creative options for you to study, and Dr. Becker is knowledgable and excited about all of them. There is quite a bit of work involved for an Expos course, but I think it's worth it for the preceptor and the subject material. If you are interested in literature, take this expos!
As far as expos classes go, this is probably one of the best/easiest. Dr. Becker is strict about the type of format he wants essays to be in, but his grading is very fair.
This was a good expos. The material was interesting, and Dr. Becker does a good job of teaching you how to formulate an argument and write essays. It was not always light on work, however, but that just comes with having to prepare for and write three papers.
Enroll only if you are interested in Slave Narratives.
The readings for this Expos are very interesting and Dr. Becker is a really great professor. As far as expos go this is a very helpful and interesting course to take.
This is a really interesting Expos course! You get to work with good and meaningful texts and the atmosphere is relaxed.
I would definitely tell everyone trying to figure out what Expos to take to do slave narratives.
Dr. Becker runs this class exactly the way an introductory writing class should be run. He does not demand too much reading and always gives great feedback on your essays and work. I never had to spend a lot of time on this course but I learned a lot.
This class is absolutely amazing. Among my friends, I'm the only one I've heard say they genuinely love their expos section. Dr. Becker is so enthusiastic and knowledgeable about the material, and does a great job of teaching you how to approach the material, do in-depth close readings and write effective essays. If you are very analytical or enjoy literature analysis, this class is for you! Even as a STEM concentrator, it has been one of my favorite classes thus far at Harvard. Grading is also very fair in my experience, especially compared to other expos sections. If you have the chance, definitely takes this as your expos class.
Slave Narratives is far and away the best expos class.  Dr. Becker is extremely engaging, so conscientious and just all-around the best preceptor.  He lays out the course extremely well, gives great feedback, and does not assign too much work.  If anything, the materials and the assignments that he gives make you want to work hard and do well.  I cannot recommend this course enough.  Slave Narratives is without a doubt the expos to take.
