If you have to fulfill the Expos requirement, you might as well do it by learning about a topic that is as interesting as Pop art. The course is more focused on visual art and Andy Warhol than I thought it would be, but the opportunity to explore more recent, popular media definitely made the Expos experience bearable.
It rocks. The professor, subject material, and style of the class cannot get any better.
If you like art and close reading, this is the expos for you.
This is a great class, and a very painless way to get rid of your expos requirement. Kevin is an incredible teacher and a really great guy, and the readings and topics we go over are generally very interesting. If you're not into pop culture or art, then this is not the class for you, but if you are then I strongly recommend taking it.
Rise of Pop is the bomb
The information I have gained about Pop Art and writing is significantly disproportionate to the amount of required readings I actually sat down to read. In other words, the workload is super light compared to the amount of knowledge you actually gain!
Overall it's a great course with interesting material and a manageable work load. You learn a lot from the preceptor and really develop your writing skills.
Kevin is a great teacher who is fun and engaging, you will get out of the course what you put in. Classes are fun and there are a lot of group discussions.
Kevin is an amazing preceptor! All the amazing things you're reading in all the other Q guide reviews are completely accurate. Rank this one high! I find writing concrete material about abstract concepts (which dominate this course) to be difficult, but I think it's a talent that was definitely fostered within this course. If you are interested in the humanities at all, this is a very rewarding Expos course.
Take this class if you're somewhat familiar with Pop  art and are generally interested in it.
This is a really fun class! The subject is very interesting, and the professor is clearly very passionate about it.
You will work hard, but you have fewer assignments than other Expos courses because you aren't required to do much peer editing. Birmingham's comments can sometimes be a bit unclear, but class discussion is lively and the subject matter is clear and enjoyable. Something to note: the class is very focused on essay content and not at all on writing style.
It was hugely helpful in two separate ways - I learned skills I'll use in every piece of writing I do for the rest of my life, and had a great time learning topics about which I had no prior knowledge, and are directly applicable to our lives today.
Expos sucks. So did I enjoy this class? Not at all. But would I recommend it? Yes. You have to take some expos class, and as they go, this seems like a good one. At least the readings and discussions were very interesting.
This class is a good class for people interested in Pop Art. Class discussions are really thought-provoking and the class in general is very interesting, but you need to come with a fairly strong background in essay writing because we do not spend that much time learning how to improve our writing.
The course material is extremely interesting and well taught. However most of class discussion isn't actually about improving your writing.
The course is very interesting because the material is engaging, however it is difficult to get good grades.
Kevin is amazing! If you are looking for a class about the world surrounding Pop , it is a great class but if you are willing to have a great Expos class that will make you grow as a writer, this class might not be the best fit for you. That said, it is great to wake up in the morning and see someone teaching with such enthusiasm and a smile on his face. He is really willing to push us to think about Pop in dept and this prepares our mind for any other class. Still, this class is more about Pop and not enough about writing. In Expos, the students typically analyse the essays of their peer students but this didn't happen in The Rise of Pop. We also didn't really discuss writing and how to become a better writer until the two last classes which is very sad. Do I regret taking this Expos? Yes, but not having Kevin as a preceptor.
I was worried about taking Expos because everyone had said it was so difficult, but this was one of my favorite classes.  My writing has improved, and not only was it painless--it was also enjoyable.
The essays, like all expos classes, are rather tedious and involve a lot of time. If you like or are interested in learning how to analyze art or movies then this course could be interesting to you. The readings are pretty unnecessary, so you really don't need to spend much time on any work besides the essays.
If you want to become a much better writer and aren't very interested in pop culture, don't take this class. If you love pop culture and want to learn much more about it while becoming a moderately better writer, take this class.
One of the best Expos classes of all options, from my discussions with other students. Grading is harsh, but fair, and the quality of your writing definitely improves. It is a great option since the readings are interesting and therefore not as tedious as reading assignments for other classes.
This class is extremely interesting and gets a lot of positive response from students. It is definitely one of the best Expos classes.
This is a great class! As a pre-med student, I don't think I'll take too many art, history, english, or film classes, so I'm glad this one incorporated a novel, paintings, and a film. The subject matter is interesting and you come out feeling as if you learned something about Pop culture, people in general, and yourself. Come with an open mind and be prepared to do some reading, but it's worth it.
This was one of my favorite courses freshman year. If you are interested in how the state of the world influences the mindset of its citizens and the art they produce, take this course. We get to read a postmodern novel, study the Pop Art movement, and analyze a film from a sociological perspective.You may also enjoy exploring the concepts of high and low art and come closer to answering the question of what makes art valuable and GOOD.
This is a good EXPOS course. The subject matter is interesting and the readings are minimal but informative. Some weeks there is very little work, but these are moderated by weeks when you spend long periods of time writing and/or revising essays. I would definitely recommend this course.
This was one of my favorite classes I took this semester! Kevin is a fantastic preceptor, the subject matter of the course is fun/interesting, and the workload (besides the three papers required of all expos classes) is not overwhelming. Class discussion is excellent, and feedback on papers is very helpful/prompt. I felt like I really became a better writer thanks so this course. I highly recommend!
This class is very interesting since it looks at the rise of Pop through different perspectives and you learn to write about abstract ideas, like art, effectively. It is a great class to take.
It is of course going to be a difficult class because it's Expos, but if you're consistent with your work and do the readings, you should be able to write some good essays! Kevin is a fair grader and does give you the grade you deserve. Most importantly you should definitely focus on the readings because they become so important down the road when you want to write your essays.
This is a pretty great class.  If you're looking for an Expos class with not as much work, this is the one.  The readings are interesting for the most part.  Kevin Birmingham is awesome.  Just know that sometimes things may get a little artsy, but if you have any inclination toward that type of thing, go for it.  I doubt that many will regret choosing this class.
Take this course! Kevin is an amazing teacher, and you'd be missing out by not taking this class. One of the best Expos classes at Harvard, hands down.
Believe the Q Guide hype. This has to be one of the best expos classes around. I looked forward to writing and revising my papers because the prompts were stimulating. The revision process did wonders for my work. Kevin Birmingham is an astute and conscientious preceptor. The readings are interesting (and not burdensome). Don't worry about the subject matter. I was never an art person, but that didn't matter, because we covered a lot of diverse material. This course has something for everyone.
Take this class! The material you learn in addition to writing skills is very useful in everyday life.
If you are interested in pop art, take this course, if not, steer clear.
You should take this Expos class! Kevin provides very helpful feedback to help you develop your writing and get to where you need to be to write college essays. Class time is well-spent. The three units are on The Crying of Lot 49, Pop art, and the Rocky Horror Picture Showwhat more do you need?
This class is challenging and requires an enthusiasm for American pop culture -- not just art, but also movies, post-modern novels, and theories on how our society has changed over the past half century. Kevin is an excellent preceptor whose feedback on writing assignments, while limited, is almost always insightful, fair and thought-provoking. Emphasis is placed on the quality of your ideas and the depth of your analysis, not on writing style. I learned how to close-read texts, pieces of art and cultural objects, and then use my readings to make larger arguments that draw on multiple sources.
As far as Expos goes, it's hard to imagine a better course. It is rigorous to be sure, but the readings are without exception thrilling, and Kevin is approachable, clear, and insightful in his critiques. I recommend this course whole-heartedly for anyone who has any kind of interest in popular culture. Even if you're NOT interested, I'd still advise taking this class. It introduces a new way of interacting with sources, and that in itself is invaluable.Also, always remember: Make your thesis as narrow as possible; depth over breadth!Enjoy this class!
It takes a lot of time to write the papers and revise the drafts.
This class is awesome!
An amazing class. Kevin is a great prof, and he will have lots of constructive comments. The subject matter is very engaging.
This class was very nice. Not too much work outside of papers. Not a lot of reading, but don't take it if you don't like modern art.
Listen to what Kevin has to say about your writing, and make changes accordingly. By using his constructive criticism and making specific improvements from the draft to the revision, your grade will improve dramatically.
Some of the material was pretty dense, but it is interesting enough to be worth it.
Absolutely take this class.  The readings are interesting and all the assignments are pretty open ended, so students have the freedom to choose ways of approaching the course material that appeal to them.  Kevin is a fabulous preceptor who knows how to move class discussion and always puts an interesting spin on topics.  So many Expos classes seem to get mixed reviews, but this one is particularly stellar.  Best class I took this semester.
This class has a lot of really neat material, and really puts modern artistic themes into perspective. Just stay focused on the actual WRITING aspect of the course, instead of making some complex, bold point about the pieces you study.
This class is absolutely amazing! Before I was enrolled in this class, I was very nervous about the Expos requirement based on what upperclassmen told me about the class. However, this class disproved this misconception! It will put you into contact with interesting readings, even more interesting discussions, and even somewhat moderately amusing essay topics.
Make sure you like modern art before taking this class!! Obvious fact but I chose to ignore this and therefore struggled with the topic quite a bit.
Not if you're a science person.
Take this class as long as Kevin Birmingham is teaching it
Kevin is great to interact with, especially in the classroom when you're discussing Pop. The conferences usually aren't as helpful as the comments he includes in his responses to your drafts, so be prepared to have questions ready for him to answer in conference.
I LOVED THIS EXPOS!  I know expos is supposed to be that class that all freshmen dread, but I found this class to be my favorite this semester.  The in-class discussions were very interesting and engaging.  The material is also very fun.  With essays about a novella, paintings, and a movie, the reading load is not bad at all, and the material about which students write is a lot of fun.  To anybody with any interest in pop art, I would highly suggest taking this class.  I loved it.
As far as Expository writing goes, this is a good one
If you like art or Pop culture, you will LOVE this course.  However, if you're not a creative person, you probably won't like it.
