Readings are easier as compared to other literature readings
Best class I've taken hands down. Brian is the man!
Very very good class - Brian Fobi is fantastic!
This was my favorite class this semester for many reasons. I loved the topics discussed, I found I had a lot in common with my classmates who became some of my best friends, and I really enjoyed the professor. He understands and relates to Harvard undergraduates better than any professor I have met.
DEFINITELY TAKE THIS CLASS! A lot of people I know don't like their Expos class, but everyone I know in Sports and the Law really likes it! We were never overburdened with work or readings, and all of our assignments were interesting. I liked that Brian Fobi wasn't too picky about sources, which gave me a lot of liberty to research a complicated topic for my last essay, which I really enjoyed writing!
Brian Fobi is the best Expos Preceptor ever.  If you have any interest in either sports and/or the law, take this course.  It is the best Expos 20 course on the market, and you will become a better writer as a result of it while simultaneously having a great time.
Sports and the Law is an amazing class. Fobi is one of the most interesting teachers I have met and has such a broad knowledge base. Don't just take it if you play sports. If you like to play sports but couldn't care less about legal issues in sports like Title IX and contracts, then you might want to think about looking elsewhere.
Definitely take this class! The discussions you have are engaging and transcend the world of sports and law. Y
This is an amazing class that you will not regret taking. Definitely the most enjoyable Expos class this year.
best expos course at the school
It is a great class
Absolutely take this Expos if you get it.  Fobi is an awesome preceptor and is is very flexible when it comes to deadlines and assignments.  Readings in the beginning start off pretty slow but the majority of the readings are not necessary, as we mostly discuss current events in sports.  The essays are straightforward and he basically outlines what you need to say in order to get a good grade in the class.  There are no extra response papers that other Expos classes have. Definitely take it!!!
This is one of the best Expos classes you can take. The preceptor is phenomenal and the work load is lighter than most other classes.
Great class
This class is awesome! Highly recommended. Very interesting and the workload is not too heavy.
This is an amazing class for anyone who loves sports.  Take this class!
Awesome class. Relatively less work than other expos classes plus it's really interesting. If you're interested in sports and like having chill, helpful teachers this is a good class to take.
If you like sports, this is the Expos to take. If you don't like sports, this is probably still the best Expos to take. The workload isn't too heavy, and the preceptor is great. After having taken this class, you have the ability to read law cases and have a deeper knowledge of the complex world of sports.
This class is awesome. im so glad i took it. Easily the best decision i made this semester. Brian is a great professor. He is laid back enough to make the class fun, but at the same time he spends a lot of time to give really good feedback on writing. The class was intense at times; I planned my essays so i just picked a night and stayed up all night to write them, but i think thats just the nature of expos. Compared to anyone else i have talked to in other expos classes this one is by far the best. If you are at all in to sports you cannot go wrong with this class.
It's Expos, so you know it's going to be graded exceedingly harshly. You can be a spectacular writer and wind up in the B range, but that's just how it is. Drives you to write flawlessly, and the in-class workshops and feedback facilitate just that. You'll leave the class a much better writer than you came in. More importantly, this is objectively the best Expos available  Fobi is a bro, the material is super interesting if you even remotely like sports, and it's far more manageable than are other Exposes.
Great class. I really enjoyed the subject and thought that Fobi was a great preceptor. He was really easygoing and helpful whenever we needed tips on our essays. Especially if you're an athlete, you should like the class, too.
Sports and the Law is an awesome class for sports enthusiasts.  Brian is a very interesting and capable precipitator.  Make sure you pick wisely for peer editing, some of your classmates will most likely be a lot more helpful than others.  Brian kind of loafed on deadlines, causing the 2nd and 3rd paper to be very cramped in terms of turn around.  In addition, he was forced to grade the 2nd paper quickly and didn't give much feedback.
It's a great class.  Don't think that it is only for jocks; it's actually a pretty toughly graded class, but it is awesome.
