You have to take Expos, and this is one of the better ones.
Is Poetry Necessary? is an Expos class that is not a lot of work; if you anticipate having a really heavy course load, it is a great idea to pair it with this class. Don't take this class if you even remotely dislike poetry! It's all about reading poetry, the importance of poetry. It's a great class if you like or enjoy poetry, but I can imagine that it can be dull if you don't. Mr. Barber gives great feedback and pretty timely, too.
As far as expos classes go, this is a good one. It's not that this class is particularly enjoyable, but you could do a lot worse.
For an expos class, and even for a person who is only mildly interested in poetry, this class is worth taking because David Barber is the nicest man, and his feedback is very meticulous and helpful. He spends a lot of time thinking about your essay and giving you feedback and is very open to talk and help outside of class.
Positives: Barber gives you much freedom in Essay 2 and 3. Very little work outside of essay writing is necessary.Negatives: Topic can seem dry and pointless. Barber takes a while to get feedback to students.
I put this class as my 7th choice and was very upset when I got placed into it. I was only kind of interested in poetry. When I started taking the class, I instantly loved it. David is super cool and the classes all fly by. I learned a lot and succeeded in the class without knowing much about poetry at all. Definitely take this class
I won't recommend it, but it's not like students have a choice.  I will tell students that it's a waste of their time, pay attention to the Q scores to try to get a fun preceptor, and to just deal with the pointlessness of the class when they get around to taking it.
This course is based on poetry, which means the required readings are much shorter than other Expos courses. Overall the readings and topics are interesting, but I would only recommend it to students interested in poetry and Aristotelian writings.
As far as Expos goes, you're looking at one of your best optionsgood, knowledgeable, easygoing preceptor; interesting material (if the material is of interest) with a fair bit of freedom to explore.
Expos is not the kind of class where you should choose something you're interested in, because regardless of the topic, the class is still an Expos class and, therefore, sucks. So take this Expos class whether you like poetry or not. You will not regret it. David Barber is a great preceptor with a lot of useful comments to give you on his essay, and he's just really chill. His conferences are the best, and he offers deep, insightful conversation on the organization, mechanics, and arguments of your essay. What a bro. You also read some great works by both poets and essayists. Be warned: this Expos is so demanding, that you have to do like 2, maybe even 3 pages of reading A WEEK. If you literally cannot bring yourself to read more than 20-30 words a day, then maybe you shouldn't choose this Expos. Actually, maybe you need to reevaluate your life choices. For the rest of you, do yourself a favor and take this Expos.
This course provides an intriguing introduction to poetry and a variety of perspectives on it, ranging from classical philosophers such as Plato and Aristotle to contemporary poets.  The meaningful subject matter, dedicated preceptor, and reasonable reading load make for a good Expos experience.  I would caution students against choosing this course if they dislike dissecting poems, as the analysis required in each essay would be painful and discussions would seem dry.  However, I would generally recommend ranking this class among top Expos choices, particularly for students interested in poetry and the Classics.  It is great preparation for a potential concentration in the Humanities, but the strengthened skills in written argument you will develop are useful for any academic path.
