You should pick this as your expos class. Many of the expos offerings are science or social science related, but no matter what your prospective concentration you should take a literature related expos class. Because literary criticism is best suited for English papers, choosing a lit expos will make fulfilling the requirement as painless as possible. Plus, it's nice to balance other classes with a lit class if you're a science concentrator.
The readings were very interesting, and we got to see a wide variety of the Gothic genre, from short stories by various authors and comparing two works of novel length. That said, the course focuses on close reading of literature, so if you did a lot of that in high school, it can be good or bad. If you want to do something you're comfortable with, this is the course for you. If you want to expand your knowledge of other types of academic writing, or get tired of literature analysis, another Expos course would be better suited, because this course doesn't really go beyond literary writing.
Overall a good course. Conferences are very helpful and most of the readings are interesting. Discussions occasionally fell flat, but were pretty interesting overall.
The preceptor is the nicest instructor I've had here. You always here people saying they hate Expos, but she really made it an enjoyable experience. The only thing to consider is if you like the material. Two of the units are short stories but there are several of them, and one of the units is basically a novel and a half, which could be a lot for some. Plus, if you don't like writing about fiction, don't take this class. However, I think it was a great experience -- I won't ever take another literature class here so it was a great send off before a plunge into other fields. So I highly recommend it!!
A well-organized course that allows you expand your understanding of many aspects of Gothic literature while also providing a gradual introduction to how to think through, construct, and write a college paper.
This class was worthwhile and extremely interesting. Dr. Martinez is a wonderful preceptor who gives very helpful advice. If you like Gothic fiction or nineteenth century literature, this is the expos class for you.
A well-structured course with a great reading list and a very reasonable workload.
Dr. Martinez is very knowledgeable about the course material. The material is fun at times but the comments on the essays are sometimes vague and you wish you had more time during conferences so you can work on your paper with her instead of going to a writing tutor.
if you're interested in Gothic fiction, or just fiction in general, then take this course! one unit may be a bit boring, however the rest of the class is usually very interesting.
If you have any interest in literature or gothic fiction, take this class!! Professor Martinez is amazing. She is very kind and helpful, and makes you feel confident about your writing. As a non-native English speaker, I was super nervous about expos, but she really helped me and supported me throughout the whole process. The class went by so quickly! It was never a chore to go to class, we had great discussions and the paper topics were super interesting. Also, the response papers really helped to prepare for the papers, so by the time I got to the essays I had a really good idea of where I was going. I feel like expos in general is either a hit or miss, but this class was definitely a big hit.
While this class doesn't have the best set of readings, I would highly recommend it. It's probably about a good a course as Expos can be. That said, I'd recommend it more highly in the fall than the spring. Beginning the Poe unit just as flowers were bursting into bloom everywhere was weird.
Dr. Martinez is a great preceptor.  She's very honest, but always kind in her edits.  You can tell she truly wants everyone to become a good writer.  She is very encouraging of everyone's opinion in class.
It was a solid expos class.  I did get to practice writing about literature a lot, which is something I haven't really done.  Dr. Martinez is a decent section leader and is really good at giving a ton of feedback and getting assignments back quickly.  The reading requirements aren't ridiculous.  I'd say it's your average Expos class.
This class is at times frustrating, but the material covered is interesting.
I was absolutely dreading expos, but this was a painless course.  The readings were really enjoyable.  I liked getting to read fiction, and the spacing of short stories and novels is a good balance.  I never felt overwhelmed.  On the last essay I felt like I was drowning a little, but that's the point of the research unit and Dr. Martinez was very helpful.  This class is mainly good because Dr. Martinez truly enjoys the materials and the new insights the students can bring.  She works hard to help you develop your essay, which was nice when revision-time came.  She was always available and willing to aid me if I felt confused or unsure.
We read interesting works, so that's a definite plus. There will rarely be a time when there is a lack of essay topics, simply because the material is so rich. I feel that we spend more time discussing the works than learning useful writing techniques. Go to office hours, even if you don't have a concrete topic for your essay.
This course has interesting readings that don't consume all of your time.
A good choice if you enjoy literary analysis, but the workload is somewhat high for an Expos class.
This is a great choice for expos! It is well balanced in terms of reading to writing.
Expos in general is a lot of work, but it's necessary.
The subject and the readings are very interesting and the teacher is one of the best I've had at Harvard so far. If you need help she will always be there for you and she grades very fairly. She's also super supportive and truly has faith in your abilities, which is invaluable as a teacher.
Dr. Martinez is great and the subject matter is interesting but be prepared to do a lot of reading and writing.
This is a required freshman course, and it is definitely a class that you will need to spend a lot of time on.
Be sure to work hard on the revisions and stay on top of your work or it'll overwhelm you.
This is a fantastic choice for the Expos requirement. The course materials are fun to read, and the papers are therefore more fun than papers for other classes. Section is very relaxed and is not strenuous. Ms. Martinez is a fantastic instructor who really cares about her students and helps them a lot; she gives back great feedback on how to revise papers.
This Expos course has interesting material and a hardworking preceptor.
This expos class is definitely very interesting and it is not too much work, especially if you have already read Northanger Abbey, which is the bulk of the reading.
Gothic fiction is an interesting way to become a better writer. The material is engaging and awesome to read while stimulating curiosity.
It depends on what you enjoy -- this is, of course, a class on literature. We had a lot of science-y people in our class who probably struggled a lot (including myself at some points), but the reading is never /too/ heavy and Michele Martinez is a fabulous preceptor. I really enjoyed discussions and did find myself bored sometimes, but overall I enjoyed class.
The readings are fun, providing perspectives on Gothic fiction from varied viewpoints (Austen, short stories, and Poe). Reading and work load were very fair and not excessive. Progression of assignments is extremely well structured by Expos, with three essays through the semester, and grading is not necessarily easy but very fair. Preceptor is highly available, receptive, and helpful to students - knows the subject well but not particularly insight-triggering, as class discussions tended to be slow and rather shallow. Overall quite simply a reasonable class - met expectations, but did not exceed them - which may be just what you're looking for in Expos, in which case it's a great fit.
Definitely an amazing Expos class! Most people will complain about Expos but this one is really great. Dr. Martinez is an awesome instructor, and I was able to improve my writing by a lot. We have actual interesting readings, and the structure of the course is made in such a way that it doesn't seem like a lot of work.
Good work load, great preceptor
If you enjoy reading and analyzing fiction, I would highly recommend this course for the Expos requirement. I found the readings very fun and engaging, and not terribly time consuming. The writing assignments were pretty painless and Dr. Martinez gave great, detailed feedback. If you're already a strong writer, this course won't do much for you, but that's just the nature of Expos I guess.
The class is great. It felt more like an elective to me than expos.
I greatly enjoyed Expos 20: Gothic Fiction.  Dr. Martinez was an excellent instructor who worked diligently with students to improve their writing abilities.  She made herself very available outside of class, and was willingly to assist with all stages of the writing process.  Additionally, she engaged students in class, and selected excellent reading materials.  I would recommend this Expos course!
Dr. Martinez is a very receptive preceptor who is engaged and knowledgable on the topic of Gothic Fiction. However, expos overall is still an annoying requirement, but if you have to do it, Gothic Fiction should definitely be one of your top options.
This class sounds daunting and perhaps even boring, but I assure you that it is neither of those things. It was actually one of my favorite courses of freshman year, and because of it I am considering taking another English class just for the fun of it.
Michele is great, go to her office hours!
This is really a great class. The readings are always interesting, the assignments are clear and flexible, and the preceptor is wonderful. Michele gives the best constructive criticism, telling you exactly what works and what doesn't. Relatively painless way to fulfill the expos requirement.
The readings are interesting, but the with Jane Austen is dull. Get past that and you'll do fine.
This class is hands down one of the best expos classes out there.  It was my favorite course that I took this semester.  The preceptor is excellent and the material thought-provoking.  Take this class if: 1. You want an expos that resembles an english class.  2.  You think you might enjoy reading Poe short stories.  3.  You want an expos class that is not very difficult.  Word of advice:  A lot of students try to look for an expos class that is the easiest.  This approach is not very effective.  Look for an expos class that interests you and if you like it, the class will be both easy and enjoyable.
Come in with an open mind. Regardless of all the complaints about Expos, if you happen to get a topic you enjoy, it can be absolutely fascinating. Make the most of office hours, and do not procrastinate. No one likes Lamont at 4 AM before a deadline.
Make sure yo like the topic, don't be discouraged if you don't get the grades you think you should be getting, and make use of the writing center.
I'd recommend that you should only take this class if you are interested in studying English/literature/some form of humanities in the future (as I was). Otherwise, the course can sometimes be overwhelming in terms of the amount of reading and literary analysis that you have to do. Also, you should at least be mildly interested - but preferably really interested - in Gothic fiction; otherwise, the readings may become a drag, though some of them are interesting. I thought this was a pretty strong writing course in terms of teaching you the essentials of good academic (particularly literary analytical) writing and applicable research skills, but it wasn't necessarily the best course I've taken here. However, the best part of Gothic Fiction is Dr. Martinez - she is a fair, personable, and extremely helpful preceptor who is truly excited about teaching and discussing Gothic fiction. Her feedback is always timely and on point, and she is just fun to talk to about your writing and anything about Gothic fiction. If you don't mind heavy reading and pretty frequent assignments for an Expos course, then take this, especially if you're interested in pursuing literary studies.
Keep up with the reading. Get a really solid draft done before your conference. Don't be afraid to completely rewrite your essay from scratch.
I would recommend this course to anyone who does not feel confident in their ability to produce structured essays. However, for people who had a strong English program in high school and are familiar with the structural requirements of a typical essay, this course will probably feel superfluous and repetitive.
Complete the readings and start working on the essays as early as you can!
