This is a really great expos course. It is an engaging and interesting topic that really challenges your thinking about reasoning. Professor Tierney does a great job making the class engaging and focusing on the important aspects while still allowing you to form your own opinions and arguments. Although it is a good deal of work it is certainly worth it for how much you learn by the end.
This class is perfect for those who are interested in the sciences yet need to fulfill the expository writing requirement.  The class seemed at times more like a social and psychological sciences class than a writing class.  Though the focus was on writing academically, the essays could have been assigned in a science class.  The readings are short and interesting.  Professor Tierney is also very accessible and provides excellent feedback on essays.  I don't think I could have chosen a better expos class.
This was actually my fourth or fifth choice when ranking classes but I surprisingly enjoyed this class, despite the fact that I don't like psychology a lot. Professor Tierney was very enthusiastic and gave interesting readings that didn't take too much time to read. The work is not too much but writing the essays in this class is different because it's a science research paper.
This is NOT a science expository writing course. I initially hoped that this course would help me write scientific papers, but instead I only learned how to write review articles, not empirical articles based on data I found. The papers you read are scientific, but the actual papers you write are not really what you would be doing in writing a research paper. But there isn't an alternative (NO expos classes actually cover research paper writing), so basically you should take the expos class with the subject you're most interested in. If you're planning to go into a STEM field, none of the expos classes will help you.
This class is interesting but make sure that you understand that it takes a very psychological take on risk and reason. Going in, I thought it would be much more about ethical reasoning and whatnot, but it really focuses on psychology and cognitive neuroscience. A lack of scientific knowledge does not hurt you, but make sure you are interested in the material. If you write about what you like, you will put more time and effort into it.
This class has one of the best writing professors I have ever known, and you can clearly tell that she cares about helping her students.
This class made me hate academic writing. The material is somewhat interesting but you are forced to use it in such a way that you will come to despise it. I was asked to basically only use what was directly available to me, use no personal ideas, strip out any sort of creativity and imagination and to simply write robotic math-like papers that simply proved one thing based on a bunch of facts that other scholars came up with. Take another expos.
Go to Professor Tierney's office hours and revise more than once with her.
Very thought-provoking course that you learn a lot from! You should enjoy the topic area.
Try to find subjects that are interesting to you, as it makes writing about them all the more interesting. Work your butt off, and don't be discouraged by the first paper. Work closely with he writing center, peers, and the prof, and you are sure to improve and do well.
Please do not take this course. The preceptor is condescending. The readings are boring. The professor does not give any constructive feedback on assignments and leaves you bewildered when she gets your grade. if she likes you, she'll pass you. If not, you're screwed. That is not the way a class should be run. I had to use the writing center as a major resource in improving my papers because she was just no help to me.
Should at least be interested in science writing to fully appreciate the class
Know that the type of writing you do in this class is very different from that you probably did in high school. If you want to learn about Science writing, this may be the class for you.
As Exposes go, this one is pretty fantastic.  The content is interesting for anyone interested a bit in psychology or more science in general than humanities.  The readings are interesting, relevant, and not lengthy.  This class may require more effort than others to hone papers to A-level work.
This class doesn't have too much reading, but the reading you do is very scientific and very technical. The essays you write target the scientific community, which isn't necessarily how you wrote in high school.
I strongly recommend this course for anyone interested in scientific writing, and particularly in psychology or neuroscience. The subject matter is engaging, the pacing is good, and the assignments are really designed to help develop your skill as a writer. The workload is pretty reasonable, and each unit does a good job of emphasizing different elements of expository writing.
In comparison to other expos courses this one was fairly painless. There is extremely little reading and all of it is relevant to the essays. Class discussions were usually engaging and interesting, and the focus of the papers was also generally interesting. It can, however, be a difficult subject to write about. Make sure scientific writing is something you want to do, otherwise you will find this style of writing very painful.
This expos course is amazing! It is both very psychological and scientific at the same time, and the course material is very interesting. In addition, of all the people I know who took expos this semester, I had the best time. Also, Professor Tierney is very knowledgeable, helpful, and nice!
This class is an excellent introduction, through social science writing, to college writing in general. The high standard of precision demanded in composition may be daunting at first. Though the subject matter is pretty scientific, someone as interested in the humanities as myself benefits just as much if not more from this approach.
This is a psychology course, not a philosophy one.  That said, take the course if you enjoy psychology.
