If you're at all interested in urban issues, this class is a good choice for Expos, as it touches upon contemporary urban issues of your choosing; 19th-century urban issues; and mid-20th century issues of race and suburbanization. Lindsay is also a great preceptor who provides fabulous feedback and is always willing to spend more time discussing your paper and helping you to hone in on your ideas. I found Expos relatively painless as a result.
Be very receptive to the comments she makes on your drafts
It is an interesting class giving students the necessary tools to strive for the best in writing throughout the college years, making better a student's standards in writing. Not only is it a writing class, but gives history of urban america which is of great importance to knowing the achievement of the U.S and gives a concise description of how the U.S became what it is today, a world power.
Take this class if Lindsay is the preceptor (Silver Cohen). She's great, and makes Expos seem much better than some of the horror stories I've heard from other sections. The coolest part about Urban America is the research component at the end for the final paper - it's much more of a sociological course, which is great if you're interested at all in the Boston or Cambridge areas. I learned a lot from researching my subject and am so glad to have had this opportunity.Even if it's a requirement, at least you can get it over with by addressing an interesting topic!
I would recommend the course because it is a requirement, but I would not recommend it as a course that one would enjoy.
Not a bad class.  It is Expos, so everyone has to take it in some form.  This particular Expos seems to be a bit more work than some of the others out there, but its not necessarily more difficult with respect to the large essay assignments.  However, the feedback (comments etc) that you receive is most definitely sub-par compared to that which is given in the other Expos offerings.
This is a great course with not a ton of work but the material is great.
This course does help with your writing ability, however it is writing for writing's sake and is not very enjoyable.
Make sure to choose your expos course based on your interests and not on whether or not the class will fit in your schedule.
This class is very dull until you do your own research. I would not say this class is any better than other expos classes.
This is a great course if you are interested in the issues of urban America. It's great for social science and history concentrators. It allowed for lots of discussion and freedom in our last paper. Lindsay is really easy going and she will work with you to help you with any problems you may encounter throughout the process of writing. She is very supportive. We do only small groups reflections, no large class ones, so be ready to have to read everyone's drafts and having to write reader letters and writer letters. Those were most probably the most annoying.
This class doesn't involve that much reading or outside work in relation to other Expos courses. The material is pretty interesting though in-class discussions can be dry. The papers build on one another so it's easier to understand.
It was a mostly-painless way to get through Expos.
I'm going to break my advice into two parts, that about expos in general, and that about this section specifically.1.  I thought expos was very helpful in accomplishing its goal of making me a better writer.  The level of feedback, both in preceptor and peer conferences, was far superior to anything I received in high school.  Keep in mind, though, that the workload for expos is highly variable--10+ hours on weeks when you have a paper and maybe 1-2 when you only have readings.2.  This section was good, though a bit dry at times.  Some of that is unavoidable, but some of it came down to some boring classes/class topics, particularly in the third unit.  Nevertheless, I thought that the readings were quite good overall, and I enjoyed this particular section.
Very interesting material
There's a lot of really interesting material in this class.
Take this expos- there isn't a lot of reading involved and the subject material is extremely interesting.  Lindsay is a great preceptor who will really work with you to improve your writing.  I could definitely tell by the end of the semester that my writing skills had improved and gotten much stronger.
This course allows for plenty of one on one time with the preceptor to further enhance one's writing skill.
This course was not my top choice for expos, but I was surprised and impressed by the quality of the feedback. Lindsay knows how to write.
This is a great and interesting expos. The readings are light and interesting and Lindsay is great preceptor. It's a really painless way to write about interesting topics and get through your expos requirement.  She is also very helpful with feedback and gives you concrete ways to change your draft that usually aren't too drastic.
