Dr. Ziparo is amazing and she puts tons of effort into making this course worthwhile.  If you like to argue in your writing, this is totally the course for you.  I am so happy that I took, and I feel that my writing has vastly improved.
It's not a bad class, but I would have prefered a more social scienece course.
A relatively good expos class. It made me think about issues from a legalistic perspective, which was new for me.
Dear Dangerous Speech-interested freshmen,AVOID THIS COURSE!!!! You might be telling yourself, "I really don't want to take Expos, but, wow, this sounds like an interesting course. I should take Dangerous Speech!" I, too, told myself something similar before signing up for this course. Take my advice and choose literally ANY other Expos class. Jessica Ziparo runs this class horribly, and offers little to no help with your writing. Her comments are meaningless and often leave you with the impression that she hardly read your paper - if at all! You might think the material sounds interesting, but trust me when I say you'll thank me later for taking a course with less interesting material but a better preceptor. She is also very slow to grade or comment on anything (again if at all). The response papers for this course do nothing. Jessica Ziparo critiques aspects of the final draft that she praised in the first draft, seemingly because it's the first time she actually reads it (rather than flippantly saying "Good job!", which happened all the time for me). Seriously take something else. Anything else. Thank me later.
Class was good and I generally enjoyed discussions and readings, interesting and applicable material. Only warning is that she is a harsh grader
Really interesting material, even though I have no interest in studying law (although it seemed like most other students were interested in going to law school in the future). It is definitely not easy but got me to think about things I wouldn't have otherwise been exposed to. As far as expos classes go it's definitely one of the better ones!
It is an awesome class. I was never really interested in law before. But after this class, I came to enjoy studying legal issues.
The course is not especially hard and not especially easy. The grading is fair and comments tend to be accurate, specific, and helpful. I can't speak for the other expos classes, but I found this one to be pretty enjoyable. Very fascinating material was discussed throughout.
Not a bad expos course compared to what I've heard about others. The preceptor (Dr. Ziparo) was a lawyer though, so be prepared to be precise on your writing.
Dr. Ziparo is an amazing teacher and the subject material is fascinating. Best Expos you could ask for.
