I have never received such helpful feedback on my writing than that which came from Dr. Levay.  Not only knowledgable about psychological obsession, but a phenomenal writing advisor who makes himself accessible through both office hours and responsive emailing.  While I did not expect Expos to compete for my favorite class of the semester, the interesting topic and readings coupled with engaging assignments and important criticism from Dr. Levay certainly changed my mind.
The coursework is at times drab and repetitive, but the things you learn about the way to write professionally are essential.
This class is very interesting, if you're curious about psychology, but more or less at an amateur level. You don't have to be an expert in the field, but it offers a clear perspective on the subject of obsession.
Take it.
As far as Expos goes, Obsession is not a bad choice, but it isn't the most interesting subject.
I do not regret taking this class at all. You'll learn a lot, the workload is relatively light, and the feedback will help turn even the worst writers into competent ones. Dr. Levay is an excellent preceptor and he makes the class all the more enjoyable. Yes, it was at 9:00AM, but it was always something pleasant to look forward to on Monday and Wednesday mornings. Do the readings, highlight vigorously, and you should be fine. Think outside the box! It helps a lot.
If you are at all interested in psychology (and really even if you're not), this is a fantastic class. The readings are relevant, interesting, and manageable, and Dr. Levay is really great. He gives wonderful feedback on work and class time is well-spent with engaging discussions.
There is a fair amount of reading in the first two units of the class, but after talking to some of my friends who took other expos class, the amount of reading in comparison to other expos classes seems moderate.
This class is pretty harmless, and from what I've heard not all Expos sections are this enjoyable. The actual readings we did were not that interesting (especially Freud) but Dr. Levay is a great preceptor. His feedback on papers is really helpful and he's not too harsh a grader. Plus, the film unit at the end of the course is super fun. Overall, a pretty good class!
If you're in this specific class, DO THE READINGS, there's no way hat you can even do the writing assignments or participate in class discussions if you don't.
Levay gives excellent feedback and the workload is not terrible, but make sure you are interested in obsession in all fields, from film to psychology.
If you're interested in obsession, you should definitely take this course! This class teaches us to look at obsession from different perspectives so we can better understand the mental condition. The essays were fun to write, especially the last one on film!
The readings on obsession is really interesting. The final unit on movie is a special feature that allows the research to be really multi-source, and the movies themselves are fantastic.
I really liked the topics that we covered in this course and although I spent a long time working on essays, I was happy to do so because I liked what I was talking about. I think this was in part because we were free to select topics to write about as we pleased, they just had to be based on the books and in a specific style. Other than that, we had a lot of freedom and I really appreciated that. It's really cool that I can now discuss people like Freud and Oscar Wilde and the work they did in conversation with a much deeper understanding that I previously had.
There is a lot more work than I expected.
This course is great for those interested in psychology and psychiatry. I am interested in both, and definitely enjoyed being able to write about topics related to these fields, and to see how they were addressed in so many different types of sources, from more academic writing (such as Sigmund Freud and the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders), to novels (like The Picture of Dorian Gray), to films (Black Swan, Hitchcock's Vertigo, etc). The essay prompts give you a lot of freedom to write about anything you're interested in in relation to the topic of obsession as portrayed in these sources.
I would definitely tell them to make the most of your conferences by being really prepared;I would recommend having definite key points of discussion.
difficult, somewhat uninspiring, too serious
The materials are great, the instructor is (on the whole) good. From what I've heard this entire semester, it's one of the better Expository Writing 20 courses that one can take.
It is an amazing class, the reading and the film component make. this class extremely interesting
Dr. Levay is a fantastic instructor. The discussions he leads during class help to make previously daunting psychoanalytical texts digestible.
This course is absolutely FASCINATING, especially if you take into consideration that it's an Expos class! The reading materials are all extremely engrossing, especially if you're interested in anything related to obsessions. We got exposure to many different works discussing the subject, reading Freud's psychoanalytic case histories and Oscar Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray, as well as watching Black Swan, Vertigo, and the TV show, Hoarders. Levay is a great preceptor who provides a lot of helpful and constructive feedback on your writing. TAKE IT!!
Keep up with the reading. The assignments are not hard.
The content of this course is so interesting. If you are at all interested in obsession in any context then I would highly recommend it. The course materials are not overbearing and are worth your while. Dr. Levay is an awesome preceptor because he is encouraging and helpful in developing your writing. The best part is that it does not feel like a writing class because if it had, I would not nearly have enjoyed it as much.
This is a great class with a professor with a genuine interest in your writing career.
The instructor is fair, intelligent, and balanced. The section and classwork reflects that.
For an expos class, Obsession is relatively interesting and worth the time.
Dr. Levay may seem rigid and uptight at the beginning, but it means that the class is well-organized. He also may seem intimidating at first, but don't be afraid to ask for help. He gives specific, helpful advice with parts of papers and asking him whatever you are struggling with will really improve your writing. If you feel stuck with anything, shoot him an email and he will respond promptly with something that will help you on your way.
Take this for your Expos! The materials are great fun to read and watch, Dr. Levay is not only fun to learn from, but you will learn from him. His comments on papers are thorough and he will make you a better writer. It's Expos, so unfortunately you don't get to spend a whole lot of time on the material itself, but the stuff you do discuss is engaging and fun. A fun way to get the requirement out of the way with a fun preceptor and cool readings!
Overall expos is a mediocre class, but given that you have to take Expos, Obsession was a pretty good subject.
Take this class! Levay is the nicest, and the subject matter is really interesting. I wasn't a huge fan of our first unit on Freud, but the unit on The Picture of Dorian Gray and the film unit were great. Response assignments are short and often help you plan your essay, and while you may have to spend a few late nights writing essays (in this or any Expos class), the topics are usually interesting enough that writing them won't be painful. Levay's criticisms on essays are always accurate and your conferences with him will actually help you improve your writing a lot. Grading is very fair, and he'll give you a good idea of what you need to fix in your first draft to get a good grade on the paper.
If you're interested in the topic of obsession, don't hesitate to take this course. A helpful and mostly painless expos class.
Mr. Levay was a great preceptor!  I think the quality of the teacher can really make or break an expos class, so I would definitely recommend this class.  Plus, if you are interested in obsession or mental illness, this course is truly fascinating.
