The class readings are really enjoyable because slave narratives use an ample amount of rhetorical devices, so you're never scrambling to find evidence for a particular idea. They are also very interesting and pertain to a lot of social issues that we still have in our society to this day.
While challenging, Slave Narratives is an Expos course that is both interesting and rewarding as you will take away much from the readings and discussions.  With a moderate workload and broad range of readings and material, this class is an enjoyable way to fulfill the Expos requirement.
Interesting topic. Great preceptor. Take the class!
A great way to feel like you got something out of the expos requirement. Dr. Becker is a fantastic professor who truly cares about his students and will help you become a better writer
The topic, Slave Narratives, is almost an afterthought. The class focuses on writing, and the topic becomes a useful background. The class is hard through, and I felt like I put in all the hours but got nothing to show for it.
This is as good as you'll get to fulfill your Expos requirement. Dr. Becker is great, the material is interesting, and you won't be punished with a crazy workload beyond the papers for the course.
Expos is probably not going to be your favorite class, but often this class doesn't feel like a required writing class. If you have any interest in the slave trade, you will love this class like I did. Beyond just the writing and research elements, I think topics from this course are very applicable to other studies. As far as expos goes, I can't imagine a more enjoyable and intriguing class!
It's a good class, but I think it is slightly harder and more loaded than people previously told me.
"Slave Narratives" expos was great! Dr. Becker is friendly, helpful, and a fair grader, though it's not always easy to understand what he's getting at. The books and films were analyzed were meaningful and engaging, and class discussions were always insightful, interesting, and surprising. I didn't realize coming in that it would be so literature/humanities-focused, so note that it's a lot of close readings and analysis of the texts as literature (for the way they're written) rather than as historical documents (for what they say). Wound up loving it anyways, but probably would have preferred an Expos more tailored to my academic interests. In any case, one of the better Expos courses!
Expos is challenging, but Dr. Becker is great. The course is geared toward literary analysis so if you plan on going into the sciences it might not be a good fit.
This is a great class to fulfill the expos requirement.  Dr. Becker is phenomenal and the work isn't that hard.  Your writing will definitely improve.
If you're looking for a good expos class, this is the one! I enjoyed my professor and the material we discussed in class. The work load wasn't overbearing and the professor was extremely understanding about other activities and requirements you have outside of this course. He kept us interested and we even had a couple of really fun field trips! And during exam period... Look forward to Starbucks coffee and apple cider to help relax you!
This class is interesting and there are cool field trips!
This class is a gem. It's not difficult (isn't that what we want in an Expos class?) but it really teaches you to write effectively.
This is a fun expos class to take, it is an interesting topic and you will learn a lot.
The best expos ever
Great preceptor, great content, and less than the average amount of reading for an expos class. Also, the third unit is on Django Unchained. 'Nuff said.
This course's reading is engaging, Dr. Becker is a great teacher, and the assignments aren't as difficult because it's easy to be passionate about what you are writing about.
This course is amazing; it will really give you a new perspective on slaves and their story. Moreover, you will develop the tools you need to constantly work at and improve your writing.
I really loved this class! The readings and films were always interesting, which kept the class exciting.  Even though I don't like writing, the material of the class made it possible to enjoy the class in spite of this.  I highly recommend this Expos course!
