This course if definitely an amazing Expos class. Each essay was enjoyable to write (Eating local vs. global, NYC soda ban effectiveness, "why do we eat what we do?") and better yet, her feedback really helped me improve my essays. This course basically restructured how I thought writing an essay was supposed to be like and changed my entire method of writing.
It was a very interesting and applicable to everyday life. It helps be more conscious of our everyday consumption.
This is an extremely good expos class. It is fun, interesting, and Dr. Mumme is an amazing preceptor. The homework and response papers do not feel like busy work and the essays are about things that everyone can relate to and are therefore really fun to write. As far as expos goes, this is definitely the best!
I actually found this class very enjoyable and informative. It was topic that most of the students in the class enjoyed and so we had good discussions about the papers. The readings themselves were pretty painless and interesting. You read a lot of scientific studies which you need to use in the final paper. Since it is a scientific writing class, the essays are pretty formulaic in its style. Keep track of your sources! That's the whole point of Expos, really. Don't waste your time refinding your sources just to make the references page.
the topic was VERY interesting and made writing very enjoyable! when you like what you're writing about it makes it a lot less painful to write mandatory papers
This is by far the most engaging and interesting expos topic. The articles are extremely relevant and the topic is a great theme to begin improving your writing with.
Based on my understanding, this is one of the better Expos sections.
Interesting and fun class.
If you are enrolled in a course led by Dr. Mumme, you have really won the lottery. I will not say that she is the best instructor because I have not met the other preceptors. However, I can proudly say that this was my favorite course this semester. The instructor, the course material, the readings, the assignments are excellent. Dr. Mumme has put in a lot of time and effort into forming a very entertaining yet informative expository writing course that leaves students with a wealth of knowledge.
Dr. Mumme is the best! She is super adorable, experienced, dedicated, and punctual. You can count on her for insightful comments on every assignment you turn in (and for snacks every now and then that are relevant to what we are studying).
This is the best expos of all. Dr. Mumme is a gem, and she wants to help you do well. We get food in class, and then write about food. What could be better?
This course is not exactly what I thought it was going to be initially. It was still interesting though
Food! is by far one of the best Expos classes you can take. As if the topic wasn't interesting in itself, Dr. Mumme also frequently bring food to class for students to eat. Food! will give you a whole new perspective on  what you put into your body and why you do it, something everyone should be concerned about.
An interesting perspective on eating. Definitely worth while
Start working on the assignments early. The 9:45am deadline is annoying and means that papers need to be done the night before/morning of.
Dr. Mumme is very nice and knowledgeable in the field. The readings are interesting.
The reading are interesting. If you get this expos, I heard this is one of the better ones. However, do take advantages of office hours and try to talk to your preceptor as much as possible.
One of the less painful expos options.
This class is awesome.  I didn't think that Expos was going to be my favorite course going into this semester, but it quickly became my favorite course.  The issues we talk about are interesting and relevant in regards to current events and importance, and you get food, too.  It's pretty much a great deal all around.
If you are at all interested in why we eat what we do and where our food comes from, then this class is definitely for you.
My expos experience was very positive because of this class. The topic is not only interesting but also very relatable. Since every freshman has to take expos anyways, I would strongly recommend this one!
