It's a lot of work but you can't avoid Expos.
The final paper will be very compelling, but the first two aren't so much.
This expos class was amazing in helping me become a better writer. It isn't that it tries to teach you how to write (it doesn't assume that you don't write well), but it really teaches you how to write effectively, and how you should go about attacking the writing process (which will make future writing assignments so much better). This class is especially great because you get so much feedback on your writing; the more work you put in, the more you will get out of it. Of course, there is always a lot of work involved, but the work is interesting, and you discover so many things about yourself as a writer, the topics you write about, and how to think and evaluate ideas critically in addition to writing well.
Start your work early and stay on top of your readings and short response papers. It get intense very quickly if you don't.
This class is difficult, but very worthwhile. Expect a lot of reading. I recommend doing the reading critically and thoughtfully before going to class because this will help substantially on the papers. Be prepared to use a lot of paper and ink.
This is a great class that helps you really learn and get interested about public health while learning about expository writing skills!
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. The topic sounds interesting to me, since I'm premed, but it's not worth it. There's so much busy work, the preceptor sucks and overschedules herself so that she doesn't have enough time to give me individual attention, and I left the class feeling burnt out and unenlightened. Don't do it.
The course is not easy, but it will help you improve your writing.
Everyone is required to take expos. If you are interested in public health and writing about things like that specifically, I would take this course. If those are not things that you are interested in, then you probably won't enjoy the structure of the class.
Jerusha is amazing!
Jerusha is an amazing preceptor, and if you do your work on time and stay engaged in the class, you will do well.
Fairly manageable class if you schedule yourself out and stick to it. Sometimes it seemed that the sources were baiting you to one particular "side" of the debate (especially in Unit 1), but I think the course is not too bad. It's Expos so it's hard to generate any interest in students. To that end, Jerusha does a great job though.
I've heard from some peers that they did not enjoy the topic of "public health". I personally enjoyed this topic very much. So how much you enjoy this class very much depends on whether you like the topic.
If you're interested in public health, take this class. There aren't too many readings, and we only had one writing assignment outside of the three required papers. I enjoyed the class discussions and actually learned a lot about public health and how to improve my writing.
The topics explored in this class are very current and interesting. Even if you're not interested in biology or public health, Jerusha portrays the topics of this class in a way that everyone feels involved and affected by them. She does a good job of choosing daily-life issues to discuss and research in depth. Her style of teaching is also superb; she's very approachable, friendly, and knowledgeable. Moreover, she has structured the conference/workshop aspects of the class to be very effective and efficient in feedback. You will leave class after a workshop or conference knowing exactly what you did wrong, how to fix it, and how to avoid it next time even if your paper wasn't the one being workshopped.
One of the best exposes. The framework is unfortunate, but Jerusha does her best to make it valuable.
Take this course if you are ready to spend all your time working on it. But it is rewarding - you learn a lot.
It seems like one of the harder Exposes and you should be interested in science if you take it.
it was an interesting expos class with a topic that I had not previously known much about; the writing style is more scientifically oriented which was a plus for me; the instructor was helpful, consistent, and conscientious about providing feedback and returning work/papers
This class is a decent expos class.  It was challenging and the pace was fast, but this ended up being good in the long run since we were finished with the class before reading period started.  I can't say that I enjoyed the class, in fact I really didn't like it at all, but that was because of the heavy writing component of the class, and not because of the class material or preceptor.
This Expos class is not for the faint of heart, though you will be glad you took it at the end of the semester. Jerusha provides feedback that while helpful, makes for extensive revisions. Unlike some other Expos classes, Jerusha doesn't provide any extensions, but this makes for great conferences and peer review because everyone has their entire draft ready to go. Don't expect to learn a lot of public health, as you will study 3 topics, and then one of your choosing.
