This course is rigorous,challenging, and, at times, intimidating. However, the readings are great, the preceptor is TRULY SUPERB, and you WILL come out of the course a better writer across ALL disciplines, not just literature. Be warned, though, this is not an "easy" course, and you will have to push yourself and invest time into your work.
Sri taught me how everything I learned in high school about how to write about literature was wrong, and prepared me for the rigors of academic writing. This course is well-structured and the short stories that we get to read are engaging. Sri makes everything available on iSites early in PDF form, so everything is well-organized. She always makes clear her expectations of your paper, and the feedback that she gives during conferences is extremely helpful. If you're even the least bit interested in immigrant and emigrant experiences, definitely consider taking this course.
This is definitely one of the better expos classes in terms of workload.  The readings are pretty short and the assignments are straightforward.  The conferences are very helpful; Sri makes it extremely clear what she expects from you.
If you like the topic, the reading and analysis becomes very enjoyable, with the final essay kind of like your own mini sociological research project.  It is a nicely taught, intellectually stimulating course, and a wonderful way to learn how to reevaluate the way you make arguments and write.
This class is a great introduction to how college level writing is different from what the vast majority of us are used to. Sri is a highly enthusiastic teacher who knows what she's talking about and is always willing to help, although at times she is slightly disorganized and returns materials late. The texts themselves are very interesting, especially if you enjoy immigrant fiction, and in comparison to other Expository classes I hear that this is one of the best. Take it if you can!
Not a bad choice for Expos at all. Sri is awesome. She really teaches you certain skills that help you organize your ideas and argue effectively - in this sense, the course successfully accomplilshes the goal of expos, teaching me to be a better academic writer. However, while the readings are rather interesting and don't get too dry, I didn't learn as much about the specifics of cross-cultural encounters and interactions as I hoped to. I came away from the class without too much new knowledge about what happens when cultures interact with each other.
The class will challenge you and your previous writing experiences. I would work hard to see what skills your preceptor wants you to target and work on fixing them as soon as possible, for it will really give you a strong foundation for the rest of the class.
Make sure you are interested by literary analysis. If not you will have a hard time thinking about your essay. Don't take this course just because it is cross cultural. That said the course makes you think. It may be frustrating at times, but if you struggle, you will reap the rewards.
This is a great class,  that will teach you how to think critically and arrange your ideas in a progressive manner. Sri is a tough but very knowledgeable and helpful preceptor.
If you enjoy literary analysis and critical theory, definitely take this course.  However, the papers focus on your ability to engage in critical analysis so if you do not find this extremely engaging this is not the course for you.  Sri gives excellent feedback and your writing will definitely improve.  The reading load is fairly light, mainly short stories, but the essays can be time consuming.
This course is very demanding of a student and will be difficult. Although all essays are less than 10 pages, detail is certainly something that is not neglected in this course. One has to be extraordinarily careful in the formulation of theses, arguments and source usage. If you're looking for a course that will actually teach you what expository writing is all about, then I highly recommend this course.
Sri is a great help when it comes to revising and rewriting the paper. Her comments are detailed and helpful, and she will always help you fix the ideas in the body of your essay or even help you refocus your thesis statement. There is a heavy emphasis on the revision process and on have smooth ideational progression in the essays. While there is not very much in class discussion of the readings, I felt that this was not very necessary in order to understand what to write about. The examples and in class discussions on the style of essay writing helped me understand how to create my thesis and form the ideas to support it. Also, be sure to have quick access to a printer, as everything must be turned on paper and not electronically. The readings were interesting, fairly short, and not difficult to understand/interpret at all.
The grading of this class is not easy, but the reading and writing assignments are generally shorter than other expos.
Work hard, and push through it. Pay a lot of attention in the one-on-one conferences, since those are key to your grade.
This class doesn't require a whole lot of reading but writing both the draft and the final version is done almost exclusively on your own just working with notes you take from a verbal conference with our preceptor which can make things a lot harder. Also everything is submitted in hard paper copy to a folder in Lamont.
This class is very well organized and taught very well, but the topics were not always as interesting as I previously thought they would be. It may just be because it was always focused on writing, which is the point of the course, and not so much on the actual issues of culture zones.
You'll learn how to be a somewhat better writer, but the process is far more painful than it needs to be. Reading assignments are manageable but instruction is not very helpful so writing becomes very difficult.
you learn what high caliber writing looks like. only take if cross cultural encounters actually interest you and you don't need help on basic stuff.
Do not take this class. After reading this comment, close this tab, and look for a different expos section. This class has made my second semester of my freshman year miserable. It is terrible for 2 reasons:1) The instructor is very questionable. Although my writing skills did improve in this class, I don't think she is an effective teacher. She is very non-conducive to learning. In class, everyone feels afraid to participate because she will shoot down any comments that do not align with her own ideas. And then she asks us to participate. Thus, the class is essentially students trying to be teacher's pets and no one tosses around any opposing ideas. She also makes herself unavailable to students outside of the classroom. This class is my worst nightmare.2) The subject matter is dry.
This was one of my favorite classes this semester - not only improved my writing substantially, but also changed the way I look at the world. Definitely take this class! You'll get a lot out of it, and there is relatively little reading compared to some other classes.
The readings are very interesting and engaging, but keep in mind that the class focuses on the writing more than the readings and so you won't discuss the readings much in class, if at all. As for the writing portion, you learn a lot of the expectations but it could be hard to translate that into the essay you're working on.
This class is a great introductory writing based class. It really focuses on helping you become a stronger writer and Sri makes sure to spend time helping you develop. The effort that she puts into helping you become a better writer is evident throughout the course.
The careful way this course is structured results in an expository writing course which is extremely organized and filled with fascinating literature and conversations regarding cross-cultural interactions. Sri. also really helps transition students from a passive high school based, five paragraph writing style, to a more active, complex, conscientious, and argumentative form of writing expected in college. I feel as if this class helped me grow both as a writer and general scholar throughout the semester.
Sri does an amazing job trying to help you improve as a writer, offering tons of feedback and additional meetings when you have questions. This course has the least amount of reading of all expos classes and least amount of page requirements for writing essays. Instead, it's highly focused on your skills as a writer, which have been it much more enjoyable and useful. The last thing you want is to spend 30 hours reading thick texts, only 5% of which goes into your paper. Also, the short stories are extremely interesting and engaging. If you have any interest in cultural interactions, this course will appeal to you. The course is difficult but don't let that keep you away form taking it (all Expos courses are difficult, but this one makes it more enjoyable and focused on writing).
be on time for conferences! :)
One of the better expos classes, if not the best. The readings are never too long, and the feedback you receive on each assignment is great.
This class seems like a lot more work than other expos classes.  It will not always be enjoyable.  That being said, I actually did learn a lot from it, so if you're looking for a more intensive expos experience to prepare you for the rest of college, this is it.  The material in the first and third units is also actually interesting, so you won't be bored (which is actually really important).
you will learn a lot about how to become a better writer, but know two things: 1) it is approached from an english/literature focus, NOT sociological. 2) the class environment is not very engaging, the preceptor can be condescending, and therefore sometimes the class can be discouraging
To any students reading the Q comments for this course, let me preface this by saying that the responses will likely range in variety, with some offering quite substantial criticism simply because a lot of the feelings toward the nature and demands of Expos are blended with that of this individual course. However, I think its important to understand this course objectively, so let me offer several points:1) As with all Expository Writing courses, the overall curriculum (i.e. the writing components) are set by the Writing Program, not Sri, the preceptor, so comments relating to the assignments, requirements, and structures of the course are those that are common across all Expos sections.2) You will improve your academic writing skills in this course. Although the beginning of the course might see easy, youll soon realize that college writing requires a different approach than what was taught in high school (even for those who attended rather rigorous schools and who were successful). Sri will provide some of the most useful feedback on your work youll ever receive, and its rare in other college courses to receive this type of detailed and thoughtful feedback on issues of writing such as structure, argument, thesis, evidence, progression of ideas, source usage, etc. 3) Sri is a demanding Preceptor in that she will hold your work and scholarshipin and outside of classto high expectations. It will be difficult at times, perhaps even challenging, sometimes irksome, overwhelming. But consider that a) this is Harvard, and b) writing a strong, sound, and compelling piece of academic scholarship requires intelligent thought, discipline, time, and effort. You wont be able to get away with sloppy and janky writing, even if it might be praised in some less rigorous courses.4) Although there are some students who dislike the course, Sri is in fact an excellent Preceptor once you get to know her well. She can seem intimidating at first simply because of her expectations (which is the source for most of the negative criticism), but she really does mean the best for all her students, and she takes her work seriously. If you dont let what other students say get to you, and make a genuine attempt to work hard in the course and show her the respect any faculty member deserves, youll find this course one of the most rewarding and compelling. If you get to know her, she is one of the most caring faculty members at the college who really wants to get to know her students personally and takes interest in their personal and academic growth. Finally, the topic of this Expos course is important-issues of cross-cultural contact are increasingly salient in our globalized society, and this course raises many important points. In sum, if you are reading these evaluations and considering taking this courseeven in the slightestbecause you are interested by the thematic content, I would advise that you consider a) whether you have a genuine desire to improve the skills required for academic writing, b) whether you will put in the necessary work and effort (its actually not that time consuming, but you have to put in effort), c) whether youll be able to approach the course tabula rasa, with an open mind, a desire to learn, and a willingness to get to know the Preceptor. If you believe youll be able to do this, take the course and youll find it extremely rewarding and fun. If you dont think youll be able to, choose another Expos course or you might end up extremely unhappy.
In order to get the most out of the class, you really need to be interested in thinking about immigration, identity issues, etc. and be prepared to follow a somewhat formulaic prescription for academic writing.
Sri is an incredible Expos preceptor. She puts in a great amount of time into personally helping you become a better writer, and I am very grateful for it. The feedback I received on drafts and papers, both in conference and through written comments, was by far the most I have received on any of my work. The readings for the class are genuinely interesting, and the workload is definitely reasonable; every reading and writing assignment feels pertinent and well-connected to the broader lessons of the class. The ideas generated in section push you to really think about the implications of cross-cultural interactions. I think the most important question an upperclassman should be asked by someone shopping an Expos course is whether he/she felt his/her writing improved. Cross-Cultural Contact Zones absolutely improved my writing, and I hope this class is the number one choice for anyone seeking to improve his/her writing.
The course, while its content is somewhat interesting, falls into the trap of relying too heavily on rubrics, templates, and formulas, rather than allow students to express themselves more freely. While this (Expos) is not a creative writing class, a lot of the feedback we received was fairly subjective and based on what seemed to be Sri's opinions. The quality of class discussion was diminished by the somewhat tense/hostile tone she set during the beginning of the year. Her feedback, though very honest and useful, always came extremely late, well after the assignment had been submitted. What could have been a fun class on a meaningful subject matter instead became a chore. This is probably Expos in general--at least from what I've heard from other students--so it wouldn't be fair to totally blame Sri. She does provide very good, frank feedback, and makes the expectations of the course very clear. That said, I didn't leave the course feeling any more enriched than when I entered.
Your writing will improve more than you can imagine. The feedback she gives is amazing (she will go through your essays and tell you exactly what you need to do to make it better) so you will become a better thinker and reader as well. The assignments and course subject matter are quite fascinating and the readings are all quite enjoyable (lots of short stories)! That being said, being in class will be unpleasant and you might feel nervous speaking up.
This class was very interesting you definitely focus on writing, but also you learn about the cross cultural interactions within societies and major ideas on those.
I have never taken a class that I hated more than this. This may be in part because I resent being forced into taking anything, but it is significantly
Dr. Mukherjee is a great teacher! She will push hard you to succeed and very much help you become a better writer. The course material is very interesting--and Dr. Mukherjee has a deep knowledge of the subject.
Get ready to learn how to write!
This course is definitely not easy. It challenges you to think on a more intellectual and conceptual level so that your writing can improve. If you put in the work and open yourself up to criticism and revision, you will find the course rewarding.
It's definitely tough, but is very rewarding if you take the class seriously.
Sri is a phenomenal teacher and the course has great potential in improving your writing skills and ideological developments for other courses.
The course materials were very interesting, and I learned a lot of important things about academic writing. However, the atmosphere in the class was uncomfortable and the preceptor, although very knowledgable, made it not as enjoyable as it could have been.
Honestly, the in-class experience is painful. Sri is extremely abrasive, and sometimes borders on rude, but you will learn and extreme amount of information, and become a great academic writer. If you can tolerate her harshness, it will be an experience that will greatly benefit your work here at Harvard and beyond.
This is a very great course because it not only challenges you with various theories and concepts of cross cultural relationships but it also fosters an opportunity to become more practical in academic writing. And Sri does a great job in challenging you to become a better writer and you will leave the class learning something.
This is a rigorous class, you might feel frustrated at the beginning as you are "forced" to change the way you write. But, all the change is in your favor, accept it, work with it, and you'll be a better academic writer.
The readings are what make or break an expos class. If you pull your hair out reading you won't be able to write well. All classes have hard essays and all classes have good writers.
This course is as good an expos class as you will find. The work is not overbearing, especially when compared to some of my peers' workload in expos. Furthermore, Sri does an excellent job of clarifying what she wants from us as writers and I feelthat I grew in my ability to write academically.
This Expos course was excellent if you are truly interested in the material. The preceptor offers strong opinions for revisions but is willing to provide feedback and further explanation to clarify things.
Its a writing class, not an English class so keep that in mind
This classes will transform your writing for the better but be warned. It is A LOT of work.
Grades in this class will be lower than other expos classes. However, Dr. Mukherjee cares deeply about her students and will do her best to improve your writing ability throughout the course. I think that it's a solid expos class to fulfill the requirement due to engaging readings and thought-provoking essays. You will be frustrated at times with the course, but going to conference and hearing her well thought out comments will make you realize why Expos is required in the first place.
