If you really like diseases, this Expos section may be the lesser of many evils. But it's still a rather painful experience.
Write drafts well in advanced (not 4 hours before deadline)
Not particularly enjoyable in the beginning but gets better towards the end.
This was a wonderful class! At first it may seem that this class is geared toward pre-meds and is often touted as the "pre-med" expos, but it is NOT. Just because you are writing on scientific subjects, this does not mean you do not learn how to write. Dr. Achterberg does a wonderful job connecting the writing we do in class to skills we will need after expos. The prompts and readings are fun and interesting; Dr. Achterberg is extremely helpful, available and gives great feedback. I highly recommend this class and I can happily say I became a better writer after this class. Take it!
If infectious disease and public health is your specific realm of interest, I'd recommend the course. If not, finding the topics enjoyable can be difficult and consequently make the work tedious. That applies to all flavors of Expository Writing.
It is an interesting course, and I think useful if you plan to go into a scientific field.
Its tuff
This class overall taught me a lot about writing, but some of the assignments were not very helpful and not worth the work you had to put in.
This is one of the Expos with the most work by far, and the preceptor is known for pretty harsh grading.  I would highly recommend not putting this on your list.
I would recommend this course only to students who are interested in science writing and reading and would discourage all others.
The start of the course is not very fun, but it gets better as it goes on.  The assignments are very practical.
Begin all homework assignments early, and allow sufficient time for all revisions.
This is a great course, but you will only get out of it what you put in. Do all the readings and the online posts and papers! Be prepared for paper workshops and conferences because those are really helpful!
Take this expos. Jerusha is awesome, the material is engaging, and you'll learn a ton.
Jerusha is really dedicated and really organized. I saw my writing improve tremendously this semester. Even though grading could be tough at time, I really gained a lot from this class and I am very glad that I took it.
Jerusha is one of the best expos preceptors as far as improving your writing goes. She always gives very constructive and specific feedback on your papers. You know exactly how to improve for the next paper and exactly what she expects from you. That being said, there is a LOT of busy work (reading comprehension questions, etc.) and a lot of days in class where you spend an inordinate amount of time discussing relatively simple topics (what an article was about and the rhetorical strategies used). Also, the due dates for homework are pretty annoying. There are things due by noon on Sunday and then things due 20 hours later by 8am on Monday. Also, despite the fact that she is very unforgiving with late work (will take it but makes it painfully clear you won't receive credit for it), she herself often forgets to post the homework to the website, making planning/working ahead all but impossible sometimes. Paper 3 was a fun break from the expos routine--it's a research proposal, and I felt like it gave you more room than usual to do what you wanted. The science aspect of it was welcomed, and you don't really need to know any biology going in. Overall, if you can deal with the busy work, this is one of the better expos sections, though it's still expos.
Human Death and Disease was a fantastic, well organized course. If you have any interest in Global Health or Epidemiology this class is for you. Jerusha is very approachable and fostered a great learning environment. This class is definitely expos done right.
You will be hard pressed to find a preceptor in Expos better than Jerusha. Actually, I can't possibly IMAGINE a preceptor better than Jerusha: while I heard talk of so many preceptors that didn't really seem to care about the students, I don't think anyone in their right mind could come close to accusing Jerusha of something like this. Her extensive handouts, thorough knowledge of the material AND our drafts/final papers, and overall tone in the class demonstrate that she has a real passion for doing this. Conferences--unlike in many Expos sections--do not leave you confused and feeling as if you don't know where to go; rather, you leave with an intellectual schematic of how to move forward. The class was work-intesnive, but you will completely get out of it what you put in: there are people who didn't really care and people who did. Having been in the latter half, I can firmly say that hard work pays off. PUT TIME INTO YOUR DRAFTS AND COVER LETTERS! I would also recommend that you have an interest in scientific readings and global health, as interest in the topic will make the writing process more interesting and has a built in motivational component: when I wrote my papers, I felt as if I was actually recommending something that would make a long term impact in the realm of public health policy. That, in turn drove me to put my best foot forward in the class. It may be helpful to consider whether you will have such motivation; however, Jerusha consistently stresses the applicability of this material to ALL fields of academic discipline and I feel prepared to write for a lot of classes. This class, by and large, was terrific, in large part because of the high quality of Jerusha's teachings, and because the material really struck a chord in me.
If you like the sciences and want a writing class that is tailored to them, take this course.
This Expos has reasonable amounts of reading, enjoyable classroom sessions, and thought-provoking prompts. Jerusha's really helpful, friendly, and fair!  Classes like this one are why we go to college - to be challenged and well rewarded for it when you see yourself acquiring skills and learning to look at ideas in entirely new ways. Take it!
This was my favorite course this semester, because Jerusha really puts in a lot of work into making sure everyone is improving.  I could see enormous improvements between my first and third papers, and I found the subject material very interesting. I definitely recommend this for an Expos requirement.
Jerusha is a great preceptor who gives strong feedback on papers and is willing to meet with everyone multiple times before a paper is due.  The course is a global health course, which may not be clear from the description, but if you plan on taking additional global health or science courses in the future, this expos will give you a solid foundation in more scientific writing.
This class is very good for people interested in medicine and global health. It is a lot of work though. Be prepared to do major revisions on your papers.
Produce a pretty good first draft so you can get the best feed back on your ideas.
This Expos is overall easier then most because there readings are relatively short but there are many required post and assignments that seem extraneous. I would recommend if you like writing in the sciences and dont want to have extremely long readings.P.S. If you get this class I would highly recommend you get texts sent to your phone that notify you when there are new posts from my.sites because often times assignments arent mentioned in class but only on the website. The website is your savior.
If you want a taste of scientific writing, where you deeply discuss human disease, take this course. Not only will you write better than when you entered, but also learn the process of a proposal.
You'll get good feedback on your writing, but almost everything surrounding the actual writing component is really annoying. Activities that will remind you of filling out worksheets in middle school, nonsensical deadline structure, writing advice that's about 10% effective if you've ever gone beyond writing a five-paragraph essay...
If you put in the work, you'll take a lot from this class and from this preceptor. An interest in science and/or medicine isn't necessary, but makes the general expos rules and regulations more bearable.
As a science concentrator, this course was right up my alley. It has zero humanities aspect to it and that made it easier for me. If you're not a science person, though, don't take it.
This Expos course is directed primarily towards the social sciences. Besides the essay, there is an awful lot of busy-work associated with the course. However, the preceptor will give lots of specific comments on your paper and help you get the peer review you need. In general, be sure to start your papers as early as possible and also seek out the instructor's opinion as much as possible; in this course especially you have to cite almost everything you say and also have a thesis that tries to push something new rather than just a description of a situation.
