Interesting subject matter with a preceptor who is knowledgable and genuinely dedicated to improving your writing
Don't let Shakespeare intimidate you! At first, I was reluctant to take this class because I wasn't a fan of Shakespeare. However, once I started taking the class, I enjoyed Professor Wilson's way of teaching. This class helped me a lot, and now I am more confident about writing!
You have to like Shakespeare at least a bit to take this section of Expos, because if not you will suffer through this course
Definitely only take this course if you have a good background in Shakespeare. The preceptor is excellent and will provide you with great feedback and ample (perhaps sometimes too much) information on the elements of writing. I wouldn't stress too much about all the components of writing; those will become clearer with time. Be prepared to read each play in less than a week (maybe in a day) in order to have enough time to do analyses. Although the assignments may seem like a lot, they really help in preparing for the papers. Definitely go to office hours/prepare for paper conferences. Wilson is really accessible and supportive; he will point out the flaws in your paper, but guide you through the revision process.
Take this course. This was one of my favorite courses of the semester. Professor Wilson is the best and gives every student great and encouraging feedback that motivates you to write. All readings are relevant and enjoyable to read. You get to watch a movie for homework (that's almost too good to be true). Moreover, you really improve your writing and learn so much about different ways to write different papers. This class went beyond my expectations and inspired me to hopefully study Shakespeare more in an academic setting!
A lot of people complain about Expos. If you like Shakespeare, take this course! I did not encounter many of the problems I hear about other expos sections. The work load is super manageable, even compared to other expos classes. The professor is greatpassionate guy who is willing to meet outside of office hours if you can't make them. I am a science concentrator and I was placed in a non-science expos class. This ended up being a blessing. I recommend taking an English based expos course. Although all professors for Expos know a lot about writing, if your topic is English based then your professor will inherently know more about writing. Definitely the case for this course. It was nice to focus on Shakespeare and literary techniques instead of writing about an experiment. You get more out of this and can apply it if you're in the sciences. Highly recommend!
Just get through it
