Extremely helpful with enhancing the necessities of writing
This class is great to learn very basic writing skills. However, the grading is very biased and there is not as much individual attention as one would expect. Take expos 20, not expos 10 if you can. I do not think it is worth taking expos 10. There is not much freedom in writing essays. Your analysis has to be directly in line with what the teacher wants, which reduces creativity and free thinking. Basically, even if you have a good argument, if the teacher does not think or agree with you, don't plan on getting a good grade.
Easy, fun class to take first semester if you have a heavy load, such as a varsity sport.
This class was my favorite this semester. Although it challenged me, I could see the value in every assignment and by the end of the course, my confidence in my writing abilities had increased dramatically.
good introduction to harvard writing style
Well I don't know how to say this because this was a required class but I think if you really want to learn how to write an eight page paper and you aren't comfortable in your writing from High School, then definitely take this course to prepare yourself.
It will greatly improve your writing skills.
This class transformed my writing skills tremendously.
Pat Bellanca is awesome. That woman is a saint. She helps everyone out, class was awesome
The readings are important and it is useful to focus a lot of your time towards one piece in particular for each unit.
If you are assigned to Expos 10, Take it!!!!!! I was assigned to 20 but I took 10 and I have absolutely no regrets.
This course is a great way to not only prepare you for Harvard's writing expectations, but to solidify the core components of what every writer will often utilize.
Great course to take before Expos 20.
I didn't get as much out of this class as I had hoped. While it may have helped me more than I realize, I would recommend just taking expos 20.
This class is a good stepping stone, but I've heard that it isn't that much easier than Expos 20, so if you want to just get Expos out of the way, go with 20.
Take this course only if you are not confident in your writing skills.
this course is good because it prepares you very well and gives you a foundation
This class is great, I feel well prepared to take Expos 20 and feel as though I am a much better writer. The workload is small, and the small section really helped a lot
great to prepare for expos20
Expos 10 is a great class to take before Expos 20. I think it's a lower stress class and I've heard it really helps make 20 more managable.
plan out your responses and essays. Ask the teachers questions and for help because they will help you with anything that you need.
Take it.
This class wasn't amazing but it was definitely useful.  Only take it if you NEED the extra writing practice before taking Expos 20.
This course is not a lot of work and definitely helped improve my writing skills. I also enjoyed the very small group setting.
Its good preparation and foundation for the tones and tones of writing yet to come.
In order to do well in this course, students will have to put in the effort. Students will have to learn to talk to the professor to understand exactly what is necessary to improve on assignments.
Its easy and it takes some of the stress out of writing.  The weekly writing assignments are a great way to ease into college life
If you write "okay" to your standards, you can do without it.
This class was definitely not a waste of time. I learned so much from it.
Without a doubt, if you invest into the readings you'll learn more important things than just how to write for an A.
