Fobi is awesome
This is a great class if you are into sports.
This class made me enjoy Expos! You learn a lot and have a lot of fun integrating sports/law material into writing.
Compared to my others friends' experiences in Expos, my experience with Sports & the Law was AMAZING. I actually loved showing up to class and was genuinely interested in the readings. On top of the that, the preceptor Brian Fobi was my favorite professor this semester.
Sports and law is by far the best expos class. Brian is the man. Take this course if you have any interest in sports because everything we read, which was not over barring at all, is amazing.
If you're interested in sports, take this class.
This class was great. The discussions about sports were entertaining and law writing required mostly logical arguments which are easily supported by existing evidence.
I feel like the class greatly improved my writing, while allowing me to spend time learning more about a topic I was already very interested in. The group discussions were extremely helpful and made the writing process much easier. I would definitely recommend doing the readings and watching the videos before class so you can more easily contribute to them and stay engaged during class.
From what I have heard from my friends, this is by far the best Expos course offered by Harvard.  How many opportunities are you going to have to talk about sports in class?  Brian is also awesome, but I think he is a Yalie...  Haha.  Anyway, Brian knows a lot about sports, so that makes the class even better.
If you're a sports fan, this is the class for you. Brian is amazingly knowledgeable about sports. He knows literally everything there is to know about sports. He's really great to work with and the course is the best Expos around. Period.
great class with great teacher in an interesting subject. not much reading or extra work other than the required expos essays.
sports and the law was the best
This is the best expos class by far.  Writing is not my strength but I loved this class.  Brian is great and the material is great.
Very good for anyone interested in sports
This is a fun, light expos, and Brian is a great preceptor whose comments are useful
Great fun class
Best expos class I could have imagined.
Enjoy it. Sports and the Law is a blast.
This is by far the best class I've taken my freshman year. If you're lucky enough you will take it. It was simply amazing.
Brian is awesome. Take this class - it will be the best decision of your life :)
this is the best expos course offered at Harvard. Brian Fobi is such an incredible help to making sure you fully understand where your writing is go well and what needs improvement.
Its a great class. I thought it could have been a lot about law but it is a lot about what is fair in sports. If your an athlete, you will definitely enjoy the class even if you do not like law as the class covers a lot with the NCAA as well.
Definitely take the class. You will learn about aspects of sports that you did not know about before, and strengthen your writing abilities.
Professor Fobi is a brilliant teacher. His comments on essays are extremely relevant and focused and he has an ability to keep students engaged throughout the semester. He is approachable and helps at every stage. On the final essay, he allows you great flexibility in choosing an essay in sports that is interesting to you. He is brilliant! Take his class!
Excellent course, you will learn so much about the law in sports that you will be able to successfully argue with your friends
You MUST take this course. I can say, hands down, that this course was one of my favorite classes of my freshman year at Harvard. You learn so much about sports and the law and you do not even need to have a strong background in either coming into. This class was AMAZING (not to mention that it also fulfills the expos requirement!)!
Brian Fobi. Jesus Christ. They are one and the same.
A very fun and interesting way to take Expos 20!
This course is awesome especially for athletes because it is interesting and thus you are more engaged.
It's tough to get into, because a lot of people hear that this is the best expos and put it as their first choice.  However, if you get it, take it.  Even if you don't love sports that much, Brian is incredibly smart, plus he'll improve your writing ability tenfold.
TAKE THIS EXPOS! Amazing experience with an awesome preceptor and interesting subject matter. Fobi is the man and you will honestly look forward to class every week!
If you can take this expos class, take it! There are a lot of people who hate their expos class, but that will not be the case if you end up in Sports and the Law. The readings are interesting, the essays are fun to write, and Brian is an amazing dude. He is a super chill guy who wants to see you succeed, and he leads the section in a thought-provoking and entertaining manner. Take this expos!
If you get it, consider yourself lucky and then enroll immediately.
