It's really interesting and gets you thinking about all the evolutionary reasons for why you date certain people.
This is a great class!! The topic is incredibly interesting and the readings always tell me something fun about attraction and dating. Elissa is an amazing preceptor who really make Expos much less painful than Expos is anticipated to be.
It is a very fun Expos to take.
Darwinian Dating makes Expos 20 tolerable. You get to write papers on topics that are clearly relevant. It becomes more than just a class about writing and essential becomes a class of about sexual selection, which is always interesting.
Expos is mandatory. Since you have to take one, take this one. Do whatever you need to do to get into this class. It is seriously the best expos around.
Probably one of the best Expos classes
It was actually fun to go to class everyday and you feel like you're really learning something new and cool. It makes it exponentially easier and more fun to write about something interesting. In fact, I'm now considering a new concentration (HEB) as a result of my expos class.
Having to take expos is not what most people look forward to, but this class makes expos writing bearable because of the short, interesting readings and the application of evolution to human attraction. Of course, this doesn't mean writing the papers is easier than any other expos class. It just means that you're more likely to be engaged by your topic. Something unique about this course is that the students are expected to conduct their own experiment/project for the final paper, and this definitely makes writing the final paper exciting because you collect your own data and add new analysis.
Good and relatively painless way to fulfill Expos Requirement. Material is actually fun to learn and Prof. Krakauer brings a great deal of experience and excitement to class.
Definitely take this course! Especially if you are interested in science writing. Also, the reading is not bad at all.
I do not especially like writing or reading, but I did for this class. Readings are actually fun to read. Great teacher, she will actually make you a better writer, and this is something I did not think a teacher could actually do. Take this class if you can.
If you get in this class consider yourself lucky. The readings and topics are generally interesting. Who doesn't want to learn about what men and women want in a mate?? Elissa is a great preceptor and gives a lot of feedback and is always there to help. She is a tough grader, so don't expect to get an A in the class without natural writing skill and hard work.
I took this class (like most people) because of its high Q ratings and because I heard it was an easier expos option. Looking back, I think it would have helped for me to take a non-science expos. This class didn't really help me writing for non-science courses, which are basically all the gen eds. If you are considering a non-science concentration, keep in mind that you will be doing writing tailored for science. This means, APA citation and little deep analysis of text (ie. reading between the lines). Also, the workload is very easy in that there is minimal reading (a couple short articles a week), but this doesn't mean that the grading is easy. Elissa is a tough grader so dont take this class for granted.
Organization is key.  You'll come into conferences with an idea of what your paper will look like and Dr. Krakauer will present several alternatives to the structure of your paper, which is great.  You'll get plenty of feedback on your essays.  In addition, it definitely doesn't hurt that the readings are enjoyable and discussions very lighthearted and fun when you're talking about dating and attraction.
The best writing class on could possibly take!
This class is amazing, i had nothing but positive experiences and Elissa is a wonderful teacher.
this is probably one of the more interesting, relevant topics, but is definitely geared toward a more science oriented audience -- still i would be likely to recommend
This is probably the best expos class, but it is still expos- don't expect it to be no work.
Take this class! Definitely one of the best Epos courses offered. Great teacher, interesting material, and really productive classes. It will really help improve your writing skills
talk to dr. krakauer!  she has tons of advice that's both really useful and incredibly interesting, you'll have more fun writing essays by asking her questions
Overall this is an interesting class. The readings are not mind-blowing but there is some interesting things to be learned. The workload is fair and the conversations are ok.
Amazing class.  I learned so much and enjoyed every moment of it.
Rank this first - this is probably one of the better expos classes you can get.
this course is 100% amazing! i can't imagine that a better expos course/preceptor exists. you learn about the evolutionary reasons behind why certain personality traits are considered 'sexy' and others not. This course will change the way you look at the opposite sex, and your peers. If you are at all curious about evolution and Darwinism, take this course!
Very interesting topic! Get ready to look at relationships very differently.
This class is fascinating for so many reasons. The topic itself changes the way you see the world and human attraction in general. In addition, the writing instruction you will receive will make you a more powerful and confident writer. Elissa is so detailed in her approach and really brings the best out in every writer. You can get as much out of this class as you are willing to put in!
Take this course!
Of the Expos classes, I think this one was among the best! Compared to what I've heard my friends' Expos classes were like, there isn't much reading (everything is an article or chapter of a book). In addition, this class takes a scientific approach to writing, which is great if you haven't written in the sciences before and are considering studying/working in the sciences. Would highly recommend to anyone. As a requirement, you can't go wrong with this section.
Take this course!  It is definitely the best expos class and the professor is so nice and responsive and passionate!
This is not one of the best courses. You might learn some things that are interesting to discuss with your peers, but you don't really learn anything else. I don't think that my writing was improved; the preceptor is good, but the feedback is not very helpful. Overall, it's one of the better expos classes, since it doesn't have an intolerable amount of readings, and the topic is not too intense.
Consider it a blessing if you get this expos class.  Your friends in other expos classes will be drowning in tons and tons of reading.  You will quickly realize that, no matter how interesting your expos class is, you do not want all the unnecessary reading.  Darwinian Dating is very interesting and applicable, and the reading is very light.  The essays are on super interesting topics, and if you choose a topic you are actually interested in for the final paper, it will be enjoyable to write (i'm not a writing nerd...i hate writing papers, and i still liked it).  All that being said, it is a hard class to get an A in, simply because of the grading scheme.  That shouldn't deter you however, because most expos classes are graded on that same basis.  This is an awesome class, so be lucky if you get it.  P.S. I originally had some horrible class, but was able to resection into it...so try that if you want!
I have never had more fun reading research papers with raw data than in this class!
Awesome class, meet with the preceptor frequently!
The class topic is interesting and the discussions can be fun. Overall, you will be reading and doing scientific writing.
this class can be super fun and interesting, especially with professor krakauer's collection of facts and knowledge about apes and gorillas and chimps. It is an adequate writing class and the assignments and readings are fairly straightforward. Great if you're planning on being a science concentrator!
This is an amazing expos class, especially if you are interested in science and kind of bummed to take a writing class. I actually loved this expos, it almost doesn't feel like expos because we write on things that are actually interesting and that you want to learn and read more about. The readings are good, they provide good information and are very relatable. The preceptor is great. She makes clear what is expected of our writing and gives great feedback. She is also very helpful throughout the writing process, and will always answer emailed questions about drafts and essays.
This class is the most interesting of the expos, and if you are pre-med it is good to learn how to write for science.
Professor Krakauer is great. She's a strict grader, but she's a really nice teacher. The course is nice because the readings are short, and scientific. I'm glad I took her class.
Excellent class if you are interested in the sciences and would rather read papers than books. Writing style will generally be similar to writing in english classes, even though this is a science based expos.
It is a fun class where sometimes you might not feel under pressure to do the readings because they feel like you are reading for fun
