KAREN IS AWESOME. She's really accessible and so happy to help. She had a positive attitude and really engaged the class.
I would say that the preceptor was very dedicated to her students, and the course prepares students for Expos 20.
It's a class that you will never regret taking!
It really helps students with or without prior writing skills. It gives the basics to writing, which are actually the most important skills one needs.
This is class is very helpful. Make sure you use all the recourses available.
Take this course if you want a smooth transition to American college-level academic writing. It's relatively easy but at the same time it helps you make real progress.Also, take Karen Heath's section; she's a great teacher and an amazing person.
This is a great class. I am so happy I decided to take it. I really do feel like I have become a better writer. And I still have expos 20 to become an even better writer.
This class is great! You should definitely take it.
Don't take this class unless you want to strengthen the basics of your writing.
This class teaches you about the importance of summary which is something I never learned in high school, but is actually so important. I realized that the best writing is the most straightforward, but this task is not always the easiest to achieve. I learned how important outlining and planning your essay is and how much easier it can make the drafting process.
It changed the way I approach writing essay, I feel a lot more comfortable and confident in my writing.
Expos 10 definitely was a wise decision. I loved the class, the people, and the work was manageable. It was amazing to see the transformation of my writing in just one semester, and it gave me a lot of confidence to go into Expos 20. I recommend Expos 10 for everyone because it gives the foundational skills needed for writing any well-developed paper and then you get preference for your Expos 20 subject! Expos 10 doesn't mean you're a bad writer, but it shows you want to take the step to truly develop your writing skills at a college level.
When I first found out that I had been recommended to take Expos 10 in the fall I was slightly upset. I thought that the class was a kind of a remedial class; however, I soon found out that it was a perfectly challenging and incredibly informative course. Having shaky foundations in writing in High School, I found Expos 10 to be the perfect bridge between College and High School academic writing. I believe, of all the classes I took my first semester, I learned the most from Expos 10. Now I know what it really means to analyze a source!
This class will definitely help you transition from high school writing to college writing; it is a small and personal class which is also great.
This is a great class to take, especially with this teacher.  It has helped me a lot with my writing going forward.
I have never had a teacher so dedicated to the process of writing. The constructive criticism is so thorough, that your mistakes in writing are easy to find; hence, more time can be spent actually fixing those faulty skills. Students of any writing level would benefit from this class.
if you're on the fence about taking Expos 20 vs. Expos 10 (like I was) I definitely recommend taking 10, you won't regret it.
Don't hesitate to take this class.The preceptor is excellent.  Also, if you're international, there are more reasons to benefit from taking this course. Even if you felt comfortable with writing on your language, here you'll learn a lot.
This class really really really helps you learn HOW to write and go about writing. I did not really like writing at all before, but I realized that it was only because I had not learned how. My teacher made my class so easy and doable. The feedback is really great. The teachers guide you and help with everything so once you complete the class, you know how to write.
Great way to start writing at college level. Learned really valuable skills that I know I will apply in the future
you should really take this course! If you are on the boarder line between expos 10 and 20, I would strongly recommend taking expos 10 first.
It is a great class and really helps you form a basis for your writing.
It's a great class to take during the first semester of your freshman year because it is minimal stress, great feedback on your writing, and a helpful tool in the transition to college writing. You will go into Expos 20 much more prepared than your peers who didn't take it. I was skeptical to take the class at first because of the preconceived notion that if you're at Harvard, you can't get help, but I am so glad I took the class. Not only was it interesting, but also the topics discussed were fun and engaging, providing for great class discussions and paper topics. The class also helped me improve my writing in all my classes. I had a great preceptor so that made the experience even better, allowing me to see that the faculty at Harvard are really here to help you.
If you are an international student who is not accustomed to writing in English, you should really consider taking expos 10 even if you were placed into expos 20
Make sure to do the readings!
This is excellent to get more confidence and grasp the mechanisms of academic writing. It is not as easy as you may think. You are actually pretty challenged!
Even though it may seem at first that being placed in Expos 10 means you are a bad writer, this course really helps you to find your voice in writing and is one of the most valuable courses to take.
Take this class if you feel shaky about your skills as a writer. If all you are really used to is the standard 5 paragraph essay, this class will help you branch out into different varied forms of writing a paper.
it's a great class to prepare you for expos 20 and college writing.
Honestly, I really didn't learn much in terms of writing.  The only real thing it does for you is to get you in the practice of writing.  I wish I would have just taken 20 to make my life a bit easier.
This really helped me transition from high school to college writing.  I am so glad that I was given the opportunity to take this class.
This class will truly help you transition from High School to college writing. I feel so prepared now!
