It is a great Expos course. Dr. Becker is very kind but will push your writing and create a class environment conducive to learning.
Of all of the Expos classes this one was probably the most manageable, from what I heard from other students about theirs. Professor Becker is very hard to please at times, but you always have many opportunities to refine your paper.
It is a hard class to take, but if you try hard and push through you can get a lot out of it!
The material is fascinating and Professor Becker is great. Definitely recommended, especially compared to many other peoples' expos experience!
Make sure not to let this course fall to the wayside.  It will definitely demand an equal amount of time as your other courses, and you will face consequences in grade if you do not invest that time.
Slave Narratives is the best! The class is really engaging and discussing literature based in the institution of slavery is thought-provoking and challenging (not to mention you get to write about Django). If I could give any sort of advice it would be to start your papers as early as possible. If you put in the effort in writing the draft, then the revision process will be easy.
Great great great: course, professor, and materials. Hard but fair grading. Rank it highly its enjoyable
You will often see on expos Q reports that "this class isn't as bad as far as expos goes, and the problems with this class are the same as the problems with expos in general." Yet somehow this class has very few problems that typically plague expos classes. Response papers and drafts have very few requirements, so you have the option to do as much or as little preparation for the essay as you want. There are almost no secondary source assignments (I think only one for the entire semester), so there is no busy work. The preceptor gives excellent comments and is very good about suggesting paths for you to take with your essay without dominating its content (once during a conference he refused to let me write down something he said because it was his idea and not mine, saying he was much more interested in where my idea led, and he then helped me to develop my own train of thought). Do not take this expos if you have no interest in literature, but only a slight inclination is necessary to have a positive experience in this class.
It was hard as can be.
Among the best expos, as best I can tell
This course is great if you put in the effort! If not, it's just another mandatory expos class.
Expos is one of those necessary evils that all Harvard students must face. I must say that most students that I talk to do not enjoy the course. However, I think my experience was considerably better than that of my peers for having this particular expos section. Dr. Becker is amazing, and he goes out of his way to ensure that students do the best that they can.
I you are interested in uncovering the way in which white abolitionist's influenced the "authentic" slave narratives and analyzing the tools that film directors and authors utilize to convey certain character traits in the slave narrative genre, then this course may be for you.
Although I wouldn't typically close readings of literature and film to be my cup of tea, I really enjoyed this course. Dr. Becker is very thorough and helpful, the material is interesting, and our group of 15 students got along well and had lively discussions. Don't go into this class thinking it will be easy, though, especially if you have no prior background writing papers on films or doing close readings. Putting in effort into this class will be rewarding!
Slave Narratives is a great expos. Simple as that. You will be doing a lot of analytical writing on texts and some film (Django Unchained). There is some reading, but none of the reading is superfluous. I think the reading to writing ratio balance was great in this course. My advice to anyone taking expos in general: spend of a lot of time thinking. Try to attack your ideas from many different angles before you start writing.
Dr. Becker is a very good teacher. He knows exactly what it is he's teaching, and is a master of the style and method of writing he is teaching. This class will be whatever you make of it, but it will require work and a good deal of focus to do well in.
You'll have a great time! At times it can be difficult to adjust to a more literary analysis perspective of writing since it is literature based but it enhances your skills in that area.
Dr. Becker is a great professor. You will walk away from his class having a lot of respect for the way that he handles the course. Slave Narratives is a very interesting topic and the readings give you a lot to learn and talk about.
This Expos is stellar. The teaching is superb, the course material is interesting and provides a break from the average freshman's introductory class coursework, and the class discussions are always so productive. I highly recommend Dr. Becker and the way he introduces the Harvard freshman to college writing.
