This course was a very enjoyable Expos course. I have heard many Expos horror stories, so I was worried when I entered my Expos course. However, my experience was great, as the topics we covered were very interesting and very thought-provoking. Our preceptor, Dr. Ziparo, was also really helpful, really understanding, and just a great preceptor in general. She really helped our class to have fun throughout the semester. However, to incoming freshmen, I would voice three words of warning, not about this course, but just on Expos in general: First, Expos takes more of your time than you think. Gauge Expos as a moderate to difficult course just for the sheer workload, rather than as an easier course. In addition, be aware of the difficult Expos grading scale for all Expos classes, where getting the grade you want is a very difficult task. And finally, if you don't do as well as you want in Expos, don't worry. Expos is hard for everyone, although some might not admit it.
Ziparo puts in a lot of effort into providing helpful feedback and organizing the course. The material is all relevant so there isn't that much unnecessary reading. Compared to other expos courses, there is much less reading. Good introduction to court cases and legal procedures. Don't expect too much in the content portion from the class directly but Dr. Ziparo is a great resource for information during office hours.
This is a solid Expos class. The subject matter isn't too complex even if you have zero knowledge of the American legal system, and the workload is very manageable. The best part of the class is the preceptor: Jessica Ziparo is brilliant and approachable, and conferencing with her is a treat.
Law is a difficult thing to write about, don't take this course unless you enjoy analyzing nuances.
Topics are interesting and it has a lower workload than other expos classes.
Dangerous Speech, unlike other Expos courses that I heard about from my peers, is actually a very fun and helpful course. I truly feel that the past semester has taken my writing from its lowest level and elevated it to a point where I feel prepared with any essay assignment for my future courses. It doesn't matter how "good" a writer you think you are, Expos will be beneficial for you, and I hope you will be able to take it in fall semester, because you *will* need the tools to succeed in the essay assignments for your other classes. Dangerous Speech has a uniquely interesting topic among Expos courses that is actually relevant to current events, as hate speech and how it reflects American attitudes is a hot topic in modern society, so the research and essays you will engage in during the class actually open your mind to other academic opinions that can influence your approach to other topics in future courses. I recommend this class wholeheartedly and am very glad to have taken it, which is something not every freshman can say about their Expos courses.
It's a great class if the you find the subject material interesting! Great for students who are interested in law.
This class was an amazing combination of learning about free speech in America and learning how to write. It made writing fun and exciting because I was passionate about learning about the topic!
This is a great section of expos! Very engaging lectures, really cool material, and interesting assignments.
Do not take this class unless you are considering being a future lawyer or care a lot about free speech laws.  The first two essays focus very heavily on court cases (i.e. one is analyzing judicial court opinions and the second is writing an opinion yourself) and if you have no interest in the subject matter, the readings will be very uninteresting.  I get that these essays were meant to teach us how to write analysis and argumentative essays but they focused very heavily on the legal field and the logic and jargon associated with it.  That being said, the readings for this class are relatively short.  Dr. Ziparo is very nice and approachable.  She is always willing to help and gives very constructive comments.  Take this class if you are interested in the subject of free speech.  Otherwise, look elsewhere as it will not be a fun experience.
You should be interested in court cases and laws. There isn't too much reading, especially in comparison to other Expos classes, but all of it centers around interpreting the laws and the nuances between similar court decisions.
Since Expos is required, you might as well take advantage and enjoy the material. The class was very law based, so it may not be beneficial to a science concentrator who will mainly be writing lab reports, but otherwise it made me a solid writer with skills that will be applicable to many facets of writing.
Expos can sometimes get a bad wrap, but this class was genuinely enjoyable to attend.  The "expos-y" stuff was quite dull, as I bet it is in every class, but the material related to the topic was fascinating for anyone interested in the Supreme Court, law, etc.
Deirdre Mask is a great teacher and will make you interested about the materials.
Deirdre is an amazing preceptor, and you will not regret taking this course! You will definitely improve your writing skills. Although it helps to have an interest in law and free speech, this course assumes no prior knowledge of the First Amendment.
A lot of students hate expos, but this was actually my favorite class. It was fascinating, applicable in the real world, and it made me really think about how we think about the Freedom of Speech. You do have to work in this class, but I didn't think that the workload was too heavy, and the work was always interesting. In addition, our preceptor (Deirdre Mask) was interesting, knowledgeable, and fun.
Whatever you want out of Expos, this course has it. Relatively low courseload? Check. Interesting topic? Check. Engaging, helpful preceptor? Check yes! If you want Expos to be a relatively pain-free experience, this class is it.
This class was great and definitely one of my favorite classes this semester. Deirdre was extremely helpful and gave great feedback. The discussions were really interesting.
I legitimately think that everyone in my section adored this class. To contrast, the vast majority of people that I talk to really don't like expos.  There really aren't any cons to taking this expos. The workload is really low (no more than 20 pages of reading per section), Deirdre is a fantastic preceptor (she's an understanding and lovable person), and the subject matter (First Amendment cases and Freedom of Speech) is really interesting. If you have any interest in the constitution, law, or speech in general, this is definitely the expos for you.
This is a great Expos for anyone who is logically or mathematically minded or just interested in tackling really deep complicated questions or in law and politics and different ideas of liberty and freedom.  I'm definitely a math and science type and thought I was going to hate Expos, but this ended up being an amazing course for me.
This section is a fantastic way to satisfy the expos requirement while learning a lot about First Amendment law.
Deirdre Mask is so warm and welcoming. She truly makes each and every student want to improve on their writing and does so in a way where other students are brought into your own writing process as to get invaluable outside viewer suggestions.
If you are interested in the law or Supreme Court, this is the course for you.
This is a relatively painless Expos class if you find the subject matter interesting.
If you're at all interested in the legal issues surrounding the First Amendment, I cannot recommend this course highly enough. Deirdre is an absolutely incredible preceptor. Finding and arguing positions for the assignments is always very engaging and interesting, and ultimately the course gives you a good feel for writing academic papers and some great tools for better writing in the future.
Great preceptor
This class is incredible. As long as you are somewhat interested in the First Amendment or law, you will find this class very interesting. The essay assignments are very fun to do, although the final research project was kinda rough.
I took this new course not knowing what to expect, and I'm glad the course turned out wonderful. Not to heavy a burden, yet not the easiest course you will take. It will teach you a lot about the first amendment and the case work surrounding it. To those taking this, I recommend you to challenge your own beliefs and take the side that everyone else is avoiding. Take this if you want to immerse yourself in law-related material.
I never intended to end up in Dangerous Speech. It was my third or fourth choice for EXPOS originally, but it became, without a doubt, my favorite class. If you have any interest whatsoever in law or free speech, this course is worth taking. It is a challenge, but it's an enjoyable challenge. The readings are engaging, the teacher is enthusiastic and supportive, the assignments are interesting, and the material is thought-provoking.
This is by far the best Expos class you can take. Deirdre is the most caring preceptor, and you can talk to her about anything, from writing to her time at Harvard or law school, which is incredibly useful for freshman. If you are interested in the constitution, government or freedom of speech most definitely take this class, and even if you are not this is a fantastic expos class to take. The writing assignments we had were well crafted for each of the specific aspects of writing we were working on (crafting an argument or using evidence) and so from that point of view this class is exceptional.
Overall: A really interesting and nice way to complete the Expository Writing requirement. I am convinced that the preceptor is one of the nicest in Expos. She's very helpful and will make you a better writer.Papers: Expos is Expos, and sometimes you'll dread having to turn in a conference draft and then revise, etc. But it will all make you a better writer. And this class is a pleasant way go through and learn, maybe relearn, the writing process.Preceptor: She's very nice and helpful and very well qualified to teach this course. Go to her office hours. You'll learn even more than you would just taking the class.
For those interested in law and/or the First Amendment, this is a fabulous expos class.  You spend your time reading Supreme Court opinions and legal writing and even get to write an opinion of your own!  Deirdre is a wonderful preceptor who gives very helpful feedback.  Expos as a program is not the best, but I think she minimizes the pain as much as possible.  There is basically no busy work and every response paper has a genuine purpose.  This was honestly my favorite class this semester.
