Fun class, Levay a great preceptor, can point out things in your writing to improve, etc. Would say that Dorian Gray is the high point of the class, although the movie section was quite interesting as well.
Only enroll if you are very interested in the subject or you will not have a good experience and your grade will show for it
I heard a lot of bad things about expos, but this course was actually good. The readings and subjects of the assignments were all interesting. I think that the grading was fair.
This was honestly my favorite class I have taken.  The readings are both manageable and fascinating, class is interesting, and Dr. Levay will revolutionize your thought process when it comes to writing!
Since you'll have to get Expos over with, you might as well have fun with it. Obsession was a great, very fulfilling class.
Dr. Levay is absolutely amazing. He gives great feedback and is always accessible. He really works with you to make your writing better. The fact that the subject matter is super interesting is a plus!
Expos is general is not a very pleasant experience but this is definitely one of the more interesting ones.
As far as Expos goes, this is as good as it gets and better! The materials were genuinely interesting, and all my essays were on topics I was genuinely interested in. Dr. Levay is a really engaging preceptor, and the response papers are very helpful to writing each big paper. This was actually my favorite course of the semester; definitely take it if you can get it.
The readings were interesting to read and Dr. Levay put in a lot of effort to make sure we undertsood them well. When it comes to writing your drafts, try to set two-three pages to write per day, that way you don't fall behind.
This was a great class, I learned a lot about writing and got to read/watch great material
Obsession is, by far, the BEST expos course out there. Readings are not too long, movies are interesting and Dr. Levay is literally the most encouraging TF that will offer some very valuable feedback on your essays that could make them just better. Take it and you won't regret it.
This is a great course and you should take it! Dr. Levay makes Expos fun despite its 'meh' reputation; actually, this was my favorite class of the semester.
This class is really great. I feel like I learned a lot about writing in general, but also about organizing my ideas in an efficient way. I sincerely enjoyed Expos because Dr. Levay is great, the material is interesting, and the feedback is fair.
I really don't know how to compare it to other expos classes. I think my partial dissatisfaction was due to the nature of expos itself and not the subject matter or the course instructor. I think Levay was great and made the writing process as painless as possible.
This class is probably one of my favorite classes I have taken so far. If you want an expos class that is interesting and that will help improve your writing, take this one!
Dr. Levay is a great preceptor! Take it!
You don't have a choice on whether or not you want to take Expos, but this particular section makes the process more enjoyable. Most of the reading is interesting and the preceptor really does help you in whatever you may be having trouble with.
Obsession was an unreal topic!  All of the readings were very interesting and the movies at the end were popular and I had heard of all of them.  For something that is required, it was very interesting.
Dr. Levay is a pretty awesome preceptor, and the course content is great as well.
Levay is an amazing professor and Obsession is a great class. I seriously loved it!
Like most freshmen, I have issue with the Expos program in general - section time feels pointless, and writing for the sake of writing becomes a bit of a grind - BUT Obsession is a great choice as long as you have to take some Expos! Dr. Levay is really organized but really laid-back, exposure to Freud is useful, and the second two units introduce fun material. I learned something about psychological disorders beyond just the writing component.
This is probably among the best possible Expos options there is. It's fun and manageable. Plus the film component at the end of the class is awesome.
This is the best Expository Writing 20 class that there is. The reading is interesting and doable and you get to watch films for the last unit. You get to write about different things and write about whatever you are truly interested in. Dr. Levay is so great about providing specific feedback that you can use to make your paper something you're very proud of.
When I first heard about the class, I could not wait to take it: the prospect of watching Black Swan and Vertigo really excited me. However, I thought we would learn more about obsession and how it works and why it exists, but we didn't really learn much about the topic of obsession at all... we learned how to write about obsession, which is something completely different.
I mean it's Expos. But it's one of the better topics and is interesting.
Dr. Levay is awesome.  He's really helpful in providing feedback for papers and he doesn't make his criticism of your paper sound harsh, even when he's basically saying that your essay needs serious work.  He's also very accessible.  That being said, don't take this particular course unless you're really interested in psychology.  The first unit (in which you read Sigmund Freud) was horrible for those of us who weren't really into psychological theory.  Overall though, good course.
I would tell students that the readings and films and all the course material is really interesting and engaging. I would recommend this class because the professor is nice and tries to make class discussions and assignments interesting and engaging. I really liked this topic and I think it made the class better than people say it is.
Since everyone has to take Expos, this is the one to choose in order to get the most out of your experience. Dr. Levay is incredibly helpful in giving constructive feedback both in written comments on papers and in one-on-one conferences. He is a fantastic teacher, gives lots of examples, and strives to make the course as interesting and painless as possible. I also loved that this course gives you the freedom to decide whether to focus more on the science and psychology side of obsession or the literary side of psychology. That provided lots of options and possibilities for essays which I really appreciated.
it's easy and painless and the readings are interesting. Levay is a really nice guy, though unlikely to be critical
This course is pretty good as Expos classes go. Dr. Levay is a very nice guy and gives useful feedback and the movie unit at the end is great. However, that is not to say that there aren't parts of this class that are quite boring, but I suspect that this is a part of all Expos classes.
