Brian Fobi is just... wow
Fobi is the best prof you could get. The class is very interesting and you learn a lot about sports. The course load starts off with a lot of reading but then it dies down quite a bit.
This class is super fun and is a great way to fulfill the expos requirement. I personally enjoyed embedding my hobbies with an academic requirement because I had a greater interest in the topics that we discussed and wrote/read about.
SO AWESOME.
We all have to fill the Expos 20 requirement and, while most people I know hated their expos classes, I loved this course. Professor Fobi is knowledgeable and passionate about the subject and immensely helpful in improving one's writing. Talking and writing about sports also gave me a fun lens through which to learn about academic writing.
This class is a fantastic class (especially for an Expos class). It was extremely enjoyable. The topic was really interesting, but even if you aren't interested in the law, Professor Fobi still makes the course really enjoyable. Take this course! It is extremely popular, however, so you really must put this course as your first choice in order to have any chance of getting in.
This is a simple, yet interesting class.
THIS IS ABSOLUTELY THE BEST EXPOS OUT THERE!!!  This turned out to be my favorite class by far this semester, and Brian Fobi is AWESOME.  List this as your first choice expos!
It is a great choice for expository writing.
Sports and the Law is an excellent, and thus very popular, course. If you like sports and have an opinion on contemporary issues you will love this class. Fobi keeps it real and is a great guy as well as an excellent teacher. Take this class if you know whats going on in the world of professional (and amateur) sports and have an opinion on it. You don't have to want to be a lawyer and the class is not only for athletes, but you'll love this course if you're passionate about sports.
Good expos class to take.
This is a really fun course that is very interesting and the Mr. Fobi is a great preceptor.
Brian Fobi is an amazing instructor. He is funny, engaging and runs his class very well. I wish he taught more courses at Harvard. If you are interested in sports and the law, you must take this class.
Great class, loved the topic, preceptor was amazing and very helpful
Curiosity is the key.  Curious to look at society through an often forgotten lens that sheds more light on human nature than one may expect.  Content and instruction feed this curiosity and allow it to grow in a way one is bound to be satisfied by.
Brian is awesome, very understanding and knowledgeable. If you follow sports, get into this Expos!
If you are interested in sports and the law (as the course name suggests), then take this class! It perfectly shows the relationship between different sports and the various legal matters that they contain.
I am convinced that this is absolutely the best Expos class out there. Every paper that I wrote was very interesting to me, and I enjoyed researching and exploring positions. We had more freedom of topics to write about as the course progressed. The readings were interesting and the sections were engaging, as class discussions were thought provoking - and about sports! Take this course. You won't regret it.
If you like sports, definitely take this class. It is awesome, there is nothing better than writing about sports.
If you're looking for a great Expos class and you have any interest in sports, look no further! Brian is an awesome preceptor who gives great instruction. The readings and videos are interesting, and there is always something for everyone. At the end of the day, it is still an Expos class, and you'll have to put a lot of work into your papers, but you'll get a much better experience than many of your friends if you take Sports and the Law.
I suppose this could be considered one of the "easier" expos courses because Brian is so laid back and friendly and the readings were never terrible, although grading is just as difficult across all expos courses.
As far as Expos goes, this is one of the better ones as the readings are fairly interesting and the preceptor (Brian Fobi) is phenomenal. Be prepared to receive your first B in Expos--due to an Expos-wide grading policy (ie, you can't get out of this no matter what Expos you take), there is a cap on the number of A's the preceptor is allowed to give out on a paper (I believe hovers somewhere around 10%, but I'm not positive).
Enroll and prepare to learn a ton.
Brian is the man. Awesome preceptor. If you are lotteried into this expos, you are really lucky, as no one dreads it as others do for their expos sections. I really learned a lot as well because I was engaged in the course material and had a genuine interest in improving my writing, especially in the realm of sports.
