This class is extremely well taught and the subject matter is very engaging. It has a very good structure and the professor is very aware of the other commitments students have- so he is very receptive about extensions, being flexible etc (to a point) provided you talk to him honestly. He always tried to ensure everyone was capable of reading and watching everything.
Take it.
This was a really excellent expos class. William is a great teacher and an engaging speaker. You get to interact with all of the class materials very closely, and the reading is not so voluminous that you can't handle it. Your writing will improve and you will actually enjoy doing the writing!
William is AWESOME. If you like outdoorsy things, and even if you don't, this class is wonderful. The assignments can be difficult, but they will really help your writing. I couldn't recommend this course and this preceptor more.
Enthusiastic and supportive teacher + interesting and exciting subject = best expos class ever.
If you think the outdoors are interesting, this is a great expos course.
William is an amazing instructor, I did not even realize I was taking an expos course throughout the term.
The material in this course is really interesting, and the discussions are great. If you are interested in the outdoors and adventure expeditions, this is a great expos to choose.
Awesome class for anyone interested in the outdoors
By far the best Expos class at Harvard. Professor Weitzel is an incredible preceptor- he is passionate about the material (and has personally experienced much of the wilderness discussed), keeps students constantly engaged, and gives excellent feedback on drafts and revisions. This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard, something other Expos stories had not led me to expect. I very highly recommend this course!
take this class, it's a good way to take care of expos. The preceptor is a really fun and cool guy, you will enjoy his presence and his way of teaching. also personally, he has been an outstanding individual able to communicate with all of us.
Never expected to like expos, but this class changed my mind.
This class is a ton of fun, and you'll learn a lot about everything from snow leopards to Harvard's resources available to students. Without realizing it, you'll improve your writing skills dramatically, but William grades with a high bar in mind.
William is awesome! Take his feedback seriously, it will really improve your writing. This is definitely the best expos class there is.
Expos is that one class everyone has to take and everyone loves to complain about. There were definitely times in the course when essay deadlines were stressful, but I think the entire class more than makes up for that. William is very interested and invested in the course without being overbearing or pedantic and is genuinely fun to listen to. When you're looking for expos classes to take, you can do much, much worse than Into the Wild, and you'd be hard-pressed to find something better.
It's a pretty nice way to get through the expos req.  The essay lengths are relatively short, and William is very nice during meetings with your essays.  My essays, while always having to be rewritten, were never torn apart, and he offered good options on how I should revise and focus my theses.
Into the Wild is by far the best expos you can take....a great preceptor and really interesting books, especially for those that enjoy writing.
William is a fantastic preceptor! I wasn't crazy about the topic of the class, but I got a lot more out of it than did friends in other expos classes, so I definitely recommend it. My writing improved, and it was a pretty painless process at that.
very interesting expos
A good way to fulfill the Expos requirement. Will is a little zany, but obviously quite passionate about what he's teaching. You'll learn a lot about expeditions into the wild, supplemented by tales drawn from Will's own wanderings and visits to Harvard's herbaria and maps collection. If you want a solid, not too difficult and relatively interesting Expos class, this is it.
William is a great guy and a wonderful preceptor. He facilitates class discussion very well and is always respectful and receptive to students. There isn't a lot of homework outside of the readings (which can get pretty long, but they're pretty interesting, and you don't always need to do all of them...) and obviously the paper writing. The class was taught well and I did learn a decent amount about writing, but it would have been nice if William had office hours (like a good amount of other preceptors did) so you could meet with him to discuss your papers more. He only met with us once per paper draft (so three times) and I would have benefited so much more had he given more hours to meet with me to discuss my papers.
You won't find a better expos class out there. It's expos, but it's still a great class with a great instructor. No one will get you through expos while keeping it as engaging and fun as prof. Weitzel will.
Most of my friends did not like their Expos class all that much. I loved this one. The reading and discussion is fascinating, and William makes the nitty-gritty Expos requirements far more interesting and palatable than most Expos's.
This is a really well taught class.  The first two books were especially interesting.  Definitely worth taking if you have any interest in the wild at all, as in, I thought about going camping once, then take this class!
I am convinced that this is one of the best expos classes (although the only one I took), but from talking to other freshmen I think I enjoyed my expos much more than most people. If you like the outdoors and expeditions, or even not, this class is for you.  We read books about the Kalahari, Alaska, and then chose a rainforest for our research project.  The preceptor is so cool and has gone on expeditions all over the world.  Ask him to tell his stories!!!
Really enjoyable class with a fantastic, engaging preceptor.
Into the Wild is one of the best expos classes
Great, interesting class.  William is a great preceptor and will help you a lot with your writing.
You'd be hard pressed to find a teacher who handles the Expos class better than William. In addition to being a brilliant individual writing coach, he ensures that every student is actively engaged in the material which makes for a very enjoyable class. Easily the best course I've taken thus far.
The perfect way to make anyone love writing by mixing wiring with a touch of enthusiasm and some great adventures.
Into the Wild is honestly one of the best Expos classes out there - lots of help and encouragement on the way. Being in class was great as well (discussions were always great).
It's better than most expos classes, and Weitzel is very relaxed and a good teacher.
If you are interested in the wilderness at all, then TAKE THIS COURSE!! best expos you could ever take, the readings are pretty brief, certain chapters from books, and William and extremely helpful in improving your writing and understanding us as students.
This class was excellent and I'm very glad I chose this for Expository writing but the feedback is somewhat insufficient.
The class is very interesting and you'll probably learn a lot about what it takes to live in the wild and what the consequences are but this class is by no means easy. Depending on your writing background, this course can be very difficult but the material is interesting. If you're interested, feel free to take it.
It is one of the expos classes that students genuinely enjoy. The subject matter is very interesting and William is really great.
Since you have to take an expos course, I would recommend this one for sure.
This is a great course for outdoorsy people who are interested in adventure.
