I'd say it was a fun class if you're interested in feminist and queer theory and film studies, but it's really a lot of busywork.
This was a great Expos experience. Patricia is an incredibly talented and helpful preceptor who will make your semester in the course painless as long as you keep up with the relatively low stress work load of the course. Nothing in this class is unnecessary- all the assignments are relevant, interesting, and often times can directly be used in your papers. Reading is light.
Do the readings! take advantage of the opportunities to learn and edit your writing in conferences
As an expos class, this is one of the better ones.
Patricia is the best! She is so willing to help and her class is so interesting. She makes learning so great, and she wants us to improve.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading and put in a lot of time if you want to get a good grade. It often seemed like I had a lot more expos work than a lot of my friends in other sections. Patricia is a hard grader, but she is really good about offering help and making herself available for office hours and extra help. If you don't want to take a heavy literature based course, and the subject of American family structure interests you, then this might be the expos for you.
If you have any interest in family and it's surrounding mythos, or in gender roles and their relation to family, this is a fantastic class for you.
I definitely recommend that people take this class for Expos.  Patricia gives awesome feedback and is always available (at least via email) to answer any questions.  Throughout the class you get a nice survey of different types of sources and consequently gain a broad understanding of how to analyze and implement different sources in your writing and in your argument.  The material is also super interesting and relevant--the American Family--and really makes you think and re-consider what a "family" really is.
In talking with my friends, I have found that the course topic and section leader for Expos20 makes or breaks the experience  if interested in queer theory and depictions of family and ready to have a preceptor who cares deeply about students while also pushing them to strive for fullest possible success, this is the Expos for you.
This class is a really interesting expos class because it's a topic matter that's close and personal to everyone. It's also great because a lot of the sources used for writing papers are TV shows and movies that are actually entertaining.
