Greg is wonderful!! He is so nice and he is very very intelligent and knowledgeable about almost everything. I would definitely take this course if you like to learn about how to approach and understand culture and society. :)
If you are concerned with your grades, you may be unsatisfied with this class. But Greg grades quite fairly, as far as I was concerned. He always talked about how much time he spent looking over our essays, and I appreciate that the most. Helping me become a better writer was more important than getting a high grade in his course. This class, if you allow it to, will push your limits and make you evaluate and reevaluate personal beliefs. I see culture as something definitely more complex now, and I have a new interest in social anthropology that I can completely owe to this class.
Interesting discussions on what the term "culture" really signifies; pretty interesting readings and not too much work.
If you want Expos to be painless and engaging, take Writing Culture! It's the best.
Greg is a great preceptor.  You don't have to be an anthro major to enjoy the class.
Very fun learning experience if you like analyzing culture
You are able to read some very interesting peices with the selection of literature in this course and writing that final paper is alot of fun. The preceptor didn't limit himself to obvious conceptions of the ethnography(although those are thrown in their in the beginning, as well).  Don't let the anthropological focus throw you off and do not abstain from this course because you can't see yourself in that concentration in a year. My class came from a variety of backgrounds (no anthropology majors that I know of) but we were all very much able to find anthropology's relevance in our own lives by atleast the final paper. (Culture can be found everywhere after all).  However, you may get more literary analysis and philosophical debate from other expos classes and this one may seem superficial in comparison.
Greg is an amazing preceptor who is really helpful and interesting. He is a brilliant man who sees things differently than most people.
Truly interesting subject material. The essays are challenging, but writing and revisions have really been some of the most thought-provoking and intellectually engaging processes I've had at Harvard so far - and also the most rewarding!
The course is a mind-opener and it teaches "culture" in its purest form. The readings are very interesting and will be useful in many other contexts as well. The first two essays are quite technical and theory-based, but the third is completely free lets you explore any piece of culture - an amazing experience. Last but not least, Greg "Happiness" Harris is great!
Mr. Harris is a great teacher.  You will love the class.
Believe it or not, this expos class is actually fun! Greg is great, and you'll be able to write in a very constructive and friendly environment.
This is the ideal Expos class-- there is a certain emphasis on writing, but perhaps more on how you think and perceive the world. This class will certainly change your perspective on culture, and is more or less what you put into it as well. If you challenge yourself to the likes of Geertz and Lewis, you will walk away with a sense of fulfillment and achievement.
