This course is a great introduction to college level writing, and Levay is a very good preceptor who provides helpful feedback and is definitely accessible to students.
The workload quickly sneaks up under you. Keep track of deadlines, and don't procrastinate.
If you like psychology at all, or even if you don't, this is such a fascinating course.  I've talked to a lot of people who really didn't like their expos class, but I absolutely loved this one.  It was my favorite class of the semester.  The preceptor makes section really enjoyable and critiques your writing in a very detailed and helpful way.  The materials are amazing.  I wish I could take this course again.
Do not underestimate the reading, it might take longer than you would expect to understand it. Go to office hours and reach out for help.
I would tell future students that the professor is very helpful and humorous. I would also tell students that the workload is not too intense.
This class was less psychology focused than I expected it to be. It was more about how people understand compulsions rather than the scientific underpinnings of compulsions themselves, which was interesting, but it was harder to write about. However, this forced me to focus more on the format of the assigned essays because the material that I had to work with was not what I had expected.
Dr. Levay is very nice and generous with his time. His comments and advice will make you a better academic writer. If you go to his office hours, you will also get a lot of feedback about your paper drafts and ways to improve. However, class discussions about texts were seldom interesting. A lot of  class time is also devoted to reading writing samples, which is more useful.In this class you read 2 of Freud's case studies, Dorian Gray, and then choose a film to write about, such as Black Swan or Vertigo. Freud is kind of a struggle, but the other materials are pretty digestible. Each primary source either takes a clinical approach toward obsession and its psychology, or approaches it through fiction. So if you're interested in psych and want to watch episodes of Hoarders for homework, it's a great class. If not, it's still pretty good, but perhaps not the ideal expos.
One of the best expos preceptors. Not an overwhelming amount of workload-totally manageable. But you have to work for a good grade.
It's a great course, but anyone who doesn't like to write will feel the pain at times.
This class, if you keep on top of the reading and take the response papers seriously, will challenge your mind and thought process without being a stressor, and will develop an excitement for psychology and how it pervades our daily lives.
Not the easiest of Expos classes, but the preceptor makes taking it well worth it. Definitely a solid choice for expos especially if you are interested in reading Freud and Wilde. The third unit focuses on film, which is neat.
Take this course if you're interested in obsession at all. It's really cool and analyzes a bunch of different aspects of it. There are of course, the three main papers that you'll have to do, but you'll have to do that with ANY Expos class. And this class has a FILM unit for the last unit! So instead of reading another book or two, you'll watch movies and/or TV series to construct your final paper.
This is a great class. I enjoyed it and I learned a lot.
Be prepared to be a bit overwhelmed at first with the Freud section, and challenged by the following types of essays, but it was a very solid course overall and very interesting. Classes were interesting also!
start the papers in advance!
This class is amazing. Dr. Levay is extremely helpful in all aspects of the course; he is accessible, thoughtful and makes getting involved very easy. The material itself is fascinating. If you have any interest at all in psychology, you will probably be intrigued by this course. I highly recommend this one--best expos class!
For an expos class, this one was a pretty good choice. There was minimal work, it was easy, and the material was fairly interesting. We got to write our final essay about a movie. While it wasn't the most exciting or engaging class, I wouldn't expect that for a required freshman writing class.
This class was one of my favorite classes, but I definitely like to write. If you stay on top of your work then it is manageable, but really do not save essays for the last minute otherwise it can get pretty difficult.
TAKE THIS CLASS TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT.  To all incoming freshmen:  Never before had I encountered more clear assignments that you could make as challenging as you wanted to, a more helpful/friendly/genuinely nice/caring/inspiring/eloquent/understanding preceptor who really cares about you!!, and exciting material in the realm of psychology/psychological disorders.  The class material can't be better - you get interesting readings (each reading was insightful and intellectually stimulating as long as you read through, which most people did for this course considering how well it was run), and an amazing film unit.  For the film unit, don't worry if you didn't have previous experience writing film; majority of the class didn't and I didnt, either.  You watch Black Swan, Vertigo (by Hitchcock), and a few episodes of Hoarders (the A&E television series).  All three are so interesting, and YOU get to pick which you write about, and after that, which topic/question you want to tackle.  And better yet - go to office hours.  Not a lot of students use this, but those that do seem to fully take advantage of it, because, yeah we realize how amazing they are!  Dr. Levay tries really hard to fully understand your writer's blocks/questions, and gives amazing clarification and suggestions.  It feels as though after every office hour I got more motivated and inspired to put what I learned during the office hours to paper, to improve my writing.Feedback you get from this course is really helpful for your writing.  Dr. Levay's feedback is truly understanding and exponentially helpful, as long as you implement them.  Draft feedbacks come back promptly, and you can tackle them in your revisions as sort of a preliminary round of revisions.  Graded essay feedbacks you aren't required to do anything with, but I encourage you to read through them and think about how you could improve, because they do help improve your writing.Classes themselves were a delight to go to, and something interesting you should try noticing:  listen to the man talk!  Dr. Levay is a brilliant lecturer, such that his sentences are so clear and concise and eloquent; it seems as though he prepares a flawless speech for every class.  The more you listen and follow his lectures/the way he leads class discussions, the more inspired you will become.  No regrets about this class - if you want to improve your writing, if you want an Expos that is reasonable in workload yet also challenging (as challenging as you want it to be- just depends on what you do for the essays), if you want to meet a preceptor who truly cares about you and is open to help you whenever, if you want to learn more about psychology/disorders (I had no previous knowledge and found it stimulating), if you want an amazing Expos experience - TAKE. THIS. CLASS.Humanities or science concentrators - TAKE THIS CLASS.  What you learn from it applies everywhere, and Dr. Levay will guide you on how to apply this class to future coursework near the end of the course.  I guess in the end it's what you make of it - this Expos class provides you with all and more that an Expos class could; the way you approach assignments (with enthusiasm?  a willingness to learn and improve?) will change significantly your experience.  I cherish this Expos experience.
When deciding on an Expos section, please keep the following in mind: no matter which one you choose, the nature of Expos is such that there is a limit to how much you will enjoy it and a limit to how much you will learn. Writing is just a skill that is incredibly difficult to teach, especially in a group setting. The individualized conferences are really quite helpful, but these represent three 20-minute sessions over of the course of the entire semester, so don't express to make more progress than you would by simply having a reason to practice writing on a semi-regular basis. That said, I would definitely recommend Obsession if the subject matter interests you at all. I think that it might be one of the more difficult sections, the preceptor is amazing and the works that you study are really cool (e.g. Picture of Dorian Gray, Black Swan). And Professor Levay is pretty flexible with your essay topics -- his view seems to be that it's more important that you write a good essay than that you write an essay that strictly explores obsession -- which leaves you free to pick up threads that you find particularly compelling in the works without worrying about whether they're fulfilling the prompt.
While the readings at time were a bit disturbing, this class was helpful in facilitating the transition from high school writing to college writing. Dr. Levay is readily available to help, although at times his comments may not be very clear. I personally found it more helpful when I went to him in person, as I could ask him to clarify certain comments. This class was definitely difficult, but that is pretty much standard for any expos class. While it is not the hardest expos class, it is not the easiest.
Keep up with the readings.
Great teacher and interesting subject.
The class is pretty easy-going, and Levay is a very mellow preceptor. Don't take it if you're not interested in psychology
Dr. Levay is a really great preceptor.  All of the readings/ films we watched were very interesting, and the assignment prompts were always very clear and structured.  Dr. Levay also gives a ton of feedback on essay drafts, which is super helpful.  Definitely a great Expos course to take!!
In terms of Expos, this is a great option.  Professor Levay is a dedicated and passionate teacher.  I would love to take a non-Expos class with him.  In all Expos classes, the assignments aren't too fun, but at least this one is taught by a great teacher and the material is interesting.
Absolutely take this class. Dr. Levay is a great teacher and you will definitely become a better writer. The assignments/grading are quite fair.
The class is enjoyable and the readings are interesting. If you put a little thought into your paper topic then papers can be really interesting to write. Dr. Levay is great. Really use the feedback he gives you and take advantage of the draft conferences.
Don't save the writing for the last minute.
I found the class to be very enjoyable, my teacher was terrific, and I was interested in the subject matter.
Because we read both nonfiction and fiction, and because the last paper was a combination of film analysis and research, Obsession gave a really good overview of the different types of papers we'll have to write in different types of classes. It's also interestingly interdisciplinary for that reason. Dr. Levay gives helpful feedback and is frequently available to give you feedback on sections of drafts.
Dr. Levay is a really great teacher and the final film unit is really interesting. This is a great way to complete the Expos requirement while still enjoying a great class.
The class is good overall. Dr. Levay gives great feedback, but section can be a little dull.
