If you're not as confident in your writing skills as I was coming out of high school, I would really recommend taking Expos 10! It's a great way to ease yourself into the expectations Harvard has when it comes to writing.
Dr.Herron is a really down to earth professor. Amazing human being and instructor.
Take it! James Herron is an excellent instructor. His feedback is perfect and he has a way of getting information or arguments out of you when you think you have none.
One of the best transitions from high school to college writing. Even if you are a great writer, provides a great background for entering Expos 20 without the stress of possibly doing "bad" in a course upon entering college.
Any student could take this, but more should. Expos 10 allows people to refine writing skills and learn new ones. Knowledge I learned in Expos 10 will help me all throughout college and life. This course allowed me to explore writing more in depth and I found confidence in my writing skills that I had never had before.
This course was definitely worth it. I definitely learned a lot.
It was a little embarrassing to take Expos 10 at first because a majority of the freshmen class is taking Expos 20, however, I am glad I took it. Expos 10 improved my writing a lot and while my friends were struggling with their Expos 20 essays, I had more lenient deadlines and easier paper topics. It was definitely a good transition from high school writing, so if you have any doubts about the quality of your writing I would recommend it.
You may want to skip it and go right to expos 20, but I think it's worth it to get this extra semester of true writing teaching.
This class is great because you will learn how to write general papers for virtually any class. Jim is great and teaches you the basics, giving you feedback before your final is due so that you can hone in on the techniques of writing. There isn't that much work but even so, you learn a lot and fell prepared to write for other classes.
If you have any reservations about you writing, take this class! You have nothing to lose. Do not feel bad about having to take 10 while all of your friends are taking 20, because 9 times out of 10 people will say they wish they had taken 10. If you are premed, this is also THE BEST way to fulfill your english requirement, as all med schools accept expos 10 as a semester of english with intensive writing, while other english classes are ify.
This was a class that helped me transition into college writing. It does not hurt at all to take this class.
Amazing preceptor, great learning experience and lots of support.
Good class if writing is not your strong subject.
Taking this class is worth it so that you can correct any weaknesses in your writing without your grades suffering before you jump into Expos 20.
It's a great ease into college writing--not as demanding as Expos 20. So if you're taking any hard classes your first semester, taking Expos 10 is good to balance out your schedule.
TAKE THIS CLASS! At the beginning of the semester, I didn't like how my schedule would be filled in with an extra writing class, a spot I could've used for another elective, but this class was extremely worth the spot. I came in with writing skills from high school, but I wanted to learn how to write an academic paper at Harvard. I am much more prepared to take Expos 20 and I am glad that I won't be thrown into it without any background on academic writing. This is really a rewarding and enjoyable class!
Expos 10 is rather time-demanding but super helpful class that helps you to learn all the basics of academic writing. It's amazing being able to work in classes of only 10 persons and you get the opportunity to work closely with your preceptor and your other peer students. If you are uncertain about whether to take Expos 10 or 20 I would suggest you to take Expos 10!
If you would like to improve your writing skills, this is the course to take!
If you are not sure that you can write well, you should definitely consider taking this course before taking expos20, especially if you are an international student.
Definitely worth taking for anyone who is not familiar with American expectations towards academic writing. Also a firm foundation for later writing - may it be a research paper or a philosophical essay.
Do your work early.
Amazing. Life changing experience which will boost your confidence in writing
