For an expos class, this is not worth it. The material you can probably learn in another class. My friend said the material was interesting, but I didn't know the grading would be this tough.
Sara is an excellent preceptor; her responses are timely, and her grading was fair and consistent with the advice she gave in conference. The course itself is China-centric, and so having an interest in China beforehand like I did helped immensely. I think an interest in government or economics also helps, since very few of the perspectives the course took were from a cultural or social point of view. The only complaint I had was that the readings seemed a bit much at times, but getting through class discussions with only some skimming was also possible!
Interesting material. Excellent instructor. Reasonable amount of readings (you usually only have to spend a couple hours each week).
It's a moderate workload, but a fascinating topic. If you are at all interested in looking into Chinese economic in recent decades and its political and cultural transformations, definitely consider this class. Also, Sara gave great feedback in the conferences, and she was always responsive to questions.
Be aware that this is a class on economic theories and less about culture
I didn't know anything about China, and as such felt some trepidation upon enrolling in this course. It turned out that no prior knowledge was necessary and the course was informative, interesting, and most of all helpful.
You'll have to work hard, but you will be rewarded for your efforts with improvements in your writing.
I would tell them that the teacher is very clear in what makes a good essay, but the class can be so dry and specific that it was still hard to do what I needed to do.
Take this class if you intend to make this class one of your priority classes. I say this because this class requires devotion to understand dense pieces of journal literature. In addition, this class often requires more than a day (24 hours) worth of time spent on revising essays. However, despite an already challenging class, the instructor does not do much to help mitigate that difficulty.Sara is nice and friendly, but at least for me, my learning in this class did not feel like her top priority. What made this class particularly frustrating for me is that I was willing to go the extra step and take large chunks of time out of my day to seek help from Sara. However, her willingness to help me was not reciprocated. When we did have opportunities to meet up to discuss my essays, I found that her advice to be broad and practically unhelpful. Outside of the conference draft, Sara will not go over your essays and pick out pertinent places where your essays are lacking because if she did then, she would have to do that for everybody, and she does not have that time. If you try to figure out if there is a pattern in your writing that has been consistently lacking or if there are places where your writing is particularly weak, expect no helpful answer because she will have already forgotten her own comments on your previous work. Even though Sara hands out a rubric, what she deems as "good" will be different than what other people defines as good and as a result the rubric will be subjective. If your argument, on the paragraph level, is unclear, she will let you know that it is unclear and provide very little help in terms of helping you make it clear. During the conferences, you will have to ask Sara the right questions to figure out how to improve your essay because her comments on your conference drafts often seem rushed and written without substantial thought. However, expect to receive comments on your conference draft only a few hours before the actual appointment of your conference leaving almost no time to read, understand, and prepare a list of questions to systematically pinpoint how to improve my essay. Of course I am expected to do much self-erudition in courses, especially in expository writing, but students cannot always learn everything by themselves. If we could, then we would not be in school and learn from instructors. In places where I really needed help and guidance, Sara failed to provide that help and guidance.Sara is a brilliant and compassionate person, but do not expect the same from her teaching.
This class is great, it urges one to think about China-US relation in a "non-traditional" way.
This course is a great expos option if you are interested in modern day China, economics, geopolitics, and similar topics.
Pretty boring material but solid intro to the social sciences. Enthusiastic teacher who expects a lot of work.
Take this class only if you are very confident in your writing ability. Sara is a hard grader.
This is a great course if you're willing to put in the work! The readings are enormously enlightening and Sara is an awesome preceptor.
Rise of China is a terrific expos class!  The workload isn't too terrible, and the topic is certainly fascinating.  Sara is a great preceptor -- she cares, is generally available, and is knowledgable.
This course was very painful and difficult. Even with an interest in the subject matter, I found the essays extremely hard to write due to the high degree of critical thinking needed to satisfy the many rubric requirements. I thought, however, that my writing definitely improved as a result. Sara is a decent preceptor, although she tends to procrastinate and not hand out assignments until less than 24 hours before they're due, which is often frustrating. Also her feedback is helpful on a general level, but sometimes it feels rushed or unthorough. Also note that this is Expos, not a class on China- therefore don't expect to learn substantive content about the rise of China. Finally, WRITE A GOOD CONFERENCE DRAFT- otherwise your conference will be useless and your grade will suffer.
There is a fair amount of reading but its not very bad at all. A lot of the class time is spent discussing them, and some interesting conversations often arise. For expos I'm sure you could do worse.
Interesting intro to Econ. Definitely worthwhile to take if you have no prior exposure to economics
The topic is really interesting but the discussion can be a bit US-centric. Sara is really lovely and kind. But, you'll have to get used to getting conference drafts late and last-minute homework. This class is not a good idea if you have other time-consuming obligations because you don't really get much notice or time to plan ahead. I would go into conferences with clear questions because Sara's advice can be really broad and vague. This is difficult because odds are that if you are writing badly, its because you don't know what  you're doing incorrectly. However, as you read more of the sources and talk more in class, you'll start to get a clearer idea of what "good writing" constitutes.
I think Sara is a great teacher. She provides great feedback on your writing, and she is always willing to discuss aspects of the course and of your writing. She could work on getting assignments to the students on time, and returning them in a timely manner.
This Expos in particular was fairly strong, and the readings were diverse and adequately interesting.
This class if very interesting. If you have an interest in contemporary China, I would encourage you to take this expos course.
