Take it! Extremely helpful class, not alot of work but alot of substance.
Tad Davies is the best.
great for experience
You will most definitely feel prepared for Expos 20! Take in all the advice your professor has to say.
If you are even the slightest hesitant about your writing skills, definitely enroll in this course. This course really builds your confidence when writing. It is a good relaxed course to help either enhance your writing or to show you how to write as a whole.
Only take Expos 10 is writing is not at all your forte.
i was not assigned to expos 10, yet opted in and now my writing is stronger than ever.
It's nice because it is fairly easy, and you start college writing without being overwhelmed by long research papers. Other than that, it's quite boring.
Expos 10 was an excellent introduction to writing and I feel extremely prepared for Expos 20 as a result.
This is a great class to take if you feel as though you want a slower and more indepth look at how to transition to college writing.
Expos 10 is a good class to take if you have any reservations about diving into college writing headfirst. Tad is great at explaining how to structure your argument logically and write at length as is required at the college level; I feel as if I learned a lot from taking the course. At first it seemed like the assignments were annoyingly basic, but they actually build on each other nicely.
If you are not completely confident in your analytical writing, I would consider taking this course. This course breaks down an essay into simple elements.
Even if are questioning your writing skills it is beneficial to take this course.
If you would like to take a fulfilling approach to freshman writing, this course can provide a satisfactory base.
This class will make you a much better writer, especially through the exercises and then the final essays.
It is a good preparation to establish a writing style that you will use for the duration of your time at Harvard.
I didn't like the idea of Expos 10 instead of Expos 20, but it turns out that Expos 10 really brought out the writer in me.- I feel confident and secure when writing now.
Take this course! It is low stress, interesting, and will improve your writing! Tad Davies is probably one of the best and kindest instructors I will have at Harvard!
if you do your response papers well, writing the longer essays are easy because you can use the response papers in your essay
This class won't be the most interesting class you take, but it won't be difficult and will help you become a better writer.
Definitely a good learning experience because you get so much one-on-one time with your professor, but class moves a bit slowly.
Taking the course was one of the best decisions I've made at Harvard so far. No matter how good of a writer you are, take Expos 10!
Its just a great class.
It is very worth taking expos 10 because it really prepares you at a good pace and gets you prepared for expos 20 and it is great to take your first semester of college because it provides a great transition from high school to college.
Only take Expos 10 if English is not your first language or if you are certain you are not prepared for the rigors of college writing.
The course helps improve analytical writing skills, but the course work is rigorous.
Expos 10 is difficult, do not take it thinking it is just an easy A.
it's an amazing class! prof. Wandler is a tough but fair professor. i feel like i have a much better grasp of analytical writing now than in the beginning of the semester. i recommend this course heartily.
Be prepared to learn a lot and write a lot
