interesting course topic and course books, the preceptor is very willing to help
I don't know if it was the material we read, or Levay's snazzy attire, or a combination of both, but Obsession was one of the more enjoyable classes for me this semester (liking Expos? How SCANDALOUS!) In any event, his comments on essays are always really insightful, and he grades fairly. I only wish I could be as hip as him.
As far as Expos options go, I think this is one the better options.  The readings are generally pretty interesting, and the final unit is all about obsession in film which is really fun (we watch Black Swan, Hoarders, etc.).  Dr. Levay gives useful feedback on drafts and is a fair grader as well.  The class is much more humanities oriented than I expected (as opposed to writing about obsession from the perspective of sciences/social sciences), so keep that in mind.  Overall though, this is definitely a relatively painless way to satisfy the Expos requirement.
Go to the Writing Center before your first draft is due so that your conference is most productive.
It's a really great. You get to watch movies for homework! Who doesn't want that?
This is a good class but it is not taught very well. The preceptor is very proper and formal causing me to feel intimidated. I did not enjoy our sessions and almost always fell asleep. The discussions were not very good because not many people talk and the questions the preceptor ask are not very argumentative.
Great expos, Dr. Levay is fantastic. Defies the awful reputation of expos classes.
Writing is not a painless process but this class is fun. The course is structured around three papers: the first one is on Sigmund Freud, the second one is on The Pictures of Dorian Gray, and the third one is on film (e.g. Black Swan, Vertigo). I highly recommend this course.
I absolutely loved this class. I loved our class discussions, and legitimately looked forward to class. Prof. Levay is really amazing-- always dressed to impress, funny, and super nice, and is an amazing teacher. I've learned so much and I have really enjoyed writing the essays! I especially enjoyed the film unit, as we watched a variety of films and television shows on the idea of "obsession," and my final paper was an analysis of Hithcock's film "Vertigo." So interesting!!
Dr. Levay's the best preceptor/professor/TF/what-have-you I had this year (so he's the best the best preceptor/professor/TF/what-have-you I've ever had in college ever), the course is interesting enough, and it improves your writing, so since you have to take an expos I would definitely recommend making it this one.
Great course materials and fair grading make this course one of the best options to fulfill the dreaded Expos requirement. The workload is fairly heavy, but as long as you keep up with it the class will not be a problem.
This is expos. Expos sucks. It sucks a lot. That being said, this is class wasn't too bad and reading wasn't heavy. Levay is cool guy - he is really nice and always tries to be as helpful as he can. Yet, just make sure that you turn everything in time. I have never seen anybody be stricter about rules and guidelines than him, life happens and sometimes there nothing that you can do. If you're positive that life won't happen while you're taking his expos, then disregard the previous comments. That's essentially it. I lied, there's more. The class actually has rather interesting material, the books that you read and the movie that you watch during the semester are actually interesting. Ok, now that's it.
The material is fun! Since you have to take expos, you should put this as a high up-there choice. You get to watch Black Swan too. and Freud.
Pick this expos! The topics are really interesting and you read some really cool books and watch movies that are really entertaining. There is a moderate amount of work when you have to read the books, but most of the time the work isn't bad. Dr. Levay really helped me become a better writer and this class is super interesting, so definitely take it!
Obsession is by far one of the best Expos classes. The readings and writing assignments are interesting, Dr. Levay gives great feedback, and getting an A in the course is definitely possible. I highly recommend obsession.
great class if you like film, but not if you dont like psychology
The information is very interesting, and Dr. Levay does a very good job making it interesting. If you are to take this course, PLEASE talk. It will make the course that much better.
Very fun preceptor - great material.
This expos has a lot of reading, but a lot of it is interesting and you get wonderful feedback on your writing.
great expos
I have an issue with Expos in general because from my experience it did not help me improve as a writer.  If anything after taking Expos, I have lost all confidence in my ability to write and want to steer clear of all humanities for the remainder of my time here at Harvard.
The conferences are extremely helpful, so effort on the drafts for each essay can take them a long way with the help of the preceptor.
I really enjoyed the topic of obsession.  The material was very interesting and enjoyable.  The teacher is so awesome and helpful.  He is very knowledgable and passionate about what he is teaching.  The final paper is a fun one because we get to analyze a movie.
