Very good class overall, but be prepared to read. The reading is very extensive and difficult.
The class discussions are excellent, a lot of heavy reading, great essay topics.
the class involves a lot of work, be prepared to spend many hours reading
There is more reading in this course than just about any other Expos course that I know of.  The readings are great, though, and you will get a lot more out of the course if you do them.  Dr. Chen gives helpful feedback and leads provocative discussions.  You will become a better writer after this course if you actually take his advice to heart and change your drafts.
It would be very hard if you're not interested in political philosophy
This class is really difficult, but if you enjoy political philosophy, it may be worth it.
If you're interested in engaging in many of the great texts of ancient and early modern political philosophy you will love this class.  What's more the class discussions were probably the most insightful of any that I've experienced here at Harvard  However, if you are taking this class purely to venture into unfamiliar academic territory you will likely be overwhelmed as there is a hefty amount of reading, and the grading is fairly difficult.
This is a fantastic course if you have an interest in the founding principles of governments, especially liberal democracies.  The readings are among those that every Harvard student should read at some point early in their academic life, as they have far-reaching implications for government and philosophy ideas that we all should better understand.  Dr. Chen gives great feedback, but be prepared for paper topics that may seem irritatingly unrelated to all that you have been discussing in class.
All Expos is a little dull, but if you're interesting in the topic (Philosophy of the State), then this is a good choice. The reading load is pretty light, and Owen Chen is a helpful instructor.
It's a lot of reading; way, way more than in other expos classes. If you like western philosophy, or philosophy in general, I think you would enjoy most of it. There is just many hours of it. I did not do anywhere close to all of the readings and I got by in class discussions because he would tell us to focus on certain questions to think about sometimes. At the end, I know more about western philosophy, certainly. I don't regret taking the class. But it's not for everyone, and I think anyone who wants to take it should already have a moderate interest in philosophical works.
I enjoyed the readings for this class, the fact that there was no busy work, as well as the preceptor. I think it covers a variety of topics and gives one tips and tools to improve one's writing.
Be careful not to miss class in the morning!
Dr. Chen is great but there is way too much reading.
Take this class, ground yourself in political philosophy, and sharpen your writing.
Dr. Chen is an awesome teacher, but some of the reading you do are a little bit boring.
A very interesting class. The workload is much higher than other exposes but  it is a great class to take for someone interested in philosophy or government.
One of the few truly excellent expos classes.
More philosophy of the family than philosophy of the state.
I enjoyed Philosophy of the State, however, be sure to use Dr. Chen as a resource, and come to class prepared to discuss the assigned readings. You don't have to have the correct inferences from the readings (Dr. Chen will guide you there), but it is important to be able to understand from where the discussion stems.
It may seem like a drag sometimes, especially with some of the not-so-interesting readings, but you will emerge with a better understanding of both writings and of the philosophers that have helped to shape the Western world.
If you like philosophy and don't mind a lot of potential reading, take this as your expos class Chen is a great, if very opinionated, preceptor and he will really approve your writing.
Be ready to speak up in class
This is not a bad Expos course. Dr. Chen is a very smart, albeit challenging teacher, who can help you improve your writing a lot. That said, this course was a lot of reading and did not really teach me as much philosophy as I would have hoped.
Be prepared to read a lot of challenging material.  This is not to say the reading will not be worth it and the discussion during section certainly helps out in understanding the reading as well as the context of the reading.
The course is great if you put the effort into the readings and assignments. They are all worth the time and reflection. Pr. Chen is a very good instructor and the discussions in class are very interesting.
This class demands a high level of work if you are going to get a lot out of it... like Ron predicts to Harry in Divination, "You're going to suffer...but you're going to be happy about it."  It is a lot of work while you are taking it, and your friends will be taking classes that are more fun, but you will feel like you got a lot out of it in the end, which is likely more than they will be able to say.
This course is fantastic. You have to work hard, but it stretches your brain and makes you a better reader, writer, and thinker.
Philosophy of the State is the strictest expos class with the most amount of work. If you have never read philosophical works before, you may have a tough time understanding the readings. Dr. Chen is a brilliant man, yet he is very picky. You'll improve your reasoning skills, but you'll have to work hard for sure.
I found this to be a challenging class, but in the end very rewarding. Coming in with no experience with philosophy, I found that a number of the readings were challenging and the ideas presented were often hard to grapple with. Struggling to understand what the authors of course readings were saying helped me get better at being clear in my own thinking before writing. In the last essay, generating my own thesis and writing a paper off of it was a challenge, but I feel the work I put in did actually make me a better writer.
