James is a great course leader. However, some of the readings were too long and repetitive. Also, it can be difficult to be in class at times when people's opinions can sometimes seem insensitive. Overall, I have seen my writing improve tremendously and find the draft workshops very worthwhile. Go to office hours!
Take this course if you have ANY INTEREST AT ALL on anything about race in America or how Brazil views race. Taking an expos that you have an interest in the material makes expos so much more enjoyable, and this class was my favorite class of the entire year! I learned SO much about historical accounts of race, and racial ideology, both new and old, and a lot about race in South America. If you are interested, you will enjoy engaging with the material and the essays will be much less of a burden. On top of that, Jim is an amazing preceptor. He is completely approachable (which can NOT be said for other preceptors), very funny, so insightful and so knowledgeable, and gives amazing feedback on the essays. If you put work in the draft and really give it your all, writing the revision will be a breeze (even if you have a lot to revise) because through your comments and conversations with Jim, it will be really clear what needs to be fixed and how!
have fun with it expos really isn't that bad.
It present interesting issues and problems regarding race in the United States.
Do the readings because all o the discussions are based on them. The readings also give you new perspectives on the topic of race.
This class is really helpful in becoming a better writer.
The preceptor is great; he is willing to discuss your work with you and provide detailed feedback.
great expos class
Writing is made interesting!
This course is probably a pretty standard Expos class. Interesting subject matter, though prepare to read a lot of work by only a few authors (rather than a wide breadth of opinions). This can make paper writing a little more difficult. There is a research paper at the end where you can do your own research on race relations at Harvard, which is really interesting. Jim is a pretty good preceptor and a great writing teacher, although maybe not the best person to teach about race.
TAKE THIS EXPOS JIM HERRON IS A BOSS! Seriously, my favorite class of the semester. I learned so much from this course with no prior experience on the topic of race. I cannot recommend Jim enough. He is so caring, and you will see your writing improve with his help!
Jim is a great and teaches a very interesting class
