The course is on a super interesting subject, and the readings and essay topics suited it well. Dr. Mumme is also an awesome preceptor who gives great feedback on essays and is willing to work with you to help you improve. Also, you get to eat food.
This is a great class. Dr. Mumme is great. She gives great feedback and the topic is so engaging. You learn a lot about your self and every one else in the world.
Food with Dr. Mumme was the best class I took all year.  She has designed an incredible class that covers a range of topics: food sustainability, food policy and behavior/food choice.  I was initially interested in the class because of the food sustainability essay, but ended up enjoying the other two more than the first.  Even if just one of these topics is interesting to you, I encourage you to select this class.  In that same vein, the assignments throughout the semester only become tedious if you make them feel like it. In other words, get invested in the readings and response papers because that makes the assignments more enjoyable and makes the draft easier to write.I was nervous about taking Expos because I was not very confident with my writing skills.  However, Dr. Mumme provided me with constructive feedback and encouragement throughout the writing process.  She is a great sounding board for ideas when you are planning out your essay.  Definitely meet or email her outside of conferences if you find that you are struggling with the structure or direction of your essay.
I thought expos was going to be miserable, but this was my favorite course!  Dr. Mumme give amazing advice, and you will really improve as a writer.  At the same time, I thought all of the topics of our papers were fascinating!  I really enjoyed writing all of them.  As in any expos, you will work hard, but when you are learning about something really interesting (like this course), it won't seem bad at all!
It's about food, what more could you want?! But honestly, it is just as interesting as it sounds, and it made expos a good experience for me.
This class is about as good an Expos class as you will find. After taking it, I'm still not a fan of essay writing but I thoroughly enjoyed the subject material and I hope to continue pursuing some of the ideas and discussions from class. After all, food is such a fascinating topic, and through this class you really get to explore food policy and food psychology as well as your own eating habits as a college kid, so it's all very applicable and relevant. Dr. Mumme is an excellent preceptor - she is funny, fair, and gives good feedback. The readings are mainly short papers or book chapters, so the reading load isn't very heavy, especially compared to some other Expos classes. Plus you get to watch Jon Stewart in class - what could be better than that?
I would say it is not as bad as people make it to seem.
Good expos class if you're interested in Psychological writing
This would definitely have to be the most delicious class I have ever taken. Dr. Mumme does an excellent job of making classes interesting and varied. She also does an impressive job thoroughly commenting on all our essays.
This is by far the best expos course out there! This year it was new and I absolutely loved it! Most people have bad experiences with their expos course, but this course was actually one of my favorites all year. The readings are very manageable and interesting to the extent that you want to keep reading more. Learning the psychology behind food and the food system in general are very applicable and good to know if you want to be well informed about what's going on with the food we eat or why we eat certain kinds and amounts to begin with. Dr. Mumme is great and by far one of my favorite instructors I've had at Harvard. She really cares about the material and students and she brought us food very often!! It was great. She is very accessible and does a great job at generating enthusiasm for the material. You'd be lucky if you get her as an instructor. And your writing will improve.
You get to learn and discuss pertinent food issues, and maybe even eat some food as well.
This is a food psychology class that briefly addresses food politics.  I enrolled hoping that there would be more food policy and was disappointed when I found out there was little.    If you plan on studying in the humanities, I HIGHLY suggest taking a humanities expos.  This being said, if you feel confident with your writing and want an easy expos class, Food might be for you.
Prepare for the conferences! They're where a lot of learning gets done. Do the essays early if you want to have life easy.
This is a really great way to fulfil the Expository Writing requirement. The content is interesting and Dr. Mumme is very friendly and helpful.
This course was one of my favorite courses! The preceptor was kind and responsive and prompted many fun and interesting discussions.
TAKE THIS COURSE. I had low expectations going into an expos course, but this class ended up being one of my favorite classes of my freshman year. It is fairly science oriented with all of the psychological aspects, and that also appealed to me.
This was a great class -- Dr. Mumme's enthusiasm for both the content and improving our writing really comes through, thus leading to an enjoyable experience overall!
This class is a very relaxing way to fulfill the expos requirement. You learn a lot, but you are never bogged down with excessive reading or busy work. Dr. Mumme goes out of her way to make sure that you not only learn a lot, but that your writing improves as time goes on. Draft conferences are what you make of them. Also the food that Dr. Mumme brings is great. A super nice class!
Overall, Food has been a good choice for Expos, as the readings were light and assignments not too difficult. While Expos is not something one would enjoy taking, it definitely gives you the chance to improve your writing, so take advantage of it.
great class, not too much reading, interesting topic. Don't get too excited that the topic is food, its more like the psychology behind why people choose the foods they do and the food industry.
