i would say that you need to be willing to spend time to create a well thought out paper and be prepared to become a better writer
I personally found this class to surpass what I had expected -- which wasn't much. I had just put this as my first choice because nothing else seemed as interesting, but now I am considering courses in this field. The instructor is very, very helpful and enthusiastic, and the discussions we have in class are good, and not too intense as to be intimidating. The material is actually fun to read at times, and the final research paper is not only less painful than those of other expository writing courses, it's actually kind of fun and interesting :). I feel that even those who don't even consider an interest in linguistic anthropology/philosophy will really enjoy this course. I really love thinking philosophically so that may be the reason...
this is a really good class to take for expos. take it if you're interested at all in theater or if you like reading plays.i
The preceptor is fantastic, and however painful writing about Whitman may be, the third essay makes up for it.
The essays were challenging, but you get a lot of help along the way, and you usually walk away proud of your work.
Pick a good EXPOS. This is one of them!
Take this Expos class.  It will make you think deeply about sports, but also about race, gender, and the American experience.  Cameron is a really cool and smart guy, and such a good Expos preceptor.  I considered myself to be a strong writer before I took this class, and now I feel even more confident about my writing abilities thanks to this class.  The readings and films were always really interesting and hardly felt like work.
A great course with a great preceptor. Highly recommend regardless of concentration.
Great Expos class. The preceptor is friendly and very helpful, the writing process can be hard (and especially with Expos' draft requirements) a pain, but she offers great constructive criticism and encouragement.
Prepare yourself for a basic writing class.
This is honestly a pretty good course. The material is fun and engaging, and it doesn't seem to be any harder than any other expos class. The title might sound lame but I would highly recommend it, the discussions often revolve around identity and are pretty engaging.
You often hear that Expos is a class that is the bane of every freshman's existence and that you have to get out of the way, but it was definitely not the case for me. I think it really depends on your preceptor and the subject material, so definitely pick a topic that interests you.
Pat and Michelle are amazing instructors. This class has been one of my most welcoming so far at Harvard. The reading material is engrossing, and the discussions are mind-opening. The amount of personal attention given is extremely beneficial. I felt very encouraged to grow as a writer. Prepare for an awesome semester if you take this course. By reading materials by everyone from Jane Austen to Sigmund Freud, the reasons for the human preocupation with the Gothic become clearer. Essentially, Gothic Fiction is 2-for-1 type of class - become a better writer and become a better reader. You won't regret being placed into this section.
Doctor Chen is a thorough and exacting preceptor who will make your writing more simple and more clear; fair grader.
It's a relaxed class, but nevertheless requires you to understand what's going on and to make some effort. The in-class discussions are a debater's paradise!
I would highly recommend this class to other students. There is a fair amount of work that goes into this class, we have postings at least twice a week and many pre-draft assignments.
Only pick expos classes that you'll be interested in.  You could end up in your first choice, or your last.  Make sure it's going to be something that you're interested in.
It is an enjoyable class; reading poetry is cathartic, and depending on your course load, it might be a welcome change. Teresa is great and the class fosters amazing discussion. The only drawback is that this expos class seems to have more assignments than the others. We had random homework assignments at least twice per week, which takes away from the time that you spend actually writing the papers.
The topics we discuss in the Expos are actually really interesting and we only have to read one book, so I would definitely recommend the class. I was scared to take expos because all of my friends last semester complained about how much work it was and how much they hated their class, but I genuinely liked this expos section and I believe my classmates did too.
The preceptor is great. He will make sure you understand and improve your writing. He will also be available when you need his help.
The subject matter was interesting, but teaching within the expository writing program seems to frame any topic in a less interesting light.
If you're interested in the stories of immigrants, questions of identity, contemporary, funny fiction, take this class.
please take this course! the preceptor is very engaging and it deals with very relevant material that goes beyond just reading a book and writing an essay about it.
If you don't enjoy reading/analyzing literature and are interested in psychology, TAKE THIS COURSE!  Relatively little reading, really interesting essay assignments, and an absolutely amazing preceptor.  Donna makes expos FUN, and you'll leave the course a much better writer than you were before!
This class is difficult and requires a lot of reading, but the professor makes it worth it.  I came out feeling much more confident in my writing ability and Dr. Volpe was wonderful.
I was lucky to be placed in to "The Art of Crime."  Dr. Levay is a great preceptor, and the things we learn about are really interesting.  I was always excited to go home and to have to watch "Dexter" or "The Silence of the Lambs."  I was always eager to go to section, and enjoyed writing my papers.
Confessions is not a fun read, in fact, I found it rather tedious the first time around. The Book of Job was not much better. On the other hand, the readings from unit 2 I absolutely loved and would recommend to people not even in Expos
It appears (in comparison with other classes) to be quite intense and very humanities-based. If one is entering the sciences, it may not be the most helpful course if one wishes to become accustomed to academic writing in science and how to write in that discipline.
This is a good expos class overall, the workload is not too much in terms of readings especially because they are more interesting and not too academic. You get to do your own research project for the final paper. Lindsey is really nice and will work with you on all the assignments if you're having trouble.
Great class dynamics and individual conferences with the preceptors. The first essay is a little brutal though.
This course touches on a very fascinating topic within literature and film and the preceptor is simply the best. She is very knowledgeable about different strategies that help improve one's writing skills.
When looking at this course, I thought it sounded more a like a social studies course, but it ended up closer to humanities. Instead of analyzing content, we did close readings.If you're looking for an in-depth look at linguistic relativity, and prescriptivism (conformity to grammar and language "rules") take this. If you're just looking for some basic and fun linguistics/social science, take something else.
Focus on comments that you get in your conferences that are dedicated to discussing your drafts. They will help your revisions tremendously.
Really interesting texts.  Readings will definitely give new insights into the subjects.
Expository Writing: Darwinian Dating was an amazing course which not only gave unique insight into a captivating and often thought-about topic, but also enforced skills that are crucial and instrumental that can be applied when writing about anything.
Although the material is great, the actual section and conferences are not as helpful as I'd hoped they'd be.
work hard
As far as expos goes, the section is not bad. But the expos course itself is not worth recommending.
The readings are a little hit or miss, some you will enjoy and others you probably won't. However, you will definitely learn a lot about AIDS and its political and social impact on the 80's and 90's in the United States, and the course is a good opportunity to focus on your writing as the workload is minimal.
Pop, Shock, and Schlock is an interesting way to study a subject that most people would not otherwise choose to at Harvard, and it encourages learning the analytical and critical thinking skills needed in Hist&Lit that can be applied to many other subjects.
This class covers fascinating material and makes you think about crime in ways that have probably never occurred to you before.
You need to know how to read books AND teachers. Figure out the rules of the Expos game and play it like a pro. Forget everything you have ever learned about writing and just sit there soaking up the "ways of Expos" so you can actually do well in the class.  I felt like all my years of high-level English training was tossed out the window and valued for nothing when it came to this class.
If you are interested in art and/or Impessionism and fin-de-siecle Paris, take this course.  Beware, however, that while the first two papers are more fun and open-ended formal analysis and comparison essays, the third essay delves deep into art history research, which is different than other types of research and can be much more tedious, especially without a large amount of guidance from the instructor.  Overall, however, the experience was valuable, and I learned a lot of interesting things about art, despite my lack of previous experience (which is certainly not required).
best expos topic!! the preceptor was very nice and helpful, and the readings were not that difficult.
Lindsay is very positive about helping you improve your writing. The third unit was a great opportunity to learn how to do research.
this course is great and the teacher is even better! he will definitely help you become a better writer!
This course was definitely worth it! One of the best expos classes! For anybody thinking about concentrating in any social science, this is a good introduction to how to approach these topics. While there were times that I wished I had taken a humanities Expos where I could just write an English paper, this was good practice in a safe and responsive environment to practice doing the kind of writing that I will be expected to do in the future.
This course is for anyone who prefers scientific or empirical writing. Even though the title says that it is about ethics, the conversations are much more concrete than what you might find in a philosophy class with the same title. I also recommend it to anyone who has not had any exposure to psychology, because it a really fun way to learn both about psychology methods and findings, which is more interesting than I had ever expected.
Expos is expos. It's difficult across the board. Dr. De Young is a fair grader and very approachable, so I'd highly recommend her class over other Expos classes!
Just have an open mind about the readings.
This section has a particularly heavy workload and dense subject matter, but you may learn a fair bit and read some neat works.
In high school, I neither enjoyed writing nor wrote skilfully, so I was not particularly enthusiastic about Expos. However, while other students complained about their Expos classes, I found that I actually rather enjoyed mine. Liz is a great preceptor, I actually learned a lot about writing, and the subject material was pretty interesting. All around, a great choice to fill the Expos requirement.
If you don't like Shakespeare - don't take this course. You might not change your mind.
The course readings are very interesting; you should, whether or not you take the class, read the Odyssey and some Euripidean tragedy at the very least. But the instructor is unbearably pretentious, frustratingly vague in his assignments and grading, and obsessed with political correctness; as good as he is one-on-one, he is not nearly as strong in front of a class. Sadly, my impression of the course was always dominated by exasperation with the instructor, and I would thus urge everyone not to even bother listing this on their ranking forms.
It's a very difficult course to get a good grade in. The preceptor is very picky about little things, but sets a very high standard for students. This course is about whether or not the preceptor likes the style you write in, and the arguments you make don't matter as much.
Tough grader, but the discussions and the course material are great
Take the class seriously. Start essays early. Don't procrastinate, although chances are you will; you always have too much to do!
This class was amazing!!! Don't be discouraged by negative comments about expos. This is definitely a great way to meet the expos requirement. The material is interesting and Joaquin is great. Of course, if you don't like writing or you have difficulty writing papers, this class will be frustrating. But, that is the case with every expos. Inevitably, you'll be writing papers; just make sure that the topic interests you. Joaquin is every approachable and, even if you don't do so well on a paper, don't he'll be willing to listen to your concerns and will definitely give great insight for the rewrite. This class also isn't very reading intensive, like some other sections.
Great class with interesting readings.
It is a very time consuming and engaging expos course. You must be very active, but the professor is very thoughtful of her students and tries to make sure everyone gets as much feedback as possible. This class WILL improve your writing ability.
That it was extremely engaging and writing the essays were more enjoyable than one would think.
Many of my peers complained about their expos experience and dreaded going to class. I, on the other hand, looked forward to class; Jane is one of the best expos preceptors and one of the best teachers I have had this year at Harvard. ABSOLUTELY take this class if you have the opportunity to do so.
I really, really enjoyed this Expos class! I always wrote about interesting topics ranging from free will, to abortion and America's war on drugs. I also thought my classmates had interesting insights.
compared to other expos this definitely was a great choice!
Expos 20 may not be as useful or as comprehensive as Expos 10.
Despite it being expos, it has an interesting subject and a great preceptor.
Excellent preceptor and a very interesting topic.
Overall, this was a good class. The readings were interesting, and the essay topics were very open. It also didn't require much work (relatively short readings and response papers).
I would tell students that a background knowledge, not simply an interest in 19th century Britain is helpful and to consider taking a different subject if they lack this background.
William is a great preceptor; very enthusiastic, dedicated, and kind.
Kevin is an awesome preceptor, and the course material is tons of fun.  I know everyone complains about Expos, but out of all of my friends I definitely had the most fun with my class.
Please refer to the readings before you take this course. It may not be what you expect. That being said, Jane is probably the most enthusiastic and responsible instructor you can find.
Don't take this unless you are interested in philosophy.
Don't put off revising your paper until the last minute.
Excellent course. If you love sports and are interested in writing, you couldn't ask for a better class
material was good, but grading was tough
Class is fair on the workload and you learn a decent amount about logic and structuring your argument.
Keep up with the work, and hand everything in on time.
This class was actually my last choice out of all of my other expos choices, but I am so glad that I was able to take this course.  It really exceeded my expectations, and it ended up being my favorite class of the semester.
I thought I was pretty good at writing before taking this class, and I came out having learned so much.
Lindsay is a great preceptor! I had heard so many negative things about expos but she did a great job of keeping discussions lively and interesting. This is a good expos section to sign up for if you're more interested in social sciences rather than literature. You'll become a clearer writer and hopefully have fun reading some of the texts :)
Actually read the books, and do your rough draft in full the day it's due!! It makes it so much less stressful.  The class is really not as bad as people say....it's only awful if you procrastinate!
Being ordinary is a good topic but very difficult to write about. Must have a desire to discuss philosophical topics and prove them with sound ideas. Readings are often difficult to understand and essays are difficult to write.
This was by far the best Expos section out there. Seriously. Not only is Sludds the man- a genius, a comedian, and just a nice guy- but the readings he chooses are contemporary and fascinating. Afte reading about the morality of eating meat, even myself- a devout carnivor- was forced to explain why my actions were ethical. Any class thats puts you on the defensive in terms of your beliefs is a class that you are going to learn about yourself and mature as a person. For me to be able to do that in an Expos class was awesome.
It is a great way to re-familiarize yourself with Shakespeare and the preceptor makes the course fun!
There was very little reading.  The material was interesting and accessible, both for those interested in psychology and those not.  Donna was very nice and her feedback was concise and very helpful.
Whether or not you enjoy or learn from this course is almost entirely dependent on which section you land in.
I would tell them that the material is interesting and inspiring but that sometimes the feedback and assignments from Joaquin are confusing.
If you're fascinated by myths and ancient tales, this is the class for you!
Make sure you are very clear about the assignments. This class, more so than some of the other Expos classes, requires that you formulate a thesis by yourself. Dr. Chen is awesome and friendly.
Expos doesn't have a great reputation on campus, however, The Voice of Authority is one of the exceptions.  Simply put, this is an extraordinary class and I highly recommend it.  Jane Unrue is passionate, dedicated, kind, and always helpful;  your writing will improve significantly, however, you'll get a lot more out of the course than just that.  Notable human rights figures and writers in exile are brought in providing opportunities that few other classes, expos or not, can give.  The class is a lot of work, though as long as you put in the time, you will do well.  One of the best expos classes offered.
It's a really great and interesting class that will not only allow you to explore existing research on what attracts men and women together, but will also allow you to do your own exploring to see first hand what men and women prefer.
If you get put in this section, SWITCH. OUT. IMMEDIATELY. Take some other Expos section. Any other Expos section. If (sadly) you have to stay in this course, don't even stress out about this course. It sucks that you have to take it, just do what's required and the semester will be over soon.
As opposed to other expos classes, the material we cover in Tales of Murder is actually interesting and engaging with the preceptor.
This class uses great material.  Even though you have assigned reading, the readings are things you would read for fun.  I got to read and write about my favorite book in this class and also discovered some wonderful literature that I had never read before but always wanted to read.  This class was one of my favorite classes this year.
great class
Zachary is a terrific preceptor. His knowledge of poetry and the mechanics of essay writing is extensive, and his comments always helpful. He is really able to help you think through the big and small pictures of expository writing, and his insight into poetry analysis is invaluable. I liked this class more than any other friends I had in expos. I think the people in this class were the only expos students really extremely enthusiastic about their section, and I attribute that directly to Zachary.
if you like thinking, talking, and writing about philosophy, this is a great expos class.  not a lot of reading, and papers are shorter than for other expos classes, but the lack of reading is made up by the amount of time spent thinking.  topics are very interesting, discussions in class are fun and rewarding, and paul is very helpful with giving feedback.  papers in philosophy are tough though, so you have to like it and be willing to put in the time and effort to do well.
That the materials very engaging but the work is a pain sometimes.
It's as good as an Expository writing class can be.
Reading is extremely manageable - all short scientific articles. The response papers are a breeze and never collected. The topic is fascinating. Elissa Krakauer is very friendly and gives great feedback. This course is one of the best ways to get through the Expos requirement.
It takes a lot of work through revisions to come up with a final essay, but they were always essays that I was proud to have written. Get ready to work hard, think creatively, and write the best you ever have!
This is not the most interesting Expos class out there. Yes, it teaches you to write for college, but so do all of the other sections. The reading material is not terribly interesting; I would seek out another section for your requirement.
Don't come into this class because of the prospect of reading interesting literature because you'll be very disappointed to find out it has almost nothing to do with the literature and everything to do with the writing. We spend a lot of time viewing texts through theoretical lens and the expectations can be very daunting when your trying to understand texts on the multiple scales of gender-relations, multi-culturalism, and intergenerational differences all at the same time.
Definitely spend time on your first draft and generate a lot of ideas so that you'll get good feedbacks for your revision process.
The materials for the class are great but the discussion is mediocre. The grading is on the more difficult side.
The subject matter of this course is really interesting and really improved my own conceptions of race and issues related to diversity. The preceptor is great and introduces you to academic writing in college. The one downside is that there is A LOT of reading (but it is really interesting).
your experience will depend on your ability to work with the preceptor. A lot of students switched out of the class in the first week for this reason
Voice of authority is a great choice for expos. The materials and papers are interesting as they always deal with an argument between viewpoints. Also, Jane Unrue is great!
Since you have to take Expos, you might as well write about interesting material, and I would say this course has the best reading list/movies.
You look at writing at a different perspective in this class that challenges you to step outside of the box in your usual habits in writing.
This course is a great way to develop your writing and the preceptor is always available. I sometimes hated the section though because it was largely about gender issues which I didn't really find interesting. Be sure that you want to talk about gender issues for a whole semester.
Not that bad
Best Expos section.  Not only is the sports topic fun to talk about in an academic setting, but CLP is the man, and the readings are so well-written.
Great books, manageable workload. Good way to get the expos requirement out of the way.
The course material is really interesting, and the preceptor is great.  The feedback we receive is actually constructive, both for the stylistic purposes of our writing and especially for the way in which we structure and develop arguments; I think my writing has improved a lot in this course, and I liked Shakespeare's plays enough to where I could enjoy coming up with essays, so it was a really great decision.
This class is one of the best Expos sections available. Emily is a great teacher who knows what she needs to do to step up your writing to the next level and the subject matter is absolutely riveting. I definitely recommend this Expos section!
The readings are really great and Michelle is really nice.  But you should really be interested in the identity conflicts of immigrants.
Tad is the man and the course is so stimulating.
this is a great class. damon is SO chill and approachable, but the essays are tough. and you will spend a lot of time thinking about them.....
I think this class is one of the hardest Expos classes and it attracts very smart students.  That said, I highly recommend it. The topics are good and Kaag is a great professor.  Super smart, super helpful, and by far, the most caring teacher I've had through my nine classes at Harvard.
Try hard to get into this section of Expos 20. You'll become a better writer (or die trying; look out for the "so what?" monster), and you'll have a lot of fun in the process - Ken Urban is quite a dazzling thing.
This class is really great. I came into Expos really skeptical -- in fact, I tried to transfer into another class because I was worried this was too heavily "humanities" oriented and that isn't really my forte. Luckily Sarah makes the writing interesting and even though I've always considered myself a strong essay writer, I feel like I learned a lot about writing in this class, which is surprising and gratifying. The stuff you read (and the films) are really great. There isn't a huge amount of reading, but you should definitely keep on top of the assignments or conference won't be useful. If you want a fun, helpful preceptor and engaging material, take this class!!
The readings were interesting, the talks about the readings were also interesting. However, Weitzel doesn't clearly state what he wants in an essay or how he wants it structured. I think he's trying to give more lee-way, however, this makes the writing harder than it has to be (because its so open-ended you can never be sure its what he wants)
Great expos, especially when you've heard how terrible everyone elses' experiences were
Make sure that you're interested in Impressionism and 19th century Paris! Naturally, you will read A LOT about both! Although this class is focused on paintings, it is not necessarily light on readings.
Fantastic expos choice.
It is a great option for Expos 20!
This class really helps to improve your writing.  I felt like I learned a lot.  It definitely helps to put significant effort into your papers before the day they're due, something that I didn't start doing until later...
Nice topic, but dont think it is easy just because it is sports. Same writing process as any Expos
Expos is a necessary evil, but it's still evil.  This class is not too stressful--watching a film, examining art, and reading a really long book.  But it could be worse.
You have to take Expos, so make the best of it. If you go in with an open attitude and participate, the preceptor will like you more, and you'll get more out of it.
This is a wonderful course if you're interested in the topic. If not, it might feel a little forced or abstract. But for those interested in human rights, government, politics and other related fields regarding questions of authority, it is a great class because it combines a provocative philosophical topic with academic writing.
The reading is hard, the essays are short, and the preceptor's gold.
It is sometimes difficult to communicate with the preceptor, and it can feel frustrating to work in this class. It is very important to speak up in class and come to classes having prepared the reading, or it is unlikely to be helpful. I thought a lot of class time was wasted explaining concepts that could have been covered more concretely through examples instead of theory.
This course is great for those who wish to find the inner leader in themselves.
Though the readings are interesting and your writing may improve, the assignments are very specific to this course and many of the lessons on citation and working with sources are specific to art history. I'm not sure I will be able to generalize the writing techniques learned in this course.  Also, Justine is hesitant about giving actual constructive feedback, which is a constant source of frustration.
It was a great course. Not work extensive, but you will learn a lot.
Interesting subject matter, but definitely make sure you have seen and liked Rocky Horror Picture Show before taking this.  Professor Birmingham is a helpful teacher and a kind grader, but not always the most helpful in giving good personal feedback.
Expos is no good, and this section doesn't really do a lot to help your writing directly (no workshops, for example), but the readings are interesting.
i'm glad i got this expos.
In this class, you will have the opportunity to write about what you want to write about for your essays, because authority is a theme that covers so many aspects of thought and daily life. Class activities are helpful for thinking about your paper in more interesting and thought-provoking ways.
It's a good topic if you enjoy reading things like the Odyssey or Gilgamesh or Genesis. It'll be a bit difficult if you aren't really into such literature or you aren't much interested in writing.
Expos is a poorly structured program with unrealistic expectations; hopefully that will be changed by the time whoever is reading this has to deal with it. As for Contemporary Immigrant Fiction in particular, the material is interesting (especially the final book) and Dr. Syba is great. Since you're stuck taking expos, you might as well pick this one.
Keep up with reading assignments
No doubt the best choice for expos. Unit 2 is relatively hard but it really broadens your ability to write. Unrue is an amazing teacher. Take the class--you won't regret it!
This is a really great expos! The readings are short, interesting, and very thought provoking. Therefore, the discussions are enjoyable. The papers, three 6 page assignments, are very manageable. Paul gives a lot of comments on your work in order to help you improve your writing and is a nice and approachable preceptor.
it is one of the best expos classes out there! Dr. Mumme is really nice and approachable. If you're interested in psychology and want to avoid heavy work load, this is the perfect expos for you! Grading is also very fair. Office hours are also really helpful for revising your essays!
I would tell future students that as Expos goes, this class is pretty good.  There isn't a ton of reading, and the workload isn't unmanageable.  I'm pretty sure the frustrations that arise in this course are an effect of the Expository Writing program itself, not of Dr. Chen's teaching.
Jim makes Expos a joy not a burden. Great guy, great class.
You will learn a lot with this preceptor but the course is a pill. You'll be happy when it's over if you have to take it.
Has no actual impact on your ability to write, it's really an outdated requirement and students should be able to test out of it. Being able to write to your preceptors taste does not make you better able to write to the tastes of other professors, in fact in some cases it just confuses your writing ability and makes you even WORSE off. (I had a TF who said that pre-expos students wrote better). Not to mention its a GPA killer because the preceptor feels obligated to fit all the essays into a tight curve, even though each section represents varying levels of difficulty (eg. the literature classes are more difficult than the sports classes, especially in terms of students who sign up for them, but the curves are the same). The papers written in this class would have probably earned different grades in other courses. It's a meaningless requirement and you SHOULD NOT sign up for a literature expos, you're better off in sports or something literature/philosophy kids are less likely to take. You don't actually learn anything new from the course and all you have to show for it is a grade on your transcript.
Expos is a difficult course but Modern Cities in Crisis made writing as much fun as is possible.
One of the most engaging Expos classes that feels like an elective because it is so interesting and fun.
Compared to other Expos classes, this course has a lot of reading.
Great instructor, fun material to watch and read - great Expos class.
great class as long as you are interested in engaging with the subject matter and material.
Interesting class material with intriguing essay topics.  Very little reading required.
Expos gets a bad rep, but it really is helpful and it's not so bad when you come into class with the right attitude.
It's a relatively fun and interesting way to fulfill your expos requirement. I found the process painless, which says a lot for an expos section.
Best expos choice, without a doubt.
This class was a brilliant way of improving my writing while learning a lot about a subject that I knew nothing about.
Take the class seriously, because the requirements are high. Nevertheless, it's worth it. The fact that the readings are short makes analyzing the text easier and more interesting. The written feedback is not always helpful, but sessions with Dr. Chen are very useful.
This class was excellent, as far as Expos goes. It's perfect if you want to be a psychology concentrator- they teach APA writing conventions, and some specific to psychology itself. The essays are varied, and cover a variety of psychological topics. Don't expect this class to be a philosophical ethics course- it isn't. It's focused on the ethics of psychological experiments specifically.Dr. Mumme gives excellent feedback, commenting line-by-line in your essays and giving you very specific advice on how to change things. She also writes up a one-page letter with broader recommended changes and comments- this is invaluable. She's excellent.
This is an Expos section that deals with some interesting subject matter.
If you enjoy literary criticism, and don't mind a consistently depressing set of reading assignments (plus a movie that graphically depicts a prison massacre), this class may be for you.  If not, AVOID IF AT ALL POSSIBLE.
The BEST thing you can do to improve your writing !
Make sure that you're interested in the subject matter. It's definitely one of the hardest expo classes, but is also very fulfilling if you take it seriously. I complained a lot (because let's face it, not many people like writing papers. EVEN FEWER like writing philosophical, argumentative, theoretical papers.) I actually feel like i learned something, and im mildly proud of my papers. For once i felt like i was challenged intellectually. Courtney is a great preceptor. Take her comments seriously and get to know her!
if you are considering contemporary theater, I would strongly recommend another choice.  I had an extremely frustrating experience in the class for reasons ranging from the lack of substance in writing feedback to the overly structured essay prompts to urban's stifling, mapped, arrogant style of leading discussion.  if you take this class and start to wonder what the hell is going on, just know that it is absolutely fine that this institution has so much wrong with it and it is absolutely fine (though difficult) to dissent where you see fit.
Emily is a great preceptor who will give you a lot of good feedback on your work. There are some problems with the course. The essay topics are generally very limited and unless you really enjoy reading and writing about murder and death, you will be turned off. A lot of the focus of the course is also on creating a structurally sound essay and you will be graded very strictly on this.
Sound, Noise, Music is great. You will learn a lot about music, and make sure to take advantage of the preceptor - he has so much valuable feedback to give.
This definitely seems like the best expos section ever.
Though Expos is often given a bad rep, and it is indeed time consuming and sometimes stressful and annoying due to the energy it drains from you, I sincerely think that this specific class- The Literature of Self Discovery- has to be one of the best Expos classes out there. The preceptor is amazing and will not intimidate you; she gives constructive and helpful feedback, is very understanding, and creates a very relaxed environment. She is incredibly nice, and I think she is a really fair grader. The books that were read- Girl Interrupted, The Awakening, and Song of Solomon- are good books and are interesting to write about. This class is focused on the literature and is not full of fluff; because of this, I think it is beneficial and accomplishes the goal of making you a better writer. If you approach this class with a good attitude, it can be very rewarding. I think this is what every Expos class should be like.
I had a much more positive experience in The Art of Crime than my friends had in other Expos sections.  The readings and assignments were very interesting, and watching Dexter and several films was a cool way to end the semester.
Sarah is a great teacher.  the first writing assignment may seem absolutely terrible, but there is a light at the end of the tunnel.
The readings were really interesting, but it was awkward to take a class from a person who hadn't written and syllabus.
It isn't the most exciting class in the world, but this particular section wasn't really that difficult to get through.
Imagination and Genius has been the best course that I have taken thus far at Harvard. Alot of students enter the semester dreading expos, but I found that my class was stimulating and provided me with the freedom to explore concepts and ideas that interest me. Every day in section, I learned something new from my peers or from my instructor, and left the class feeling alive. Our professor tackled big questions and forced us to think about the meaning of our own lives, the meaning of free will,and the way that we create things. I have learned alot about writing from the course, but more importantly I wil be leaving the seminar with the tools to think about things that really matter to my life. From this class, even more so than remembering how to write, I will remember the times that my expos professor opened the window in the top of memorial hall and asked us to think about suicide and ultimate free will and what that meant in the context of our own lives as well as in our peers. Expos for me wasn't really a class- it was an exercise in figuring out how to become more alive as an intellectual thinker and as a human being. This is what I came to harvard to engage in.
This is an easy expos class, and Wandler is decent.  Just don't waste epic amounts of time on essays.
Great class, even for those who know nothing about art, like me! And the painfully boring (though useful!) handouts about writing are diluted with all the pretentiously fascinating discussion about art. Take this expos.
It is unfortunate that you have to enroll in this class.  The topic may be interesting, but the structure of the program will likely disappoint you.
It is an amazing class. Ms. Krakauer is amazingly helpful and loves to teach this.
Of all the Expos 20 classes, this is probably one of the best.
The ideas and topics were fascinating. I found the writing challenging but very rewarding. I realy enjoyed Expos because I ended up with this topic, in this section.
This is a very well-organized class. It seems much better run than my roommates' Expos classes.
If you have to take an expos, this is a good one. Not too much reading, classes are actually fairly fun, good topic to write on.
The material is very interesting.  Don't be afraid to ask any questions about your essay or writing at the Conferences. They're very helpful.
Take it, take it, take it. Art of Crime made me love Expos.
Expos was terrible for me only because I never could seem to figure out what we were expected to do.  I hope others have better luck than me.  You have to take it, and if music is your interest, then this section is a slightly less painful way of fulfilling the requirement.
I was not looking forward to taking Expos, but I actually ended up learning a lot from examining my own writing style. Most of the writing precepts we learned seemed like common sense, but I did pick up a few really helpful writing tactics/strategies. Also, great preceptor! Jeff Cordell is an amazing teacher.
I don't recommend that you take Ken Urban's section of Expos because he doesn't give enough thoughtful feedback on essays, and section is more like lecture than discussion.
It was a fun class, since the readings were engaging, which led to better discussions in class. Michelle also returns assignments back on time, so you have feedback before you embark on the new assignment. I think the nature of expos makes it mediocre, but this is one of the better expos classes.
The topic and some of the essays are interesting, but the exam topics are also difficult and the feedback could be improved.
The Instructor has a very insightful perspective on immigration and its effect on the individual, families, and populations as a whole. Very light reading, but appropriate to the subject matter. You will be glad you took THIS Expos class!
Great material. Great preceptor. All expos classes are a little stinky though :/
It's a great class where you get to listen to music and write about it. The best part was finding specific parts of the music and connecting it to a concept covered in reading materials.
If you are already good at writing and want to read fun plays in a class that may be frustrating, then Contemporary Theatre is not a bad option.
It's a good class, and I'm glad I chose it.  Lindsay is very helpful, and made it a good class even at 10 in the morning.  You learn a lot without too much work because she is so efficient.
Those that have heard it's not worth it have likely heard anomalous horror stories--it's actually very helpful.
The materials for this course are genuinely enjoyable and interesting. Honestly, it's worth basing your decision on which Expos section to take solely on whether or not the reading list sounds appealing. Dr. Syba is enthusiastic. However, she rarely gives you concrete help on how to revise drafts. Her suggestions are often irritatingly ambiguous; it seems as though she purposefully tries to be unhelpful in the stages of developing and revising an argument. Also, originality is definitely not rewarded.
You DO  NOT watch any movies in this course. They're trying to trick you.
I liked it. It's interesting, but I wish we talked about the material more during class.
The preceptor is very nice and understanding of her students. She provides informative handouts and returns assignments in a timely fashion. She also gives great advice and is good at facilitating discussion.
It is difficult to get an A in this course. I feel that you learn how to write better very slowly, so don't expect exponential progress. Overall though, the amount of work in this class is relatively less and is very interesting. It's just the writing part that sucks.
interesting topic, good preceptor
Lindsay is a fantastic preceptor. Despite what you hear about the horrors of Expository Writing, this class is absolutley fantastic. I was very skeptical about Expos 20 in general; however, after taking Lindsay's class I found that it really helped me become a stronger writer and critical thinker. I would definitely recommoned this class to anyone interested in the American city.
For an expos class, it's painless: the only reading materials two novels and some short articles, and three papers that aren't too long (5 pg, 7 pg, and 10 pg). Tess is great at teaching how to write well, and her feedback and guidance mean that you can actually take something away from this expos class.
It's not a gov class, it's an expos class. On the other hand, you can gain useful insights into political philosophy, history, anthropology, and media studies from the class. It's just important to remember that it is at its heart a class about writing, not about the subject matter.
This is a wonderful expos!  I highly recommend it, especially if you're interested in the subject.  I knew a lot about AIDS before, but in the context of global health or biology.  This class opened my eyes to the epidemic that occurred in the US, and let me into a more personal and artistic aspect of the disease.  The preceptor is good too, and always available to talk to!  Take this expos!
I thought this class was very good overall but at times the feedback was a little harsh. In retrospect, it was all very helpful and helped me grow as a writer.
Great topic! Baran is a really nice guy!
This class is one of the best Expos offerings. It does not have too much reading, the reading is FASCINATING, and assignments are easy to grasp. I would recommend only reading abstracts, introductions, and discussion of scientific papers (unless you want to critique method in your paper).
I am a math and science type of person, but this ended up being my favorite class I took this semester.  If I have to take a writing class, I might as well write about something I love-sports.  I actually looked forward to writing my research paper on Title IX
It was an amazing class! I was first curious because of the title of the course, and it completely meets my expectations while doing so much more. It has truly taught me to question a lot of things, from the simple question of "What is evil?" to whether evil exists without good or if evil is just varying degrees of goodness or if there is such a thing as banal, unintentional evil. It is a class that will make your head spin in a wonderful way.
Be ready for madness.
If you are interested in the inner-workings of the self, this is the expos for you.  There are no correct answers when it comes to identity.
I doubt that there's a better teacher than Jane. That doesn't mean the reading is necessarily for you, though.
Even though everyone complains about it at some point, it's totally worth it.
You just have to get through it. The material is interesting, but it will become monotonous. You will probably feel that all of your papers have the same thesis.
Definitely one of the best expos classes out there - minimal reading, very interesting reading, great class discussions, paper assignments were manageable, great preceptor, all around great experience
If you take it seriously- it is one of the best expos classes you can take. It will really change the way you think about things if you allow it to. If you just think of it as expos, you aren't going to get anything out of it. What is great about this expos class is that you can really get into the topics, have relative freedom with your papers, and really improve your writing and thinking if you take it seriously. The class and the essays are difficult. But they are difficult for the best possible readings. Take this class only if you're serious about improving your writing. If you choose to take it, you won't regret it. You'll love it. You'll hate it too, at times, especially with the last paper, but you'll be glad you took it.
If you love English and writing, this is a great class. If you are more math or science-oriented, it might be worth seeking out a more science-related topic.
It's good for an expos class. Very interesting topic if you are interested in photography.
Make sure you put as much effort as possible in the first draft. It makes writing the revision easier.
Expos is required. Until that changes, the curriculum is unjust. You will not get your first choice of sections.
This is a challenging class, but definitely helps to improve you as a writer.
You have to take expos anyway. This is the best expos will get. The writing for this expos is as enjoyable as expos writing will ever be. I would strongly advise any freshman to take this expos course even if you don't care about psychology or human experimentation. The readings are enjoyable and not long. Dr. Mumme is the best. Reading is minimal compared to most expos classes. The topics are interesting too. Take this expos!
This is a wonderful expos seminar.
This expos class is hands-down one of the best out there.  The material, which is more social science than a lot of expos classes, is highly interesting to people with diverse interests.  (Additionally, the input from the students in the class of all different backgrounds and languages was valuable.)  The preceptor is extremely engaging, personable, and helpful in the whole process.  Most of all, this class is helpful in how it teaches you to write an academic essay for college classes -- it teaches how to allow your essay to reflect the structure of your thought.
This was an interesting class, but I do not know if you should take it if you have no art history background.
The texts we read raised quite a few issues from which I based my essays, and Sarah is very open to ideas (as opposed to some of my friends, who essentially must write what their preceptor wants them to). Begin thinking about the essay early!
Enter Expos with an open mind, and chances are you will learn a decent amount about how to write a paper, if only through the experience you gain.
The material in this class was entertaining and interesting, and it made Expos an enjoyable class.
I had heard awful thing about Expository Writing. While your experience largely depends on your TF, overall I found this course to be challenging but beneficial. The assignments are difficult but I definitely feel my writing improved. This class gave me a new perspective on how to approach writing different types of essays and equipped me with valuable tools for revision.
Do the readings! It's crucial!
This class is awesome.  The topic, Diversity, is so interesting and we do a Unit on Disney.  It's mind-boggling how interesting this course is!!
It's a great class for students to develop their writing skills.
Very fulfilling, not only because you read such great works of literature but also because you actually learn enormously about writing (and not just English papers but essays in general)
The material is difficult to grasp and it is not the ordinary Expos class.
If you have a desire to read more Shakespeare and learn to write about Shakespeare, this class was fantastic. Cordell made section entertaining and fun, however, a less enthused preceptor could make the class boring and dry if you do not really enjoy Shakespeare.
Great readings and movies, great professor, awesome for expos
This expos section was very organized, directed, and had short readings that were to the point. This is definitely one of the better expos sections. You'll definitely learn how to write with Dr. Chen!
If you really want to work on learning how to structure a good argumentative essay, take this course. If you want to breeze through the expos requirement, don't. You can *try* to fudge your way through the assignments, but it will not work because you WILL find yourself put on the spot to contribute in class and follow the rigid instructions of the assignments.Don't have an ego, although the repetition of a patronizing "now, in COLLEGE writing" will get annoying sometimes. Be prepared to do a lot of revision. Expos won't teach you how to correct your writing style, but it will teach you ways to structure your argument well.
The material covered in this class is extremely interesting!  The books we read and the movies we watched were enjoyable and easy to write about.  Definitely one of the best expos classes out there.
There is a good amount of reading but it's enjoyable reading.
Very interesting material to cover, that and Dr. Chen is great at giving feedback on essays. He knows what he's talking about.
I found this class one of the more intellectually stimulating of the Expository Classes, and when it came down to it, I really enjoyed writing the essays as well.  That being said, I definitely had to put in significant amounts of work going from draft to final paper: so my advice is don't worry about the draft, you're going to have to rewrite it anyway.  Also: when you read Sarah Kane, don't read it alone or when you're about to go to bed. Walk into the class knowing that you're going to be reading some pretty strange texts (especially by the end).
Be prepared for a lot of deep thinking. The essays are difficult and time consuming but the professor is very helpful in conference.
That Liz is awesome and so is The Wire.
The preceptor is very enthusiastic, engaging, and attentive to your individual needs as a writer. The course is pretty "topic centric:" i.e., there really is a pretty heavy focus on Greek mythology. Dr. Weitzel is a very knowledgeable and competent writer, but sometimes unclear in his recommendations.
The books you'll read in Literature of Self-Dicovery are very interesting and diverse.
Discussions can sometimes feel free-wielding/a waste of time, but it's an overall good pick for Expos.
It's required, but helpful.
It's rather useless as a class goes. It does not accomplish its goals of making Harvard students better writers.
Among EXPOS classes, I think it is one of the best (from what I've heard). Some of the papers that you write are similar to AP English Literature, which is somewhat unfortunate as most of these papers end up filled with bullshit. In any event, Joaquin is great and the readings are highly enjoyable.
Kevin is a very amiable person and one of the nicer Expos preceptors.
Jeff is an incredible preceptor!
great course to take if you want to be a psychology major.
Great for any lover of sports - you learn so much about baseball history, "The Fight," and Title IX through the readings, which makes the essays enjoyable to write because they're on topics you're passionate about.  This is an Expos you will really enjoy, and Cameron is a great, well-prepared teacher who will help your writing skills immensely.
It is a fun way to hear sounds in a different manner while developing one's writing abilities.
I would definitely not recommend this class unless Zachary was teaching it, then I would recommend it with enthusiasm.
This class was worthwhile for me whether it was expos or not. I enjoyed the subject and feel like my writing definitely improved so it accomplished what it was supposed to I guess.
Make sure you do all the reading and you'll be fine. it's an excellent class and you learn a lot
Expos doesn't teach you how to write. Unfortunately you have to take it. With this in mind, I do recommend my section of expos above others, but do not recommend the class in general.
A great way to fulfill the expos requirement and have the opportunity to read and spend some time discussing Shakespeare and adaptations of his works.  Like all expos courses, more time is spent learning about writing than actually discussing the reading, but the preceptor is great and I would definitely recommend the course.
Tough class that you just have to get through
Work hard and early; follow the advice of your professor.  Have a positive attitude.
I would recommend this course only to individuals who are interested in the topic because I can see that others may feel that the ambiguity of the material can be somewhat difficult to deal with.
If you are a "theatre person", this is not a course for you. It hurts to write about theatre the way you're required to in this course. The material is nonetheless interesting, and the course might be fun for people with little interest in theatre.
The class is more science based than you might think.
This is one of the best expos classes. The readings are short and Dr. Chen is extremely straight forward so you know what you have to write about and what he is looking for.
You have to take it. Might as well be enthusiastic.
It is a painstaking task for those that do not have the best writing skills, but you come out of the class ready to take on papers in most classes (depending on what expos class you choose to take).
Expository writing can be both fun and an irritant. The readings are great, but certain class lessons are completely useless.
It's going to be more work than most Expos sections, but then it's quite an interesting topic.
This class is challenging and a bit time extensive, but incredibly rewarding- you will definitely leave knowing how to better approach papers in other courses. Zachary is by far the best teacher I have had the opportunity to learn from AND he is hilarious.
During the course of my semester in "Reading Photographs," I would hear other students complain that Expos had not taught them anything that they didn't already know.  That is most definitely not the case for "Reading Photographs."  Dr. Volpe's advice is so clear and insightful that her students will begin writing more engagingly from the first day of class.
For an expos class, it's pretty good. The readings are mostly very interesting and none of them are too time consuming. Overall I had a positive experience. I also got very specific and helpful feedback on my writing.
Reading can be a bit boring
Expos 20 is required of all freshmen, and making sure you end up with a good preceptor with reading material that is interesting to you makes all the difference (I recommend the Literature of Self-Discovery!)
If you want an interesting class with great discussions take it. If you really want to learn to write, pick a different class.
Read all of the materials and make time for planning and thinking.
Sarah is very invested in the class -- she cares a lot about your work and helps you to improve every step of the way. I know some preceptors hardly give comments,  or are vague or just really relaxed about the whole class. This is not Sarah; she is dynamic, proactive, and demanding.The actual coursework is fun -- MINIMAL READING, which is great because you can just focus on the writing without feeling like you're getting behind in reading. Literally, we read one long poem, two short stories, and then watch movies! It's great. This was my 7th choice expos class, but I am pretty happy that I ended up in this class because it's great and Sarah is a good preceptor.
This course is entirely based on how good your preceptor is. Do not take an expos class from a preceptor who doesn't have Q ratings that you can use as a guideline. Take this class from an experienced faculty member and you will learn a lot.
Expos in general is not a great class, but this was.
This is one of the best expos sections; you're lucky if you're placed into it. Drafts and revisions are fairly time consuming, but for 70% of the semester you won't have an assignment like that hanging over your head, and will just be enjoying interesting readings and discussions.
this expos class was awesome because we read good articles and watched awesome movies and discussed them .  i loved the class
It's a bit dry at times- unless you're interested in the subject material, you'll have a hard time with the essays.  However, Dr. Chen always has helpful things to say and he's a very thorough editor.  Your writing will probably improve.
Really interesting class, good subject matter, wonderful preceptor -- everything you could want from expos.
Unless you love philosophy, do not take this course.
I would tell them to be ready to do many challenging readings and to only enroll if they are comfortable with philosophy.
The topic is interesting, but the way the preceptor spins it is not the greatest.
It's required, so you have to get through it. The discussions and readings are enjoyable, and yet the essay assignments manage to become extremely painful to complete.
The subject matter was so interesting as were the texts, which makes the expository writing process painless. Additionally, Karen's conferences and feedback is extremely helpful and makes the course worth taking.
Unless you REALLY like art history, don't take this section - it's a lot more difficult to write about art than you'd expect.
Expos will be the worst class you take freshman year, but there's no way around it.
Great course to fulfill an expos requirement. The readings are reasonable and interesting.
Andrea (Reading Photographs) is incredibly reasonable and obliging with due dates and extensions. At first the class was frustrating because I didn't feel that I knew what was expected of us, but usually we ended up having to do less work. The class is extremely manageable--not too much reading but some of it is dense, and class discussions aren't the most interesting. Andrea is great and it was cool to learn more about photography.
jeff is an absolutely amazing preceptor, very funny, very helpful and understanding, and very concerned with students' learning. however, i would not recommend taking this class if you don't enjoy writing about shakespeare.
the literature concept of self-discovery is not too heavily applied to the course
Pretty solid class, well taught, sometimes you dont get your work back for a long time though.
The readings are excellent; you'll enjoy doing the reading and discovering connections. Sri gives good feedback, especially during conferences. She tells you exactly what you need to improve on, and as long as you follow those guidelines, your grade will be fine.
Definitely take this class, even if you feel like you don't like/know anything about Impressionism.  It's a great opportunity to explore a field of art and expand your knowledge in a field you otherwise might not interact with.  And of course, it is very helpful to learn how to write art analysis if you are thinking about going into HAA.
Only for my section, others seemed to like the section led by Zachary Sifuentes.I liked the poetry and would have enjoyed a class either more focused on the poetry, or a class more focused on the expository writing.
If you're really into this particular era in art, take it.  You'll enjoy freedom of topics for at least one paper, but the class itself can be stifling; the reading load is medium but it's not as rigorously integrated as it would be in a reading course.  The preceptor is knowledgeable and passionate, but she isn't confident and that makes it difficult to feel good about Expos.
If you have an interest in theater, this class is definitely for you.  The same is true if you don't know very much about theater but would like to.  That being said, it is a class less about "contemporary" theater and more about "experimental" theater, which is an important distinction to keep in mind.  It is also a class that's easier if you have a background in theater or a strong writing background.  You do have to take expos, though, and this isn't the most painless way to fulfill the requirement, but I enjoyed the class.  And if you want to learn about theater in a Harvard class, there are few better people to go to than Ken Urban, who spends most of his time writing plays that have been decently successful in New York and directing various shows.
This class was incredibly valuable in learning strong writing and argumentative skills. The curriculum was well organized, and followed a logical progression that helped me build my skills for each new unit on top of the skills taught in prior units. I can completely understand why this class is required for freshmen.
A lot of people find Expos to be a pain, but I think Expos is one of the top two classes I've taken at Harvard so far. Learning to write in college is not only extremely important, but the actual intellectual process that goes into making a complex argument in a paper is extremely interesting. I am going to miss Expos terribly.
Of all the expos classes, I think this one is a good one to take and relatively rewarding. The essays have interesting topics, but sometimes very hard to write, depending on what topic you pick, since the essays have very unspecific prompts.
Don't take the criticism personally. In the end, your writing does improve.
This is the only opportunity for your concerns on writing effectively at Harvard to be addressed.
This is a very interesting class and it is probably more exciting than any other expos classes you could take. Elissa is a great preceptor and she's willing to help you if you ask for it.
The essays are all interesting granted you have an interest in ancient literature, the precepter is very enthusiastic about the subject and brings a lot of outside knowledge to the table.
The material is great and Chrsitina is really enthusiastic about what she teaches.
This course will change, perhaps fundamentally, the way in which you perceive and understand issues such as race and culture.
Definitely pick an expos that you like, because you will be writing about it all semester. The works in this class were fantastic, so if anyone were looking for some really great readings to discuss/write about in a literary way (and it's not even that much reading), this course would be ideal. I can't really say my writing improved a ton though.
You will improve as a writer, the workload is reasonable, and you will get good feedback. But you have to be on point with your knowledge of the reading and you can't get away with any flaws in your argument.
I think this is a really good class in terms of the readings and the discussion topics, and the preceptor is really nice but sometimes doesn't engage the class that well.
Expos is a rite of passage at Harvard; once you're done, life can only get better.
This class may have a lot of reading (especially for an Expos class), but it was really interesting and I actually learned about the topic, in addition to becoming a better writer. If you're interested in race,  Sociology, or social sciences, this Expos class is for you!
If you like theater you will enjoy this course.  Understand that these plays will be like nothing you have ever read before
It is a requirement that most students don't look forward to taking, so be brave and suck it up.
American Sports Culture w/ Cam is AWESOME...if you like sports...Don't wait till the day before to write your essay.
Although you do not have much of a choice in your Expos course assignment, I would encourage you to avoid participating in this section.  Though the readings are somewhat interesting, classroom discussion is far from stimulating and can frequently be dull or awkward.  The highlight of this course is that the workload seems to be relatively low compared to other Expos sections, but it was not a particularly enjoyable course.
Take it Larry Switzky is the bomb.
The material is not the most fun, but Jonah does an excellent job as the preceptor.
A very interesting topic, and an amazing preceptor.
It's probably one of the best Expos sections out there. The preceptor is very good, committed to the class (even though a little intense). If you take this class, you'll listen to your friends speak about the 'horrors of Expos 20' and feel lucky.
The preceptor is great and loves to work with you. Definitely take it. It's probably one of the best, if not the best Expos class out there.
As far as Expos goes, "Being Ordinary" is a good section to pick: There is great feedback and interesting discussions.
I would say that Zachary is a phenomenal preceptor. The concept of Poetry at the Limit is hugely interesting and we read a lot of engaging poems and materials.
This is the best Expos class out there; take it! Dr. Herron is an excellent preceptor: he is engaging, friendly, helpful, organized, and clear. The material is fascinating, and while the readings are a little long, they promote great discussion. The essays are reasonable, and I always felt well prepared to write them and well guided during the process.
If you are interested in culture or the experience of disease in people's lives then this is a great course. However some of the primary sources include scenes best described as verbal pornography.
Keep up with the readings.
Jeff Cordell is a legend, but not John Legend.
The class is excellent. The workload isn't too hard. There was not much reading outside of class and the subjects are engaging. Classes are fun and Dr. Mumme is very good-tempered.
This course was a wonderul expos class. The subject matter was interesting and fun to read and write about. The preceptor furthermore
Tad's a great guy
It is a great way to get detailed feedback on your writing, and the conference time was so valuable-you get one on one time that is amazing and unheard of.
Take this class.
Jeff is an absolutely incredible preceptor, and class was always so much fun. I truly learned a lot. However, I feel like for the time I put in (compared with my friends in other Expos sections) my grade did not always reflect it.
Expos is a requirement which unfortunately takes time away from classes on which you would usually prioritize your time. Still, it teaches some useful things, and if handled efficiently it won't present too much of an obstacle.
Tales of Murder is perhaps the driest topic among all the exposes. Your preceptor will be great, but so are most preceptors. More importantly, the material this preceptor chooses to focus on (literary theory, documentaries about child murders in the south) will bore you to death. MARK MY WORDS: DO NOT CHOOSE THIS COURSE
To come into it willing to listen to your preceptor, as well as being willing to adjust your writing style and patterns and to really use the draft/revision process as a means to improve and enhance your writing.
be prepared to receive the exact same grades as everybody else, no matter how much work you put in!
Expos 20 with Jane Unrue will change your academic life. You will never think about writing in the same way. You will constantly challenge yourself to be better. This class went above and beyond in fulfilling my expectations of the expository writing requirement.
preceptor is pretty easygoing and laid-back. the readings are interesting and fun. feedback is mostly helpful.
From what I've heard, it's better than the other expos choices.
TAKE THIS EXPOS CLASS! I was so afraid of Expos because everyone complains about it. But I totally lucked out with this course. The material is really interesting and there is not too much reading AT ALL-- I would definitely recommend this course if you're interested in the social scienes. Plus, Lindsay is so nice and so helpful, and she cares a lot about this subject, unlike some of the other preceptors I've heard of.
it's a class that's useful in some disciplines but if you are particular interesting in the sciences you may be wondering why the College is making you waste your time. You will likely take General Education classes where you will find some of these skills useful however.
This class is what you make of it. If you engage in the discussions and start your drafts on time, you'll enjoy it a lot.
From the name of the course, it might sound boring at first but it's actually very interesting. It has just the right amount of philosophy for a math/science student.
great class, Cameron really knows his stuff and will improve your writing
Jane is an incredible preceptor.  She is brilliant, energetic, and immensely helpful.  She will make expos an enjoyable experience.
Read the readings! They're fun! (well... most of them.)
Take it if you're interested in reading and writing about Gothic fiction.
This course will help you a lot to enhance your writing in an interesting and unconstrained way, in which you will be able to choose your own topic and themes to write about.
Good course, interesting material.  You should spend as much time as possible on your assignments
This class involves fascinating subject material (if you like Whitman, continental literary theory/metafictional stuff/metaphysical detective stories, movies like Fight Club, Lost in Translation etc.) but it is graded more difficultly than other courses, it seems. My friends in other classes wrote essays that seemed considerably worse than ones people in this class wrote (at least the ones I saw), but got better grades. Some of the material, like Auster's City of Glass, is also very challenging to write on, more so than the material in other Expos classes. If you are interested in the material though you should definitely consider taking the class--the teacher is great, and it's very worthwhile to write challenging papers on interesting stuff.
Grading seems to be somewhat predetermined (i.e. your first grade WILL be lower than the second, etc [no matter what they tell you regarding the grading policies]).
This is the best expos hands down. You write about campaign commercials, architecture, and awesome conspiracy films, instead of reading hundreds of pages of stressful material. The papers are actually fun to write because you can choose a topic you're interested in, and you are never overwhelmed with extra work.
Confronting the Problem of Evil is not only a great Expos class because of the talented preceptor, but the topic itself is very engaging and is not just a typical boring writing class - I found the material to be easy to write about because it was so fascinating to ponder the questions posed by Professor Lamberth.
Don't be fooled by the course description.  This course is not all about racism and sexism in Disney, and deals with much more dense material.
Jonah is cool but there is a lot of work for this class, but if you like Shakespeare you should take it. Just beware that it can cause expos to be a much bigger burden than it seems like it would be.
great preceptor who is enthusiastic and cares a lot about the students, great readings; some assignments seem forced, but that's probably just Expos
Expository is a well structured class designed to help hone ones writing skills and think deeply about their subject matter
For the love of God, stay far away from Women Writers of the World. This class totally ruined my semester because it was so awful. It was a complete waste of my time. Sri is the most passive-aggressive woman I have ever met in addition to being the most unoriginal teacher I have ever had the misfortune to come across. If you enjoy using the word "feminine," this class is not for you.
That there is a lot of reading and writing that will come out of the blue and so it is helpful to look ahead at the syllabus and try and do things ahead of time.
Great course especially for expos. Light workload so balances well with other course assignments you have to deal with. Sometimes material becomes repetitive. It is also sometimes without depth but that's more a field hazard than the course being not well prepared
To actually do all the work in this class would take a very long time.  That being said, it's not entirely necessary, and taking this class will guarantee that you're working with a professor who will genuinely care about the work that you produce.
Dr. Wandler is so helpful if you take the time to get help!
This is a really fun class. Take it and have fun with expos.
It's a fun way to fulfill the otherwise tedious requirement of expos!
Difficult grader but good class
I was really interested in the course material from the beginning which helped me enjoy the course a lot. It is a great introduction to Impressionism as a movement and the artists themselves. It is also a great way to get introduced to the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, since it's necessary to take several trips there during the semester. Overall, a very enjoyable Expos class.
You have to take Expos so your choice of section is extremely important.  Professor Herron is probably the most awesome preceptor out there.  I actually enjoyed Expos (yeah crazy huh?).  Anyways, the topics were really interesting, the third unit especially.  I mean I htink it was the first time I actually wanted to write a paper (i ditched my math pset to write my expos essay lol)
Take this course if you are interested in the meaning of race in society. He also gives good feedback.
Awesome class! Great readings. The Whitman poem is boring if you don't do poetry, but Sarah will help you prepare for it, so you need not worry. Don't be fooled by the description of the course, you won't get to watch all those movies. You can on your own time, and then you will ultimately write on one of them.
While she was really effective when it came to essay review and theory discussion (10! on that), the preceptor was passive aggressive and often left me feeling offended and hurt on a personal level after interactions.  The course itself was great, the preceptor was great, but the completely unnecessary emotional weight that comes with this class would push me to say "no, don't take this Expos section unless you have really thick skin."
You feel great accomplishment and satisfaction from completely these essays and growing as a writer.
The books are great--and the preceptor is hilarious. I really felt (even though we only read three books) that the materials gave me new insight.
This section is a lot more work than others. You're going to on average have about two hours more than other sections. Know also that you will often discuss writing (punctuation, transitions, etc.) instead of discussing content of course readings.
Some of the readings are really interesting, and the philosophical discussions can be thought provoking.  However, the atmosphere is somewhat competitive, which I would not say about most other Harvard classes---and it doesn't feel like you're in the class to learn subject matter.  Rather, you're learning how to write papers.
This class is fairly interesting and manageable, particularly for an Expos 20 class.
Take care to find out as much as you can about the preceptor. The preceptor can make all the difference, can be mean or nice, can make class time enjoyable or miserable, and really defines the class. This should take priority over the actual topic of the section.
The preceptor of the class is really nice, helpful, open-minded, and supportive. It is a great chance to learn more about the pop culture of the 60's. Even though this wasn't my first Expos choice and I felt my writing didn't quite improve as much as I had wanted, but all in all, I enjoyed my experience.
Interesting, engaging, very difficult.  Don't expect to do well in the class.
This class takes a god amount of work but the understanding of yourself and what it means to be somebody is much better
You should absolutely take this expos course.  Expos is required, but you might as well enjoy it, and you will definitely enjoy it if you take it with Jeff Cordell.  He makes class entertaining, isn't too picky about writing styles (you don't have to figure out how to write to please him), and teaches writing well.  I'm sad that this class is ending now.
Jonah is a fantastic preceptor for expos. He loves to teach and helping students to learn is his #1 priority
Zachary is awesome, and the class is never dull. Put this as your top choice for Expos. You won't regret it.
This class is not the best. My essay writing ultimately did improve but I felt like I could have learned sooo much more. Class was generally a waste of time. Although the poetry that we read was interesting, and it was cool to analyze the poems in-depth for the essays, disappointingly little of class time was spent on analyzing them. Overall, this class has the potential to be really worthwhile and interesting. Teresa's section, however, was generally disorganized with lots of busy work.
You don't necessarily have to love Shakespeare to take this course, but it probably helps.
Dr mume does a great job of helping ypu make your ideas down on paper in an orderly fashion.
liz is a great teacher, and modern cities in crisis is the expos class to take. you watch the wire, come on
Take this one. I'm not a fan of the Expos program overall, but this is one of the best sections. Great material to work with, prompts that you can actually write about, and a very kind and helpful preceptor in Tad Davies.
Dr. Volpe is extremely understanding and easy-going. I found the subject of the class really interesting and we all had fun during our discussions.
This class is difficult but very rewarding.
The class is mandatory, but just make sure you pick one that delves into a topic you would enjoy.
expos is awful. absolutely terrible. horrendous, even. we spent 95% of class discussing texts and doing literary criticism and 5% learning how to write. how that is supposed to accomplish the goals of the program is simply beyond my comprehension. that being said, this section was a good way to get through the unbearable requirement that is expos. the preceptor is very clear and helpful when it comes to writing papers, and you can do well if you just listen to him.
It is interesting, challenging, and rewarding.
Definitely interesting. I personally could have benefitted from less reading though. I am not a humanity person.
The preceptor is great but the class itself can get kind of boring
The class is very interesting, but very difficult.
This class was extremely difficult. I chose this expos because I am involved with theater at Harvard and the reading seemed interesting. And as expected, I loved the reading. However, I was not prepared for the difficulty of the class and did not appreciate that I seemed to work significantly harder than my friends in other expos classes. I am a science concentrator and found myself struggling to complete assignments to the quality Ken required. I would have been better off in a science-focused expos and would have learned writing skills more applicable to my future career.
Professor Lamberth is fantastic. She is incredibly accessible and actually cares about each person's work and participation. The material is very interesting - definitely take it if you're interested in philosophy or literature.
A lot of people groan at the thought of Expos, but I actually really enjoyed Gothic Fiction. It was a bit of a lit course since we got to read a lot of literature, which I liked because I wouldn't have been pleased with a course only about writing. The essays do get harder to write as time passes, especially the last one because Poe can be a bit tricky, but I thoroughly enjoyed this class.
This was my favorite class all year - I highly recommend it and recommend that you approach it with an open attitude.
This class is awesome! Jeff is a great preceptor who very enthusiastic about his course, and is very helpful in improving your writing.
This class was great. We had very little in terms of readings, and they were all very interesting (in my opinion). Dr. Wandler is a great preceptor and really spends time talking about how to write, which I hear is not the case with some other Expos sections.
Speak up in class.
Best expos class ever.
Whether you love or hate writing, this class will provide some knowledge to you about the writing process and how to effectively write a paper at Harvard.
it was very fun if you're interested in this kind of subject
Make sure you have essay writing days free. Depending on your section, you may also have a lot of reading. However, if you have Art of Persuasion, you will have a wonderful preceptor, very interesting sections, and minimal reading until Uncle Tom's Cabin. You will love your preceptor and hate essay writing by the end of this course.
It's Expos. You have to take it.  Since you do, I think this is the way to go. The preceptor makes the class fun and interesting. He's extremely reasonable, and actually cares about you and whether you learn the material. The material is interesting if you like Shakespeare at all, and even if you've read the texts, you'll find new ways to look at the plays.
Since you are required to take an Expos class, this might as well be the one.  The preceptor, Damon, takes a very reasonable stance concerning how the course should be run: that it should be secondary to your other courses, and that it should be more about the presentation of an argument than about writing style or talent.  There are some very good readings in the course, and the ones that you will need for your essays tend to be numbered among these.  Damon's comments can sometimes be skimpy and not so useful, but if you are reasonably confident in your writing already and you want an Expos section that does not assume the opposite, this is a pretty good choice.
This is an interesting class with a great professor. Your writing will improve dramatically.
This class is really great not only for poetry enthusiasts.  Zachary is a really great preceptor who really cares about the class and each individual's progress.
you should definitely be prepared to put in the effort.
While you will have to work hard, the material is engaging and the preceptor provokes great discussions through study questions.
Beware of lots of homework.
If you're going to take Expos, you might as well take a class that has interesting readings and a good preceptor. This is one of those classes. As long as you're competent in literary analysis, you won't find this class particularly difficult.
If you're interested in examining cultural and artistic icons from the 1960-70s then I would recommend this course, however it is definitely not historically based (so it doesn't discuss the political/historical background of the era, but instead focuses on the art and the artists)
Very helpful in improving your writing.
The writing assignments aren't too bad, but be wary of the documentary film essay which may come at the end. It's hard to analyze film.
This expository writing section is very helpful to take if you prefer a lighter work load, but it does require a greater amount of effort in papers, as they seem to be graded more strictly.
Expos is a class you have to take which already makes it unappealing so chose a section that inspires you or gets you interested.
Probably one of the best expos classes, if you're at all interested in theater. Great and experienced professor who also happens to be a wonderful playwright himself, you would be lucky to get to take this class. Super interesting and engaging readings that will likely stick with you for a long while.
its relatively interesting and lively in section, but the assignments leave you puzzled
Professor Kaag is great.  The material is really interesting and you are given a lot of freedom on assignments.  As Expos classes go, this is about as good as you can get.
Damon is very cool and very sympathetic. Readings, listenings, and discussions were interesting, and the workload was reasonable.
Light on readings, and readings could easily be skipped.  An interest in art is (obviously) required to take this course.
This class was fantastic. It enabled me to improve my own style of writing rather than fitting it into a particular mold, while I got to watch a TV show and do a lot of interesting reading.
The reading is very light and there is not much of a workload, until the essay deadline... Dr. Chen expects you to write very precise and in depth papers without excess verbosity. You will be required to work VERY hard to get an A, but not that much work for lower grades. Basically, you get short reading, but you really have to analyze them.
You have to take it.
I honestly believe that expos with Zachary is one of the best expos classes out there. In terms of effectiveness, Zachary does an amazing job in helping us develop our writing skills, find our independence as writers, and learn how to transfer these abilities to other classes. He also knows how to balance "teaching" and "discussion," that is, class feels more like he's guiding us towards more effective writing, not shoving it on us; and because he does that so well, we really internalize how to write. Besides that, the class is just really interesting and engaging. I'm not a humanities concentrator, but this was the best course I had this semester, and I'll sorely, sorely miss it.
This class is a historical view of AIDS, and it does not examine current infection rates of the disease - often people who are marginalized.
Be prepared for an exorbitant amount of philosophy readings.
I would say that you do learn a lot about writing from Mystery of Identity the preceptor is a great person and the material is very interesting and intriguing.  However, for those with more limited experience it may be tougher to get a better grade in this section compared to others.
It is interesting to explore the Bronte novels in relation to the Victorian Era, and the course is so helpful in developing you as a writer with the response papers, rough drafts and conferences.
Larry is the greatest. He makes the class bearable.
Interesting class. Readings can be a little boring but are better than most expos. Engaging class conversations are a plus.
Have a lot of discussions with your TF about your essay ideas.
Expos is a class you have to take but I didn't enjoy the topics as everything was rather feministic which is not my passion and class discussion was not engaging
It was so refreshing to take an Expos class that had absolutely nothing to do with my major! The workload of the class fit nicely in my schedule. I didn't feel overwhelmed by readings, which made me want to do my best on essays.
This course is really interesting in learning a completely different aspect of HIV/AIDS. Before, I had a view of HIV/AIDS in terms of numbers and science, but this class broadened my view of the disease. The class itself has helped me condense my writing and make it clearer through the draft process. However, don't expect to get very good feedback. You will most likely write your next paper without knowing how you did on the first one, which admittedly is extremely frustrating.
This is a great class with well chosen material and subject matters. Very interesting if you like sports and the culture of sports
Take this Expos class! It is fantastic! Tad Davies is a great man. He is very bright and will be able to provide meaningful feedback. Expos seems like it will be a drag, but it is actually worthwhile with this fine chap.
Dr. Shelton is amazing and gives back very constructive feedback and criticism. However, the essays are challenging and require a lot of original thinking. Many of the topics you will end up writing about will be very complex .
low workload.  Not an easy grader though.  Pretty easy to get a B+ on papers.
While the teacher was obviously competent and passionate about the subject, the course subject did not particularly interest me.
It's an interesting class but know that it focuses on gays and lesbians.
I truly enjoyed the readings for this course and liked the general expos program. It helped me to become a better writer.
Expos is unfortunately expos - although there is some useful information hidden in the course, you have to suffer through some boring sections and awful essays before you reach any conclusion.
For Expos, this section was fair, and probably a good way to go. The amount of work required was low, and the assignments were broad so you could generally find a topic to talk about. I'm glad this was my Expos section over others.
Andrea Volpe is GREAT
If you are interested in the subject take this course, if not then you might not find the material a great motivating factor to do extensive research. Dr. De Young is a great preceptor and will help your writing.
Tales of murder is an interesting section of Expos, the readings are all very interesting and Emily does a great job of promoting discussion and giving feedback.
Do not expect this to be a class all about music. Damon is great but the materials themselves are not all that interesting/stimulating.
I would tell them that since it is mandatory that they take Expository Writing, they might as well take an interesting and fun one, and this one is it. The TF William Weitzel does a great job teaching this course and makes it interesting compared to the other Expos genres I have heard about.
Very interesting, gives you a new perspective on dating and social life
It depends on what section you get but you will never have Larry again. He was the DUDE...know what I'm sayin? Larry chose a great topic (nothing in expos is ever touching "life after the apocalypse") and taught me how to argue the "so what?" of a thesis so well that it translated into other papers. Plus my dude Larry even hooked me up with Fallout 3...AND he's a PS3 fanboy just like me. Good man, better teacher.
It is a really good class with an interesting topic. Each class centers on discussing questions brought up by an article you read for homework. It is really fun to test your logic skills and explore others' viewpoints.
I think that this Expos section is great. I improved my writing tremendously through this course and was able to do it on a topic that I am interested in. The readings were intriguing and the units were interesting. However, I don't think this course is for everyone. An interest in politics and government would make the course much more interesting for anyone who wants to take it.
There is a lot of reading and the grading is very very hard. Otherwise, the material is quite interesting, particularly the unit on portraits of Victoria and Prince Albert
This is an extremely engaging and rewarding expos class.
It's pretty much a waste of time if you already know how to write, might be helpful if you don't, is a pain in the neck in either case, and is required. Love and Power in Shakespeare is, however, excellent, though since Jeff Cordell is leaving it doesn't really matter.
Wonderful texts, engaging insightful instructor, great comments on papers
The teacher was so great. The topic was interesting and Professor Volpe made it even better. A really enjoyable expos course.
The class doesn't focus a tremendous amount on writing as a general subject, but Dr. De Young's commentary is nevertheless very enlightening. If you have any interest in art historical writing, this is a good course for you.
As far as expos classes go, this one is a good one if you really want to learn how to write well analytically.
If you are at all interested in linguistics or the human thought process, take this class! Jim is a great preceptor, it's a fascinating subject, and the readings and papers can actually be a lot of fun. I went into this class after hearing the usual Expos horror stories, but my experience was just the opposite. I cannot overstate how strongly I encourage you to take this class.
Expos itself is painful, but I think this class in particular is good. She seems to be a harsh grader and won't tell you exactly what she's looking for directly (so that part may be a little hard), but I think you learn in a well-structured fashion.
Be prepared to think, draft, revise, scrap, and start all over again.
They should put in a lot of time into the revisions and change their papers a   lot.
If you're dreading expos, sign up for this section. The material is captivating, and the revelations you'll make through the writing of your essays are truly enlightening. Tales of Murder is by far one of the best expos sections available and was my favorite class this semester.
This class is fantastic both as an expos class and as a class on contemporary theatre. Prof. Urban will get you to improve your writing, and though this may mean quite a bit of stress and time spent staring at a computer screen in a library basement, it is an undoubtedly rewarding process. The plays you will read in this class are difficult:  there's no way of avoiding that. They require multiple rereads and a fair amount of context (which Prof. Urban will provide) before they are very meaningful. However, once you've read these plays, you've grappled with some tough stuff, so this class gives you the tools to read other plays more critically. From what I've gained from my peers, this is one of the best expos courses, that is, if you're looking for a course that will improve your writing through hard work and quite a formidable time commitment.
if you like neruda and reading poems for fun might as well join this one
If you like to write, you'll be okay. If you aren't in to philosophy, then I would not take it.
This class is a pleasant way to fill an Expos requirement.  The subject matter is interesting and enjoyable.
This is a great expos class
Make sure that you choose an Expos 20 topic that really interests you.
You have to work, but you will get a lot out of this course.
A jump start into the world of sociology.
Prior to enrolling in Expos, I had heard all kinds of nightmares about the class, the workload, and the unfairness of preceptors.  Not only was this class enjoyable as far as expos goes, but was also my favorite class of the semester.
Andrea gives you a lot of personal attention and really cares about improving your writing.  It's also very intellectually interesting, if you want to think about art in a deep way.
You should definitely have an interest in theatre to take this course.  The plays are a good but if you don't enjoy plays in general you probably won't enjoy this course.
Be prepared to put in a ton of work and not necessarily get the grade you were looking for.
I would tell future students that this class is great. Cameron is a great TF and to take advantage of the opportunity to write and revise drafts because the better your draft is, the better your final paper will be.
It is that bad.
Perfect for science concentrators wishing to explore the underlying ethics of human experimentation.
Weitzel is really fun, he wants you to do well and he makes the class interesting. Essay assignments are interesting. This Expos is more chill than most of the other ones I've heard about.
Best.  Expos.  Ever.
This is probably one of the most painless expos sections. I really enjoyed the course material we had to read and Dr. Mumme is very approachable and nice in guiding you in your writing.
It really helped me grow as a writing, albeit in a painful process.
The final unit is fun, but in general it's a lot more boring that it sounds.
Zachary is the best of the best.  He provides invaluable advice, comments, and support.  You will come out with a better knowledge about writing.  Take this class even if you are not crazy about poetry - it's not about the poetry, it's about how to write.
I think that if you are already well versed in theater this class might come across as review. The discussion is interesting but the material can be
If you're not interested in the subject or don't like the Brontes, you probably won't be very happy in this class. If you do love the Brontes, be prepared for the class to be not so much about the literature as it is about the analysis and the writing - but that is the same with all expos classes, and it makes sense. Tess O'Toole has a generally pretty businesslike approach to the class, but if you don't take it personally you will find her incredibly helpful and knowledgeable. She is also always prepared, efficient, and has an excellent response rate. She does have fairly high standards for grading. You will get out of the course what you put into it.
You read great books and the topic of immigration is an interesting one. Michelle is really nice and will help you improve your writing.
If you don't like to read but like to talk, you should take this class.
Approach this class cautiously and with the understanding that no matter how well you've done in writing for other disciplines, Harvard classes, or in high school, you won't do that well in Expos. This class is tolerable if you do the readings and participate in class (actually, you'll learn quite a lot about the Impressionists and their social context - some very interesting material, and Dr. De Young is very knowledgeable about the subject.) However, be prepared for ambiguous feedback and arbitrary grading. This class is interesting if you have no background in art history or French, but those with prior backgrounds have an inherent advantage
This class was really helpful and really interesting. The preceptor is amazing. He was a little slow in getting papers back to students, but his feedback is extremely helpful, and he helped to improve my writing SOO MUCH. You will become a better writer by taking this class.
The course is definitely not easy but you do learn to become a better writer.
It's a good class that definitely helped my writing skills but the section was not especially useful.
There is minimal reading, and the topic is very interesting, which leads to great class discussions
Prepare to THINK
Its not as bad as other students say.
This section was very good as far as expos goes. The paper topics were very broad, so you could choose to write about a topic that interests you. The sections where we visited the art museum and houghton library were very interesting as well.
Expos is required - American Sports culture is highly reccomended if you have an interest in sports/history
Michael is a good preceptor and the readings are very interesting.  He is very friendly and flexible, so he is willing to work with you to help you succeed.
Make sure you like Gothic fiction before you take this class.  If you do, then this is the ideal class for you, because you get to immerse yourself in all things Gothic.  If not, I'm not sure how much you would enjoy this expos class.
A wonderful class. Ken Urban is great.
Great expos class -- it felt less like a writing class than a philosophy course.
the preceptor is really nice and helpful.
This class is both interesting inside and outside the classroom and visiting the Art Museum was a great experience.
In terms of how much this course helped me improve my writing, I could not imagine a better section. However, if you do not like poetry, cannot spare 2-3 hours on some assignments, and expect easy grading, don't take this class. Otherwise, I recommend it with great enthusiasm!
It's probably one of the better choices to fulfill the requirement for the necessary evil of Expos 20.
This was an amazing class despite the horror stories you hear about Expos. It was actually one class I enjoyed going to. The discussions were interesting and the class helped you prepare to write essays very well.
Michele and Pat were both very nice and supportive and the readings we had to do for this class were really interesting and not too long. I enjoyed Expos a lot more than I expected to, and the papers were pretty intuitive to write. All in all, definitely one of the best Expos options out there!
Expos is regularly complained about but this class with Elizabeth Greenspan is very enjoyable.
If you have a choice, don't take Expos.  Writing so many papers sucks.If you have to take Expos, take Contemporary Theatre.  The material is very interesting, Ken Urban is a character, and you shouldn't run out of things to say.
Make sure you know how to choose a thesis. In high school, theses and topics are generally handed to you. In this course, it is completely open. And if your preceptor is not very clear about what is expected, make sure you ask so you know for sure what is expected.
fairly painless way to complete expos
I would tell students that if they are interested in Shakespeare, this course will make their expository writing experience very worthwhile.
Don't sign up for this section unless you have a genuine interest in sports and sports culture.
Its an interesting overview of how government is perceived in America, and gives an introduction to writing for the humanities.
This class really taught me how to write a social science paper. If you are interested in the social sciences this is definitely the class for you.
As far as Expos goes, this is probably one of the best. Sure, you watch the Wire in others, but Andrea is a fantastic teacher. If you're a fan of photography, take it.
It is very helpful in improving writing and acclimating to the college-level of writing and analyzing different pieces.
I thought the class was very good. The readings were very interesting and engaging, and I thought the preceptor was very helpful in her suggestions for improvements. I really enjoyed the class discussions, and I would enthusiastically recommend this class for future students.
Only take this class if you have a strong interest in Shakespeare.
YOu have to take it.
Great for if you're majoring in the sciences
This is a wonderful class!  I know the title may be deceiving, but ordinary is by now means synonymous for boring.  The texts are incredibly diverse and stimulating, and Dr. Wandler is a wonderful preceptor to guide you through the process.  I am so happy I wound up taking his class.
Expos, though difficult and challenging at times, has certainly made me a stronger writer
I personally would enthusiastically recommend my section - Diversity, however, when telling this to future students, I will warn them about the arbitrary and unfair sectioning system that the University uses to assign students their Expository Writing section and let them know that their own experience might be the polar opposite of mine. My experience is good, but just by looking at the topics that the other sections covered, I can definitely tell that there are other sections would seriously not recommend. Again, Expos 20 is a class whose sections cover a wide spectrum of topics and I honestly believe that a way for students to gain more out of their mandatory Expos experience would be by allowing them to have control over what section they will be in - improving the chances that everyone will get to take Expos on a topic that they like and truly enjoy.
It's not that bad, unless you suck at writing.
Most students complain about their Expos sections, but I absolutely loved this course. The material was interesting and engaging, and Jeff was an amazing preceptor. He kept section interesting and enticing, and provided careful and thoughtful feedback in an encouraging manner in order to improve our writing skills. I recommend this course without reservation. If you know you would hate reading Shakespeare, you may want to reconsider.
Mystery of Identity is fun!
This should be everyone's first choice for Expos.  Jane is fantastic, the readings are super-interesting and not too heavy, and you will tangibly improve your writing by the end!
Requirement.. but this course helped me progress as a writer
Zachary is an extremely fun and engaging preceptor. He also set a mood in which we could have fun and make friends in the class. It is a lot of work, but you will learn to write better.
Kaag is a GREAT teacher and is tremendously enthusiastic about the material, and the enthusiasm rubs off on the students. You DEFINITELY want to take his section.
As with any experience, you get what you take out of it.  I didn't particularly enjoy the topics discussed in this section, but maybe you will.  Also, although I didn't really like the readings, writing about "self-discovery" actually helped me reflect on everyday life.
This is a fantastic section to take since you have to take Expos.  It was really interesting for everyone, including people who love music and those who don't have much knowledge in it.
It's not that bad!
As far as Expos classes go, this one has comparatively little reading and gives you lots of time to work on papers. The readings are okay, but nothing that enlightened me about contemporary immigration in America.  Also, Syba really knows her stuff yet she is patient with those who don't.
This class is wonderful. Prof. Volpe is a sweetheart and really guides you. Writing about photography seems a bit strange but when you are guided and supported, you see your writing blossom underneath it. I am so glad I took Reading Photographs, despite the occasional frustrations.
The class has far less busy-work than other classes do, but the essays are longer.
I would imagine all expository writing classes share this feature, but the important component of the class was the writing involved, not the subject matter which the title suggests. Therefore, the students signing up for Expos would be well advised not to give too much consideration to the subject matter of the various courses offered.
Expos is a necessary evil that everyone must undergo, but Andrea is probably the best preceptor out there. She's so helpful and will drop everything to work with you and make sure you leave the course a better writer.
I wasn't expecting to enjoy expos, but Professor Cordell is a great teacher.
be ready for your writing skills to be pushed to the limits
this course is heavily based on psychology. It has got nothing to do with bio-engineering of genes and all.
read the articles carefully, be ready to stretch your mind
This class was a great transition from high school analysis papers to college level research analysis papers.  It taught me a lot about primary and secondary sources and different forms of argument.  I feel like it has prepared me well for future writing assignments in other classes.
To really take the drafts as opportunities to explore your subject. Don't worry so much about what the end result is going to look like.
To fulfill the requirement, this class is a good pick. Larry is funny and extremely helpful with his feedback. The texts are somewhat hit-and-miss but discussions are usually interesting.
A lot of reading but the course is very interesting and the preceptor is awesome.
Be prepared to work very hard.
Emily Shelton is a very good preceptor who gives good feedback, and I really believes that she likes the material and cares about the students.  However, don't be mislead by the title--generally speaking, I found the course painfully boring at worst and very mildly interesting at best.  We spent the course looking for some kind of deeper meaning or commentary in poems and stories wherein, I earnestly believe, one simply does not exist (for the most part, in any case).  Furthermore, the grading is tougher than in other expos sections.  If you really love literary criticism and interpretation, and plan on concentrating in a related field, I would recommend this course.  If not, I would advise against.  I'm in the latter camp and it was a difficult and generally uninteresting course for me.
Be ready to think really deeply about EXTREMELY complicated issues
It's slightly more work than most expos classes, because you read three books instead of watching movies or reading poems. However, the books are interesting and easy to write about, and I'm glad I read them. In addition to being more work, Christina McCarrol is a tough grader- way to tough for a required class. She gives you a lot of good feedback, but she expects you to be more prepared and together than she is.
A nice introduction to contemporary theater. Covers six diverse playwrights; lots of fun to be had with Ken Urban. However, this is not an English department class, so don't expect the level of depth you'd get in a seminar. This class is more focused on basic comprehension and writing skills.
There really aren't that many readings
Expos isn't as bad as everyone says. The truth is that it does require a good amount of work if you want a good outcome, but the way it is structured helps students grow in their writing skills.
I recommend this course with enthusiasm! Not that you have a choice with Expos, suckers! But for Expos, I think this is one of the better sections you could get (obviously no experience with other sections, just from what I hear). Of course, don't sign up if you absolutely dread the topic. If you like this stuff, it will be fine. Even the parts where you have to write stuff are tolerable.On the other hand, I heard Harvard paid for the Fall sections to all go see 2012. We (Spring) didn't get any of that. THIS IS INJUSTICE.
If you enjoy philosophy with a modern twist, take this course.
Emily is a great teacher and your writing will improve significantly in this class.
Diversity was an excellent section. It was challenging and it took time, but it improved my writing a lot, and the course material was very interesting. Most of my friends hated expos, but I really enjoyed this class.
Highly recommended for anyone that's interested in American philosophy or a critical examination of American exceptionalism. Well-taught overall but the topic may not appeal to everyone.
I feel I spent a lot of the writing process trying to figure out what my preceptor wanted to read, without much help from her on the process.
The course can be a bit dry, and the first essay is very difficult to write because it is quite abstract and hard to wrap one's head around.
if you work hard o essays you will enjoy it.
This is a great Expos class, but it is definitely a lot of work. Even though the reading load is relatively light, there are writing assignments due for nearly every section. However, the pre-draft assignments are helpful in preparing to write the papers, and by the time I needed to write a draft, I generally felt comfortable with the layout of my arguments and ideas. Teresa's comments on papers are very helpful and thorough, and the writing assignments are generally interesting and rewarding. If you enjoy analyzing poetry, take this class.
This actually ended up being one of my favorite classes. The subject material makes expos truly enjoyable. It's an extremely scientific class, so you won't be analyzing passages; rather you'll be sifting through scientific papers to find evidence to support your writing. If you want to improve your science writing skills, this class is great. At times, the combination of science and expos was confusing, because the class is still trying to fit the expos mold, and I don't know if it really works for this subject matter. Regardless, a really cool class and teacher.
The most important thing about your Expos class is that you like the material. If you like fiction, you will most likely like this material. The readings aren't all that long (except for the novel in the third unit). Literature can also be easier to write about than ethical issues.
difficult if you don't have a strong writing background. interesting material
The Art of Persuasion is a wonderful section.  Sigrid gives you a lot of flexibility regarding what you can write about, which allows you to play up your strengths.  She also gives great feedback, helping you to identify problem areas in your writing while pushing you to come up with your own solutions.  You'll come away being a much better critic of your own writing.
Take it if you plan on being a science concentrator.
One of the best expos classes available.
The readings and films we watch are definitely more interesting than the ones that other expos have to read. However, I can't say that the assignments and the class itself help with your writing or analytical reasoning skills. Grading seems arbitrary.
Straightforward writing about concrete ethical issues.
You read novels in a matter of two weeks!
Unless you are into literature and all, you will hate this class. Be prepared to work on your own with very little help from your preceptor. From my experience, you'll mostly rely on your peers and yourself.
The materials are very interesting and the teacher is a really nice guy.
An awesome opportunity to work one on one with the teacher and students.
Keep up with all of the reading.
Honestly since you have to take expos you need to make the best of it. So instead of sit here and say what many other students say about how they dislike expos, I would just like to say that you need to take it, and this particular expos is a great one to take.
Well.. it's expos. What can you say?
This is the best expos course. I am a humanities person, and delving into scientific material only expanded my ability to write analytically. Also, the subject is fascinating and is something you'll take with you forever.
This course was highly unenjoyable. The preceptor was nice enough, but extremely condescending and has a very specific writing style. If you take this course, be prepared to go back to single sentence theses and simple structure while still analyzing at college level.
This is a class that requires work, but in the end, it really teaches you how to write an art history paper and it will be highly worth your time and effort.
You will learn A LOT in this class, and I don't regret choosing it. Sri honors hard work with very fair grading and gives INCREDIBLY detailed, helpful feedback. I'm sure other preceptors do not spend so much time on our papers. She's an excellent writer and thinker. The readings were not really what I expected, but it's not too much and the writing assignments are usually a page or two shorter than the other classes. However, as a preceptor, Sri can be difficult to interact with, because she can come across as condescending. The class dynamic, as a result, is pretty negative. Sign up for this if you want to learn a lot and get great feedback (and are interested in the topic, definitely), and if you're willing to deal with some unpleasantness in class. Although people complain about it, you will benefit from it a lot in the future. The writing skills you learn are helpful for all types of writing.
Nice. Have fun.
It's generally as annoying as everyone says it is.
Jane is an AMAZING Preceptor. Expos often has a bad reputation but Jane's class is the exception. You will love her and she will love you! Her enthusiasm is infections and will keep you on your toes!
This class is very interesting, though not necessarily the easiest way to meet the expository writing requirement.  Writing about tragedy is at times very frustrating, and thus the writing assignments are quite challenging. If one does not have an appreciation for classic tragedies by Sophocles, Shakespeare and Euripides, it may be difficult to fully engage in the course.
Do your best to make sure that you can get into Jane's expository writing class. Even if you're already a high-level writer, you'll be able to learn a terrifying amount from her.
It's more interesting than most Expos classes I've heard about.
Cities and Globalization is a good Expos section to choose. I did not regret this decision.
this is the best expos class available.
It's an eye-opening experience for me. Definitely a good option if you're interested in the subject in general.
It's enjoyable, manageable and well-taught
My expos class nearly unanimously approved of it retrospectively and during the course. That's way more than can be said for the majority f expos classes in the program
Before taking this course, make sure you enjoy learning theory or it will be miserable.
Read the reading and start EVERYTHING early.
I only wish Storytelling would still be available for you to take. You really missed out.
As an international student, I found that this class not only helped me get much better at academic writing, but also taught me a lot about modern art, making expository writing engaging and interesting -despite its bad reputation among freshmen...
If you can keep your mind open to what's being said and what is being taught, this section can really help your writing.
The preceptor is very funny and a great man.  In terms of the course itself, it is very interesting and engaging.  Although he is very helpful, he has high expectations for your writing and it is a struggle to meet those expectations.
It is very literary based, but still a worthwhile and enjoyable class
Approach this class with an open mind and with no reservations.
Take it!!!
Don't be afraid of expos!  Contrary to everything I had predicted, expos was one of the best experiences of my freshman year.
Take this expos section if you're at all interested in America. The subject matter is interesting and the preceptor is fantastic.
It's not meant to be fun.
Don't expect good grades, just put your head down and do the work and you'll get through it. Yes Expos is terrible, but at least you get to read Shakespeare.
This class met and exceeded my expectations. I learned a great deal about globalization and global cities, and my writing significantly improved in the process.
If you have the opportunity, you should meet with/be in contact with your preceptor as much as possible during the process of writing your essay.
The class covers Shakespeare well.
Ultimately this class was not very helpful for my writing or confidence about my writing, let alone my transcript.  William is a very supportive preceptor, and I'm sure he'll soon become a great writing teacher, but this year Expos was not a very good experience for me.
Be sure to choose a section you're relatively interested in and talk to upperclassmen about who the god preceptors are. The preceptor makes all the difference.
Don't screw around on the first paper. Make sure that you  meet with the professor at least once or twice if you don't know what you're doing. It's all about a format and your preceptor can help you find that.
The reading and teacher are really wonderful, and if you luck out with the classmates like I did, it's really a good time.
If you are more into math and science (like myself) perhaps this isn't the right course for you.  I took it because I wanted to take something I've never really looked into before but I found myself at a disadvantage to many of the other students in the course.
Choose a subject which interests you for section and you'll enjoy the class.
The readings were very interesting, especially for a possible economics major.
You have to be interested in Russian literature, not essay writing.
Jill ROCKS!!!!!!!!!
I love Kate!
Take the course seriously, and take advantage of the chance to focus on writing, because other papers at Harvard won't give you feedback on the writing process.  Pick a section that interests you, though - it was clear that some people in my section didn't care about the topic, which not only must have made it hard to engage themselves, but brought the rest of the section down, too.
Wonderful insights into the debate on wilderness and arms you with the foundational ideas that govern this complicated. It allows you to dive into the wilderness debate in an educated, inspired and personal manner.
get siked!
The class environment was very supportive, but we also were able to have serious discussions and disagree with one another.  Speaking with Andrea and the other students taught me to think in new ways.
Specifically to my section--our preceptor is an amazing person who truly cares about her students, and this makes all the difference when trying to improve writing skills. She makes you care about improving your abilities rather than only caring about the grade.
The Culture of the Market is very interesting of you are interested in economics. If you aren't, it will probably seem dense and confusing.
This class will make you think much more deeply and often more critically of all writing you read and to engage in the texts in new ways.  It helps you think about the writing differently and to draw out interesting meanings and connections.
It takes a lot of time, but hopefully you'll learn a lot from the class.
This is the best Expos you can take! You'll really value learning how to write about a discipline other than literature.
If you're at all interested in theater, you should take this class.
It's stupid, to be frank.
It may seem to be a pain in the but at first, and it may remain a pain in the but when taking it, but in the end, it's worth it.
This class really improves your writing. Getting to meet the authors and learning and observing how they manipulate and control language and direct the audience with mastery is inspiring. The discussion in class, the peer-editing, and the one-on-one conferences with Preceptor Unrue have been instrumental in my development as a better writer.
Great teacher. interesting course.
This is an easy and mostly fun way to fulfil the expos requirement.
interesting stuff, but difficult paper topics
The preceptor of the class, Marlon Kuzmick is fantastic! His passion for the subject content and material is infectious, and he makes it a point to personally attend to every student's needs despite their varying levels of performance
I would take this course (Contemporary Theater) even if it weren't Expos 20.  Not only were the texts really interesting and provocative, but my writing was constantly challenged.  I felt rejuvenated taking the course.
This class is difficult but it forces you to improve your writing style.
This course is an excellent opportunity to explore your interest in the law and teaches you more broadly how to think analytically.
Alot of students hate expos and whine and complain about their preceptors. I think you will find that in those kinds of conversations, you will be the kid awkwardly praising your preceptor and talking about how wonderful your expos section is. You will be envied.
fun
Since expos is required, I would recommend this section as it is interesting and well-taught, and therefore one of the least painful ways to fulfill the requirement.
Stay on top of the readings.
The instructor is so inspiring, kind, amazing, and helpful, and the subject is so much fun!
the class is pretty well taught, even though the subject-tragedy-is not particularly captivating, although this may vary from person to person; workload is decent, enough to make you feel like you're accomplishing something and learning, but not too much to keep you awake all the time
take it. andrea is INCREDIBLE. the preceptor matters more than the subject matter, but this course combines awesome aspects of both.
It's important to constantly reevaluate your writing and to improve.  I feel like this course definitely improves your writing and is important for people going into disciplines or careers where they will write a lot, which is pretty much every person at Harvard.
It's annoying, and it sucks while you are doing it, but it genuinely can help improve your writing (or at least get you adjusted to college writing)
Its not just Shakespeare, its love and power - the two definitions of human.
The course materials are very interesting and enjoyable and the assignments are manageable, but the actual sections can be stressful and the preceptor is intense.
I would highly recommend this class, but only if the material is interesting to you.
I found this course to be enthusiastically taught and exciting. I would definitely take it again.
I can't speak to other expos classes from personal experience, but based upon conversations I've had with other students I can say that this is definitely one of the best expos courses offered.  If you have any interest in the course material and have the opportunity to take this course, do it!
I would tell them to avoid this class if Weitzel is still teaching it.  He is a giant hypocrite and has too much of a legal approach to writing.  This compromises the essays of many good writers.
it is more abstract than other expos classes
I loved it! He's a great teacher who loves to teach and help his students improve.
You'll learn from it, but it's not that enjoyable.
While the workload in this class is fairly heavy, it is a particularly useful class to take because you will learn so much about the effects of globalization on the world today.  That said, the topic attracts an especially bright group of students, so the difficulty of the course is high.
amazing!
Start thinking about your topics early, and choose theses that truly interest you!
This Expos class is excellent!  Compared to other Expos classes, this one is not too much work, and the topic is very interesting.  Also, Licia is an excellent preceptor.
This course is best for those who have a creative side and are interested in writing a unique personal essay of their own instead of the typical research paper. Most of the readings are fun to read and introduce readers to a different voice and style.
An objectively engaging class.  Everyone has to take an expository writing class, at least make the experience enjoyable and take this one.
This class is good preparation for the writing you will have to do in the future.  My writing skills have developed considerably as a result of the course.  The writing may seem painful at times, but you will definitely grow in your capabilities.
Watch out! Expos is not necessarily designed for all good writers--some writers with an independent style of their own that they are not willing to drastically alter in order to meet Harvard Expository Writing standards might find the class tedious and difficult.
This is the best Expos section you could hope for.  It's still Expos, but it's great anyway.
This is an excellent class to test the waters not only for further writing but also helpful in deciding if  law is a good course of study.
Do not take it!! It just seems interesting but in reality it is really boring, and unless you are very interested in medicine it sucks!
Work hard, come prepared to class, revise thoroughly, fulfill the outside requirements and you will be rewarded.
This course makes you re-evaluate your opinions on race and our society's history.
I'm not really a fan of the whole Expos process- I have difficulty writing several drafts of one essay and strongly dislike being forced to do so. However, as Expos classes go, I think this is a fairly good one. You do have to have an interest in the general topic, but if you like Victorian Britain and/or the Brontes at all, it's a good class for you. And I think it's relatively well-taught. Good feedback.
I loved the material and the teacher. Should take it if you are interested in theater/other forms of fiction.
I think the class can be fun or not fun based on which expos teacher you get. Ben was great, I don't think I would have enjoyed the class half as much if it weren't for him.
While it may be painful at times, you will certainly be a better writer and the experience helps build your character.
This class will help you learn how to craft a good argument and revise it. However, it is a big time commitment, so if you don't feel like spending half your weekends this semester working on paper writing, I don't recommend it. Not that you have a choice.
Interesting reading. Makes you think.
This was a really fun, dynamic, and interesting class.
This course does not examine a clear topic. "Truth" is elusive and therefore the students grappled with development theses.
For an expos class, it's great - not an overload of reading, a great teacher, and open-ended writing assignments so you can really delve into whatever you are interested in.
This expos class was one of my favorite classes this year.
Go in with an open mind because the course can be really helpful and interesting if you allow it to be.
This course will greatly improve your writing!
The essays can be a bit rough, but the literature more than makes up for it. This is a course for students with any degree of exposure to Russian literature, but I recommend that everyone have exposure to the literature we cover.
Karen is an outstanding preceptor!
There are more rewarding ways to look at Shakespeare, but if you've never read the plays at least you won't walk away from the class without gaining some intellectual enrichment.  There are worse ways to fulfil the expos requirement.
Forget the subject matter of your section - it's completely irrelevant. Preceptors make or break expos sections; ask who the best preceptors were, and don't worry if the subject matter seems unappealing. I ended up in a subject I had no interest in taking, but had an amazing class because of my preceptor.
Great class to learn how to make an argument!
although the topic "murder" sounds scary and violent, what you write about is much deeper than about :murder".  You write about topics that relate to murder but can have much different meanings.
The class surprised me. Despite it being a mandatory class, I really enjoyed it and I think I've learnt a lot from it.
This course provides a good background into college writing and close reading texts and developing ideas for essays
The material is interesting and leaved the author with a lot of individual freedom in terms of writing style and focus.
A great topic that delves into some very interesting concepts and ideas - be open to pursuing them and adopting ideas into your own life.
To really enjoy and benefit from this class, you have to enjoy writing and analytical reading.  If you don't, this could be quite frustrating.
You have to be a good writer to do well in this class. Also, if you are interested in guided writing, this isn't the expos for you.This is a class that lets you develop your own style, so be prepared to work hard.
It's tiring.
The readings are very interesting and the discussions are extremely insightful and engaging.
This class really does help improve your writing.
Really challenging, no matter what
Be ready to work extremely hard.  The professor is not easily fooled by sub par work.  In other words, a student cannot bluff their way through an assignment.
Although the Expository Writing program aims, in general, to improve students' writing, I feel that it cannot significantly impact writing style in so short a time and with hopes of making such drastic changes.
This course is good if you have a fairly strong background for writing, but if you're looking for advice on how to greatly improve your writing, this course isn't for you. THe teacher gives general comments but it's unclear how best to improve. I felt the preceptor gave much flexibility on how your papers could be structured, but unless you had a good idea of how a good paper is structured, you were confused on how to proceed
zachary is a very sharp teacher who doesn't let you get away with anything in your writing. this is great because you know he puts a lot of time into your improvement. at the same time, i feel like the specific type of writing the class emphasizes (literary analysis without a thesis at the beginning) is not very helpful for most other classes
This class made me hate writing.
great fun and intellectually challenging - you learn a lot
I think that as far as EXPOS is concerned, Discourses of Love is one of the best ones you can take.
Choose a topic that you know you can argue about, even if you find it uninteresting.
I would highly encourage all my friends to take this course, under two conditions:1. You must be very interested in and passionate about theatre.2. Be prepared to not get an A.
you had better like writing if you want to have fun in this course.
Discussions do not enhance course material; draft and revision process is not an exciting time for self-evaluation, but rather a tedious chore in which your ultimate grade is based on how strictly you managed to follow your teacher's suggestions during the draft process. Have other changes you want to make? Don't try it, because you'll get slammed.
I think you either know how to write or you don't, and there's no way to teach that. Given that, then, I would choose an Expos class on a topic that you want to think about on your own and are interested in in and of itself. As someone interested in modern art, I was very pleased to read the manifestoes of famous artiss and the interpretations of art critics, so I benefitted from the class in ways other than the writing component.
if you like technology then this is the expos course for you.  Otherwise I'd be cautious
Take it if the topic interests you.
Andrea is a fabulous preceptor.  She is extremely helpful in the planning, execution, and editing stages.  She is also an incredibly interesting person with a lot to offer intellectually and personally.
pick different topics for your three essays, very different topics.  this class wasn't so bad but it's expos, don't have sky-high expectations.  that's a bit condemnatory.  what i mean is that it's required and luckily this class is interesting.
This class was definitely a lot better than I expected from Expos. From listening to others' experiences in Expos, I think this class is definitely one of the best.
Though the material was very interesting, and the course helped shed interesting light on it, it was far too fast paced to either thoroughly explore the literature, or to become an amazing writer. More than anything, it beat down on your ego, as the teacher was very (appropriately) critical, exhausted you, and made you want to neither read or write. Nonetheless, I did learn a lot about Russian literature, and my writing improved a lot.
You have to take it, so hope for a good section, grit your teeth, and get through it.
Dr. Jehn makes an already interesting class that much more enjoyable.  A wonderful expos experience (not many freshmen can say this).
If a student is interested in the topic of race in the Americas, this is a great choice. Expos is expos, but at least the topic is interesting.
This is a class that is only for people interested in technology, film, and probably at least a passing interest in science fiction, but you don't need to be a hardcore nerd to enjoy the class by any means.
it seems like its going to be a pain to take in the beginning but it helps you so much with your writing and also the topics that you choose end up being really interesting
Everyone always says that Expos is really awful, that you don't learn anything, and that it is a complete waste of time. Well, it's required, and if you have to take it you should take Contemporary Theater. It's engaging, the plays are excellent, and Dr. Urban is really great.
Make sure that you revise your drafts significantly.  In other words, write two completely different essays.  Otherwise, you will not get the grade you want.
The class is excellent if you happen to enjoy Victorian literature, which I unfortunately don't.
Since Expos is mandatory, I highly recommend this class.
I would tell them that this was a very interesting class, with an amazing teacher.  I thought this subject was taught very well and it was never boring.  The material was sometimes difficult but valuable in that end.
If you like Greek Mythology etc. then this is a good course to take because the subject matter/the readings etc. are interesting and the teacher is a good teacher she's really passionate she cares about the course and she wants the students to interact with each other, learn from each other as much as from her and she likes the students to come to conclusions through group discussions etc. not just her telling you what' s right and what's wrong.
It is a well-taught class that is a pretty interesting way to fulfill your expos requirement.
This class was instrumental in helping to bridge the gap between high school and college, not only in terms of writing style, but also in terms of developing new and different ways of thinking.
Cameron takes the class extremely seriously, and if you put forth a lot of effort in this class you will improve because he is serious about helping students improve. He is an amazing teacher though very difficult grader.
If Ben Wise taught underwater basketweaving, I would take it without reservation.
I would warn them not to get their hopes up, because expos is a terrible course; however, I would recomment Weitzel and Into The Wild enthusiastically as Weitzel is a great teach who goes out of his way to make the course interesting, engaging, and helpful.  It is unfortunate that quality teachers like him must work for an incompetent course structure that is designed to negate their ability to motivate and teach their students.
Although this particular section of Expos was not my first choice (or even close, to be honest), my preceptor's enthusiasm for the course material made all the difference, and was very helpful!
Learn about the process of globalization and the process of writing in one class.
This course really enlightening, intriguing, and fun...I would recommend taking it even if it wasn't for expos.
This class will make your writing better and it will make you better understand the concept of an argument.
A great deal of what you get out of Expos is what you put into it.  They're your drafts and your revisions; take some time to make them better than they have to be.
Choose a class with a good preceptor.
no comment.
Although this class was my 7th choice, I quickly succumbed to Dr. Urban quirky yet engrossing teaching style and learned to like theater while also learning to write a solid essay.
Take it, and take it seriously
Don't take Expos 10, Expos 20 is the same stuff all over again, they aren't different enough t to merit taking for two semesters.
Do everything in your power to avoid this course
Great literature and a friendly, dedicated, and intelligent preceptor.  Might  be more reading and work intensive compared to other Expos courses.
Well considering that Mr. Cashman is leaving, I will not be able to tell future students much because a new teacher will create an entirely different interpretation of the course.
The instructor was the course's main strength. He was himself a good writer, a poet, and was open to new ideas, which helped him guide the students in expressing their thoughts better and improving their writing styles.
Expos isn't as hard as everyone tell you it is.  But, with that said, the more effort you put into it, the more you will get out of it, especially when it comes to conferencing with your preceptor.
I was afraid of Expos because of all of the horror stories I heard, but I ended up loving the class.  Murder was a fascinating subject and Emily was a wonderful preceptor!
An interesting course, clearly structured with helpful assignments that will help improve writing.
This expos course without a doubt has the best readings of all the other courses.  Give yourself time to draft and edit your essays, and you will be fine.
If you like theatre and drama, this is a great class. If not, it is still interesting and worth taking, but be prepared to do a lot of discussing about the works and not much else.
it's tough but if you do the reading it is interesting
While you will be exposed to an interesting subject and a professor who knows it very well, you will not learn a lot about improving your writing.
This section is well taught and conducted, but you should make sure that you are interested in the topic before joining the class.
Go to office hours to discuss your topic BEFORE you write the draft.
It's a great class for those who like to read stories and would like to understand more fully the mechanisms by which stories function. You also get a chance to try your hand at different kinds of writing.
I don't even like theatre but this class was so interesting for me -- I loved all the plays, even if they were weird and shocking at first.
Very interesting introduction to contemporary theater, and it greatly improves your writing.
your writing will probably get better.  expos holds you accountable.  it can be super annoying though.
Just make sure you start your papers early.
As mandatory classes go, this was interesting and applicable to all kinds of philosophical considerations. Also fun to bring the in-class debates to friends outside of class.
Easy-going teacher but hard assignments and a lot of work needed on final drafts for papers.
The expository writing program is flawed, but this one was good comparative to others (according to my friends' accounts of their experience)
only take this course if you're really interested in Shakespeare and the themes that he writes about; also, you should take responsibility for all of your work and make sure you keep up on your own. there is not much guidance on themes or thesises you could write about or dont understand. you must formulate for the most part your own ideas on the plays
she gives generous extensions. she really wants you to succeed. there is no quota for A's. she evaluates your work based on the final product, not in relation to other people's or to your first draft
Jane is excellent! Though there is a lot of work, it is quite exciting (if you are interested in studying the role of authority in our lives.) I would recommend taking this course for Expos.
I would unconditionally recommend any class with this instructor. She has a way of helping you find material that is interesting to you in any subject.
I would tell them to choose more exciting subject matter for expos. Shakespeare is kind of overdone and not particularly exciting when you've written numerous essays on his works. Something non-English or literature related as a topic for expos would lead to more exciting sections and interesting papers.
Great if interested in the subject, otherwise very difficult
Expos is what you make of it.  I found myself really enjoying this class not only because of the topic, but because of the variation of characters in my section.  The same goes for the paper topics.  Not all are the most thrilling; however, if you approach them with a creative twist, drafts come with more ease, and final papers are easier to edit.
Freshmen bond over the pain of taking expository writing.  I have found, however, that freshmen often consider expos their favorite class (secretly, of course).  The intent of the course is to help students in their first year develop the necessary skills to become a better writer throughout college.  The course, for me, has done just that, but it has also helped me improve my analytical skills and to consider a topic in a different light.
Discourses of Love will, if you encourage its influence in your life, allow to think more critically about your experiences, relationships, and future.  You might even learn some new methods of literary criticism.
This course is relatively interesting for those who have an interest in authorship and how the theory of authorship has developed over the eras. Those without an interest in this may find this course interesting as the professor teaches it with such enthusiasm.
Don't listen to all of the complaints about Expos - approach it with an open mind, and make of it what you will. Your experience is not shaped by what others thought of it.
Don't be afraid to talk to the teacher about your work!
Andrea is a great preceptor! She is so helpful and makes expos a great experience. The work and readings are all necessary and may not be the fun part of the course, but the more you work and put effort in, the more rewarding this course is. I would say that this course requires about a moderate amount of effort to do well.
Expository Writing is a waste of a course, but this section wasn't too bad.
This was a great Expos class. Because expos is required, I wasn't sure if I was going to like it, but I ended up loving "Being Human". Ms. Constantino was a wonderful and enthusiastic preceptor, and she brought in really interesting material for us to read and write about.
Difficult but satisfying.
If students like the Waste Land and the other readings, and are interested in literary theory, this would be a good course to take. If not interested in literary theory, this is probably not the best option.
Prepare for headaches.
It is a lot of work, and the type of writing you have to do is very different from that of high school, and even from most Harvard classes. You have to pick a very narrow topic and think of a decisive argument that it is hard to object to. It's not enough to just think of reasons that make some sense and support your conclusion. If you don't want to work hard, this class isn't for you.
Very interesting, but sometimes slow.
Definitely not the best section, subject matter is not interesting.
It's the preceptor, not the reading, that makes all the difference. And with regards to work -- expos is at worst ~6 all-nighters. Hopefully you can do better than that.
Ben Wise is a great preceptor, because he cares about the class and is a truly good teacher.  The subject matter is also interesting, and there is a lot of choice in final topics, and I felt like I learned a lot from the subject and writing this semester.  Expos was one of my favorite courses this semester, and I feel like I became a better writer because of the quality of the class.
For students interested in the subject matter and particularly in the Brontes, this is an excellent choice, but the course may be uninteresting for students who are not intrigued by these topics.
As with any expos course, Home and Homeland is a lot of work, but it will be worth it in the end.
It's very difficult, but since Expos is a required course, there are certain advantages to this course depending on what you're looking for in your section. Zach is very knowledgeable, and English majors may like this course.
Everyone has to do it unfortunately...it's the price of admission to this school, added to the 40K.
This course provides a really interesting way of looking at literature through a social and theoretical lens, but not in an abstract way. It's also pretty relaxed in terms of assignments, and they're not too painful to write.
Though the topic may seem pretty strange and unexciting, (and I never quite warmed up to murder as something to be really interested in,) Emily's enthusiastic teaching and consistent helpfulness and clarity made Murder a great choice.
It is a very good class for improving your writing, but I was never clear to what extent the writing techniques I learned could be applied to writing in other disciplines.  Specifically, I'm talking about how literary essays are supposed to argue some point to deeper significance, but I am not clear how obvious this significance would be in other academic writing.
I would recommend this class to people who enjoy analyzing literature, or who at the very least do not mind analyzing literature. I personally found the topic more interesting than I thought I would.
I know that Paul Harding is not teaching this section anymore, however, I would still recommend him and this class. The genre of short fiction allows for a wide range of discussion and paper topics. Paul is also one of the best preceptors, I am sure. He is always on the student's side, and understands what goes in to the writing process.
For those people interested in an expos surrounding ethics, particularly in science, this course provides very interesting readings that provide rich potential for discussion and paper topics. While the discussion component of the course is not great, the paper topics and feedback on papers makes the entire experience very enjoyable.
Absolutely! Not only is Karen a fantastic teacher but also the subject matter is very interesting. I thought it was an amazing opportunity to be able to use analytical tools and learn about writing through analyzing films like Donnie Darko and Silence of the Lambs, fun films that I really cared about.
This class is so interesting and really good. There is no reason not to want to take it.
This course doesn't teach anything.  I am confident that it has weakened my writing abilities.  But, there is a lot of work.  Don't take the course.
Some people hate expos but Modern Art was exceptional. It was my favorite class
Grading too arbitrary
I would tell future students that this course is both difficult and helpful in honing your college writing style.
This class may be dull but if you take it seriously it will make you a better writer.
Exploring the concept of authority is intriguing. I found myself asking profound questions about humanity, society, and leaders.
I think the only part of this course I did not like was that it was a required writing course, but otherwise it was enjoyable. The readings are interesting, and by the end of the semester writing papers seems a lot more straightforward and you feel comfortable doing it.
be prepared to accept criticism and think critically
Know that this particularly section required thorough literary analysis and that having an interest in Victorian Britain would be beneficial in your overall satisfaction with the course.
Much of this class has to do about your attitude.  If you want to enjoy expos, you will.
I definitely feel that this is one of the best expos20 classes.
This section of expos is a relatively easy way to fulfill the expos requirement - there isn't as much reading as for the other classes (and the reading there is is generally pretty interesting/fun) and the essays are open-ended and fun (including a personal essay for the final essay).
Expos can be very helpful, although the experience seems to depend on the preceptor.
Not as bad as the name implies but not as good as you may think it could be
This course is a "niche" course -- if you're interested in the material, you will enjoy the discussions, but if technology in culture is not your 'thing,' then you might be miserable.
Whatever horror stories you've heard about Expos, I'm sure that you'll enjoy yourself immensely with Paul as a preceptor. Just come with an open mind, and prepared for the fact that however smart or talkative you think you are, there will always be that one smarter and more talkative kid in class who will just wow you. After all, you learn a lot from your peers too.
take it only if you like philosophy and law.
think of an original thesis for your papers and don't bullshit it
i would recommend this topic, but not necessarily expos in general
It's a fun, engaging foray into Gothic Fiction. Obviously, the point of the course is to learn to write, and it's pretty heavy on the workload. Nonetheless, the course is definitely worth trying, for the material, for Prof. Bellanca (who was excellent and committed in every way), and because it will most likely improve your writing skills (even if it's just through practice).
It is a great expos class, and a great class in general. I would definitly take it again if i had the chance.
A lot of my enthusiasm for the class was because the preceptor was really engaging and this makes far more impact on the overall enjoyability of the class than the material.
If you do your homework ahead of time and rank sections based not only on the subject but also on the preceptor and his/her previous q guide ratings, you'll end up in an expos section that you really enjoy.
If you have an interest in democracy and want to understand what it is and how it functions throughout American history, then this course is definitely for you. Even if you have but a vague interest, the reading materials are stimulating, especially Tocqueville.  Brett is a funny and approachable teacher who can get the students to understand how to better construct their arguments.  He is very good at teaching students to think outside of their current frame of mind, encouraging new ideas.  He is never intimidating and focuses heavily on constructing the arguments rather than on stylistic issues.   His assignments are flexible and ultimately you write about a topic you like.
Only take this course if you're prepared for hardcore, deep literary analysis, i.e. can stomach vague, abstract assertions about things that don't really matter.
A lot of the readings are on political theory, and therefore you'll be writing on political philosophy.  If you don't like that, don't take this class. Professor Yost is an excellent instructor and very helpful.
If you like literature, take this course.  You really have to have a passion for writing and its nitty-gritty components to enjoy the semester, but if you do, it will be one of the most enjoyable classes you take.  The discussions are great, the lessons useful, and you will come away a better writer, with a new way of thinking about your art.
I would tell future students that they will enjoy the course because the interesting selection of texts provides for a myriad of different ideas when writing an essay.
This course does a great job introducing you to the basics of writing in the field of social sciences.
This class has riveting material that will make you want to write about.
You will learn a lot about photography, and go to Fogg museum, sit down there, choose one photo that you like, and write about it. Sometimes you will end up going Fine Arts Library or Peabody museum, places that you rarely go amidst crazy busy life at Harvard.
It's Expos--you're going to have to take it, but you probably won't mind it that much at all.
Just pray that your favorite love song or poem doesn't appear on the syllabus.
Whether you think you like the Victorian era or not, this class examines many interesting themes of domesticity pertaining to British culture.  It's a fun way to understand what has historically shaped these themes.  Tess's teaching style is very interactive and she gives great feedback on pre-drafts, drafts, and even final papers.
This class takes on a very interesting topic (the meanings of success and failure) and applies it to life at Harvard.  Dr. Jehn is an excellent preceptor who provides good examples and exercises to make the writing process as smooth as possible.
It is by no means easy; it will challenge your conventional conceptions on writing.
Be glad that you got sectioned into storytelling; it really is a great class.
You don't have to be a romantic person to take this class. You can come in with an idea of what love is or you can have absolutely no idea.
A lot of people complain about Expos, but I got through this class unscathed. While writing essays is always a bummer, class time was enjoyable, and I really liked the material we covered.
This class will well exceed your expectations for Expos. I went into the class believing that it was going to be a horrible and draining requirement.   While it does require a fair amount of work on your part, America in the World is really exciting and rewarding and was probably one of my favorite classes in the second semester.
Laurie is really enthusiastic and brings a lot of energy to the class. My writing definitely improved, and I enjoyed the subject matter.
This class completely defies the popular view that expos is to be feared and hated - this was my favorite class during the semester and I wish I could take it again.
it's okay if your first paper gets a B... mine did. all grades converge to A- anyway.
I would have never taken the course if were not required.
The class is difficult and a lot of work, but in the end, it really helps to improve your writing.
Ken Urban is amazing.
The reading material for this class is often science-based, but philosophical/ethical debates make up a large part of the course.  The readings make a mandatory class more interesting.
It is difficult but helpful
Just get through it.
The reading material is extremely interesting and thought provoking
Marlon is awesome!
It will seem difficult, but when you look back on it, you will realize just how much you were able to learn.
Spend time with your drafts. Great drafts are key to a great grade.
Preceptor Yost was easily accessible and offered me very concrete and helpful advice on my writing.
It gives you a great portrayal of race relations.
they have no choice...
Kate is the best teacher I have had at Harvard thus far. Expos was my favorite class and I am very sad other students will not have the privelege of taking her class. She is so passionate for the material she undoubtedly inspries her students to work towards their potential.
If you like reading ancient theater and want to bring it into the modern age, this course is perfect. It combines the classic tragedy with modern entertainment and allows you to examine it in a new way.
The paper's are hard.
It's not as bad as everyone says it is.
I really enjoyed the class and got a lot from it. A good way to fulfill the expository writing requirement, especially if you are interesting in analyzing literature
not as helpful for my writing as i had hoped/expected
It makes you think about things you had probably never thought about before.
Do not take this class unless you love pretentious literary prattle and Jane Eyre
The class is very interesting and fun, but it is also difficult. Sometimes Dr. Urban is a harsh grader.
This course is an excellent way to develop your writing skills and thoughtfully engage with some of the most well-known tragedies.
expos is pain ... and a killer to your gpa.
She's a hard grader but she's fair, and by the end you'll learn a lot about how to create convincing arguments, and how to write essays people will want to read.
It's a great class!  Well worth the effort you put in!  You see discernable progress, and it's very rewarding!  Plus, the subject material is really fascinating and applies in different academic areas such as psychology, social anthropology, sociology, etc!
Ready to work hard and watch Severus Snape do Beckett?  Rank it as your #1.Want an easy A?  Go to another school.
I loved this course.  Into the Wild was my first choice so i think that helped my enjoyment of the material.
The readings and topics for essays are really interesting.
Don't expect too much, because it is an Expos class, but the material was very interesting and William was great!
Everybody has to take expos, and most people hate it. But i didnt hate this class. Aside from the writing component (which all classes have), this course was great.
Though the material of the course is challenging, this very challenge significantly improves one's ability to make an argument.
The gem of a Harvard education
the readings are really interesting
it truly improves your writing
You have to take it, so you might as well find a subject you enjoy and realize you are actually learning.
Best class I've taken so far
This is the last year of the class (with Cash, at least), but it was definitely a good one.
It is a really good class that helps you think about your own writing in a very technical, strategic manner. To get to this stage, however, a student should be receptive, flexible, and prepared to dedicate a lot of time to editing and revising.
This advice is applicable to all courses, even life...DON'T SAVE TILL THE LAST MINUTE! Spend a lot of time on your rough drafts so your final draft can be super-pollished.
Get the most out of this course and definitely talk with Jane outside of class.  She has so much to offer, both in constructive criticism and fascinating conversation.  Also, look forward to meetings with authors -- this year, we met with two of the authors we read, and the talk was really phenomenal.  In all, you'll succeed in this course if you stay on top the readings and Prelim assignments.
It's a good way to fill your Expos requirement with a fun TF (who brings doughnuts to class) and great readings.
The readings were all very interested, and the course offers the chance to study and write about not only texts, but also film and performance.
This was a really great course that honed my skills in writing, revising, and analyzing.  It has given me more confidence in my writing, and I only wish I had taken it first semester.
After a semester in the course, I still have trouble explaining what "A Voice of One's Own" is actually about. If you like intense textural analysis of narrative works, then by all means take this class. If you want a more topic-based, practical paper writing class, then you will find this class mind-numbing. Also, be prepared to take first drafts, throw them out, and start from scratch.
Professor Fillingham is an amazing preceptor with a lot of knowledge of First Amendment issues. She is also very personable and gives a lot of feedback on assignments. I'm very glad to have taken this class.
Put a lot of effort into your draft for a better grade on the revision.
The class was AWESOME! I loved it!! Did you know writing is like psychology?! It is, because you're trying to evoke certain thoughts--get certain synapses--to fire in the reader's mind. It's trying to anticipate the reader's reaction to words and phrases and manipulating those to influence the reader's thoughts. Writers are doing that everyday and most don't realize it! Also, it's a small class, so you'll probably get to know your classmates well (for better or for worse). It's also discussion-based, so you'll get to bounce ideas off of each other as well as hear ideas you might never have thought of yourself. The reading is varied, so you'll find at least one reading you like. Also, the essays you have to write aren't as restricted as in other sections. You get to choose which readings (which are published essays) to write about in your essays--and in your third (and last) essay, you're pretty much free. You choose the topic, you choose/find the sources, you write in whichever style your words take you. It's all about you! ;D When I asked several of my friends for their thoughts on my third essay, they were dumbfounded, remarking how their section of Expos didn't write like this and how fun it looked.
Amazing class if you like analyzing essays.
you will be challenged to work hard and think in foreign ways, but you will probably learn a lot and enjoy the class
Very good professor and interesting topics! Not too difficult to generate ideas for paper
Probably one of the better expos sections to choose
I really enjoyed it overall.  It had its dull moments, and it was also really intimidating in the beginning.  But the course material built upon itself and I really got a greater understanding of the nuances of authorship, something I had never thought of before.  And for the third essay, you basically get to write about whatever interests you that has to do with authorship, from translations to rap to graffiti.  Michelle also is very accessible and helpful.  She is a great preceptor.
I heard many of my friends complain about boring reading assignments or vague goals for paper theses, but I never had that problem in this class.  The readings are clear and interesting, and the professor is always ready to help explain anything or help in any way to improve your paper.
Michael is great, and he really wants you to learn about the topic and have fun writing about it.
Not only is the subject interesting, but what made the class fantastic was the preceptor. This experience was definitely more than just an Expos class.
The course is difficult, but you learn a lot.
This is an amazing class. You learn an incredible amount about both the subject matter of democracy in the United States and about writing. Hard but fun; this has probably been my favorite class so far.
The Technological Culture section of Expos is amazing.  The class is well-run, well-designed, and creates a great deal of collaboration and discussion within the group without requiring abnormally long hours of additional work.  Given the option, I might have taken this course even if it was not required, despite my general dislike of English and writing courses.
I would tell them that I loved this class.  Definitely one of the best expository writing courses offered.
The texts were very interesting and engaging, but I felt that the discussions were lacking, and our time could have been used much more productively to actually understand the texts and improve our writing.
Only take this class if you are interested in the material. Be sure to look into the plays assigned beforehand (Sarah Kane, Tony Kushner, etc.).
Expos changes how you think about arguing through essays.
At this school, expos is a necessary evil. Sometimes, people like their expos courses - this is not one of them.
It seems that your Expos experience is totally dictated by your preceptor. You could be excited to learn or go in hating the idea of Expos, but your preceptor will ultimately shape that reality through the class experiences, discussions, readings, and assignment he or she controls. So, be careful with your section rankings.
Useless unless you concentrate in English or Literature.
You have to take this course, period.  If you luck out like I did, you will receive a preceptor who is kind but demanding and pushes you to think critically about your writing.  Also influential is the subject matter.  Workshops can be a drag; that's that.  People are strange and slightly pretentious; unfortunately, I may have even came off that way to some people, too.  Overall, this course is not as big a drag as it's made out to be and can be enormously rewarding.
Andrea is a great preceptor!  She makes the class fun and interesting, which is very uncommon for an Expos class.
This is a very interesting class, but it is a class in which you have to write essays about essays.
The preceptor is very knowledgeable and smart. The drawback of this is that she has very high and difficult-to-meet expectations.  If you are willing to spend a lot of time on your essays (and I mean a lot!), you can do well and learn.
Choose a different expository writing class
Oh, you're going to hate it.  Everybody hates it.  I really loved my preceptor, but seriously, the course?  Hate.  It's like a trial by fire to see if you're going to make it for the rest of your career here.
Its a history course. Not a governmnet course. If you come from an economics or governmnet background and expect to use the same kind of thinking and writing in this course, you will not do well. Take it from me :P
It's amazing. Jill is really helpful and knowledgeable; it was so much fun discussing the readings and working through the arguments we read.
If you are a pre-med or interested in bioethics go for it. But you are looking for a humanities writing class, it might not be that helpful.
You should be interested in philosophy before taking this class.
Use your time wisely (sleep before class, not during it- also make it to class).Structure your construction of the essay. From conception (using outlines may be helpful) to reaching the works cited.
Avoid this section.
This class helped me to better develop my ideas in a matter where I can present a clear, concise argument to my audience.
If you enjoy discussing art, there is no better Expos class.
They won't have a chance to take it because it is being discontinued but they should definitely try to take the next course with Jim!
This class teaches you a lot about how and why the way you write.
That the instructor and students are really enthusiastic and understanding, and that they create an atmosphere in which expository writing does not need to be a death sentence.
Expos is a lot more interesting and enjoyable than people tell you.
This class will make you think and it is challenging in that sense, but I definitely recommend it because it makes you think of the world differently.  Personally, I learned so many things about myself and how I perceived the world and I was able to apply that to many of my essays.
The reading for this class is very interesting. Also, Edyta is always willing to help you with your paper or simply sit down and discuss the writings.
You only get to take one Expos 20 class. Take this one.
Not much reading as you are reading plays but the subject matter is hard to write about I found Shakespeare a hard topic to write about.  I found this to be the case because I am not very learned in Shakespearean theater.
this class is so much fun! the subject matter, and preceptor are amazing. love you hersch!!!!!
I would highly recommend this particular expos course. The material was really captivating and I was introduced to some really unique material that taught me how to examine things in a different light.
you have to take it, so take it.
This class was great.  Makes the expos experience as painless as possible. Very interesting material and a very nurturing preceptor.
Take time to make lots of individual appointments with the preceptor!  This will really help your writing.
Contrary to what many students might say (or demonstrate by a rolling of the eyes), Expos is very rewarding. This might depend on your precept, and very likely depends on your attitude.
The professor is good but the material could be more engaging and exciting.
great material. very interesting and insightful course; very applicable to everyday life, own experiences.
A good attitude can really help transform the only required course at Harvard  from a unfortunate necessity to a fantastically fulfilling (and even fun) experience
Does it matter?  They have to take it anyway.  Just brace yourself for a hit or miss experience.
It's the best expos! You will really learn how to write better and to think more clearly from this course.
I would tell them that this class is run by a lively preceptor who is clearly devoted to her work and that it shows.  I would also say that the readings are pretty interesting if you are keen on the subject, and that the class as a whole is not too difficult.
If you are interesting in looking a technology and the relationship it plays in society, I would take this course because it was an awesome experience.
It's more of a history class than I thought from the title.
Very fun class.
the experience in this class varies widely, and depends entirely on you section leader, class, and topic
As far as expos goes, it really helps to understand and break down the writing process and what most of us probably don't think about when writing.  This course in particular, Tragic Visions, is definitely challenging but forces you to think about great topics in literature and in life.
This is the greatest Expos section ever.
really not something you can opt out of...good luck!
I became a much stronger critical reader, but I'm not sure that I became a better writer.
I would tell them that it is interesting and affords an opportunity to look at drama in different ways.  It's great for anyone who loves plays or drama.
An intriguing class - especially the third unit - but only if you are interested in all three parts of the class and are invested in literary theory.
This class is difficult to handle if you do not like reading unique plays that do not have clear-cut meanings.  You should approach the readings with an open mind.
Read weird plays!  Cool teacher!
Race in the Americas gives the student the opportunity to explore racial concepts from both a theoretical perspective as well as from the vantage point of case studies. Students should be able to independently think about difficult concepts and integrate them into writing.
For an expos course, of which many are notorious for their difficulty and banality, this is an engaging and largely excellent course. However, it does suffer from many of the same problems as other courses in that you must write for an audience of one.
This is a good class, especially if you are interested in politics, democracy, or government.
If somebody loves plays and the theater, this course could be extremely stimulating.  However, if you are not a die-hard thesbian, the nature of our essays can be extremely frustrating.
Take advantage of one-on-one conferences and discuss your ideas often. Bouncing off ideas will help you craft a thesis. Crafting a thesis takes time and it's helpful to let ideas "ferment" for a while. Take a subject you are interested in.
Good expos option.
Licia is great.  Take her seriously.
Be open minded about expos. If you find a topic you really like it can be very interesting.
This is a really great Expos section. Expos in general is mandatory, so there's no point in recommending that.
You should be moderately interested in the topic of your class.
I can't say I learned a whole lot from this class, and I found the material to be okay. Jane was funny and approachable, but sometimes her advice was hard to follow.
For being an expos class this is the best that it could have been. Jill made the experience an enjoyable one
Great class, you learn a lot without too much work.
lots of writing. doesn't teach you how to write efficiently.
very challenging yet extremly beneficial to writing and thinking skills
It is a paradise of interesting ideas, well-presented, and of all different ways of thinking. The preceptor is incredible.
Everything in the class seems manageable until you get your essay grades. You  can definitely take a lot away from the course but if you're not very grounded in academic writing, you'll have a tough time getting the grade you want.
Section is a bit tedious, but the preceptor is very good and the subject is interesting.
You'll become a much better writer, although it's important to meet with your instructor numerous times to understand his/her expectations for you.
It's do-able.
You'll only grow as a writer if you are prepared to put in a concerted effort.
This is one of the best Expos classes you could take -- the preceptor is fair and engaged, class discussions are lively and worthwhile, and the subject matter is incredibly interesting and relevant to today's world.  I emerged from the class not only with a much better understanding of the forces of globalization, but with a much better understanding of myself as a writer.
It is really not very interesting.  It is very focused on South Asian texts.
This class was awesome. Not only did I improve my writing immensely, but I was able to meet at-risk authors of pieces that we read and wrote about. I definitely recommend the class!
You need to do all the readings. Come to class prepared if you want any hope of doing well on the essays.
Sometimes dry, often lengthy readings. Too many readings. Put a damper on my interest in the subject.
The amount of reading is very reasonable, the course material is very interesting, and you will learn a lot about writing about topics in the social sciences.
Good course, but the topics can be complex and sometimes uninteresting.
Great section, very interesting topics, great instructor.
Much better if you enjoy the topic.
This course is good/interesting/painless relative to other expos courses
The preceptor is knowledgable in the subject, eager to help and gives great feedback.
It is expos so you can't expect it to be an amazing course.  However, it does improve your writing.
If  you're passionate about tragic plays, you may like this one.
The teaching makes this class definitely worth taking.
If you do not enjoy history and political theory, DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS!
I found that it does not really teach you how to write better but rather provides abstract concepts of what good writing entails.
It's a lot of work, but you can see your writing improve after each paper.
Professor Carlson is an excellent instructor for this course and writing the essays were not burdensome. Indeed, the essays seemed to be individual extensions of the already excellent class discussions.
This class was amazing-- even those of us who hadn't read much Shakespeare before found it fun, interesting, and very worthwhile. The class discussions were always lively and engrossing, and my writing has definitely improved as a result of our essays.
The material is very interesting, although like with all writing classes, it is really hard to come up with original and interesting theses.
It is difficult and you may not receive the grade you want, but in the end you will be a better writer.
This section of expos is very interesting, but I would not recommend expos in general.
waste of time
I have talked with a lot of my friends who hated Expos, did not think it was a real class, and who were happy to be done with it.  I can not relate to them.
Very good Expos class.
Reasonable workload, interesting essays, and a very nice preceptor.
Expos really challenged my critical thinking and writing skills. Not only was I able to improve on those, but I also thoroughly enjoyed the process.
Good luck!
If you're not already a good writer when the semester starts, don't plan on doing well.
I would tell them that this is a good expos class because the topic is interesting and the work load is manageable but challenging.  I would also tell them that the instructions regarding expectations for the class were a bit vague, so they would need to check in to make sure that they were completing the assignment at hand.
The material is really interesting.
Though it may seem ambiguous in the beginning "don't write with a thesis", there is a method to his tactics and you will learn something and improve ur writing if you do the workshops and exercises that Zach teaches
the last assignment is a personal literary essay
If you like Victorian England, this class is for you.
It sucks, but you have to do it... Hopefully you will get Jim, who is awesome... but pray that your section isn't boring... or has just 3 people who monopolize the convo. oy
Since you have to take expos, this is a great one to take.
A really useful class, but be prepared for lots of work!
It's a fine Expos section; you can definitely do worse, and not necessarily better. It's not going to fundamentally change your education, but at least it will make you do soemthing.
Professor Cashman is an engaging lecturer and very helpful during individual conferences.
I would definitely recommend "Being Human"! If you have to take Expos, take this one!
The class is difficult and a good amount of work, but Jane is a great teacher, the subject matter was very interesting, and the class was engaging and fun.
Work hard and think about the research paper even ahead of the said schedule!  Take advantage of office hours.
really fun, great preceptor, Jane Unrue makes the students excited about the course and promotes stong class discussions, interesting books and other works
I definitely reccommend this class!
This course is hands down the best Expos course
Very interesting subject matter. You will learn a lot and come out much better versed in democratic theory. You will learn how to read and think about primary source documents at a higher level. The discussion are great and the papers are actually interesting if you are a person that likes history/political argument.
Try to get a good preceptor like Jane!
Be prepared to read a lot of interesting stuff.
It was not only difficult, it was uninteresting, which made the entire semester miserable. It does teach you how to use evidence to formulate an argument.
It was really fun and not very difficult.
Paul Harding is great!!
Preceptor was excellent. Usually many students complain about their preceptors, but I fortunately cannot.
Do not take this class seriously at all. This requirement is Harvard's way of combatting grade inflation. Do not take your grade in any way as a reflection of your writing ability.
I don't believe that Shakespeare is for me. When I put this class on my list, I thought Shakespeare in College would be an experience. I often compared it to a vitamin: it does go down easy, but it is healthy and good for you. Hence, I put it low on my list, and lo and behold I got it. I am glad I got to experience Shakespeare at harvard, but I am not likely to do it again.
the class and the literature was good; understand that the grades are not always well explained but the suggestions along the way are good
I have heard a lot from others about their expository writing classes and believe this is one of the better/best options out there.
This Expos class emphasizes the logic and contents of your writing more than the style and the "technique" of essay writing.
Sure it's a requirement and not too pleasant if you don't enjoy writing, but be sure to choose a subject that you would find interesting.
It's fresh and so isn't the preceptor so it might be a bit rocky along the road until she gets a real good grasp but she seems to be making great progress, so I wouldn't worry about it.
Take it if you like Shakespeare.
Great preceptor
Great material, but be ready to have your writing picked apart.
This section was a relatively painless way to do Expos, especially if you have an interest in literature.
Required
Compared to the experiences of friends in other Expos classes, Reading Photographs seemed much more interesting and less stressful.
This class is a wonderful course for someone very interested in the arts and humanities, in the application of various mediums in different ways, in the theories of great authors like Roland Barthes and Ralph Waldo Emerson and famous New Yorker contributers like Susan Sontag and Susan Orlean, as well as anyone at least a little curious about Andy Warhol and pop art.
Really take advantage of the preceptor as a resource for your writing throughout the course.
The class is difficult simply because it is an expository writing class.  It is still a very interesting class, however, and is a good choice to fulfill this requirement.
Expos blows, but Democracy in America is great solely because of the preceptor.
Very interesting course material and good in-class experience. The assignments and feedback could have been clearer, and the elements of academic writing necessary for these essays could have been focused on more.
The discussions are very insightful and interesting. The readings are light and manageable.
A lot of people complain about their expos classes, and I would definitely say this is a great option. There isn't too much reading and Sigrid is really helpful with your papers and I improved a lot. I would highly recommend it.
Some weeks are filled with a lot of work because you have essays due but other weeks there are not too many assignments due.
With this preceptor, you can be guaranteed of a fantastic Expos experience that will improve your writing as well as actually teach you something beyond writing skills.
expos was not fun.
It is particularly oriented toward social sciences.
This was a great course. Ellie is a great teacher and I feel that my writing has improved immensely. The short stories we read were all interesting. For freshman writing, this was actually a very enjoyable course.
In Women Writers of the world, we discussed multi-culturalism, post-colonialsm, femenism, orientalism...actually many -isms, all the while learning the important elements of writing. This was by far the most intellectually stimulating and fulfilling course I have taken my freshman year. I highly recommend this course!
This is a slightly non-standard expos class.  It may have slightly less reading than a literature based course, but there is an added challenge of writing about images, not about books.
You have to have a stringent thought process and should grasp philosophical essay writing fairly easily.
This course teaches you a lot about contemporary theatre and how to analyze it in respect to literary theory, current politics, and moral philosophy.  However, the fact that this course focuses so intently on interesting material detracts from the time the class might be be involved discussing writing strategies. It is a trade-off.
Some of the material may be "deeply philosophical," but it was genuinely interesting and fun to write about. The class is well-organized and well-taught.
If you make a commitment to following the advice given by your preceptor, you will see an improvement in your writing.
It's a great class about music!
Expos is sometimes seen as dreaded, but this one is fantastic! The material is fun and relevant to everyone.
Go to the writing center
Be ready for lots of homework.
Expos is not a time to "try something new." Go for something that you know and are good at, so you can get the best grade possible. But even then an A is virtually  impossible.
Jane will teach you how to improve your writing. Do not expect to get high grades but expect her to give you honest feedback on how you can improve your ability to express yourself.
It's a great Expos to take if you enjoy Shakespeare. You may find it difficult if you have no experience with reading his plays.
Very good class for filling your expos requirement
Light reading, interesting essays, very helpful advice and learning experiences for an expos course; interesting and helpful preceptor with lively class discussions and insightful conferences
This class was not too stressful, as many people may make it seem to be. My particular course was very interesting. The readings were not too overwhelming and there were not many assignments in addition to the mandatory essays.
This class is a quite good expos class. Students in other expos classes often complain about their class, but I had no complaints about this one and I feel most of my classmates liked it as well.
Don't be afraid to seek help outside of scheduled conferences, so use office hours and email to communicate.
You don't have a choice whether or not to take Expos, so you might as well make the best of it and try to learn something.
Be very sure that this is actually a subject you want to look deeply at.  If it is only an area you're moderately curious about, it might not hold your interest and end up just being painful.
If you're looking to read some 19th century classics, but aren't ready to dive into Harvard's English Department just yet, this course could really prepare you and test your interest. It's comparable to Harvard's English literature courses, but requires only one third of the reading... Tess O'Toole is enthusiastic about the subject matter and loves giving feedback. You will come out a better writer. The gender ratio is about one boy to six girls. It's really impressive to see the guys in the class getting into Jane Eyre.
Instructor is down to earth and very helpful. The class is informative and interesting without requiring excessive work.
This class requires a certain level of interest and enthusiasm, but if one participates and invests in class discussions it can be quite interesting.
If you enjoy questions that deal with modern art, you will find the assignments really interesting.
Indulge yourself into your class topic, or else you will struggle.
You have to be willing to budget a lot of time for Expos if you want to get something out of it.  Make sure you seek help from your preceptor and talk out your ideas as much as possible.
The course is a lot of work but taking the assignments seriously and putting a lot of work into them will really improve your writing.
I thought the class readings were really great and they generated a lot of discussion. Most of the readings were contemporary too so it felt like I was creating an opinion about current events- like I was changing something.
It might confuse you at times, but it is helpful.
The topic is unique and interesting, and the readings used are not heavy in the least. The preceptor is also amazing. She gives reasonable assignments and amazing feedback on all of them.
It is a nice introduction to college writing.
It sounds daunting, but it's great!
This class was very fun. The section was one of my favorite's for my freshman year but the coursework is very deep so you must be interested in the topic.
The class is very helpful but at the same time it feels like more work than the other expos classes!
The instructor makes this class - with a poor preceptor, "The Mystery of Identity" could be as dull as dishwater; with Sarah, the class was lively and engaging, the readings mostly fun, and the essays not too painful.
It's great material, but you have to have an interest in it.
Not hugely fun, but the feedback given is excellent
The material is engaging, Lindsay is helpful and a good resource,
you have to take it, but it is a nightmare
It can seem to be a challenging class but I find the teaching fellow to be very well-versed with the content of the class and the experience is enjoyable.
This specific Expos class is definitely one of the better (from my discussion with classmates), in that you have almost ABSOLUTE flexibility in picking topics for essays and working on it. The instructor is also very approachable and willing to help.
Talk only about feelings can get redundant after Unit 1.
It is a requirement
This class will definitely be harder than most other expos classes, but it is definitely worth it. I feel like I am a better writer because of it.
Expository writing in general is not very interesting, but since you have to take one, this is a great one to take.  It was much more interesting than I was expecting out of an expos class.
Pretty mediocre expos section, not very good discussions, but really cool preceptor.
From what people say about Expos classes, it seems that Contemporary Theatre is more demanding, in terms of writing and workload, than any other Expos class. However, it is a rewarding experience. I wish I could take a class on the same/similar content that is not an Expos class.
It's as good an expos class as you're gonna get. But expos is a drag, regardless.
Ellie is fantastic, the stories that we read are very interesting, there is not a large volume of work associated with the class, the class is relaxing and enjoyable
The course will get more grueling so enjoy your first essay.
You will hear that you are not a good writer no matter what, so do not let it get you down.
Just tough it out, it won't be fun just try and survive.
It is hard work, but Professor Unrue makes it worthwhile. You will actually learn something!
as far as expos classes go, it's the best!  rachel meyer is very good.
A more scientific expos course (albeit a soft science) among a sea of humanities.
Expos can make you a better writer, especially with regard to targeting problem areas in your essays.
Your expos experience depends entirely on your teacher.
It's required, so there really isn't much of a choice; take it in the spring if you can, and poll various friends who took it in the fall to find out which are the best sections to sign up for.  Don't complain (too much), just do the work, and you might end up actually getting something out of it.
That philosophy is a major component of the course and that you should expect to spend lots of time of the readings even if they are short because they are very dense and complicated.
I was skeptical about the Expository writing requirement, but this has been by far the best course I have taken at Harvard this year.
you have to take it, but you'll enjoy it.
If you're not afraid of confronting the often puzzling issue of identity, and most likely becoming more confused as you attempt to develop your arguments, its a great class.
So many people complain about expos, but I think this was a really great course, especially because of Dr. Ferguson-Wagstaffe. There was not too much work at all while I still feel like I improved substantially.
Make sure to carefully plan out time for your rough drafts.
The readings are very interesting and the essay prompts are stimulating.
It is a good amount of work but if you do it well you will learn a lot.
I found the material to be dry at some times, but with enough research and effort you will be able to find a subject that captures your interest enough to where you will be able to write a paper on it.
I thought it was an interesting course once we got into it. The beginning was kind of slow...Pynchon wasn't my favorite.
Great preceptor, interesting readings, fun paper topics.
Take this class first semester if you can.  Otherwise avoid taking classes that require knowing how to write analytically first semester.
This course is a good introduction to the extensive reading and analyzing that you will have to do during your college years.
Class discussions are very fun.
This course has a number of fun readings, and there's something for everyone (poetry, short fiction, film)--that may also mean that you'll be made to read something you don't actually like. Also, this is a humanities-oriented course, which was great for me but not for everyone.Sarah doesn't give as much leeway on deadlines and things as I've heard other preceptors do but she's been really accommodating and nice and all around awesome about true emergencies and such, and encouraging about planning, drafts, revisions.It's been a great Expos class.
Don't fear expos that much...
You learn valuable argument building skills for your own benefit and to help others. you learn how to convey these arguments effectively and very convincingly. You learn how you can impress people with complex arguments that make logical sense and create something new and relevant to another person. You learn how you can change lives.
This class should only be taken if you have a background in the arts or would like a crash course in photographic evaluation.
Don't worry too much about it.
If you get in, take it!
It is an easy course, great if you don't want to do much work, but the work you do do is kind of a waste of time.
Great syllabus and amazing preceptor, but beware of the grading and workload.
Get a really good friend who is a really good writer and have him/her proofread all of your work.
While many students complain about their expos class, I really enjoyed mine and looked forward to attending it. Discussions were always engaging, because we read interesting essays and compelling arguments that I found not only relevant for our discussions in section but also thought provoking in regard to human nature in general.
You've got to be okay with reading and deciphering a lot of vague terms.
It is a great class for reading about bioethic issues that you would normally miss, or won't have a chance to deal with, when you are taking classes for your concentration.
The preceptor/TF makes the class come to life.  College students can really connect with her
This course is not meant for students who want to learn how to write. It is better off for students who have good writing and debate skills and are interested in the topic of luck. The readings will get a bit repetitive as they are all arguing about the same subject in very similar manners.
I would tell future students that this class improves your thinking and that you learn how to gather a lot of information from a small amount of text.
Expos is great! Don't let complainers make you dread taking the course - it's one of the best I've taken at Harvard so far.
This is the absolute best expos class if you are interested in medicine, science, bioethics, philosophy, or understanding today's scientific debates.
It's a great class if you want to challenge yourself. If you want an easy pass, it's not a good choice.
Although this is one of the harder Expos courses, I would recommend it highly, because I feel like I have actually learned how to write well, even though I will probably not get an A.  To me, that is much more important.
It's a very interesting class, new and refreshing and it will take you out of your comfort zone, but Heather will be there to guide you every step of the way with her unlimited office hours!
If you're willing to put time into the reading the plays and formulating your ideas through writing, this class is an amazing academic experience. I can honestly say that I loved Expos.
Really good for an expos class
The preceptor is great and there's not a lot of reading
Michael is awesome and very helpful.
This class is focused largely on philosophy rather than simply medicine.
While Expos itself can be challenging and may feel at times unfair, Ellie is definitely one of the best preceptors who tries to actually help her students as much as possible with their writing. I must stress that she actually provides comprehensive feedback and direct help that makes her section valuable, unlike other expos sections.
If your interest in the topic area outweighs your desire to get a decent grade, then this is a fine class to take. Otherwise, you will find the feedback in this course to be very frustrating. The course is not difficult, just somewhat random.
It's very good as a more personal class ie learning more about what you think and how you perceive the world. It was very good in that I was exposed to a lot of ideas that otherwise, as a science concentrator, I would not have. Also, the readings are really great and interesting.
Pick a different Expos this was just brutal.
From what I've gathered it's one of the most enjoyable expos courses people have taken. It was fun and interesting with the least amount of busy work and the professor was easy to talk to and very helpful in the paper writing process. The readings were great and the subject matter was very interesting overall.
Excellent discussions on Shakespeare. I had no Shakespeare background and immediately embraced the material, exploring the world of Elizabethan drama and discovered a new passion.
Even if you don't like writing, it is a great course to take.  It definitely helps improve your writing and prepares you to write at the college level.
I did not enjoy Expos that much. My course was fun and great, but expos in general was not my cup of tea.
Go to office hours for help and don't be afraid to use the writing center.
its a really great environment and you get to talk about things that you wouldnt normally get to discuss in an academic context. great for music lovers and anyone interested in the philosophy of music.
Do not expect to walk in and do as well in writing as you had done in high school.  Be prepared to question your own methods of writing papers, but know that you will come out of it as a better writer.
Creating monsters is fun and interesting!
The preceptor is the most important thing about the class.
Shakespeare is awesome!
That it is a good class if you are interested in the topic, but may be dry if political science and history are not your thing
Obviously, all students are required to take Expos, but I probably would not recommend my topic simply because it is not very relevant to what I am interested in, and I didn't particularly like the subject material.
It's difficult, but worth it in the end so long as you actual put effort into the class.
You have to take it. Section on time and get a class with a subject in which you will be interested.
Writing expos essays is extremely difficult, and you have to be prepared to receive a lot of criticism.  However, if you put a lot of work into your writing, you will improve as a writer and appreciate the class overall.
It will definately be interesting, but sometiems the way feedback is provided is frusterating. Also, although the reading may be lighter than some expos courses, this course has far more assignments, in addition to the essay drafts.
It's very interesting, but the essay topics can be difficult.
The class has a lot of reading but the readings are very interesting and you do feel like a stronger writer when you are done.
If you have the chance, take Expos 10. Also, if you can enroll in Jane Rosenweig and Jill Constantino.
Interesting readings and topic; something quite different from what one would normally analyze. Without the course, I would not have had access nor would have bothered to discover this wholly different, unique branch of intellectual and analytical "sound".
It does help your writing skills.
I feel like Urban America was one of the least painful ways to fulfill the expos requirement.
If you stick through the section on experimental music, it gets a lot better.
I loved the class, and Rebecca is really helpful in improving your writing.
I really enjoy the subject matter and readings for this expos. If not for the papers and the fact that it's an expos class, it would be awesome! Watching La Haine is really nice, and the 60 minutes segment shown in class was interesting. The readings are great.
It's a difficult class because you have to write constantly and take the initiative to do so. While the preceptor will answer questions and answer feedback, Expos is so different from high school writing because it's an individual journey.
Make sure you select an expos class that interests you
Fun course that allows you to put your own spin on it.
Great reading list
Great expos class. Great Preceptor. You will look forward to going to class.
You will learn about writing techniques, but if you are not interested in literature the course can be difficult.
This class may chill you and thrill you, but probably not fulfill you.
This expos class is very interesting and has many unresolved questions. The discussions are very interesting and the reading is something I would choose to read on my own.
Take only if you're a very philosophical person.
People who are interested in the politics of domesticity in Victorian England really enjoy this class; people who are not interested in the subject tend not to.  I was in the first category.
Expos is awful. this class does not actually discuss what the title of the course is.
It will help you write better
Take it! Stephen Larsen is incredible!
Professor Herron is a great professor who has chosen a representative set of readings for his class. Discussions are helpful in understanding the material, even if they are often dominated by a few students, and draft conferences are great for improving one's writing skills.
This is one of the best expos classes out there. It is enjoyable and actually useful. It will definitely make you a better writer if you're willing to put in the effort.
The readings are not very enjoyable
Expos is required- the best way to do it is through Damon's class
The preceptor, Jim Herron, is a fantastic guy and definitely made the course for me. The course is great if you're interested in social science theory and may help potential concentrators figure out what they're interested in.
The subject matter is fairly interesting, and the preceptor very knowledgeable, engaging, and helpful.
If you do the work expos can be awesome
It doesn't matter because Expos is mandatory
This section is really really difficult, especially for those who have a poor literary background or who don't plan on being an English concentrator.  But the course is conducted very well and is highly organized with good feedback to help even the poorest of students.
True Stories is a fun expos topic to explore and write about.
I would like to tell future students that though this course is demanding in the number of assignments and the amount of reading, the entire process is crucial to your growth as a writer. Everything has a purpose in this class, which makes it worthwhile.
The subject matter is really fascinating!
Good class, interesting material, but needs more organization and clarity, especially for those students without strong writing backgrounds.
I loved this course!  I feel like I truly got lucky with my expos class.
This class was thoroughly enjoyable... I would have happily taken it, even if it hadn't been an expos requirement. Also, so much of your experience with expos is about the praeceptor, and Jeff is great!
This is really a great course with a lot of interesting information covered and many writing techniques learned.
Choose a section whose material interests you.
This specific Expos section was really rewarding. It was difficult, but I still really enjoyed it.
Try to pick a section with a topic that you are genuinely interested in.
Get started early!
Expos is not great, but since you have to take it this is the section to take.
This section of expos can be very interesting, but the topics are a bit obscure and difficult to understand (being modern art). I found, though, that it was a great challenge to learn and argue about something completely new.
Tales of Murder is a really interesting Expos class that kept me entertained the whole semester.
The course material is very interesting and the instructor is excellent
This course can be incredibly useful if you're willing to put in a little more effort than is required.
This clss is a good way to develop writing skills through the analysis of other's writing.
The reading sounds good (or at least it did to me) but most of the texts ended up not interesting me much. I found it difficult to find a topic in the texts that I was interested in writing about.
Many people see Expos as a dreaded requirement, but with the right preceptor, it can really be an incredible learning experience.
This was a great expos course! The preceptor was fantastic, which is the most important thing when it comes to expos.
You will be one of the only people you know who enjoys expos. Prepare to seriously take a look at your own morals.
I would empathize with their fear and dread about having to take Expository Writing 20. I would tell them to absolutely not enroll in "Travel and the Gods" and to look for a different section with a decent preceptor and much more defined, concrete requirements and purposes.
I would very likely recommend this course. I would especially recommend this course for any student who enjoys literature as the texts we have read this year are excellent. Also, Ellie is always available to meet and discuss ideas for drafts if a student wishes to really take advantage of the Expos program's guidance.
The class is quite difficult, but extremely stimulating
From what you hear, you might think Expos is a scary thing, but that could not be further from the truth. Expos is a painless learning experience, and, quite frankly, one of the most useful courses you'll take in Freshman year.
I would say that this class is very hard, and that students should be prepared to put in a lot of work for it.
Grading system is a mystery. Reading is interesting. Little guidance.
The class has a penchant for adding the suffix -ity to any adjective in order to increase the number of syllables in any given words and sound more intelligent.  The preceptor tolerates blowhards, and in fact, encourages them.
As far as Exposes go, I think this was the best deal I could have gotten.
From what I have seen and heard, this is definitely one of the better Expos sections to join.  You need to be ready for a lot of introspective analysis, but there is nothing very confusing or insurmountable about this section.
Make sure you like history. A majority of the students end up being history majors so they are really into what the essays are on.
This class was difficult-- the workload kind of came in waves-- but it taught really useful analytical/writing/revision techniques.
I would tell them that they need to be patient because the writing process is slow and hard. You can always do better but you also need how to stop writing and thinking. Once you hand in your essay you can go back and get the feedback in order to improve in further essays. It is a slow process but with time one becomes better.
It's an interesting subject, and Jill is an amazing preceptor!
Be aware that you may be challenged to think in a very though provoking manner.
The preceptor was great
Its impossible to get an A, regardless of how good your work is
you will enjoy the class more if you put more time into your essays and talk to your preceptor about your work and how you can improce
Well, it's a rite of passage. Experiences vary by a lot based on the preceptor and topics so make sure you know what you want.
Professor Adams is an amazing literary critic who will have the patience to handle even you wildest and least intelligent ideas. She will craft them with you into gold.
the preceptor feels that certain arguments are legitimate and others are not.  I feel that these views are not always substantiated
Rebecca is truly passionate about the subject and extremely helpful with all steps of the writing process.
Make sure to always cite your sources
Don't take this class for granted. If you put a lot of work into it, you will get great rewards and your writing will improve.  You have to take the class no matter what, so you might as well benefit.
An interest in bioethics helps.
The receptor is very helpful in developing writing as a passion rather than just as a requirement. The topic, Voice of Authority provokes thought when discussing with peers.
Be prepared to discuss difficult issues.
You think you're a good writer? Get ready to push the envelope and stretch your limits in Expos 20.  Yes, I'm sure you've heard that it's an annoying course with no purpose. But if you approach it with the right attitude and an interest in improving yourself as a writer, you'll enjoy the course.
The class is required, so the question about recommending it doesn't quite apply, but I would definitely recommend this particular section of Expos.
It covers the topics of Shakespeare very well. If you like Shakespeare you will definitely like this course.
Sometimes vague as to what the assignment or goal of an activity is. However good for facilitating creative thought, and integrating that thought into writing.
this particular section was truly engaging.  The preceptor, William, is smart, and inspirational.
William is great (except for what has been described as "harsh grading"), and the readings are essential.
Very interesting readings! Workload not too bad either
it was a great class with a great teacher. But, if you are expecting an A this may not be the class for you.
This is the perfect class for lovers of contemporary poetry. However, those who like more traditional, older works may find themselves limited by the offerings of the syllabus.
Its the best expos around.
When I first was assigned this expos class I was upset because it was one of my lower choices, but after having gone through the course I'm so glad that everything worked out the way that it did.  I really enjoyed studying Andy Warhol and reading Emerson and Susan Orleans.
I didn't really process how much an art analysis class this would be (though it should have been obvious enough from the title). I signed up for this class more to explore the origins of emotions, and though I didn't get very much out of exploring this area of interest, the art was still very interesting!
The course caters to students who have previous experience reading poetry. It's difficult to do very well in this course without a very strong understanding of poetry terms, so keep that in mind when you're signing up.
Be prepared to work hard and think critically about difficult issues.
This class can get very boring at times. But the material covered is interesting.
Readings for first unit are not great but the course progressively improves and the preceptor is helpful
If you want to look at the market from a different angle you would in your econ class, take the culture of the market.
requires a lot of work and commitment
Approach it with an open mind for looking at different kinds of subject matter and writing on it.
This is a very challenging course, but be prepared to feel very lost and confused at times.
Good
The material is interesting, but there is quite a lot of reading.  And the preceptor is somewhat biased in evaluating your theses.
If you are interested in literary analysis, take this class.
Interesting material and a fantastic teacher
i think there seems to be a correlation between how much students like expos and how much they like the humanities/writing, and as such students that lean towards concentrations that might be more heavily essay-involved are more likely to enjoy them. While there was a huge hype about how scary/not particularly fun expos was, I really enjoyed it and found, to my surprise, that there were actually many students that felt the same way.
Be prepared to edit the same paper in painstaking detail multiple times. Do not expect to get away with the same crap you pulled in high school, but actually put effort into your papers. Don't worry about substance as much as style, because that is what your expos teacher will grade you on.
Fantastic preceptor.
This is one of the less painful ways to satisfy your expos requirement!
the third unit is not what it seems! you can't necessarily do what you want.  I took this class because teh syllabus says that the final unit is a field project, exploring some aspect of Cambridge.  But that is not actually the case.  I was not able to do the topic that i wanted to research because it did not fit the "dual cambrdige" theme
It's about thinking, not just writing.
this course is great for anyone interested in philosophy or ethics. it can be challenging just because of the nature of the topic, but the amount of course work was moderate and extremely interesting.
take only if you are interested in photoraphic theory
Probably the best Expos class out there--significantly less painful than I thought it would be given other people's (often very strong) comments.  I would definitely put this Expos class as the number one choice (as I did!)
It's FANTASTIC, not at all like the beast I expected Expos to be. The papers are really engaging and Rebecca is extremely helpful
It's good... It sucks that you have to take it, but overall it's definitely about skills we have to learn and Ellie is a really enthusiastic and helpful preceptor.
For a required course, this section was very enjoyable.
It covers an interesting topic and provides clear and helpful information regarding how to write a good, effective essay.
Very comfortable and helpful in reinforcing the basics of writing, especially pertaining to structure, organization, and clarity.
Urban America is an excellent, well-prepared class;it is especially geared toward people with interest in social sciences
This is the best Expos class I could possibly imagine.
Everyone may complain about it, but it helps anyone that is willing to give it their best effort.
Great subject material and preceptor.
I would tell students to definitely take this course if they have any interest in technology.
This course was one of the best Expos courses, in my opinion and based on what I heard from other students about their Expos courses. I feel that the way in which the preceptor teaches the course is a very important determinant as to how the students will enjoy Expos and I believe that Michelle was one of the most awesome preceptors in Expos. The material is very stimulating and she is so nice and helpful. It really does help you improve your writing without being a pain. The exercises are good and Michelle really encourages creativity.
This is a great course to explore what identity means--and its role in our everyday life.
This class is great if you want to use your expos requirement to explore Shakespeare.  It's an awesome environment and context in which to hone your writing skills.  Plus, the preceptor is great and all the assignments and feedback are really well thought-out.
This class is quite a bit of work, but what you get out of it is great. The readings are interesting and Doctor Urban makes the sections interesting with his humor and interesting commentary on the texts in class.
The preceptor is really the best part of the class!
They will likely hate it and struggle through it and it is questionable how much they will learn. But it's mandatory, so try to make the best of it.
Dr. Urban is an amazing teacher and the plays we read are really fun!
Dr. Shelton is a fantastic teacher; I think this is definitely one of the best Expos subjects and I heartily recommend it. Discussions are lively and interesting and you'll learn a lot about writing and murder.
It's not too much work, the preceptor is really nice, the reading is important, if you need help ask for it.  It's not a difficult class if you know how to write an essay.
Take it; it will beat expectations.
This is a class in which effort counts. Section with the preceptor is an amazing experience, especially if your other classes are large lectures.
It helps.
You will gain a much better understanding of biomedical ethics and also how to analyze these texts with a philosophical point of view.
This class's topic was very interesting and a good way to learn about writing
The course material is very interesting, and Professor Weitzel is fantastic.
Ellie, the instructor, is a very good teacher. She's energetic and really helpful.
do the readings!
Be prepared to read.  A lot.
It starts off slow and confusing but it gets much better.  Professor Urban is a really interesting and refreshingly blunt professor
This class helps you think critically about your own writing and helps you improve your writing skills tremendously.
This preceptor is excellent. Everyone has to take Expos, so you might as well have it be taught well and learn a lot about how to write.
try to enjoy the books and other works you read; this way writing the essays would be easier
I think a lot of students complain about Expository Writing and say that it has not taught them much. In my opinion, Expository Writing has taught me a lot because I have put a lot of work into it. While I did complain about Expos and the workload, when I look back on it, this was one of my most useful classes because it helped me with forming and solidifying an argument in my papers.
It's a graduation requirement, and it's not too painful. I learned a good deal about writing.
Don't wait until the night before to start your first draft. All-nighters are not fun.
This course is a must for anyone going to college
This class is very interesting if you are interested in race relations and how people deal with racial issues.
The subjects and readings presented in this course were very interesting and relevant to the real world.
Don't take this class unless you like pondering luck and the moral implications it has on our lives
Liz Greenspan is awesome.
Do all the work, it helps prepare you
I would tell future students to choose a section with a topic that really interests them. If not, the class will be a drag and you won't get much out of it.
Believe it or not but you will learn new techniques about writing in this class
The class is very interesting; we consider being human in many different ways.We may read quite a few things from famous writers and philosophers, but what's really important is learning what you think and coming to your own conclusions. Finally, what makes this course amazing is the preceptor who brings so much enthusiasm and passion to the subject and her students.
The reading is sometimes really interesting and other times really not.  Regardless, the essay topics tend to be difficult to write about and altogether not engaging because "the mystery of identity" is such an intangible topic.
I would tell them that while there is not a lot of reading in terms of quantity but that some of the reading is dense and includes lots of philosophy.
very good class, you should like it because even if you do not like, you have no chance to escape from it anyway...
Don't pay attention to grades in Expos, because the grading system is absurd. Just try to become a better writer and make sure to get a class with a good teacher, because it makes all the difference.
great choice for expos
Interesting topic, good things to think about. It's at times frustrating because the dichotomous, post-structuralist nature of the ideas involved makes taking a stance to write the papers annoying and difficult.
This course is really excellent, with really interesting readings and a very accommodating preceptor.
I would tell future students that their writing will improve a lot from taking this course. I would also tell them that is difficult to get a good grade, which is not as important as the preparation it provides for writing undergraduate papers.
Come to class with an open mind and a willingness to engage in conversation and debate. Read all the course readings and think critically about them! You won't be disappointed. The class is a great intro to topics of historiography, and you will find yourself applying the lessons you learned in this class to many other history classes and papers.
if they have the slightest interest in photography, take it!
This is a great Expos class to take! I actually really enjoyed this class and did not suffer through Expos like some of my friends. The readings are all very good and easy to finish. The papers are all straightforward and Jeff provides lots of helpful critique. He's very accessible outside of class and will answer questions over email. Class discussions are very fun. Overall, it made my experience with Expos less painful than I thought it would be.
Only get into this play if you're interested in studying sexuality and very bizarre, abstract plays.
Do not be afraid to ask your teacher for help on your essay.
The readings are crucial to success.
start your work early
As exposes go, I have no doubt that this is one of the best. If you're going to learn about writing, don't try to pick up helpful tips while talking about something else, learn about writing directly. That being said, it being the best expos available doesn't mean it won't be one of your least engaging courses. But until they abolish the expos requirement, you could definitely do worse than reading interesting essayists and then having to dissect every unintentional nuance they make.
You really have no choice. You have to take this.
If you really like this particular topic (Victorian England) then you will enjoy the course.  Otherwise, pick a different Expos if you can.
TAKE THIS CLASS. OR ANY CLASS THAT CONSTANTINO IS TEACHING. She's hands-down amazing. Expos isn't always about taking the most interesting class--it's about having a preceptor that makes you want to come to class. That's Jill.
provokative and helpful, nice to talk about poetry, but a lot more work than other expos classes
do the readings otherwise you'll have to crunch for essays and you wont enjoy them as much.
You will get a LOT of bang for your buck in this class - the rewards personally, intellectually, and academically are HUGE relative to the amount of work put in. It will be valuable to you not only in terms of writing ability (which it will improve), but also in terms of thinking and intellectual growth.
This course is interesting if you like Victorian era literature and enjoy close reading. The essays are definitely challenging, but with hard work you can succeed in the course.
It was good, but I thought the class would cover recent murder cases more than it did.
Zachary is enthusiastic and funny and it makes for a good class environment.
This is an excellent class with a great professor.  The material covered and read are all very interesting, especially for those ho have an interest or questions about their identity.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time and effort on your essays.
Not to expect the same grades that they received on writing assignments in high school. Expos is not meant to boost your self esteem, but rather to make you realize that writing requires planning and time.
blah
Apparently there's more reading in this expos section than in most others, but it's pretty interesting and definitely manageable.
If you don't like poetry, and/or feel like you don't want to spend the next 6 months analyzing it.. don't take this class. Otherwise, go for it.
The pain and drudgery frequently associated with Expos is not, surprisingly, an essential part of the course. This semester made me realize that there IS a way to successfully address mandatory writing requirements in a way that is worthwhile, engaging, and even encouraging.
Expos itself is not the best class, but Being American as a section and Dr. Laura Adams are great
very relaxed and interesting way to learn essential essay writing techniques. the preceptor is fabulous as is the course material.
Your grade in this class is solely dependent on how well you do on the first paper. Every paper after that will go up 1/3rd a letter grade so you can feel like your writing is improving. Put as much effort as you can into the first paper.
Since you have to do Expos, this is an interesting section with great reading!
If you are interesting in concentrating in Sociology or have any special interest on labor movements and relations take it, if not, don't.
The material is definitely topic specific so if you have no interest in this particular subject matter and don't want to engage with it then this class is definitely not the way to go.
In this class, you will read lots of interesting plays, discuss them, and write about them. This class is about the plays-- it doesn't teach you how to write
Take this class, it is wonderful!
The preceptor is fun and energetic and the material we read is extremely interesting and thought provoking. Working with poetry is a little different than working with prose and other literary forms, but it definitely allows you to better understand another lesser known component of the power of language.
You have to be willing to really maul things over on a complex, analytical level. If you put in the work, your writing will improve noticeably.
This section of Expos was fantastic and has great discussions that are well moderated by the preceptor. He really challenges you about your view by constantly playing devil's advocate.
mostly about learning to write, but also a good introduction to framework of modern art
Class is lecture-based. None of my friends would find the subject matter interesting.
This was an excellent Expos class, even if you are not normally someone who is considering majoring in a field related to global affairs. It is a good intro to the subject if you ever had any interest in globalization.
This isn't a course to explore the intersections of pop, shock, and schlock. If you want a course that lets you fully examine a particular topic, pick something else.
Yes, the subject matter was very engaging and the classroom sessions were great!
Expos really stinks, but Jane is a good preceptor with lots of good insight so this is a good section to choose.  The topics are also very interesting.
This course is amazing! It is so much fun!
Its hard, you won't always do as well as you want no matter how hard you work, but in terms of expos, its a great class!
Probably one of the best Expos sections out there - definitely go for it.
Great preceptor makes this class interesting and fun. It is something you will look forward to every week.
It's not bad, but the preceptor isn't really so much interested in shaping you as a writer as she just wants to crank out some thesis-writing machines.
listen to Jane! and be prepared for class.
You'll live. Don't sign up for this section.
Having a good preceptor is key.
Have a strong interest in race in relation to blacks and whites. Other races really aren't touched upon as much.
Taking this class was possibly the best thing to happen to my writing since I picked up a pencil as a child.
This class is probably one of the best Expos sections offered--the preceptor is great and cares a lot about his students, and the course material was really fulfilling.
There is no reason for me to recommend expos because it's a requirement, but I love love love the topics of Pop Shock and Schlock.
The readings are easy to read and quite interesting, however the class itself is a lot of work and Prof. Urban has rigid expectations that, if not met to their full capacity, make it difficult to score well on essays.
Even if you're not especially interested in art, the quality of instruction makes this particular section worth it.
Like I said before...You will need psychological preparation; the willingness to delve into the depths of absolute, mind-shattering, stomach-turning confusion, and find your way back out again :) That's the only way it'll be worth it.
If the topic interests you, it's a GREAT experience.  Even if it doesn't, Weitzel is a great teacher.  Still though, a tough class in terms of material density and quantity if it does not interest you.
Only take this if you have an interest in ancient TEXT.  Not just the topic, but the actual text.
Very interesting novels and films, great discussions and great feedback from the teacher who is always ready to help. I recommend this course with enthusiasm.
Though they may not give you the Q-rating for every preceptor, Stephen Larsen is the best.
Very good. Make sure you are interested in the subject matter, though, since a lot of emphasis is put on the texts.
Stephen Larsen is a terrific teacher and will make Expos a painless (and even fun!) experience instead of what is usually described as a slog or bore.
It's a great class in a field not at all well represented at Harvard.
I highly recommend this class to anyone interested in learning more about how the world works and how disparities arise in our world.
The topics for the three papers in this class were really interesting.
I thought the topic was a little broad and unfocused, but it led to interesting discussion and interpretation of the course. Jane is a really great teacher, always making jokes and keeping us participating in conversation. Her comments were very valuable and thoughtful and she is very organized in and out of class.
I never really thought about our American national identity before this class.  It really forced me to think about who we are as a nation.
I think it's probably a good choice among the Expos classes. The writing assignments are not particularly fun, but it's a concrete subject, which makes it more focused than some other Expos classes. I learned a lot from Dr. Urban. He gives effective presentations and useful feedback. He's very smart. Class time is really fun; we had interesting discussions. It's a great opportunity to take a class on something that you might not get another chance to take at Harvard or elsewhere.
It is a tough class but it improves your writing.
Philosophical writing improves like its not even funny--if you put your all into the course.
I would say that this class can be difficult and sometimes intimidating, but the knowledge gained is well worth the time and effort involved.
Moral Life is a great class if you like to take on difficult questions about life.
The readings and class discussions are very interesting, but the essay topics are pretty uninspiring.  I had a lot of writer's block.
A great class for those who would like to spend a large chuck of time doing independent research.
My section was not terribly interesting and was my 7th choice.  If you aren't interested in what your writing, the writing won't be interesting. It's just not going to be good.  So if you get a low ranked choice for expos, fight like hell to get out of it and get into something you're more interested in.  Don't be passive.
I LOVED EXPOS! You get to read interesting stories, look at art, and watch movies that you probably would want to watch anyway. This class was such a pleasure to take.
Of the expos sections, I think this one by far had the most interesting course material.
I learned a lot about different writing skills and standards, and about myself as a writer as well.
Diversity is an extremely interesting and controversial topic. This course will teach you things you never knew about race in America.
You learn a bit about writing and a bit about modern art, but that's where it stops. It's really unfortunate that the course couches a writing course in a modern art class or a modern art course in a writing class, depending on your point of view. My only regret is that this course couldn't go further with the material in either subject matter because it tried to accomplish two goals.
The material may be a bit jarring and it is graded more difficultly than the other Expos courses.
Take conference suggestions very seriously; go to office hours
Make to only apply to Expos classes with a topic you are interested in.
jco is awesome!
There's not a lot of reading and the workload is pretty light.
If you want an Expos section with engaging reading and a thoughtful, helpful preceptor, take "Work in the Modern World". It's that simple.
It's not as bad as people say.
Treat this class like a typical class with a constant workload rather than one with hard work now and then.
Not many people appreciate the expository writing requirement at Harvard College. That being said, cities and globalization is one of the best choices out there. The class not only educates you on a permanent world issue, but is taught well and strengthens you writing. I was afraid that expository writing would make me write about poems or picture, but I ended up finding a class that was just right for me.
That the topic is really cool and interesting to write about.
Poetry at the Limit was really well done. It taught us about writing through the lens of poetry; it did not just do one or the other, because the wriitng aspects were integrated into our studies of poetry. I really enjoyed this class.
If you are interested in anthropology in any way, just take this class!
Professor Chen is intimidating at first because he grades your first papers very harshly. He really is your advocate, however, and he helps improve your writing a lot.
This class is a fun and interesting way to complete the Expos requirement.
I think this is a direct, logical, and relatively painless way to fulfill the expos requirement. Professor Larsen is a good preceptor.
You get as much out of this class as you put into it! Also, my opinion may be colored by the fact that we had a good praeceptor - so ask upperclassmen and classmates which praeceptors are the best. The quality of the teacher makes ALL the difference!!!
I feel like my writing did improve, but it might have been more work than was worthwhile.
Once you get past the first essay, the course becomes much more interesting.
Expos doesn't have to suck. Sound, Noise and Music was my favorite class this semester.
One's experience in expos seems to depend entirely on the preceptor. Prof. Cordell is excellent, and the course material is very interesting. Based on reports of other expos sections, I think this is definitely one of the better ones.
Philosophy with Preceptor D'Cruz is fun. Expository writing is boring. It tastes like medicine pill.
AMAZING. You cannot pick a better expos. Jill is a great preceptor and teaches amazingly.
Take this class! The preceptor is amazing, the material is interesting and not the workload is not overwhelming.
You might get tired of the whole writing thing if you decide to get the expos 10 and 20 combo, but overall the preceptors and the topics discussed are really interesting. Also, the small classroom atmosphere is really great.
Not nearly as hard as other Expos classes.  It's a very interesting course, but you won't learn as much about writing as you might in other Expos classes.
Try to take a subject that you are interested in. It will be a lot less painful if you love the subject.
Even if you deem yourself to be a writer, this class will enable you to improve your writing skills and to develop a more sophisticated argumentative tone. I certainly encourage it. Additionally, the opportunity to work closely with a professor in a small class is an invaluable experience.
If you are interested in art criticism and theories of art, then you would like the course.  However, if you are not as in to theory, then you might want to take something else.
The worst class you will take at Harvard.
I like to graduate. Therefore I like to take Expos 20.
Really interesting course for both improving your writing and learning about technology from a literary viewpoint.
Expos pushes you to think critically about your writing.
Jason is a great preceptor and the course material is interesting. Definitely take this class!!
This class does improve your writing.
I would suggest that students take it if they are into poetry.  However, you can't really chose your expos course, so this question is dumb.
Too many readings
Do not take the feedback on your essays for granted. Your instructor's comments can provide insight that you would not otherwise be aware of and help your writing reach that next level. Take advantage of the consultation time you have with your instructor to discuss your ideas for your paper and identify those elements your argument may lack.
Jill really provides a stimulating classroom environment and great feedback, but can grade rather hard.
democracy in america is an amazing expos class! definitely take it!
loved the course, interesting, fun
This course was challenging in terms of trying to figure out how to tie the essays to the media being examined.  It also did not cover technology in the same way I had expected.  It does not only focus on modern technology.
This is not an easy course, but for those students who are interested in philosophy, medicine or bioethics, the subject matter is extremely rewarding, and the challenges of writing a good paper on the topics involved certainly pay off in the end.
It is a lot of philosophy
The best class I took all freshman year.  For those taking Life Sciences 1b, it puts what implications medicine and technological advances could have on the human race into perspective.
I loved the fact that with very little work, I still learned a lot.  The homework was far from strenuous and allowed us to relax and have rewarding class discussions.
Great discussion, great preceptor.
The professor is likeable and down-to-earth
It's a fun expos class if you like sound, music, and noise!
Let students pick their own topic instead of using the lottery. If there aren't enough instructors, hire more for that topic and cut back on the ones that dont attract students.  I got my the choice, and it was not enjoyable at all.
This is a good course with a relatively light, and easy to complete, reading load.  The essay prompts are broad, which makes assignments easy to complete.  The grading is difficult, but mostly fair.
follow advice, from the start
Tales of Murder is a great section. Lots of fun, and Emily Shelton is awesome.
I think that the grading is based not on what you say or the content of your ideas but on how closely the preceptor likes your concept.
Make sure to do the readings, otherwise class will be really boring.
It's hard, but you get what you put into it.
If you get a topic that you like, this class is very interesting. I got stuck in "Reading Photographs", so it sucked for me.
This expos section is by far one of the best offered. It's not too difficult, but at the same time, challenges you in a way that you would never expect.
This is totally the best expos class.
If you like science and are interested in the future, you should take this expos.
Take this course. It's important.
The subject matter is interesting enough and the feedback from conferences and drafts is thorough enough to make corrections and get an elusive expos "A".
The class offers fascinating reading and viewing material, and while the approach may seem formulaic at times, it is a generally valuable experience in improving writing skills.
The fact that all the readings are concise makes the first two papers easy, but the research paper is tough due to the limitations of only shakespearian literature.
Everyone has to take Expos 20, so even if you hate writing, Work in the Modern World is an interesting topic with a good preceptor.
The class provides the opportunity to read shorter assignments than other classes in the Expository Writing program, which allows for deeper and more interesting analysis and discussion.
That Jill is one of the best preceptors and that she makes expos a likable subject
Excellent preceptor
Expos gets a really bad reputation; this section has reasonable amounts of work, interesting readings, and is very well-taught.
If you're interested in the topic, it's not bad, but I hope you weren't hoping to solve any questions about "originality." If you're not, then you may as well take it rather than ruin something you are interested in by writing bad essays about it.
Expos can be a very fun exciting class, it comes down to the section you end up in and Luck is definitely a good choice.
If you love to sink your teeth into a philosophical debate, The Moral Life might be the class for you.
Don't take this course if you don't like taking about photography or writing about photography.  This course is not about PHOTOGRAPHY, it's about what PHOTOGRAPHY MEANS: these are completely different things...
you do not need to know much about photography beforehand, although it would be helpful.
It is frustrating, but your writing is very improved by the end, regardless of some of the agony you may feel during the process.
The topic of luck was an interesting one. Expos is a required course, but I would suggest to take it seriously because it is a great way to improve critical writing skills.
The readings are consistently interesting and in class discussions are always fun and informative. I was extremely pleased with this course.
If you love Shakespeare, this is an excellent course that will challenge your thoughts on literature and will change the way you previously analyzed Shakespearean texts. This is a challenging course for even the most dedicated Shakespeare fan.
I'm assuming here that I'm describing the Democracy in America section, since it'd be silly to recommend something that's mandatory. This particular section was great and much better than I expected. Most people don't seem to like their expos classes, but I think this one was interesting and the preceptor is great. In fairness, I am more political science-oriented, so that helps, but I'm sure there are plenty of others who feel the same way.
This class is very small and interactive. There are always lively discussions and the preceptor really cares about every student.
Best expos there is.  You will be infinitely glad you were lotteried into this section.
You'd be hard-pressed to find another expos topic as interesting and engaging as Deception.
Eliezra is really one of the best preceptors you can have if you are really looking to improve your writing. Her comments and conferences are incredibly helpful and she is really adept at figuring out with what you're struggling and how to improve those areas of your writing that need the most work.
Best expos class.
You'll write more tactfully after taking this course.
If you enjoy theory and independence and not very much structure, this is the class for you. If you want things to be concrete and not abstract and enjoy some guidance, pick a different expos class.
Tales of Murder is a great Expos class. It's always interesting and really gives you the freedom to do what you want with the materials when writing your essay.  There are always options for what readings or other evidence to work with.
be ready to work and be challenged extensively on your work, but well worth it.
This was a very interesting class that explored a variety of different topics that all linked to the central theme of originality. The material and overall subject are very intriguing and thought provoking.
This is a fabulous class. Never did I think expos would be one of my favorite classes this semester!
Don't take this class if you're not interested in the historical component as much as you are in the literary.
Learning to write is important. Don't expect Expos to help much.
This class has a very interesting topic, but only take it if you are willing to read challenging course material and analyze scholarly arguments with a critical eye. Also, this class focuses on analyzing scholarly arguments, and helps builds this skill, so if you plan on being a lit major, then this type of writing is not as useful.
My preceptor was an amazing mentor, truly enlightening the writing process for me.  You'll be amazed with how much you learn if you need their advice!  I got great feedback, my course topic was so intriguing, and each class has a great little community since the sections are so small.
It's not as scary as it seems.
I loved the subject. But the essays were pretty tough.
You need to have a very strong interest in moral philosophy; otherwise, you will not enjoy the readings very much and you will DEFINITELY hate essay 2.
Fascinating engagement with modern-day ethical dilemmas.
A great way to get better at writing
the course is challenging, but allows you to develop critical writing skills
This is a wonderful class with an excellent instructor. It was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard so far. If Michael taught other classes at Harvard I would definitely sign up for them!
It a good expos course. The professor is fair and gives helpful feedback while challenging you to make strong original arguements.
While Rachel's grading is certainly not generous, which of course motivates a considerable amount of frustration, I am aware of the areas of my writing that require attention.
It's fun and interesting, and you'll enjoy doing the work.
When one takes expos in the Spring semester, there is inevitably much buzz from the fall semester students, most of which is very negative. Almost dreading expos upon entering, it could not have been more different. The course is challenging-in fact, rather difficult-but it was so throughly engaging and helpful in so many facets of learning. While the writing is centered on historical fiction, the methodology of writing was explained so clearly that it could actually apply to any field of work.
The description sounds better than the class actually is.
The professor is interesting, but don't expect it to be a fantastic class, because underneath it all it's really just about writing.
Expos as an institution is a failed experiment in my opinion
Out of all the Expos to take, this is the best one.
As an expos class, this has a great preceptor and is a great topic. If you have to fulfill a requirement, this is the best class to take.
I would recommend it to those who are interested in American Slavery. Even though I would recommend it to everybody, simply because Dr. McMillian is very helpful, I know some people in the class who simply did not like the subject because they were not interested in the material.
This course is not really reading intensive, however, there are alot of outside assignments that are helpful in you practicing for the essays for each unit.  The instructors comments and conferences are very helpful.  Like any expos class, however, it does involve a lot of work.
you have to really enjoy poetry and analytical writing.
The class on Diversity makes Expos interesting. Instead of writing pointless essays on why Thoreau put a comma in a specific place or used the word "path" instead of "road", you're thinking and writing about real, relevant issues.
Expos is billed as being a dull class that's all about the mechanics of writing. My experience was quite the opposite -- discussion was centered around the reading, and there was minimal lecturing involved. The paper assignments were open-ended and interesting, and the feedback was focused and helpful.
If you are interested in learning about the phenomenon of murder and like freedom with your writing, this is the class for you.
This course is in a very specific field of interest, be sure that what materials are listed in the syllabus are topics of interest for you, otherwise this course could become very frustrating.
Make sure you do the reading BEFORE class.
Keep editing and re-editing drafts. Meet with the teacher as much as possible and make sure your finished product is truly refined
It's a requirement, it's work, and it's not fun to talk about CONSTANTLY. Do the work, stop whining, and get the fuck over it. Just cater to the needs of your TF and things will go smoothly.And Damon Krukowski is one of the coolest, brightest teachers I've ever had. He makes the class, which is already pretty amazingly fun, even more fun with his enthusiasm.
In expos, the key to a good class are the sections. You're lucky if you get a good preceptor and good classmates. I learned much less from course materials and assignments than people.
"Democracy in America" is a great expository writing class for those interested in governmental studies. While helping to improve your writing, you also learn much about the historic, democratic process of America.
Great class, especially for people interested in art (modern art, to be more specific). You don't have to have an art-related concentration to like art, either, it can just be one of the many interests for you. But, if it is something that intrigues you, this course definitely furthers your knowledge of modern art and the many critics and philosophies that thrived during those times.
tests your writing skills, if you have any!
This is a highly interesting and engaging course that deals with issues from a broad span of humanities and social sciences disciplines, providing an opportunity to engage with intriguing texts and films and to explore compelling topics during essay writing. The preceptor is great!
This class gives you some of the basics of writing.
The experiences you will gain in this class will tremendously boost your skills and confidence as a writer.
This course will teach you about writing at Harvard, specifically writing for this professor, but not necessarily good writing, and certainly not real-life writing.
marlon's section is the best. straight up.
If you like history or are interested in white-black relations, you will find the readings and papers were interesting. If you want debate about these subjects though, look elsewhere - it will be very much a personal learning experience.
The subject of historical fiction may become monotonous after the first two essays, but the readings and preceptor are very interesting.
This course is great for students who excel in analyzing literature.
great teacher, fascinating reading - sometimes you'll stop and wonder if you're really writing about this stuff for credit. Really cool. A great way to fulfill Expos requirement.
Dr. Chen is a very fair grader, so as long as you put the time into the essays, you should be able to receive a worthy grade.
The preceptor is the highlight of this class. I wasn't in love with the material or the assignments, but Rachel's essay comments and individual conferences made me a better writer this term.
This course is very much humanities; I wouldn't recommend it to anyone in the sciences.
It's about as good of an expos class as you could ever hope to get. The class itself is very interesting, and Ken Urban is really fun, entertaining and interesting. I learned a lot about theater from it. And maybe my writing even improved.
you have to take expos, but this section was enjoyable
It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, but ultimately, Expos does the job.
Not as bad as people say it is.
I didn't realize this is a philosophy class, but I'm so glad that it was. I learned how to think according to different theories and how to compare those to each other, and I really enjoyed this class.
This class requires a lot of time working on small assignments, although there is not much reading.
Take 'Deception' it is by far the best expos course!
You don't have much choice, do you? It's not as bad as people will tell you, though.
This class was a great way to improve on your writing skills.  It can be a little bit time consuming; however, the reading and writing exercises were all directly related to the essays, so I felt that they were worthwhile.
Expos 20: Reading Photographs develops writing skills while taking an interesting look at photography.  The writing assignments are very interesting, and Andrea Volpe is a great preceptor.
This class is very helpful for improving writing structure and being aware of writing elements.
In the future, I would like to tell students that the readings are really interesting and the discussions in the classroom are usually very helpful in developing your essay. However, grades you receive are pretty limited. You should not expect to receive a decent grade.
Is this class SO different from Rock 'n' Roll High School?  Yes.  But it is nevertheless a very awesome colloquium of students interested in modern music led with great gusto by true Rock 'n' Roller Damon Krukowski.
Always make an argument whether you fully believe it or not.
While I really enjoyed Rebecca and the actual topic, I think that Expos in general was not very helpful for the concentration that I wish to take at Harvard. It was great for analyzing literature and other pieces but not very good for anything else.
This is one of the most painless and most engaging and interesting Expos classes out there -- definitely take it!  Jeff is amazing, and your writing and comprehension will improve so much.
Be prepared to work for this class.  While a mandatory writing class doesn't sound at all interesting, it is actually really helpful.  Be advised that the more work you put into the class, the more you will get out of it.
It's a relatively painless way to get your expos done, especially if you don't like literature/arts.
I would tell students that this class helps you prepare for other course.
Great professor. Learned a lot.
This is a good class for pre-meds and people interested in bioethics. It also helps with college writing.
I came in thinking I was a good writer.  I found out I was wrong.  Now I think I'm a decent writer, but only because of this class.
This course challenges you to question your own moral and ethical standards.
The discussions are general and don't require any knowledge of a specific field.
Although I wasn't too fond of the course itself, it was not as bad as many people make it out to be.
Does not improve writing (its stated goal), and while the material is occasionally interesting, it is presented in such a way that it is not analyzed in depth or intellectually stimulating or enriching.
Jane is a fantastic preceptor.
Be prepared ro revise your work multiple times.
Licia (though unfortunately will not be teaching next year) is very understanding and gives gerat feedback!
At first, there was a lot of busy work, but by the end of the semester, as you gain more "independence", the class really becomes much more manageable and focuses better on the essentials that it is trying to teach.
The philosophy discussions in class were very interesting. There were different perspectives from the students and prof. Most, but not all, of the readings were interesting. However, at times, I was not sure what the essay questions were asking. Pre-writing exercises could have been better and more specific. The prof did not focus enough on teaching us how to write and on helping us improve our drafts.
Initially, the constant need to do work with readings, prelims, drafts, and final papers is awful because there is ALWAYS something you need to do for expos. But even though you'll hate it, it ends up being very helpful as it forces you to really develop your ideas and produce thoughtful, mature writing.
The preceptor was the best part of the class. She was very enthusiastic about the course and helped get everyone of her students into it as well. The class was enjoyable but it also required a lot of work and time outside of class.
There is a lot of writing, even though there are only 3 essay it feels like 6 because you pretty much have to rewrite each draft completely.
Though the class is difficult, you learn a lot about strong academic writing and what is expected of you here at Harvard.
Don't take this class. It sounds interesting, but you will be disappointed in the grades and classwork feedback.
Take advantage of this opportunity to get expert feedback on your writing.
I think the TF makes or breaks Expos.  Jeff was awesome; therefore, I loved this class.  Also, choosing an interesting topic is very important.
pay attention in class for essay ideas
This was my 8th out of 8 choice, so I did not have high expectations, yet I thoroughly enjoyed it. If you are interested in exploring different media (not just analyzing literature) then take this course, as it was incredibly interesting to write papers about literature, photographs, and movies.
Creating Monsters sparks many interesting questions regarding human fears and monstrosity. It also forced me to overcome my phobia of scary movies.
It's expos, what do you expect?
American Slavery managed to take a topic as interesting and multi-faceted as slavery and morph it into a two-dimensional, dispassionate, fragmented study.  Class discussions were poorly moderated and, at times, painful.  Avoid this section of expos 20 at all costs.
This class helps a great deal, not only in helping you learn how to write but also in helping you learn how to view everyday, real-world issues such as the influence race has on people's lives in the United States and in Brazil.
Andy Warhol is a loser.
Class discussions on the course material are really interesting. The readings are fun and not at all overwhelming. The individual writing conferences and feedback are very helpful.
The class was rather helpful but sort of tedious and frustrating at times. You just sort of have to get through it.
That it is interesting but sometimes boring, but that you should only take this class if interested in philosophy.
I'm sorry you have to take expos.
never forget COUNTERARGUMENT! and the brilliance of your thesis does not matter as much as your execution of all the facets they require in a "good" paper
you have to take it. hold your nose.
This is a good expos class to take if you do not want to spend the entire term on one particular topic or type or essay. I liked it because we read a variety of styles and I did not get bored with the material.
You have to take an expos class, might as well take a class that will force you to write about a topic which is always in need of discussion.
Since everyone has to take Expos, might as well take a fun section, and Love & Power in Shakespeare was a good section.
The class was hard work but provided interesting food for thought.
Do not take this class if you cannot think abstractly.  Even if you have abstract ideas, don't take the class if you cannot dumb down the ideas.
I have heard many horror stories about expos, but Professor Wandler's class was honestly one of the most helpful, inspiring classes I have ever taken. If you are open to improvement you will have an exciting, productive semester. I feel like I wasted so many years in high school english; why couldn't I have just taken this class!
Expos 20: Contemporary Theatre is great if you are passionate about theater. Ken Urban is amazing. But it may be hard to gear yourself up for writing the essays if theater isn't your thing.
Although daunting and time consuming, expos will help you even if you think you're already the best writer out there.  It will teach you how to approach essay writing from a new angle.
Do not take any course with this teacher.  I enjoy writing and philosophy, but I have an aversion to both because of the way that this course was taught.
This class requires of you a considerable interest in American Slavery.
A great opportunity to analyze and better understand the basic characteristics and components of our identity as American citizens.
I was not planning to like Expos, but wound up having a great experience and definitely improved my writing substantially.
I would recommend this class to my peers.
The description was misleading--it gave the impression that we'd be watching a slew of really awesome movies (Fight Club, Memento, etc.) In reality, we only ended up watching specific scenes from the movie in class. However, I would still recommend this class. It seems that as Expos classes go, this one was fairly engaging.
Get ready to enjoy a memorable experience with a memorable professor!
This course was interesting to me, but I don't know how many other people would enjoy it. Also, be ready to have your essays slaughtered - in the end it makes you a much better writer.
This course in very helpful in appreciating how much technology impacts our lives.
Be prepared to change your high school method of writing.
This course offers stimulating discussions on how technology changes who we are and expands the student's writing abilities.
This is a worthwhile expos class that really teaches how to write and make an argument.
The topic I chose was amazing--Creating Monsters.  I realize some people want to take a super profound expos class, but I chose mine because I thought the topic would be fun and it really was.  I recommend this specific expos section for other freshmen.
Preceptor Greenspan is very kind and helpful. I would strongly recommend any freshman to take this class because it is a nice introduction to your freshman year. And in this time of increasing globalization, knowing the history and definition of a global society is very applicable to the real world.
I actually have already suggested that my roommates look into it if it's offered in the Spring. It's not an easy class; I quickly found that the writing I was used to in high school would not cut it in Expos 20. But after the initial shock, I found it quite refreshing to be challenged and to really have the opportunity to improve my writing.
If you love the movie Blade Runner, take this Expos.  If you love art films, take this Expos.  If you really don't want to read novels, take this Expos.  Otherwise, pick a different one, as I wish I had.
The topics for this class are extremely hard to write.
It can be a pain, but it's probably worth it.  You'll think more deeply about your writing and your writing should improve.
Prepare to work your ass off.
the class has a light workload, a helpful preceptor, and interesting sources for writing. I would warn students that it is often a bit boring
Excellent class! The challenge is worth the sense of accomplishment you feel when you complete the course or tackle each essay! Very insightful!
The readings are excellent but the method of teaching is sometimes vague. Terms such as "motive" "question" "problem" are over-used and under-explained, so you're never quite sure what it is you're supposed to be doing.
The material is interesting and the teacher is thoughtful and works hard at her job.
I have full confidence that this is one of the best expository writing classes available. Get ahead on your essays when you can, think deeply about the writing topics without being afraid to change your mind about thesis or perspective, and have fun on your journey to becoming a better writer!
This expos class was extremely interesting and engaging. The discussions were always thought provoking and centered around differing views. Most of my classmates disliked expos, but I found expos to be my favorite class this semester.
It is important to have an interest in Victorian literature in order to thoroughly enjoy this class. I can not imagine having fun in this class without having the slightest interest on the topic.
It's not as bad as it seems and it will greatly improve your writing.
It taught me to engage in text, both my own and that of other writers, from a different vantage point.  I learned how to much more closely evaluate a writer's voice and opinion within the text.
The class readings for deception are difficult, but the effort involved is worthwhile.
Compared to the other expos sections, it was amazing.
prepare to die.
It's a great course, enjoy it.
It is a wonderful class with a very interesting subject matter and an excellent preceptor.
that the unit 1 is the best. and also that the readings for unit 2 are hard, so take your time to go through them thoroughly.
you'll get more out of it if you do all the readings
If you like poetry, you'll like this class
It is a perfect amount of work at a reasonable pace. The teacher is really approachable and is willing to help when she can.
It may seem ridiculous at the beginning, but could potentially be helpful in the realm of academic, and specifically Harvard, writing. Just grin and bear it.
it is challenging but rewarding when you learn your strengths and weaknesses in writing
Participate and view this as a chance to grow. Approach this in earnest. Don't complain. It's all in your state of mind.
make sure you really like te topic
It's useful in changing one's mentality from focused on high-school type writing to college-style writing, and in revealing and working with the challenges in the latter.
You should be interested in the subject. The work load would be very unwelcome otherwise.
This class is graded much more strictly than the other sections.  In addition, the essays are longer and more difficult.
Try to just write what you think your preceptor wants to hear.
The topic is wonderful, and the work is rewarding, but the grade will be hard to get.
possibly my favorite class this semester, which is incredible given that its an expos course.  i really learned to write better and more confidently.  aside from writing, my appreciation of modern music was greatly enhanced
-Although this topic may seem dull, the conversations that arise from love and power in shakespeare are not only interesting, but mind-changing too.  It's completely mind-boggling how many times the ideas of love and power reiterate throughout Shakespeare's plays.
Expos sucks, but everyone has to take it, so at least you have people to commiserate with.
It is really interesting and challenges your moral stands.
This topic is unique and interesting.  I know I had not considered art from a sociological perspective beforehand.
Study hard, pay attention.
This class is one of the best expos classes. It's not the easiest but it is probably the most interesting and varied. It has assignments that really widen your horizons by asking you to analyze not just fiction but also photography, non-fiction, and film. Because of this variety, this class is also probably one of the most challenging. For students who love to write.
This is a good expos course for improving writing techniques that could use revised reading assignments in order to improve quality of discussion and thought.
Take only if you really enjoy Shakespeare and are willing to put in the work required to understand Shakespeare's language.
Expos in general may not be great, but this specific class was a lot of fun, and very different from other english classes you may have to take.
Good course overall, somewhat dull at points, but hey, it's Expos.
You will have to do a lot of revising to extend the depth of theses but the final product is worth it.
Try not to procrastinate on essay writing
The class is painless but you may not learn as much as you hoped.
Hard but helpful - grades aren't given out easily in this class, but it will be a great learning experience about critical thinking skills in writing
I did not expect the class to improve my writing very much, but I found the advice how to improve the content of my writing rather than just style or structure to be incredibly useful and beneficial.
Although you hear horror stories about Expos, it's really not that bad.
This a great class with a thoughtful, caring preceptor and a totally awesome selection of materials to discuss.
Awesome course that really teaches you how to write a fantastic essay. Plus, it's not bound by a certain subject like the other Expos courses, so if you're looking for a general interest Expos class, this is for you.
take it if you want a great, fulfilling expos class and dont mind reading A LOT of volume.
Jim is a fantastic preceptor who will both entertain and inform, and the class topics are very interesting. It can be difficult, though.
It's a rite of passage.
The readings are excellent, but class discussions could be very dull.
This course is very interesting yet very challenging. It is not the assignments that are challenging. This class is intellectually challenging.
The class is difficult and the grading is tough. But the assignments are different and highlight specific, important skills. It will help when writing other humanities essays.
Make sure to choose a class that you are passionate about.  It can be difficult to write papers even when you have a good grasp of the material.
The teacher is awesome. Andrea is personable and understands the photography well.
I would say that this course does try to help you become a better writer, rather than try to emphasize too much on the topic of the section. The preceptor is very accessible and very helpful if you seek her out.
If writing comes easily for you this class could be a good fit because then you would have time to focus on other aspects of the course like the readings.
It's a requirement, so try to get into a section that you'll enjoy. The essays can actually be enjoyable to write if you are actually interested in what you're writing about.
This was the most coveted expos class and for good reason. The subject matter required mostly horror readings such as Dracula.
this is an excellent class and the teacher asks provocative questions
If you like photography, I strongly recommend this course for the great teacher, interesting reading, class discussions, and freedom to shape your essay to fit your interests.
The preceptor is nice and helpful, but the content can be redundant from unit to unit.
Although this class was not my top choice for Expository Writing, I am extremely glad that I was placed into this course.  Compared to other Expository Writing classes the work load is relatively light, yet I feel that I learned more than many of my peers.  Owen Chen is an enthusiastic and insightful preceptor.  I greatly enjoyed this class.
Work hard on your first draft... please!
Expos is annoying and horrible. It is not a cakewalk, but you have to get it over with. Don't plan on enjoying it.
I believe students need to be prepared to think beyond the box. The topic of the course may seem simple; however, there is much more complexity and analysis behind the course. It really helps motivate students to think in ways they would have never thought before, challenge their own accepted ideas, and view topics from a different perspective.
Use the office hours and your fellow students as resources. Talking out your ideas is extremely helpful. Also, try to get the reading done early so you can enjoy it and also focus on the papers.
the class is very interesting. Examining how people are connected emotionally is fascinating.
I would tell them that it was one of my favorite courses this semester and really prepared me for writing at Harvard.  I loved the subject-matter we explored because we engaged in philosophical, bioethics, and medical readings.
The one liner sounds good, but the way in which the delves into being American is somewhat strange and unfullfilling.
If you can put up with boring but dense reading and are able to extract things quickly, then feel free to take this class.
The Art of the Essay is a great class for introducing students to the fundamental components of any essay.  By examining how great essayists have formulated and structured their ideas into essays the student gains insight into how to craft his/her own essays.
You might be bored during class but ultimately the class will help strengthen your academic writing so just grin and bear it.
Learn to accept the fact that you are taking Expos. Love the Expos, live the Expos and don't look back.
Only for those willing to think outside the box, the preceptor however is excellent.
This course is absolutely beautiful.  I learned so many new skills, and it was so rewarding to see everything come together in the essays.
Its necessary, but fun
You really get what get out of this class what you put into it. You should also not be afraid to fail as long as the effort was genuine, for the preceptor will acknowledge this.
Specifically, this expos class is about photography. I took it with some (but admittedly, not a whole lot) interest in the subject, and ended up being overwhelmed with knowledge about the subject. So you should take this class if you have a fairly solid interest in photography.
Each of the units is better than the previous. And, if you like watching movies like 'Fight Club' and 'Persepolis' you should definitely consider this class!
The course is helpful, though class discussions can be the least interesting part of the course.
The course is very interesting. You can put as little or as much time into this course. But the course will only be as rewarding as the time you put into it.
Be ready to work hard, think critically, and be able to work with constructive criticism to become a better writer.
this course is beneficial. Writing essays is time consuming but this class helps provide skills for other classes.
The teacher is really tough, but unlike a lot of my friends, I really got something out of expos. Apparently that's rarer than you might think.
Don't ever take this class.
This is a hard course but it helps you learn.
That the class involved some heavy intense reading, but besides that, it was a very good class. We learned a lot and benefited from the learning of analysis that this class provided.
It's expos. Go figure.
You will be hard pressed to find a more understanding, more prepared, or more enthusiastic preceptor.
The course itself is very interesting, but the grading can be difficult at times.  Do not take this course if you are looking for an easy way to pass expos 20.
Aesthetic arguments are hard. But this course will make it all a little better. It's not easy, and I don't think it ever will be, but this course gives direction and guidance in this field which is indispensable.
This course is largely easy, somewhat interesting, and overall worth taking. If someone wants to be very stimulated and very challenged, this may not be the course for them.
I loved this class. Stephen Larsen is the most amazing preceptor. This class will help you to become a better writer.
The section discussions are hit or miss, but never unbearable. There really is not much outside reading, which is nice. The readings that are assigned are rarely more than ten pages, and even then one can participate very effectively without read them entirely.
As far as expos goes, this is one of the more merciful, more interesting, more dynamic ones! Take it!
This class was fun - it was great to go around telling people that you're taking a class on bullshit, but also the discussions were really stimulating and it helps you improve your writing.
If you are interested in immersing yourself in the world of essays and you are interested in the craft of writing, take it.
I would tell them that I highly recommend this class.
Unless you are specifically interested in Urban America, I would not recommend this class. It accomplished little in improving writing abilities.
This course is awesome.  However, you should know that you really have to put in the effort to receive anything out of it.
I think that expository writing is not a great class and not that beneficial. But since students are forced to take it anyway, this is I think a fantastic option for the course. Especially if you enjoy Shakespeare, then this could very well be the best bet for you.
As far as mandatory classes are concerned, it is relatively painless. I think that it is important to remember that the comments the preceptors give are by no means personal; they are trying to teach us how to write in a manner that is acceptable in an academic setting, and clearly, this contains an element of subjectivity. But at any rate, the preceptors' personal opinions aside, there are many good tips they can offer. Some are readily implemented in all writing; some are more specific to their respective fields; but in general all feedback helps us build stronger, more readable, essays.
Do not be deceived by the name of this class or the promise of an essay written about a movie. This class is deceptively interesting. While the last essay might be reason enough for some to take this course, I am fairly sure that you will regret your choice by the time the second unit begins.
It is very writing intensive, so consider that when picking other courses. If you are uncomfortable with essays, I would avoid taking other classes that have a major writing component at the same time as Expos. Also, make sure that you pick a section that you are thoroughly interested in, it will make the class a lot more pleasurable.
Take this class if you want to write about things that are somewhat interesting.
There is not much reading compared to other expos classes, and the preceptor is excellent.
this class may seem interesting, but it is horrible, in choosing a expos class rather then reading what the class is going to be about, look up who the preceptor will be, that will make or break your expos class.
Writing was definitely not my strong point when I started this class, but throughout the semester my writing greatly improved!
Oftentimes, the grade you receive is based off of arbitrary factors. For example, if the preceptor likes your writing style, you will do significantly better than someone with a different writing style.
This class was fantastic; perhaps my favorite this semester.  However, be prepared to do a great deal of work with little chance of receiving an A.
This is a philosophy class in disguise!
Be friends with those in your class.
This course takes awhile to get really interested in, but it does and it's fascinating when it is. Furthermore, it may be stressful, especially before a draft is due, but the outcome of the course is worth the hard work.
The class is difficult but the preceptor helped make it much more manageable by being helpful and always encouraging.  As far as what I've heard about other sections, I'm very glad that I picked this one.
If you are interested in philosophy and are looking to become better writers, this class is perfect for you.
This class can be great if you're genuinely interested in Victorian literature / domesticity at that time. If that's not the case, you might get bored.
This class is a perfect introduction to Harvard for freshmen. It encapsulates the poignancy of the material that is study and the excellency of the professor. I could not be more enthusiastic about this class, and strongly recomment it to freshmen. It's too bad you cannot take it twice!
Expos in general is not going to be your favorite class, but it is an experience that everyone must have and that can actually help if you allow it.
The readings are certainly enjoyable but occasionally the class discussions feel fruitless.
Interesting material, but its very tough to get an A.
Don't be afraid to take risks on drafts. That is the best thing about this course, that you will get a first draft evaluated by your preceptor, so there's no reason not to take risks. If it doesn't work, you will be notified, but if it does, your riskiest ideas can make for the most interesting papers.
This class is one of the best available Expos sections.  Relatively easy grading, not much reading, fun discussions about bullshit, and an interesting section on lying.  What else could you ask for?
Mainly, this class is a requirement.  You will have to take it, but it's not painful.  It's just a requirement.
Expect to discover that you still have much, much more to learn about writing, and that writing assignments in college are very different from writing assignments in high school
The course is exactly what you would expect from a course on literary analysis, and this section has a good set of reading material.
The topic is vital to having a good experience in expos, and this topic is very interesting. You should be prepared to work hard and must keep up with the coursework.
I hear a lot of students complain about Expos, but I was never one of them. I think that's because this particular class, Race in the Americas, was so interesting and relevant. It was challenging in a good way.
The writing assignments can be frustrating but the teacher is helpful and active
Its one of the best expos classes, at least most of my friends after discussion wish they were in it. They teaching is fun and the readings are great.
Love and Power in Shakespeare does not feel like a required writing course bceause we have the opportunity to discuss each play at length. It not only feels more like an English class, but also augments your essay writing ability as we talk through possible paper topics. All the while, you will feel your essay writing improve and it feels great!
While this course is required, I recommend you try and take the most out of it that you can. The topic of your class and your preceptor will affect your experience greatly, but the overall format of each class is quite similar.  I certainly became a better writer in the short time that I spent in this class, and I believe my fellow classmates did as well.
You learn a lot, but may become a pretentious writer.
if you are interested in modern art, but have no idea what it's about, take this class
It's a lot of fun but only take it if you really like Shakespeare.
The preceptor is great and the course is both manageable and engaging.
If you like reading and writing personal essays, this is the right expos class for you. However, if you are not, pick an expos course that is based on a subject that is the closest to an area of your interest (although it is not guaranteed you will get your first option)
After hearing the horror stories of my peers, I can attest that this is one of the best Expos classes. The material is interesting, the preceptor is great, and most importantly of all, he really knows his stuff.
This is an excellent class, but it requires a lot of work. If you're willing to put in the work, this class will greatly improve your writing.
Well I'm afraid I must "recommend with enthusiasm" considering the fact that this course is mandatory for all freshman. If given the choice I suppose I would still recommend it to incoming students just so that way their souls would be crushed early on in their Harvard academic career. It's a feeling they should get used to.
This is a great course which combines the excitement of reading horror novels with academia.
This course is a lot of workload but it will actually teach you how to write a college paper. It emphasizes the key points that make up the college paper and forces you to work on those points: signposting, thesis, motive, transitioning etc. The course material is great and exposes you to many different forms of poetry and literature.
interesting class but teacher is kind of lazy... doesn't provide much feedback except during conferences.that makes it difficult for essays to evolve.
Take your drafts seriously...they can help you tremendously if done properly.
Leave yourself time to write essays. Unlike in high school, when you could, conceivably, write an essay under severe time constraints, it is better for your Expos 20 experience that you leave yourself time to think about the essay you have written. Give your essay a chance to flower and grow by managing your time more effectively; sometimes brilliant ideas for your essay will come to you days after you write the first draft, and you want to give yourself a chance to incorporate them in your essay before the final revision is due. Sometimes, even a whole new direction suggests itself to you, and you want to have time to explore that avenue, which might lead to a superior essay than the draft you have already written.
Professor Baran is great, but the expos program in general is boring and difficult.
Although this is the dreaded required Expos course, I found it more enjoyable than I anticipated. The format is personal and the feedback is thorough and helpful.
A thoughtful and very kind preceptor, but bad readings, and a lot of work, not all of which is as sophisticated as it probably should be.
I felt that this class is the most productive course I have taken this semester because it clarifies many aspects of college-level writing that I was not familiar with.  The step by step process enables one to slowly get adjusted to writing more substantial papers.
Although we studied interesting subjects, originality was a difficult subject to write on.
If you are looking to truly enjoy the process of improving your writing by asking challenging and risky questions and seeking the answers through exploration, this class is ideal.
If philosophy is an interest, this class provides a small reading load that allows for more time to think about very interesting moral questions.
Don't take it unless you have an active imagination and a passion for reading pointless essays about interpreting images
very fun and interesting.
it's very boring
I think Work in the Modern World was the best subtopic among all the other sections. It is a mix of a writing , economics , philosophy, and social sciences course. It was completely new and interesting to me and I am certain I would have hated any other section of Expos.
It's definitely an interesting class, but be prepared to read a lot of essays and papers on a topic that may not fully interest you.
great readings and topics for discussion, minimal work outside of class besides the three essays, not-so-great class discussion but that might be different with different students in the section
The professor is nice and good but the material is somewhat miserable.
This class is a challenge, but helps develop important writing skills.  If you check in with your professor when you need help, you will learn a lot.
The subject matter is interesting, but writing about photography is also very subjective and conceptual. Andrea Volpe is a wonderful and engaging preceptor, in addition to a pleasure to get to know, but sometimes she can be a bit disorganized and slow with grading. If you are very interested in photography and already have some background in it that you would like to improve with writing, then I would definitely recommend it. If you prefer to write about more concrete and factual subjects, then this might not be the course for you.
This class was my best course all semester.  I was able to broaden my mind while studying a topic I had no previous experience in.
It is boring and the papers are on very uninteresting topics.
Heather is a great preceptor - she's interesting and engaging. 2 of 3 essays are film-analysis, so be prepared for that aspect of it.
If you're interested in the specific Expos subject enough to stomach any abuse, then go for it.  Otherwise, be sure to pick it passed on a preceptor that you know is a useful resource and a good instructor.
Not heavy on the reading. While you learn to write for college you also get to look at poems and learn analysis of poetry.
It is really frustrating writing the essays, since often you may not receive feedback on how exactly you should structure the essay and how to correct those flaws. Your writing may improve since you will have to spend a lot of time brainstorming ideas and working and reworking your paragraphs on your own, but you should not expect sufficient feedback to improve it.
While a lot of people are critical of the course, you can get a lot out of it with an optimistic attitude and a desire to improve on how you write.
I would like to tell future students that this class helped to improve my writing immensely and provided an extremely effective introduction to college writing.  I will use the lessons I learned about writing in this course throughout the remainder of my college experience, and I truly value the experience I had in this expository writing class.
The course is very interesting and does not require much reading at all.
A lot of work.
This was my favorite class of first semester.  I feel like the skills will help me emmensely throughout the rest of my academic career and i felt i really grew as a writer.
This section was very interesting and compared with stories from my peers, a good one to choose to take.
Interesting class. Good teacher. Lots of work.
Come into this class with an open mind, and read the material so that you may contribute to very interesting and enlightening discussions.  Do not be afraid to ask questions before or after class either, because the more help, the better in formulating your 3 papers successfully.
If you have an interest in medicine, I highly recommend this course.  You get a behind-the-scenes look at what goes on in a hospital as well as get the chance to discuss some pressing medical issues.
I would moan a bit about how disappointing the level of writing was and the occasional inanity of class discussions, but I would recommend Zachary's teaching and the subject matter wholeheartedly.
recommend for fulfilling an expository writing requirement.
Be prepared for a lot of work and hard grading
I have already told many of my friends taking Expos in the spring to section for this course. The material is interesting, the teacher is great, and writing has never been so enjoyable (not that it is particularly enjoyable now...but just not as bad as it usually is).
The course description is very accurate in its description of the course. Though it is difficult to not like this class given its subject's relevance to each and every person's lives, read the description and be sure to come in interested in discovering the identity and its implications.
This class is one of the more interesting expos classes, as I've judged from my peers as compared to the other expos classes. Its a fun subject.
Just take from it what you can and get it over with...
While the subject matter is quite interesting, the middle bits of the course are somewhat annoying. The course is good for writing skills, but it's a bit like throwing you in to the water and asking to swim fly with out really going over the fundamentals.
this class is not for the concrete thinker. its a great course if you enjoy the material but if you don't the class is very overwhelming and borderline unmanageable.
The instructor is great. Workload is normal, though a little more than expected.
As far as I can tell from my conversations with students in other Expos sections, Tales of Murder is the best one! In addition to improving our writing, we always had great discussions in class - I always genuinely looked forward to coming to class.
Course develops writing skills very well.
The first two papers were not very interesting and the readings were very difficult to understand. This course often strayed from its title "Luck".
Have fun with your essays, and make sure to choose topics that interest you.  Otherwise, writing the essays transforms itself into a very painful process.
You get exposed to different essay types.  You don't really improve your writing as much as one would think.
this class sucks.
Of all the Expos topics, I would say that I am glad I took the one that I did. We had little requirements and as long as we formulated our own thesis and supported it logically, we would receive a good grade. That is the way it should be done. No silly rules of things that you have to include. Let the kids write, give me harsh critics, and they will learn the way.
It's a great class. Being America is one of the best Expos classes.
This class may not be exactly what you think it is from the description.  Know that you will focus much more on authority in writing than authority in general.
The section leader seems much more important than the topic of the section. Ask friends about which teachers are good and which arent.
Its a great expository writing class because the essays are on topics generate interesting discussion. I usually hate writing, but I like writing for this class because I actually wanted to express my opinions on the topics we discussed.
Writing the essays are no fun, but this class does improve your writing.  Sepcifically, the J. Cordell section is very worthwhile.  It focused on an interesting topic and he was very helpful.
Don't fall behind on your readings and always try to get your essays done ahead of time and go to office hours to discuss them with your professor.
The class is very interesting, but you should be prepared to deal with some unorthodox subject matter and spend a lot of time thinking up a motive for your paper.
Really teaches you some of the foundations of essay-writing (including building a strong, debatable thesis and effectively using counter-arguments).
If you want an easy run through Expos 20, this is not for you. But if you want to read a lot of great essays and learn to see the art of writing in an entirely new light, this course is worth the workload.
If you like Shakespeare, this is a fantastic course to take.  It was one of my favorite classes this semester despite the workload simply because the Preceptor was excellent and the subject matter very interesting to me.
Only take this course if you have no experience in moral philosophy, because you will be frustrated by the very incomplete, scanty review of topics. Do not expect to learn much about writing.
the texts are great.
Although it didn't seem so in the beginning, the course turned out to be very engaging and noticeably affected my writing skills.
Great class, great preceptor, great discussion-- really enjoyable.
Be prepared to be alert because he is one of the most appropriately eloquent professors I've had.
This is a good expos to take because it does not have too much reading so you can focus on writing.
Expos has a deserved reputation of being challenging, but I enjoyed this class and the new writing methods/teaching style it introduced.  Our preceptor really encouraged us to apply rigorous analysis and tie together seemingly different concepts into an integrated framework.  I think Expos will be useful for my future writing, at least in broadening my options for tackling papers.
Professor Heron will forever be one of my favorite professors, without a doubt.
This class analytically discusses uncommon ideas that are relative to everyday relationships and morality.
Sometimes you won't understand what's going on. That's ok.
Take this section only if you are comfortable reading and writing about philosophy and if you don't mind doing research.
Essays topics are difficult but rewarding, plays are difficult but interesting.  Must enjoy reading plays/discussing literature.
Expos is what you make of it - if you're not willing to work hard, you will not see results. Just because this is a required class does not mean it is easy. However, the improvements in your personal writing skills will be noticeable if you are really willing to invest yourself in it.
The topic was my one of my main passions, and the course was taught enthusiastically.
Achieving success in Expository Writing 20 requires that a student maintain a maximum level of endurance and persistence because each assignment requires numerous revisions in order to master the new concepts being presented.  However, mastery of these concepts will enable the student to become a much stronger academic writer.
This is one of the expos classes that you will not end up hating. You can come to class and be ready to discuss different views and justifications for lying.
a good class if you have an interest in slave literature
Urban is a fun teacher and is really great in the one on one conferences--he helped my writing immensely and I still really enjoyed the subject material.
Make sure Zachary is still teaching this course.
Prepare to enter the bizarre.
This was a great class and was extremely interesting.  I actually enjoyed writing the papers because the topics were so interesting.
Ranking art on a BS hierarchy of culture values is NOT fun.
Be prepared to work. However, approach the course with an open mind and do not let negative experiences of other students control your perception of the course. Make sure to choose an interesting section.
If you enjoy reading Walt Whitman and Edgar Allan Poe, the enroll in this class. Also, if you enjoy or want to learn how to analyze film.
philosophical discussion can get very abstract and may not be the easiest to write about
The professor is really good and the class teaches you to write well.  Classes are engaging so don't be late or skip class because you'll miss out.
Do not procrastinate on your essays and also come to conferences prepared to discuss your revision process
I would tell them to be committed and to take advantage of the conferences.
Compared to others, this was not an easy expos 20 course.  Don't let the movies fool you.
A gem. If you don't want an Expos course that will break your back and break your bank, you can't go wrong with Reading Photographs.
It will help introduce you to college-level writing.
If you have to take Expos, try to take it with Jane.  She's really nice and caring.
The topic of the course is not really important. The fundamental lessons learned about structure, and the definitions of essential writing terms (for example: motive, and such), are some of the most important lessons that will help you write any paper that college throws at you.
Though the readings are arguably shorter for this class than all the others, you should expect the level of thinking to be on par with if not more complex than classes with more extensive reading. You will need to learn quickly  and be able to accept criticism and use it constructively.
Does not prepare you for a lot of scientific writing. Also, what you learn in expos may not translate to other non-English classes.
Be prepared to work very hard.
very interesting questions and materials
Ms Shelton really enjoys teaching us. Get to know her, she is amazing.
Be certain to participate a lot in class discussions.
I would take this class if you have a real passion for literature, but otherwise I think one of the other expos classes could have been more helpful.
you come to appreciate how complex photography is and even though it's hard, it is a very rewarding subject to write about
Stay open-minded and optimistic; the course will definitely challenge your ability to write at an intellectual level, but will be ultimately rewarding if you seize the many opportunities it offers for you to improve your writing!
This class is definitely a lot of work and struggle, but the growth that you see at the end of the semester is well worth it.
The preceptor for Tales of Murder--Dr. Shelton--is phenomenal. :)
It's difficult, but manageable. The topic of murder is interesting, but the class is not limited to only the act of murder. It also touches base on the ways people perceive and react to murder.
Come to this class with an eagerness to learn. Students approaching this course without enthusiasm will be able to pass, but will not get much out of it.
Be prepared to think about your papers and develop complicated arguments!
This course covers very interesting subject material and the teacher is very fun and enthusiastic, but there is a lot of reading and the classes do not help you much in writing your essays.
This class will definitely help you become a better writer in certain ways.  If  you have difficulty proscribing to what is someone else's idea of a good essay, don't take this class.  I also would say that one most really like to write essays to truly enjoy this course.
It will improve their writing greatly.
I cannot imagine a better Expository Writing experience than "Faith and Doubt." The subject matter is fascinating to learn and write about.
It is an incredibly helpful class and I am way beyond the writer I thought I could be now because of it; however, it is very hard and is time consuming.  It is a very tough course, but it helps you so much.
If you like reading and discussing Shakespeare, this calls is for you, because then the writing will come easily.
Very interesting material with an amazing preceptor. Really humbles you about your writing and forces you to literally think differently than you ever have before about writing (Thats a good thing, thats what learning is about!). You learn to make writing a process and really start to go about with a new sense of responsibility.
Be prepared to wade into a complex, and often confusing, marsh of strange terms and high-sounding concepts.  You'll find, though, that some focused analysis and some careful questioning will get you through.
Take this class! It is a great experience and an enjoyable way to get through with the expos requirement.
Excellent instructor.  Excellent readings.  You won't be overloaded with work (far from, actually).
It is frustrating at times but in the end definitely worth the struggle.
The questions discussed are very open for interpretation, and might not appeal to those whose affinity is with more logically well-founded and unambiguous subjects.
Great topic to write about, especially the detective genre and film.
It will be hit or miss.  I had a very good preceptor, which made the course bearable, but I did not like my section topic at all.
Don't underestimate the difficulty of this course. Even with a background in theatre or comparative literature it can be very challenging.
Keep up with essay work and be willing to hear everyones criticism but also their praise.
The literature is not very interesting and little time is spent on disacssing it, but it is a less painful way than most to fulfil the Expos requirement.
The readings in this class are so interesting and really make you think. After reading the books, it is so easy to write an essay - the topic of the course and the various theories we read/talk about left me with energy and I found myself having so much to say in my essays and really wanting to argue either for or against it.
You'll think about things that may seem bizarre and out of reach, nevertheless, you'll learn how to write efficiently and develop your own style through this class.
It's a difficult class with difficult readings but ultimately you do improve your writing.
This is not the typical expos class that I hear people dreading and complaining about. All the readings are really really interesting and can easily be done before every class. the readings get one to start thinking about morally relevant issues that we normally do not tend to think about. The Professor is really nice and very friendly.
While the literature we worked with in this class was excellent in itself, Jane Unrue made the experience really wonderful. She makes this class interesting and fun, despite the grumblings about Expos I had heard from upperclassmen, I really have seen a change in my writing by being in this class.
This class is great and interesting, but be prepared for a lot of work. It's worthwhile though, so don't let that dissuade you from taking the class.
You will learn a lot about race and have fun because the topic is interesting and the professor is great and engaging but be prepared to work really hard to earn that A.
Well taught, interesting
Whereas Expos 20 is, in general, a helpful class, I feel that students can rarely actually enjoy the class because of 1) its grade cap, 2) how unstandardized it is as a class, and 3) the fact that it is a requirement.
Take this class. I have heard, for the most part, bad things about other Expos classes and I have only good things to say about this one.
A great professor and interesting material.
Since expos is required, this is an excellent expos class as the reading requirement is manageable and Mr. Chen provides very helpful feedback
If you like anthropology it is a great class for you.  If you don't like anthropology or don't know what it is avoid it.
You must keep an open mind and be willing to change since academic college writing is different from the writing in high school. Also I believe it becomes more important to pay attention to details when you write in college.
Fairly easy and interesting expos class. You won't get better at writing or analysing, but you do learn the basics as far as footnotes and citations go which is important for most other courses you take.
The instructor is engaged, the subject matter is presented in a very straightforward and engaging way, and a lot of individual attention is payed to every students and his or her questions and concerns.
This writing course really fine tunes the way which you will write so that you can support your claims better through the use of counter arguments and such. It's also very fascinating with interesting discussions that will make you willing to read the materials and to go to class.
Make sure you are interested in the topics of this course, otherwise you will not be exceted or interested in writing for this class.
This section is expos is strongly based on philosophy. Students not especially interested in such may wish to avoid this class.
you must be willing to put a lot of time into revising
Success depends on your open-mindedness to new ways of looking at texts and writing. It is important that you don't leave assignments to the last minute (although it is very easy to fall into that trap)
The class truly helps you improve with your writing skills.
Don't go into expos expecting to hate it...you might actually learn something and enjoy it.
Talk to the professor for tips on improving essay.
Thought it was fine overall, but would not have chosen to take it if it had not been required
Expos is a required class, so everyone needs to take it. Tess is a nice preceptor to have. You have to work very hard and accept that your writing can always be improved, no matter how good it is.
I liked my particular Expos class: Originality,  but i don't like the expos program.
The class was a lot more stressful than it need have been, mostly because there seems to have been a large disconnect between class work and paper grading.
This course (specifically the "Art and the Emotional Bond" section) is both useful and enjoyable. Few requirements in life are fun, but Expos was.
Sri's an ... interesting character. But what you gain from the class and from your peers is invaluable.
That it is tough and frustrating at times but having it pay off in the end is really satisfactory.
We read a lot of interesting books, but only take this course if you really like to read.
The poetry and stories about which you will write in this course are difficult to interpret and it is frustrating at first having to adjust to the complicated topic, but the course really does teach you how to write well.
If you like art or deconstructing things to their effective components, this Expos is for you.
If you have questions about religion and belief in a divine being, then this is a good expository writing course to take.
Expos 20 The Moral Life is an interesting class with a good preceptor. The readings are clear and the essay topics are relevant to class discussion.
Despite all the hassle involved with Expos, the topic is fun and there's a lot of good stuff to read.
The Professor makes the course. Your writing skills will improve greatly.
Very helpful and understanding preceptor, interesting topics covered
I highly reccomend William Weitzel as a preceptor but I found the course design and syllabus to be dreadful.
If you are interested in Cities and Globalization, but don't know much about the topic, this class is a really great introduction.
An interesting expos class that is not too much work. The professor is very nice and helpful as well.
take this course; it's the best expos class
Love and Power in Shakespeare reaches out to more topics and writers than simply Shakespeare, but be prepared to immerse yourself in Shakespeare and analyze the plays as you read.
This is a difficult class that requires consistent effort.
This class gives a good introduction to ethics and philosophy, but I feel that it may not offer as much help with writing as some students expect from the expository writing program.
Take advantage of the Preceptor and the writing center. They are invaluable resources.
In Expos, it is necessary to budget your time well.  Don't leave the essay to the last minute, as it one of the only things you'll be marked on for the term.
The materials used are very interesting and the teacher is very knowledgeable.
This class was a lot of fun, and the readings were really engaging. It was much more enjoyable to read about Dracula and watch The Shining than other, more boring texts.
For an expos class, it is pretty interesting
The material is powerful and engrossing. However, expect to work hard for an A-level grade on the essays.
If this had not been required, being able to look back on the experience, I would not have taken the class.
The class is very interesting but requires a lot of reading at times.
It pushes you to think of writing thesis papers in a much more complex level than your high school papers.
Be prepared to change the way you look at and think about writing papers.
Expos is a requirement, but if you have to do it you want to be in an environment where the material is interesting and your preceptor cares about what she is teaching as well as you as a writer.  I felt like that's what I got out of this class.
Don't come late to class. She starts to dock points later on in the semester.
Expect to see your writing improve, but do not anticipate an easy A.
Since the subject matter is interesting, this course feels like less of a requirement and more of an elective.
Take this expos course.  Much better than analyzing obscure poetry.
Be sure to know that this class has a lot more reading than other expos classes.  If you enjoy the readings you will enjoy the course!  But if you don't want to read the listed texts then you should probably take a different expos class.
The class presents strong writing opportunities that helped further my skills as an analytic writer. In-class discussion provided an open environment in which to explore the many intriguing dimensions of globalization.
This course is really great for anyone interested in the formation of human identity, which I presume is many people. It is more relevant for someone going into a Humanities concentration, however.
The class is fun because its content is interesting.  The class also helps you develop new ways of thinking.
Expect to work hard, but know that Jane is very helpful and flexible.
The topic of this course is highly important to consider because you spend most of your class time discussing it. The discussions are engaging, but you must already have a good idea of how to write a paper. This class does not primarily teach you how to write a paper.
This is a very interesting topic for expos, i learned a lot from the readings we had and liked that the emphasis was not so much on overwhelming homework but processing and contributing to class debate. Not necessarily the best topic to really help develop your writing skills.
Most of the time it was not too demanding. Although the readings aren't the most interesting, you will learn to write better essays and to analyze readings more deeply and thoroughly.
The topics are interesting and relevant. The preceptor does a good job of discussing both ideas and the writing process.
The class is a ton of work, which can be really frustrating, but the professor is very engaging.
I just finished Technological Culture with Heather Fielding, and it was a lot of fun.  Which other class lets you watch "Blade Runner" for credit?!  But it's not just fluff; Heather (because she's cool and lets us call her by her first name like that) gets into a lot of real issues about how technology affects culture, and had us watch a lot of really weird and amazing avant-garde films for the second unit after Blade Runner.And then in the third unit, we were able to pick any current OR future technology, and analyze (or theorize) its effect on society, picking our own sources and readings.Moreover, she's a very quick-witted prof; she must talk about 150 wpm, and it's all reasoned and thought out. She knows exactly what she's talking about and she WILL improve your writing, even if you think it's perfect already.
do not rank this, not even 8th, unless you really wouldn't mind being in this class and reading the Brontes....
Since the course is both required and helpful, it would behoove one to take it as early as possible--fall semester is to be preferred.
Very entertaining readings if you're interested in this type of literature (but probably painful if you're not).
It will change the way you think about everything you do every day.
The instructor is very good but the philosophy content is difficult.
Have a strong will, you might be disappointed with your first grade, but its all part of the process.
This class will help one consider the ethics of the decisions that doctors make, and how they can be argued one way or another.
Put a lot of effort into your first draft if you want to do well on your final draft.
This is a great course to improve your writing. The subject material is very interesting and stimulates you to write.
Expos 20: Being American is an exciting and mentally stimulating course that challenges you to define what it means to "be American." It also teaches you how to write an assertive essay with an implicative thesis, supported by concrete statements and commentary.
this is definitely a painless expos class, the enthusiasm of the teacher makes it not only bearable but actually enjoyable
Do not be afraid to write "shitty" first drafts, pick an expos class that discusses a topic that is of considerable interest to you
Its not perfect, but better than many others.
This class was incredibly interesting, and I loved the books required for this course. Although the writing style that was required was very different from anything I had been taught before, I still was able to do well, and I learned a lot.
You have to take it, get it over with, and don't look back.
You would enjoy the course if you found a way to do all the reading. The essay writing part is not too bad as it is meant to be a learning process. You get to write a pre-draft and a draft and get useful comments from Jeff.
not very interesting class converstations, little enthusiasm. i don't think anyone likes their expos very much, so it's not much different.
Many people treat Expos like it is a tedious, dreadful requirement that simply must be filled.  Art and the Emotional bond, however, is an enjoyable class, aside from fulfilling the Expos requirement.  The course material sparks analytical thinking without bogging students down in mountains of heavy reading.  Also, take advantage of Rebecca's office hours -- she is extremely helpful, listens patiently, and offers extremely useful suggestions.
The reading for this class is not heavy (compared to other classes, anyway). The workload is not heavy. All assignments are helpful. And the material is fascinating!
"Tales of Murder" is an excellent Expository Writing class that seemed like the most interesting Expos class to me, and I was not disappointed.
Although this class is challenging, it vastly improved my critical analysis and writing skills.  It also provided fascinating insights on plays I might not have been exposed to in other courses.  If you are willing to work hard and focus more on the learning experience than on your grade, this course will be an excellent preparation for your future writing assignments.
The class is great.  Not only will the class make you become a better writer, but it will make you see globalization in an entirely different way.
Sigrid is amazing. Be sure to go to her if you have any questions. She will walk you through it.
There is obviously a lot of writing involved, but take it seriously, and make sure you put a lot of effort into your drafts. They will make the class a lot easier.
While a requirement, pick a topic that you are truly interested in and Expos 20 will be an enjoyable experience.
Interesting material! Great preceptor!
This is not an easy class. It is an interesting class. It will always keep you thinking, but you're going to have to do a lot of that thinking without much guidance. The essays are tough and not graded easily. But I think, if you go into it understanding that it may hurt your perceptions of your own writing ability, it's a class where you can learn a lot. I'm definitely glad that I took it.
Go to office hours and work with your preceptor, he/she mas much to teach.
This class will definitely improve your writing and prepare you for college writing.
Though the coursework is difficult, the subject matter is quite worthwhile, especially when the discussions center around theatrical pieces and are facilitated by a playwright/director himself.
If a fan of Shakespeare, you will definitely enjoy the class; it pushes you to think about the subject matter in many different ways. The students' and preceptor's points of view will only add to your own and enhance your understanding, making the work even more interesting than it was at the first reading. If not so much a fan of The Bard, the other students' and preceptor's enthusiasm may sway you, but the readings might be painful.
Photography with Andrea Volpe is a great writing experience. It is the best expos class because you aren't overwhelmed by reading. The objects you analyze (photographs, photobooks) have enormous depth but don't require countless hours to simply consume. In literature-heavy classes, the quality of a paper is usually limited to how much reading a student did; in this class, your paper is limited by the quality of your insight. Photography is a rewarding subject to write about.
For people into theater, willing to deal with Prof. Urban's negative comments and sometimes his unfriendliness.
The subject matter is fascinating: you discuss everything from the nature of bullshit to con-artists to the morality of white lies.  You also find yourself analyzing your own thinking and morality, especially when you read about self-justification.  Jason D'Cruz is a great teacher and your in-class discussions will never be dull.  It is probably on of the most reasonable Expos classes in terms of workload, and while writing all those essays can be tiresome, at least they are interesting in this class.
Expository Writing is a pain that eats up precious hours of time better spent with friends or Math Psets . People will continuously grumble about it. Bu in the end it is one of THE most valuable things you learn at Harvard. The interaction with your classmates, and the individual attention of your preceptor hones skills that yo might have assumed you possessed but don't. To enter Expos, you must abandon ideas of being the best writer, the best thinker but be open to challenging yourself and more than anything, learning.
If you are interested in bioethics, this is an excellent course.  However, for others, it may be a bit difficult and boring.
A preceptor can make or break a class, and I can say honestly that mine was fantastic.  Dr. Baran helps you strengthen your own thesis and develop your own ideas without telling you exactly what to do.  The topics we covered in class often lingered in my mind as I thought about my own life experiences and observed the world around me.  I probably never would have taken an anthropology class as an elective, but I feel that Expos has enabled me to take an anthropology class and satisfy my requirement at the same time.
Make good use of the preceptor, he is very resourceful. Do the readings, even if you just skim them. Go to the writing center. Be prepared to think outside the box but also to justify your thoughts.
this is one of the few expos classes that genuinely teaches you how to write!  it goes into great detail about all aspects of the writing process. the preceptor is amazing! i enjoyed every minute of it. i'm one of the few freshmen who has had a positive expos experience. although a difficult class, as all expos classes are, it's also immensely enjoyable.
This class has a very interesting subject matter, but be prepared to go beyond the popular definition of murder, and to really look at murder as a whole dynamic of psychological, cultural, and ethical events.
This class is fun and always interesting. The topics of contemporary theater are often taboo, which makes for some exciting discussions and topics for essays.
fun to discuss, but can be difficult to take a definite position on an issue
Do not enroll unless genuinely intersted in the topic
Expos was a helpful class because it focused on the macro of writing instead of the micro, meaning that my preceptor helped me think about larger structural elements of writing instead of nitpicking about grammar rules or tastes.
You better like analyzing genders.
i would say that it was really interesting and that the teacher was very good.
This class is for students who specifically want to write about literature and novels.
Be prepared to think outside the box and really delve into a complex and extremely sensitive topic. Your views about race will definitely be reformed after this class.
The course has a very precise focus that won't interest everyone.   Your revision has to be a completely new paper and grading is harsh.
I learned how to THINK differently. That's golden.
this class is very interesting, especially if you're going into medicine or bioethics...i definately recommend it- it's very current
This is a class that may at first seem uninteresting, but gets better with time.
This course is a challenging, thought-provoking writing course with a focus on gender studies of women from around the world.
just try to get through it, it's only 3 papers
You should go into this with an open mind.
For those interested in how we, as humans, respond and are able to connect with others, this expos class is perfect-- it not only gave me some insight into how emotion works, but it improved my writing as well.
No matter how good a writer you were in high school, there is always much more room for improvement. This course really brings out the critical and argumentative thinking and writing skills that are necessary for any future academic endeavour.
The Examined Life in the Biotech Age is a wonderful subject. We deal with current debates and issues that deal with modern medical ethics and how the decisions we make today can affect us in the future. The capabilities of humankind are scary. We are capable of manipulating life, combating lethal diseases, and so much more. This idea of human creation and manipulation... it's so controversial... definitely sends an adrenaline rush. The Debates are quite heated.. both in and out of class.
If you are interested in Thomas Pynchon, art, or even culture in general, take this class.
As a course required for graduation, Expos suffers from a certain distain for any structure but its own. The course offers some useful frameworks, such as the importance of contrasting, affirming, or both affirming and disagreeing, but to anyone with significant writing experience, the work will prove more repetitive than useful. Expos will make an awful writer into a mediocre one, but it will not form great ones.
This class is a good one to take, as far as Expos goes.
This class is super interesting. If you like kitsch, Pop Art, or cult films, this class is perfect for you. Or if you'd like to gain a knowledge about the art controversies in the 20th century, this class is a perfect introduction. Take it.
If you're really into Shakespeare, go ahead and go for it.  I wasn't, and this class was at times a struggle to get through.
This course encorporates a lot of sources that you might read in a common English class, but you need to be able to read them differently than you might have in high school. Close reading in key for this class. After copious annotation you then need to be able to discuss these insights from the text. The discussions in class are very interesting and engaging.
It is quite literature intensive, I recommend a strong interest in literature if you are thinking of taking this course.
This course does not improve your writing. Rather, it encourages you to write restricted to an implied theme and only toward a rigid academic skeleton. I did feel challenged by the level of academic writing that was expected from this course, but I did not feel like I improved my analytical skills.
Choose a topic that fascinates you!  You'll enjoy the readings and discussions infinitely more, and you'll probably spend more time on your essays and preform better in the course.  Take advantage of the variety of courses offered!
This class allowed me to understand the process of writing in an entirely new way. The instructor allows you to have a great deal of freedom in your writing and the comments that are made allow you to frame your works in a more compelling way.
Although I took this course for expos, I would take this section (contemporary theatre) as a class. Not only were the plays we read fun, our class discussion and assignments were fun. Dr. Urban knew the material backwards and forwards, and he always had a unique perspective on the materials we were reading.
Even if you believe you are a strong writer, Expos will help identify your weaknesses and improve your writing skills.
I loved my expos class when all my friends always complained about their other expos sections. I think the theme Love and Power in Shakespeare was fantastic and Doctor Cordell's class was a pleasure to attend.
If you like shakespeare at all, this is probably the best way available to fulfill your Expos requirement.
don't simply look at this class as the dreaded expository writing. go in with an open mind, and you'll actually enjoy it.
Everybody gripes about expos, but I loved this course.  Definitely worth taking.
Take it, it's amazing!
I took this class because I wanted to spend time learning and thinking about Urban America in addition to just working on my writing skills.  I was not disappointed, and I think the class was overall very effective.
It's kind of a waste of time. For those who can write adequately, I would recommend they not try to use the skills they learn in this class because - based on what I've seen in other classes and heard from many upperclassmen - those skills won't be helpful later on.
You have to approach this class not as an essay-writing seminar, but as a class in which you will have to internalize and apply new skills for presenting your academic arguments in a clear and effective manner.
It is a hard class, as all expos is, but this one is fun and interesting.
Do all of the readings, and do them well in advance of due dates. Survey as much material as possible.
Be ready to read
I would highly recommend my section for people who really like literature, modern art, and torment. You may be dragged through this course kicking and screaming, but in the end it was a very good class.
Possibly very interesting class, but be sure you are interested in the material to begin with or it could be a nightmare.
Take this class if you're happy to take an open mind with literature and poetry, and you don't have a specific (and stubborn) view of poetry already.
The class is extremely interesting and will change the way you view race.
Classes are a little slow. Sometimes you'll have really exciting discussions, but other times, people will kind of just sit there with glazed eyes. The latter happened more frequently towards the end when the topic seemed a little out-discussed. But depending on the topic, the discussions can get very heated, and people really bring up excellent points and counter-points.
great preceptor and interesting subject material
Take this class. The work is very approachable and the teacher is very helpful. Overall, a great pick.
The preceptor is awesome and that's what matters! The reason I took this course is because two people separately recommended it to me, and I would gladly do the same for someone else.
Jane is a really good preceptor. She offers great feedback and is easily accessible outside of class.
This class is fun, thought-provoking, and a welcome break from writing classes solely focused on printed material.
This class is an adventure!
Take it!  Lindsay is amazing and I love going to class every week because she makes class extremely interactive and all about learning.
Only take this class if you like philosophy
If you like talking about diversity you should definitely take this course.  However, if you're looking at drastically improving your writing then you shouldn't take the course.
It is a very interesting class, I enjoyed the reading, which was short also.
The bad news is that everyone has to take Expos, and it's not particularly enjoyable. The good news is that some of the sections of Expos are quiet fun, and this is one of them. You'll get a chance to look at an era of history often ignored in high school classes, and if you like art or film, you'll get plenty of time to discuss. The actual writing process is not so much fun, but the materiel you explore while writing is inspiring.
Good reading. Tough essays.
You are going to write..a lot. If you are interested in diversity and race relations, this class will be a lot more tolerable than for someone who does not. You are also going to have to spend a lot of time revising, sorting ideas, and rewriting. You get what you put into this course.
For an expos class, it's pretty interesting and it's well taught. But don't except it to rock you world.
Take this class! Learn how buttocks and cleavage are related!
The purpose of the expository writing program is to teach students how to write better essays.  No matter what section you get, you will still be able to achieve the overall goal of the expository writing program.
The title may make you slightly less inclined to take the course, but it shouldn't. The readings are very interesting, and the preceptor is very approachable if you have difficulties with the class.
This Expos is simply the best one: incredibly interesting material and incredibly useful feedback from the instructor. You'll learn how to write properly and learn about one of the most important philosophical problems mankind confronted itself with.
Even though this class was a requirement and writing is not something I have taken seriously in the past, "Sound, Noise, and Music" was the class for which I put in the most effort because it was so interesting and engaging that I simply could not help but work wholeheartedly in it.
I mean, expos is mandatory. This section, however, probably not.
Really, really, interesting but probably a harder expos class.
I fear that by enumerating the differences between this class and other expos classes, I may actually cause these differences to disappear, but I have decided to risk it anyway.In other expos classes, there is a non-negligible chance that:1. you will have to buy a ton of books.2. you will have to do a ton of required reading.3. you will have to write a close-reading essay.4. you will have to write a research essay.5. the research essay will have to be 10 pages long.6. you will be working on the research essay until halfway through reading period.7. your preceptor will not respond to e-mails.In this expos class:1. you do not have to buy any books.2. there is practically no required reading, and you can definitely participate in class without having done the reading.3. you will never have to do a research essay or close reading.4. you will use logic. Your essays will make sense. You might actually believe what you write.5. your essays will all be 5-6 pages long.6. you will be done with all your essays by the beginning of reading period so you can study for your other classes.7. you will have a witty, kind, and devastatingly intelligent preceptor who leads lively and even-handed class discussions and responds to all e-mails within a day.
Learn to love Shakespeare.
The workload is very manageable. However, you may find your interest in the subject matter losing to your interest in dozing if you decide to take the midday class.
This class has made me truly call into question photographs as objects.  From daguerreotypes to digital, if you are at all interested in a deep exploration of photography as an art form, then take it!
Even if you're not really that into music, this class is worth taking because you explore really interesting topics. For instance, you wouldn't think a music writing class would discuss silence. It was my favorite part of the class, though.
Have fun and remember to keep an open mind.
This is the coolest Expos 20 class!
I came from an intensive high school writing program and didn't think Expos would be of much use, but it definitely surpassed my expectations and improved my writing.
the course material is fascinating, and professor levay offers insightful and detailed comments
Do your best in this class and the experience you gain will be rewarding.
It was an excellent class that I very much enjoyed.  I would recommend it even if it weren't required, so it's an excellent Expos section.
Usually people hate their expos sections. I have loved this one! The writing is difficult and time consuming, but the subject matter and the classroom experience have made it a great experience.
The class gives you a new perspective on sports, especially if you're not particularly interested in sports.
Unrue is a wonderful, kind person and an excellent preceptor. Her section was fairly demanding, but very rewarding.
Let me sum it up in just a few points:1. Low amount of reading and research2. Short essays3. Intellectually engagingThis is a great class that you will truly enjoy if you like thinking about controversial topics. It's not easy by any means, but since you have to bite the bullet and take expos anyway, you might as well take a class you find interesting.
a great way to get through the expos requirement with an interesting topic, not too much reading, and a chance to learn things you may not typically see in a class. plus you get to watch Rome as homework! don't take if you hate art
As an expos class it is good because it will help prepare you for future writing assignments because the topic is used as a framework for understanding expository writing. The teacher is nice and is flexible within reason. Thereby aiding your adjustment to college expectations.
Although it is hard to get an A grade in Expos but this should not deter you from taking this class since the classroom exprience is great and definitely worth it!
The readings are interesting and the discussion lively, but though I enjoyed those parts of the class, the actual writing proved challenging, for me at least, because I've never written about morals before... in that way, this expos class has an additional challenge: morals is such a strong and sensitive subject that it's hard to write persuasively without emotions interferring with your understanding and the clarity of your writing.
The degree to which you find Expos enjoyable or fulfilling or helpful in any way equals the degree to which your preceptor and classmates are awesome...which means it's largely a gamble. Also, be prepared to struggle for the A in this class - the preceptors are unforgiving.
It is a really interesting class and very relevant to the current society. Class discussions are humorous, entertaining, and fun. Make sure you're interested in science though, or it might be hard to write papers.
The readings were on the whole not very interesting.  I expected vibrant class discussion about the ethics of murder but that did not happen.
This course is particularly fitting for those interested in concentrating in English/Lit or who simply wish to get a feel for writing college-level English papers without going all in.
Professor Adams is a great resource and is available to help. Take advantage of her office hours, and use the suggestions she gives when revising your essays!
This EXPOS course really disproved a lot of the EXPOS horror stories I had heard before starting the year. In fact, EXPOS was actually one of my favorite classes during the semester I took it!
If you want to graduate, then get fucked in the ass for a semester.
This expos section is harder than that which many other students will be taking. It is worth the effort if you enjoy interpreting literature, however, it is a time commitment.
An expos course I would take even if it wasn't required. Enough said.
Emily is really helpful with feedback on essays, but sometimes, especially during the first unit, the class can be very dull.
For those interested in the topic, this is a good choice for expos. Be ready for a class of fairly intense critical analysis.
Takes a lot of work and reading but a very fulfilling class. Learned a lot.
Take it.
From what I have heard, comparing other expos classes, this expos class is great, interesting and reasonable!
The teacher is very understanding and good at helping with any problems one may have.  It is very interesting material to study and helps one learn to formulate a good thesis and use sources very well.
Very difficult grading- lower grades in this course would be comparable to a higher grade in another course.  The readings deal highly with the Victorian culture- if you do not find this remotely interesting, do not take this course.  (Do not put it as any of your eight options.)  Get ready to work very, very hard if you take this course.
If you are looking for a class with interesting and engaging discussion of american democracy, don't take this class. You may have a opportunity to write about how democracy is reflected in popular culture and media, but you will spend very little time discussing it.
If you take this class seriously, your writing will improve.
It was hard to come up with topics for the papers since we didn't really go much into the books.  Just be ready to analyze the books on your own.
This class is challenging; expect to be pushed and to get bad grades.
This class is not all that engaging though it's not all that challenging either. It's great as a freshmen year class to ease you into harvard, but after a few weeks, you'll find yourself getting bored and wishing that you were taking a class that you were more passionate about.
If you start your essays early and pay attention to the comments the preceptor gives, Expos will not be too bad and class can be quite enjoyable.
The topics we read about were very interesting and thought provoking. However, be prepared to read a fair amount of philosophy, theology, and other straight up academic writing.
This class is great for anyone who enjoys reading Shakespeare, and wants to have an enjoyable topic to fulfill their Expos Requirement. Classes are fun, the workload isn't crazy, and we actually discuss a lot of Shakespeare.
This class was both informative and interesting, especially for students who had never taken art history class before. It was my favorite class!
Mr. Chen gives lots of good advice on how to write. Make sure the reading materials are really what you want to study.
The instructor gives a lot of constructive feedback.
It is a tough class that requires you to be naturally talented as a writer or work very hard for good grades.
If your goal for Expos is to improve your writing--your ability to articulate your thoughts clearly and coherently--then this offering is unequalled. It deals with philosophy: arguments plain and raw.
If you are interested in current issues of morality, and really ethics as well, and you like to argue well and study the art of rhetoric, then it would not be a mistake in the slightest to take this class. I would recommend it as long as these aforementioned conditions are met.
It's a very interesting class that teaches you to look at important issues that are going on and critically evaluate these issues.
Get ready to be introduced to a completely new style of writing, where everything you thought you knew is truly flawed and unacceptable.
The topic of this class must be one of the most interesting out of the expos classes.
This course requires you to examine the nature of evil beyond the typical assumptions; it forces you to consider how judgment of evil acts has been made in the past, and how it may be approached as societal developments change the nature of human relations. If you greatly enjoy approaching philosophical dilemmas and dealing with discussion of both general defining of evil and individual instances, then this course will fit you well.
LEARN TO WRITE MORE GOODER
Take Urban America!  The preceptor is really nice, the readings are great, and you'll learn how to write clearly and powerfully.
i already have recommended it. Like i said, Jonah was great. He was energetic, helpful, and fair. the only thing i would ask someone is that they make sure they are a fan of shakespeare and his writing if they want to take the class.
The topic matter of the class was very enlightening and it allowed you to focus on ideas that are relevant to our society and be informed about the changing view of race in our society.
The enjoyment you will receive from expos comes most from the subject matter.  Each class will teach you how to write better, but the subject will keep you interested.
It was very interesting learning about photography and it opened me up to a new way of writing past the analytic essay of literature.
You really need to be able to recognize the issues you are having with your writing and figure out how to fix them because there is very little actual instruction in the class. If you are expecting a class where the preceptor is going to teach you how to write an A paper, this isn't exactly it. A lot of the improvement comes from the work you put into the class. Also, make sure you pick a class with a topic that interests you.
If you plan to take "Being American," make sure that you are very interested in history because the class is not as culturally focused as the description details.
The draft conferences are very useful.  Prepare to discuss in detail what you're going to write, and he'll give you nice feedback.
Jane is an incredible preceptor. She was so enthusiastic, knowledgeable, accessible, and so willing to help. This class gave me an excellent foundation for college writing and made me more confident with writing all types of papers.
If you are interested in what may be some technical or superficial meaning to being American then you may like this class.
Really pay attention, because what you learn in this course can be applied every time you write a paper.
I highly recommend this course! Larry is an amazing preceptor and does a fantastic job at working with you to improve your writing. The course subject is interesting and always challenges your preconceived perceptions of the apocalypse.
It is unnerving at first to talk during class, with an instructor who may pose difficult questions about your opinion, however, the class gets you thinking at a higher level and recognize the importance of each of your words.
This is probably one of the best Expos classes you can section!  Jane is a great teacher, engaging and humorous, who genuinely wants her students to succeed in writing.  She re-explains the fundamentals in a new and more nuanced way and I have to say that although I originally doubted the premise of Expos, her class truly did teach me some very instrumental fundamentals in writing.  Reading my "before" versus "after" essays only underscore this difference.
Take Paul Sludds's section (The Moral Life). Most people I know hated their expos section, but I really enjoyed my class, as did the other people in my section. The readings are interesting and not too long. The discussion is very lively. The essay assignments are flexible. Lastly, Paul is an awesome preceptor who is very down to earth and helpful.
If you want to grow as a writing, it's on you. Make the effort to ask for more feedback or go to other review sources like the Writing Center.  Make sure you leave adequate time for the readings and for peer revisions.
This class requires hard and consistent work over the entire semester, but is very rewarding for what it teaches you both about writing and about twentieth-century theatre.
This class will be extremely demanding but also extremely rewarding.
This is a great class, really interesting. The preceptor is awesome, the readings are thought provoking, short and to the point, and the class discussions are enlightening. While everyone else was complaining about Expos this year, I was raving about how mine was one of my favorite classes.
This was one of my favorite courses this semester.
i would recommend this course because the material is interesting, but the preceptor is not always too helpful. she is really approachable and fun, but tells you what you should do to fix your drafts, and this doesn't help you realize how you can improve as a writer. the class is also heavily science based and writing the papers is hard especially for people with no experience with scientific writing or any idea of sociobiology and evolutionary theory
This is the best Expos class!!
It's a really good class if you enjoy reading books like Jane Eyre and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall, and the preceptor is really helpful.
Ken Urban is a great professor. He makes the class engaging. He's easy to listen to. Expos was my favorite class. He does expect a lot out of you, but helps you along the way.
It was very enjoyable. The subject matter is fascinating and it was great to compose essays on information that was interesting to learn.
If you put in the time, you will learn a great deal about writing in this class.  While he is a fair grader, the assignments can be difficult.
This is definitely the Expos section to take. Not only is the content interesting, but the preceptor is unparalleled.
It's a good class to take if you really want to become familiar with a set, effective writing process but if you are already a fairly strong writer and don't put things off until the last minute (you do work ahead of time, make outlines for essays, can independently research), then it might not be worth your while.
Take it, own it, love it.
The beginning of the course was pretty frustrating, but by the end I felt like I really knew how to construct a paper.
I would definitely recommend this class if it were taught by a different teacher who would be better organized.  It is well into finals week and I have only received comments from work I've handed in during the first section which ended in early October. I have received zero feed back in during the last two months of the course.
Expos is a great way to improve your thinking and analysis skills, and also gives you good exposure to the topic you choose. Unfortunately, writing itself is not taught extensively and you really need to be writing at a high level before you enter.
As far as I've heard, Expos classes can be a hit or miss and it ultimately depends on the teacher.  Mrs. Cordell is great and she made me really like the course!
Damon is wonderful! Expos as a requirement may be highly strenuous, but Damon makes surviving that much more fun. Of course, to take this class, you have to be able to stand avant garde and other nonmainstream music, but you don't have to actually play an instrument or sing.
More fun and not as time-consuming as most expos classes. Only science oriented expos class to date.
The grading on the essays are not content-focused, but syntax, grammar, and style focused.
This is an incredible course, both because of the fun subject matter and due to Lawrence Switzky's stunning expertise as a teacher. My advice to anyone looking for an Expos class is to find something that you really think you will enjoy reading about and writing analytical essays on, and to try to pick a great preceptor who will teach you a lot and really encourage you along the way. This class provides both of these ideals with flying colors. The apocalypse and post-apocalypse are truly fun topics to read and write about (and you even get to think about why that might be during the course), and I can't emphasize enough how valuable Switzky is as a teacher. He can always find constructive ways to improve even the most disoriented paper, and he never seems afraid to point out features he enjoys in students' papers. He even respects each student's voice and even their particular interests when it comes to literature and analyzing, and he encourages stylistic choices, while freeing students from the limiting doctrine of high school writing classes. His passion for writing and for musing over the tantalizing concepts discussed throughout the class is infective. If this class sounds fun to you, take it!
it's about art.  you better like art.
This is really a one of a kind class. Elissa is really passionate about her work in Madagascar working with Aye Aye Lemurs (Look them up on Google Images you'll be glad you did). This is one of the only science expository writing options, and it is definitely science-based. Still, I have no interest in the sciences and I still enjoyed it. You learn about where as a human you fit into the animal kingdom and can't help but never look at human dating and attraction without thinking why we do this from an evolutionary standpoint. You write essays about what men and women want, and survey your friends for your final essay. You discuss questions like why humans are the only mammals with breasts and if blond hair is really preferred. Elissa is not an easy grader, but she is a fair one, and she is an incredible editor. Do a good job on your rough draft, so you can make the most of her insightful constructive criticism. TAKE THE CLASS. It is hard work, but it is worth it.
The topic is a really good choice because it's different than anything else you'll study, so it keeps things interesting.
This course is different than the course description suggests. From the description I believed it would be a class more on rhetoric and persuasion. However, the main aspects of this course are focused on works of art and literature.
Courtney is a really good preceptor and creates a lovely classroom environment. The content of the course is fun too.
The subject matter and presentation of this course was very interesting. Additionally, the things we read were more like novels and other fictional literature, which I enjoyed.
Since you have to take Expos, you might as well take one that the teacher doesn't mind joking around in section.
The reading assignments happen in blocks that can be overwhelming.
Is really interesting. Don't be bogged down on the grades. Overall, it was a good experience.
For an Expos, Shakespeare's Inventions wasn't too bad.  There wasn't too much readings, so it was definitely manageable.  Expos 20 in general is a lot of busy work, but Shakespeare's Inventions was probably less busy work than others.
Minimal work for an expos class. Great teacher.
Make sure the material truly interests you before ranking this class as your first choice.
If you can deal with reading Shakespeare, the material is well explained and discussed in class. Preceptor is great in explaining relevant writing-related materials and gives excellent feedback.
Expos is sort of a rite-of-passage, and by that I mean it's a required course. However, I found Gothic Fiction to be enjoyable, and if you like literary criticism then this is a good Expos to take!
A great way to combine interest in politics and government with creative writing.
I'd say that Sound, Noise, and Music is very abstract and revolves around almost quirky materials, but it is very interesting and not only exposes the student to new material, but it also teaches students to go outside of their comfort zone in order to write a paper.
If you are interested in your subject, the writing component of the course can be very enjoyable and much more thorough and creative than in other subjects
If you liked English in high school and you like reading contemporary fiction, this Expos will probably be the best fit for you.
The class is more psychology and abstract thinking based than about scientific experiments
This class was so fun and awesome, and compared to the other expos classes, totally legit and a pleasure to do. If you care about art at all, this is a great class to take. And most importantly, Ken Urban is probably one of the most interesting/dynamic characters you will meet in your young life. He has an impressively comprehensive knowledge of culture and he is quite accomplished. There has probably been no other teacher which I have gravitated toward.
That you have to be very self-motivated to succeed.
Be prepared to have heated discussions!
I loved this class.  I found the topics really interesting and it was easier to write the essays on subjects I found intriguing.
This class requires a lot of hard work/thinking, but it is well worth it and the comments that you get on essays facilitate the process.
It really doesn't matter what I say, you have to take this course anyways.  So suck it up and have fun!
There is a strong focus on literary criticism.  Be sure to enjoy English classes and similar literary type things if considering this class.
Representations of America Democracy and Government and Tad Davies are a great way to explore different facets of our government.  You will love the critical feedback and understanding Tad offers throughout the course.
Those with an interest in Victorian literature (and in particular the Brontes) will enjoy this course. Otherwise, the material may not be very engaging. Though readings come in spurts, it's fairly heavy when it's assigned.
If you're interested in art history, this is a good option for Expos.
While many people are unexcited about expos, I was more excited to go to this class than my other classes.  The discussions and ideas covered were intriguing, and as essays go, the papers were perfectly interesting to write--especially the last one where we collected our own data.  It was nice to do scientific writing, something I had done little of in the past.
Relative to other expos classes, this one is significantly more enjoyable not only because of less work but because the work you do end up doing is work you can get excited about.
Depending on your topic, this can be one of the most rewarding general education courses that you'll take as a freshman.  Enroll in a section that sounds interesting to you, and you'll have a great time.
It's pretty much just an excuse of a class in order to force you to write several essays.
Although I didn't particular identify or enjoy the works we discussed, I think that this course is ideal for somebody who doesn't want too much outside work as well as enjoys discussion and exchanging ideas. Owen always encourages you to question not only prior conceptions but also the text itself.
This expos class was my first choice and I am glad that I chose it. The material is interesting, and Prof. Shelton gave us ballad CDs.The assignment gets pretty hard toward the end, as we have to deal with philosophical passages and put our essays in a scholarly context, but I think that they really help me improve my writing skills and "force" me to think about the material beyond the surface. The preceptor is very accessible, as I went to her office hour every time the essay revision was due to ask for guidance, and I found her very helpful.
A lot of work, but you will improve as a writer.
This would've been my favorite course if only we didn't have to write papers. The material is fascinating for any fan of Pop art and post-modernism; writing papers can be grueling. Still, that applies to any expos class, so if you find this material interesting, you may as well go for this one.
This class was more interesting than I was expecting it to be, and I was happy with the overall experience of Expos 20.
The course starts off slow, and is a fair bit of work, but by the end it is enjoyable and worthwhile. The preceptor is excellent, and a really kind, smart man.
It's required.
This is a great Expos!  Mr. Baran has a ton of experience with the topics you learn about and is helpful in giving feedback on your writin.  He makes class engaging with video clips, article cutouts, and interesting assignments like the essay about "Diversity in Disney."  Watching Disney movies with a critical eye was awesome.  The reading load can be a lot but most of it is interesting, and if you have a good dynamic in your class you'll get some great discussions.  I recommend this class.
Great class topically. The teacher is awesome and extremely helpful even regarding topics outside and academic setting.
Take the response papers and conferences VERY seriously!
This class really integrates a great topic into the course goal of writing essays. I think the controversial issues we dealt with really allowed us to write and improve to our best ability.
This is an amazing class! People should definitely take it! I learned so much about sports, and my writing improved so much!
I would tell them that it has a lot more reading than most expos classes, but that if they are interested in the topic it is a helpful class.
It sounds like more fun than it is, but it's still an interesting class.
Definitely a great way to fill the expository writing requirement; it definitely gave me a great deal of confidence in my ability to write as a college student, and was very interesting without an excessive amount of out-of-class reading.
organize time well .. the class is enjoyable and interesting but also challenging
This class is challenging but Damon is really open.  He is a great preceptor and that is what really matters in an Expos course.  Even if you are not particularly interested in music and do not have a strong technical background, you can tailor your papers to suit your own strengths and perspective.
It is really, really great, except you get your papers late.
Take the class because the music and course material are interesting. But keep in mind that the assignments and feedback may not be up to par.
This is an engaging class that I would recommend to others.
Though the grading is rough, you learn a lot about scholarly writing which is integral to your success here at Harvard. The topic may be morbid but it is extremely interesting and intriguing.
It's probably the best expos course you can pick if you're into theater.
It's probably the best expos course out there. The material is so interesting, and everyone wants to learn it.
To really make use of office hours.
The best part of the class is that there is a lot of time for you to draft and improve your papers.  Take advantage of allowing others to review your work before submitting.
It's a good class. It's not enthralling, but the materials are pretty good and it is useful in improving your writing.
The course itself is painful at times, but Jane herself is extremely helpful in guiding students through it and making classes lively and entertaining.
Not much homework but the instructor grades hard.  Also make sure you like the works we read before taking this course and you have significant matter to discuss on each of these works that interests you.
Interesting subject matter and secondary reading is enjoyable. There needs to be focus on our own research component, which is not present in this course.
The material is very interesting, if somewhat esoteric (ex. murder ballads).  Dr. Shelton is always punctual with assignments and gives great feedback.
Do not take the first essay lightly.  Actually, don't take any essay lightly.  If you want a good grade, you have to invest yourself in your work.
You will walk away with an altered perspective and a heightened perception of the world around you.
This Expos course is great if you want to explore the field of philosophy or have never taken a philosophy course and would like to get a feel for it. The course pushes you to support your arguments, and do so in a convincing and logical manner.
If you're at all interested in ancient art or Roman history this is a really good Expos class.  The readings are manageable and the preceptor is really helpful.
This is a brilliant class if you want to learn more about Gothic fiction and fiction of that genre. Expos is a requirement for all freshman so you might as well do something which itnerests you - only take this if you have an interest in the literature. If you are not sure, flick through the Baldick in the Coop and get a feel for it. It isn't all gloomy and depressing, in fact it is very interesting - the class isn't full of depressives either, which is always a good thing! Be sure to make the most of the class, as the more you engage during the class hours the easier the essays are to write.
I think that it would be great for any student to take this class. I recommend to get know with the teacher a lot as well as come up with creative subjects for your papers.
When you write an essay, use the simplest structure that can convey what you want to say. Don't be afraid to change your thesis if you need to.
This class was not the Expos horror story I expected.  It was very beneficial and Dr. Mumme is an incredible preceptor.  She provided constructive criticism and was always available in order to help during the writing process.
This was an insightful course about an interesting topic. The readings and course materials were moving. Pre-med students should consider this class. However, input from the teacher was sometimes limited and homework was often assigned late.
The workload for this class is heavier than that for many other expos classes.
I'm sorry, it sucks that you have to take it. Just get it over with and then you're free.
We talk about death and suicide a lot... that has to be okay with you. Be prepared to have several crises within the duration of the semester, and come away from the experience a much more self-aware person.
It's a great class. Definitely good to take, but Dr. Urban is very specific on what he wants on his papers.
This class is manageable. The assignments and readings are kept clear, so that focus on writing can be found.
This is a great course with an interesting medium through which to learn about writing: portraiture. You will definitely begin to better understand yourself as a writer and improve your writing while also being exposed to some art history.
it's a great class if you love music - super fun and really interesting. not too much reading either
This particular Expos class requires more reading than many other Expos sections, but the novels are very good and worth the extra reading.
grading is harsh & based on other students work, minimal feedback on work
Levay's a nice guy and the topic of the class is very interesting. I think it is probably one of the best choices as expos classes go. However, I don't feel like my writing progressed significantly.
It's tricky, but hella worth it.
This was my 8th choice but it actually turned out pretty well.  The readings have all been published recently and are enjoyable.  I often used the readings as breaks from my other work.  Syba offers great commentary on yours essays to help improve your writing although it sometimes feels like you are learning to write with just her in mind.  I didn't mind this class and the discussions of the readings were actually pretty interesting.
The papers challenging because of the complexity of the material and expectations for your writing.  However, the subject matter is very interesting and you learn a lot in the process of writing your papers.
Excellent course. Mrs. Cordell is a spectacular teacher for the course. But it is important to have the class with other students who wish to be involved and discuss the class.
This class completely changed how I approach and write essays.
it is excellent
I thoroughly enjoyed this course
It is an intellectually stimulating expos class. It really made me think about framing my argument in several strategic ways. It does not require a lot of work. Extremely helpful if you want to go into academic writing.
Take advantage of the class discussions when thinking about paper topics and in the elaboration of your argument. You'll be fine.
I enrolled in this course because the description sounded deeply interesting, and I wanted to explore a field that was different from everything I had ever experienced before.  I wanted to strengthen my arguments for my opinions on such controversial issues as abortion, capital punishment, and drug use, and I knew that I would have a lot to say about each topic.  During my time in the course, however, I found the class discussions and assignments more difficult than expected; my concepts of morality are based on my religious faith, and it was challenging to form my arguments in a manner that would be convincing even to people of different faith or no faith in a higher power.  Although I learned a lot and am glad to have experienced this course, I feel that my grade suffered a little because my moral principles cannot always be easily expressed in universal logic.  I recommend this course on the basis that a student is fully prepared to not only challenge others' ideas but to have concepts that seem clear to them fully challenged as well.
At first I was not enthusiastic about the Expos requirement, but now I see why is it such a valuable experience.
You have to take it. As far as expos classes go, though, this one is light on the reading, heavy on the interesting, and will make you rethink, revamp, and reevaluate your idea of music. It'll also make you want to kill John Cage.
This is a great expos class to take! The subjects and assignments are really interesting, and the workload isn't more than any other expos class. Lydia Fillingham is entertaining and informative, and she provides great comments on your papers!
Dr. Adams is awesome, so is her section.
Your expos section is quite important. Do field research. I was in The Voice of Authority with Jane Unrue. She's got a very dynamic personality; if that's your style, you might like it. It meets in a pretty cool place (above Annenberg) and it meets some pretty cool people (Scholars at Risk: authors in the US because of their persecution by their home countries, whose stories are covered in the second unit).
Expos was interesting because you get to choose your topic. That was probably the best part, because I knew I would be interested in the topic.
This class is difficult, but in the end the papers produced will be of a far better quality than any other you've ever produced before. The course forces you think outside the box and really formulate your own ideas -- and you'll end up being so grateful for it.
Even though the course may seem daunting, or unnecessary, as was my case, looking back on the skills that I developed as a Freshman and that I will take into my future years here at Harvard, I feel this course was a great necessity. It will benefit you probably more than you believe.
This class was a very interesting topic, and it was nice to be able to approach the topic of HIV/AIDS from a variety of cultural and disciplinary perspectives. Also, a number of extra opportunities outside of class were provided including screenings of movies and musuem exhibit tours.
This is a great class. It's by far the best of the Expos classes. My friends were always shocked to hear about how much I enjoyed this class. The readings are great and Jeff is the best.
As good as it gets for Expos.
This class is a great class to develop your writing. The work is hard but what class doesn't have the hard work? It's all worth it in the end. You will develop all the aspects of your writing. You learn how to analyze works, use outside sources, and develop a full argumentative thesis at the collegiate level. It's the best class to take the jump from high school to high level writing.
Highly recommended for music lovers (even without a theory background), especially those with an appreciation for folk music and an open mind to experimental music
Stay caught up on your readings and don't just read them so you can check it off your list. Actively read your assignments, questioning yourself throughout "what is my opinion?" and "what is their argument" and "how does their argument influence my argument?" This will save you A LOT of time and allow you to used your sources to bring your essay to a higher level. Expos is a lot of work, but definitely worth taking. By having to write constantly, you can see a great improvement from the begining to the end of the course. Stick with it, and don't worry about the grade you get, but rather how you are improving as a writer.
I would say that one should only join the class if they are interested in the AIDS epidemic related to homosexuals.
The course isn't revolved around persuasion as much as I first thought. The name of the course sounds cool, but it isn't exactly the cool type of persuasion
I believe that this class is proof against the 'Expos Myth'. Expos was by far my favorite (and I'm pretty sure this applies to my classmates as well) course this semester. Work hard, you'll get a lot out of the work you do in this class.
It's not too much work week to week, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't put a lot of effort into the essays.
TAKE THIS EXPOS! It's the best one out there.
Make sure you choose a topic that you are very interested in because you spend many hours a week working with it.
This class is hard, you are definitely expected to put a lot of thought into your essays, but are rewarded for it with really good feedback from Dr. Levay. Also, the material is really interesting so that makes the papers a little less painful.
Paul Sludds is an awesome preceptor and writer.  He's very devoted into teaching and knows how to inspire good ideas for the assignment. The materials we read in class were fascinating
The preceptor is great.
you should probably be interested in photography
For your expos class, make sure you choose a class whose subject matter really interests you. This class is already difficult, and by choosing a good topic, it will make your time in expos much more satisfying.
THIS IS THE BEST EXPOS CLASS EVER. You will hear hour friends ranting about how much they loathe their expos classes but I hardly ever hear people complaining about this one. We had no busy work and read only 1-2 very dense and interesting chapters per section. Each article was on a common moral argument like obligation to fight poverty, euthanasia, abortion, death, and immortality - things that you probably have thought of before but have never discussed in a classroom setting. Class is spent discussing these topics which helps you get a feel for which you feel most passionate about and gather arguments for when you write an essay. But, because this is a philosophy class, you will be very challenged in your thinking. P. Sludds is great at countering your arguments so the logic of your essays must be very strong. There is a lot of rewriting involved in these essays, but thankfully they are quality over quantity, meaning we write about six well-thought pages per essay versus the 10 that some classes write. More thinking vs. more work. The professor is very accessible via email and will respond very thoroughly to your inquiries. Take this class - you will not regret it.
The topic matter may not seem fascinating, and the class was a lot of work--but it was a very rewarding experience.  Tess gave great feedback, and I feel like expos helped me greatly improve my writing.
It's okay.  It's not as cool as the course description makes it sound, but it's ok.  Just be ready to spend hours on essays and get bad grades on them even if you do what the teacher tells you to do.
Its a great option if you're looking for a way out of expos that has lots of visual stimulus material, not just readings.
That even though the topic of the section sounds difficult, Jane Unrue makes the class very interesting.
This class has interesting subject matter, and you get to explore different media, like plays, short stories, and art, so it does not get too repetitive. There is a lot of writing and a fair amount of reading at times.
The preceptor is about as good as they come, and that the course is both fun and interesting, requiring you to think critically but about subject matter that is appealing.
great teacher, awesome material if your interested in sports
If you can make yourself excited about the materials mentioned in the syllabus, then this is the expos section for you.
It is a really good and fruitful class and I would recommend everyone to take it.
It all depends about what theme you end up getting. "Contemporary Immigrant Fiction in America" was not one of my top choices, so I didn't enjoy it as much. But, it's all about personal taste. If you enjoy anthropology, this theme is for you.
Expos is a much more worthwhile and interesting class than I had expected.  Be sure to pick an expos that has a topic that interests you, however, because it will be a legitmate class on that subject rather than a completely writing-oriented class like I had believed.
The professor of this course is truly remarkable; she's very thoughtful and provides extraordinary feedback. Make sure you are interested in the subject, though, because you will study it VERY closely!
I would like to tell future students that they must be prepared to do the work and this course may be one of the hardest courses they take over the semester.
If you take this class, expos won't be a drag at all. The topic is exciting, the reading (One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest!) is worthwhile, and meeting the authors of the stories you will read and write about is awesome! Jane is very energetic and keeps the class at a good, awake tempo. You will get a lot of feedback on your assignments. Jane is also very accessible outside of class, and there are many exciting things she can share with you about her involvement with writing and with Scholars At Risk.
It is very challenging to write about art in length, especially when that writing will be criticized heavily.
If you are already a good writer, this course will not help you much.  Because all students are required to take this course, brilliant mathematicians and computer scientists who may not be the best writers will be in your section.  The class is designed for these people and not for students who already are proficient at writing.  The fact that Expos 10 is offered does not resolve this problem.
This class is interesting, the readings/viewings are great, and the professor makes a commitment to improving students' writing abilities and will take time to address any concerns or questions regarding assignments. The course is very well organized.
Expos is Expos.  The course selection is sub-par, and no one is particularly enthusiastic about it.  Just get through it.
Be prepared to do some high critical thinking and advanced academic writing.
it's a really great class, mostly because jeff is so nice and such a great preceptor.  he's really understanding about the assignments and the class is really interesting and engaging.  our class all got to know each other also, because he is really good a facilitating group discussions.  everyone would always joke around and it was a fun and entertaining class.  i really enjoyed it and would definitely recommend this class.
Out of most of the feedback from people who took Expos this semester, generally I've heard the most positive things about this class.  Truly, the preceptor, CLP, made it.  I'd take it again next semester with him if I could!
If you can enjoy the music, and the ideas behind music, it's great. If not, it can be tough at times, but Mr. Krukowski makes it a good class regardless.
It's definitely a fun class with stange but interesting topics. Don't freak out when the Crying of Lot 49 makes no sense or when Warhol's Cow painting gives you nightmares. Class discussion clears it all up. Don't expect your writing to improve dramatically though.
The preceptor does a great job of giving individualized attention and preparing students for college level writing. The material is all interesting, but the three units cover completely unrelated topics. Also, reading Uncle Tom's Cabin for the final unit is a lot of work on top of the writing, I suggest buying and starting the book as soon as possible in the semester.
Since Expos is required, getting one with interesting subject matter and a good preceptor can make a huge difference.  Dr. Urban is really interesting and engaging, and even if you're totally unfamiliar with theater, the plays and outside readings will really push you to think.
It is a very good class for a required course.  The readings are intereting, and I've heard that some other expos classes are boring.  This one was definitely an interesting topic.
It really gives you a chance to develop your own voice and fit it into an analytical style. There is a lot of personalized comments about how to improve your individual writing voice.
I thought I liked it more than most people I heard from liked their expos classes. It was fine.
The professor is incredible.
this class is required, so all freshman take it.  However, to do well in the class, you have to write exceptionally well and take criticism about your writing well.  The teacher is your friend and will be able to help you as long as you are willing to go to office hours.
LOTS of readings. This class is challenging, yet rewarding.
The preceptor is great, but it can be difficult if you dont like the material (tales of murder).
This is definitively an art course; the nature of this class should have been specified in the class description.
Choose something you want to learn more about.
If you want to talk about instances of naughty things that have happened, but not really ask whether we can establish a standard for "naughtiness", then by all means do proceed. This class, perhaps due to its very nature, was big on writing, but a tad skimpy when it came to thought or philosophy.
I definitely feel I am a better writer.
Expos offers a nurturing environment to hone your writing skills while, if you choose properly, investigating a subject you find interesting that you might not have explored in the past.
Expository Writing is only helpful if you plan to concentrate in English, since every field has its own different style of writing.
This is a very time consuming class and if you don't like the subject of the Expos then you will find all the essays dreadful to write and the materials unbearable.
If you want a class where you dont need to really do the reading & can have flexibility with writing topics this this class is for you.
Don't expect lengthy discussion about writing, paragraph structure or citations. Really, don't expect much other than the chance to read and discuss some fascinating plays. It seems like a great course for theater types, and for those confident of their writing skills. The class is interesting, and fun, even if the essays aren't so much - but hey, it's expos. Also, anecdotal evidence suggests the marking may be harsh, by the standards of some of the other Expos options.
Out of all my courses, the ethics of human experimentation is what I talk about most with my friends and family. I debate the ethics of using undergraduates as research participants, the risk to participants versus the gains, and the different psychological principles. I also like to analyze a lot of everyday situations in the context of psychology.
it is informative but hard
It is a great way to look at an issue through a lens that might otherwise go unnoticed.
While the main goal of the course is ultimately to improve your writing skills, the course covers some interesting readings as well.  These readings make learning these writing skills more enjoyable.
Interesting material though a bit dry at times.
The prof is one of the nicest teachers I have ever had
It's not what I was expecting, I thought it would be more "CSI showish" but it was still a cool course.
make sure you can make a marked difference between your draft and final revision
No matter what subject of Expos you take, you will have to write the same papers. So the important thing is the preceptor and Jane Unrue made this class wonderful.
This class is a lot of work, but it is worth it.
The material is engaging, and it is easy to write an essay that you are really interested in.
This is a great course if you want to learn about real world issues that affect all of us while also improving your writing.
I'd recommend that you do this course if you're interested in the subject material, contemporary theatre: if the subject material bears no interest for you this will be a hard course.
The class is not that time consuming; the readings are interesting, pertinent, and not too much to handle. It helps develop your skills as a writer and as a thinker.
Take sexpos! You have to take expos, why not make it more interesting?
Expos has a very poor curriculum but this is probably one of the best expos classes.
If you have an interest in science, this is an excellent Expos to take.
This topic is very interesting, and you will improve your writing skills considerably.
If you have any doubt in your mind what class to take for your Expos requirement - this is the one. The preceptor is amazing and works closely with every student on their own process of writing. As an international student I was terrified by the prospects of having to write academic papers in English. Jane is definitely the one to whom I owe my writing skills.
good luck
The workload is very reasonable. Unlike some other Expos classes, you don't have to read a novel a week or anything ridiculous like that--it's focused on writing, not reading.
Choose an Expos subject you are genuinely interested. You'll be writing three lengthy essays on the subject. If you like your topic, you'll like Expos. If you don't like the subject you choose, you'll hate the class.
It's not the most fun, but it's necessary.
interesting reading material
Having a good preceptor is really important
It's a hard expository writing section, an if you're looking for one that'll allow you to cruise through a requirement, don't take The Art of Representing the other. Grading is fair but will lean towards the more harsh side. If you're premed and trying to preserve your perfect GPA, don't take this. Also don't be surprised when the title of the course, the art of representing the other, doesn't correspond with anything we do in class; it's just a moniker. But Chen is a very intelligent professor with thicker than average resume (life and academic) behind him; his comments and conferences are excellent, and he will push your writing.
This is a good Expos class, as far as Expos classes go.  It may feel a little bland and pointless at times, but most Expos are.  I wish we could have learned more about the actual topic of the class- We discussed the material just enough to write an essay but if any aspect of this class is supposed to feel like a traditional interpretative. English class, our didn't.
It's better than most other expos classes. Most kids hate their expos and have lots of work to do, but this was relatively painless and Laura is really, really nice.
This is a great Expos 20 class! It is engaging, challenging, and the professor gives great insights in class.
Seems to be less work than other expos classes, and more interesting subject matter. Good stuff!
This class is helpul when it comes to improvment in writing.
You've got to take Expos, and this is a good way to go.
If you like Diversity and talking about racial issues in society, you will like the material of this course. But of course, all of the expos are pretty work intensive so be prepared to read and write!
The Expos requirement has been known to be dull and unhelpful, giving incoming freshman low expectations for the course. Although I do not know how much I benefited from the class as a writer, the course material and classroom environment were pleasant and I really enjoyed the fiction we read and the movie we watched, which are a large component of the course. The class was not too demanding but I did gain an appreciation for the drafting process, so the class struck a good balance between a relaxed atmosphere and high expectations. Michelle was reasonable and very open to meetings and email correspondence, and I appreciated how approachable she was throughout the course.
Great preceptor. Amusing readings. You improve a lot as a writer.
If you care at all about sports, this is probably the best Expos class. Although I was writing essays, which many people hate, the topics were at least something I was interested in, which made the class better than it could have been.
If you're a freshman taking this in the fall, be prepared to get some lower grades. The purpose of this class is to improve throughout the semester, so DO NOT BE overly disappointed by the grade of your first essay.This class, for a majority of students, is a drag. That's just the nature of Expos. No whining. You gotta do it, so just do it.
It is a really interesting course that integrates art and history in an interesting manner.  Jennifer Ledig really knows what she is talking about and is amazingly helpful.
It was a really interesting topic. Pick an Expos class with an interesting topic because you have to write about it.
This is a great expos class to take if you are interested in women's studies or literature.
If you like sports, this is the class for you. However, don't just take this class because you think it will be easier since it has the word "sports" in it. It's about the same amount of work as any other expos class.
It is good but make sure you are very specific in your analysis.
While I do not feel that I got the most I could have out of the class, it was still useful to some extent. Anyone taking this course just needs to realize that the style of writing with which they are comfortable may not be appropriate for a college setting, so they have to be able to let go of their habits and experiment.
When I signed up for an expos class entitled "Sound, Noise, and Music," I had some vague concept in my head that we would be freely analyzing mainstream music. There is no way that I could have predicted what this course had in store: instead of simply letting me revoice my stagnating views on the modern music scene, this class completely changed my perspective on what constitutes music as opposed to the general soundscape. I now appreciate the art behind folk music, the expressiveness behind Jandek, the technologies that enabled the work of the Beatles.....the music of John Cage and some other experimentalists, however, remains foreign to me. At least I have some sense of what is out there.(My response may be published, in whole or in part, anonymously or nomine).
Schedule more appointments than required with Cameron to help with your essays. He does a tremendous job at helping you with your paper while you are still doing your own work.
Out of all my friends, it seems that Diversity is the best possible choice for expos. Mr. Baran takes a somewhat boring requirement and turns it into a thought-provoking and exciting class. This class was my favorite class this semester.
This class was very intriguing to me from a global health aspect because of the great literature regarding the study of AIDS and poverty. It gave me a new perspective on the spread of AIDS throughout the world, especially in the US and Latin America. In addition to reading about AIDS, writing three essays about the disease greatly deepened my personal understanding and opinions about many aspects of the disease. I felt that my own writing skills improved as the semester went on, yet I feel that this class is what you make of it. If you put a lot of work into your essays, you will benefit greatly!
expos is a necessary but enriching class that gets you ready to succeed in other courses you will encounter here
This class will help you to feel much more confident with writing academic papers.
The materials are varying and interesting and the discussions are fascinating!
The readings are interesting, the class period is very boring. Writing the essays is actually sort of enjoyable if you like art and photography.
Use the preceptor as much as you can - outside of class; or else the essays you will work so hard on, may not correspond to what the preceptor initially wanted.
The course is great, but I hear that there are other Expos classes with lighter reading assignments.
The preceptor (Jane) is the main reason why you take this class. She is interesting, nice, but will push you at the same time. The special guests are a plus. If you put in a reasonable effort to edit your drafts, getting a good grade shouldn't be too hard.
If you're looking for a nonstressful, but very interesting and engaging class, this is one to consider.
It is a solid class with a very good, open instructor.  With that in mind, make sure to ask for help from the instructor if you have any difficulty understanding an assignment, coming up with a thesis, etc.  He is always glad to help.
Teacher doesn't really know how to teach writing. She puts a lot of work into the course it's often ineffective and she focuses on the wrong things.
I learned a lot about human mating and a little about writing.
The readings and discussions are really interesting and provoke worthwhile discussions of race and class.
The content of this class was really good and for an expos class I think this one is interesting enough that it doesn't have to feel too much like a drag. The homework is a little tougher than other expos classes.
The topic and materials covered in this course are extremely interesting!  I think that it is perhaps a bit more demanding workload than some of the other Expos 20 courses, but for me it was worth it given how much I enjoyed reading and discussing the sources we used.  Expos is going to be rough/frustrating no matter what, so this was a great choice because I could at least look forward to reading and going to class, and I even somewhat enjoyed writing the papers since I liked the material so much.
This course is difficult, but is also very effective. What you learn will affect your writing in all the other classes you are taking, and you will definitely see the positive changes that result from taking this course.
The harder you work, the higher your grade.
be ready to read and analyze
The preceptor did not give/return assignments or answer e-mails in a timely manner.
This class is a good one to take because all of the assignments are interesting and the work load is not too bad.
I really enjoyed the course materials, and Jonah is an interesting and interested preceptor who encourages you to engage with the subject matter and who pushes you to consider the material from different perspectives.I think that most of my problems related to this course concern Expos as a whole. The difference in grading across Expos classes is a little disappointing - in this case, other preceptors seemed more lenient, or at least more strictly concerned with "writing", rather than literary content, when it came to grading.I honestly really enjoyed the class and the materials. I also did feel that I was forced (in a good way) to think about my writing.
While the course material was great, this was a very writing-focused class. We spent more time talking about writing and editing strategies than about the texts. I have learned through friends that most other expos courses put somewhat more emphasis on the course material. This course would be helpful for those with limited writing experience, but it is frustrating for people who can already construct an analytical essay.
Pick a class that is most likely to spark your interest.
It dealt with an interesting subject, and the readings were very good. I think my writing could have improved more though.
The teacher is very kind, but she is a hard grader and the class material is rather uninteresting, despite its title.
This class does not prepare you to write research papers so seek external help for those.
I learned new things about American democracy and government that I had never before pondered on. However, the course at times was a bit boring, and various of the readings/presentations were useless and not very helpful.
Make sure you like the subject, that is, you really want to write about portraits.
You should definitely take this class!  The topics we discussed were fascinating and interesting from a variety of perspectives.  I found that the essay prompts exposed my weaknesses in writing and that Damon's suggestions in conferencing taught me how to improve and avoid making the same mistakes again.  Damon is a great preceptor.  He assigns of intriguing readings and has great stories to make the topics we discuss tangible and interesting.  Also, conferencing was very helpful and I learned a lot about my writing and how to improve it.  If you are excited about examining music from a philosophical perspective and trying to figure what it's all about, this is the course for you!
The instructor does not provide timely feedback -- we didn't receive comments on our second paper for over a month.  The feedback that he eventually gives is minimal, just the occasional marginal comment here and there.  While the material may be interesting, the instructor's slowness proves frustrating and I would advise against taking this class.
Its a great class highly recommended.
A mandatory course that you will neither love nor hate.
The essays are hard work, but very rewarding.
Lots of very interesting reading and assignments
Oftentimes, writing essays takes a longer time than you expect. Also, remember to pay attention to the comments and the conferences with the preceptor; they're very helpful in improving your essay for the final draft.
I never thought that I would actually enjoy writing papers analyzing murder in literature and film, but this course proved me wrong! I feel like I have learned so much about writing original and creative essays and that my writing skills have increased immensely.
very difficult grading. you're going to need to spend a lot of time on your essays
Don't expect A's, but if you like contemporary music and interesting applications of sound, noise and music, you will enjoy the course.  You probably won't love everything about the course, but it's definitely a good way to get the Expos requirement down with little reading.  It's intersting at best.
The topic is uninteresting.
Whether you have already read Shakespeare or not it's a great class to appreciate Shakespeare's Universe.
I don't thing it's as hard as all the other Expos classes based on other students' complaints about their Expos classes. It helps your writing a lot.
great times.
As far as Expos classes go, this is probably one of the most interesting ones and yet not as demanding as others.
While I wouldn't recommend Expos, since it's required anyway, I strongly encourage those with a modicum of respect for Shakespeare and his works to take the section taught by Mr. Cordell. He's a great preceptor and very engaging.
Take it if you like Shakespeare!
Choose Jane Unrue's section.  The topic is interesting, the readings and events are extraordinary, and the preceptor is second to none.  You will not regret your decision.  Even if you hate the idea of Expos with a passion, at least take the best option available.
Professor Fillingham is great, entertaining, has interesting ideas and gives good feedback. Fun class.
Upperclassmen told me that Expos was pretty awful in general, and based on my experience in this class, it is probably the exception.  A great class overall.
The topic of the class (class and nation in 19th c. Britain) was not one of interest to me (I was placed in the course after a scheduling conflict with my first choice in Expository Writing), but the readings were not unbearable. Overall, I remain indifferent to the course. If the topic is of interest, then I would recommend it to a student. Otherwise, I would probably not mention it in passing.
It's an art history course, disguised as a writing class.
This class is a great introduction to Gothic Fiction and its composite parts. If you plan carefully you can complete all of the assigned reading without a problem, which is imperative to success in the class because you will be expected to thoroughly analyze it in your papers and discussion.
Since you have to take expos, I would highly recommed this section of it.  The readings are easy but interesting, you watch fun movies/tv shows, and Dr. Levay is super nice.  Your writing will also improve through it, but he doesn't try to change your unique style of writing, which is not necessarily true of other expos from what I've heard.
You MUST like art. If you do, it's an amazing class.
It is not excessively difficult, and varies very much on the individual as to how useful it will be to you.
This is a great class if you are lucky enough to be placed in this section of expository writing. Enjoy.
It is definitely easier for students from England or with a strong background in English history. I would recommend it for Literature or History concentrators, but it is more difficult for math/science concentrators.
If you're going to take Expos (and you are), take Sound, Noise, Music!
Professor Syba gives really helpful comments.
It is wonderful!
This course approaches the problem of evil from a very philosophical point of view. If you are interested in learning about and responding to different historical concepts of evil I would strongly recommend this course. If, on the other hand, you want to focus on more concrete topics, you might want to choose a different course.
TAKE THIS CLASS!! I loved every moment of it and would have taken it even if it was not for Expository Writing. The teacher is extremely nice and a great writer.
The topic of Diveristy is so applicable to all facets of life, and everyone should become more educated about it.
If you're interested in exploring literature from a different and often undervalued perspective, this course is perfect! I really enjoyed the reading materials and felt like I really learned from them in addition to growing as a writer.
Everyone says Expos is just a requirement to get done with but I actually enjoyed my Expos class. I would recommend it to anyone.
The course focuses so much on three main ways to write a paper, so pay attention and ask when you don't understand a specific topic.  Ask very specific questions though because this instructor can be tricky and try to make you find an answer to a question that you don't completely understand.
I enjoyed this course but if you are not interested in art history (Roman/Byzantine) do not take this course.
While this class was enjoyable in section, the actual assignments were moderately difficult and feedback was not very specific.
For a required course it's actually interesting and a good process to go through for the writing. Great teacher, interesting discussion.
It's not as bad as you think. You hear all these horror stories about Expos, but when you take the course it's really not this terrible thing. It can actually be quite enjoyable at times.
Expos sucks, just pick a subject you are interested in and maybe you will survive. It is only a semester, so suck it up, pound out three essays, and get on with your life.
The class definitely helps improve one's writing, but I don't think anyone in the class was expecting the editing/revising process to be so lengthy/time-consuming. Everybody entered the class with similar high-school writing experiences - writing would take a couple hours and editing would take very little time. With expository writing, this is very different - everyone seems to have spent many many hours both writing and revising, and revising often (and unfortunately) involved rewriting entire chunks of the paper. This is definitely something that has to be adjusted to and something that should be understood entering the class.
Be sure you like Gothic Literature, as that is all that is read in the class (as the course title implies).  Not overly tough in terms of workload.
Best class you will take freshman year. Gives you a taste how many intelligent people there are around you. Loved this class.
This is the best course I took my freshman fall. The plays are great for anyone interested in theatre, the writing is great for anyone interested in ever getting above a B- on essays at Harvard, and Dr. Urban is great for anyone who wants to actually enjoy learning about writing. Not taking this course would be like eating sandpaper: You're allowed to do that, legally, but why would you?
This was a great Expos class because there is a very minimal amount of reading involved and the papers were relatively short compared to other Expos classes. I enjoyed the topic and it was very interesting.
If you are into serial killer movies and books, then take the course.  Dr. Levay is awesome.
Class time is a nice, laid back experience where you get to discuss music from different perspectives with a teacher who knows a lot about that field.
This course is great if you enjoy philosophical writing. If you have not dabbled in the subject matter before, taking this course may be inadvisable.
I often felt that I was not given enough information in class and then told to complete challenging or unrelated assignments outside of class.
TAKE IT.
It's a bit vague, but it's definitely better than some of the hard Expos 20 courses you hear about.
If you like sports this is a great expos section for you.
It was a very interesting class in that I looked at History and textbook inconsistencies in a totally new way. I really liked the material we studied, but the grading was inconsistent and my writing style in general didn't change
My writing improved significantly because of this course.
It's a lot of reading and takes a lot of patience in constant revisions. However, the work load is SO worth it. My writing has improved to a great extent, and it's so much easier for me to come up with arguable/persuasive theses.
This class was definitely not too difficult- if you do the readings, you will be more than fine. I've heard of many other Expos classes that are much worse, and I actually enjoyed the class.
Sri is a great professer - she will help you to grow in great lengths as a writer
The field of immigrant fiction encompasses topics such as identity, belonging, and globalization. Discussion of immigrant fiction allows for students to explore and analyze diverse topics.
Just make sure you like the topic.  I think that's the most important thing with and expos
It is a fun class, especially when it comes to doing the final essay!
Be ready for tough reading.  If you aren't ready to read thought provoking material about the apocalypse, then enrolling in this class is a bad idea. But if the apocalypse is something you enjoy reading about, then this is an amazing class that really opens up opportunities to pursue interests in the end of the world.
If you already have reading-intensive courses, you may wish to opt for a class with less reading; it is nonetheless manageable and enjoyable.
Owen Chen is the sexiest expos teacher out of all the expos teachers.
If you like to philosophize about morality and debate about the moral obligations of human beings, this class is for you. Professor Sludds is a really cool teacher.
Expos can be very helpful in helping you feel more confident about your writing and can also improve the strategies you use in your writing.
Sigrid Anderson Cordell is absolutely fabulous. She'll make the class feel relaxed and really chill, and then afterwards you'll realize how much you've learned.
Thoughtful engagement in this class enables students to realize what tremendous cogency and creativity can be achieved in effective academic writing.
only take this course if you are ready to write about artwork
Like any expos class, it's a requirement.  But the preceptor is excellent, the assignments were reasonable, and most people seemed to find the discussions generally engaging.
Expos is not made at all. Since you have to take it, make the most of it and try to learn something. You can put in as much effort or as little effort as you want, your grade will be in your control.
The class was fun, the people and professor were great, however the essays you had to write were extremely difficult.  I don't feel as if my writing has improved much.  The prompts are hard and have too many different elements.
The preceptor is amazing and is really invested in the topic, which makes the course so great and compensates for the sometimes tedious writing portion of the course.
The readings are not your typical high school readings!
Urban America is an interesting topic, and A Raisin in the Sun is an excellent read.  Expos in general is often not particularly fun, as there are some boring but important elements the preceptors must teach.  Usually students do not actually want to write an expos essay.  Nevertheless, I do recommend this section of expos.  The preceptor is friendly and helpful, and she did help me to improve my writing.
Take this course only if you are genuinely interested in the course, rather than to simply fill a requirement.
If you are interested in music, this course is a great choice.
This class is a lot of fun. Mr. Cordell (Jeff) is the man! Class is fun and we often go off on ridiculous tangents. That said, the feedback on first drafts is excellent and really helps you prepare for the final draft. The only drawback is that he is a bit of a tough grader. However, if I was to do it again I would definitely take this class again. Many people have said they hated expos and I can say with all honesty I really enjoyed this class.
Students have mixed reactions to expos. The vast majority of my friends got their first or second choice. Only a handful of kids in every class gets an A. Try to take it in the fall - nice way to begin your college career. When you write for expos and for college essays in general don't focus on how beautiful your prose sounds and how eloquent you are - instead led your ideas and some kind of logical flow drive your writing. This may seem pretty obvious, but it was a definite change for me. Make sure to outline for all your essays. Go to your preceptors Office Hours whenever you have to write an essay. Preceptors really grade according to the logicical flow of your ideas and how honed in they are. Peer editing really helps - find a buddy in your class you like and you think is pretty smart - check each other's essays for typos and ask them to tell you where they feel confused in your essay, where things don't make logical sense. really use the response excersises to explore a plethora of ideas. don't write drafts the night before they're do. If you want to do well in this class - understand that good writing takes time. Don't be afraid to go on hollis/go to widener to get materials for ur papers - the referenece desk librarians are really excited to help you and will explain everything to you! it's really sad almost no one asks them for help, but that's what they're there for!
This class does not go through the current issues on AIDS, like the disease in Africa or Brazil today, and how the media uses AIDS to achieve its own agendas. The class is more about AIDS in the 1980s, and the political issues then. Inform yourself:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AIDS_Coalition_to_Unleash_Power
Don't be discouraged by the grade you get on your first essay. It will improve.
Not a lot of reading, good feedback, interesting topics. Easygoing discussions, preceptor open to extensions.
This is a great course to fulfill your Expos requirement. It never really felt like a required course and Jane made it exciting every day. I would really recommend it.
The readings are extremely thought provoking and the discussions are very meaningful. The teacher raises interesting points regarding the readings to allow for further interpretations.
It is very hard and you read a lot of very strange plays.  However, it is worth it.
don't have the expectation that you're going to be taking a normal english class that focuses on shakespeare's works. go into it knowing that you're going to be talking predominantly about elements of writing, mostly of critics' works, and not delving into the wonders and magic of shakespeare.
A very interesting class taught by a very able and communicative TF.
It's required, so make the best of it.  Work hard on your drafts even if they're not graded.  That makes the revision process much easier.
I would tell them that the teacher is passive agressive which makes it harder to feel comfortable in class.
Some people get alot out of this class, others, not so much.  You get what you put in.  As long as you have an open mind, Expos can be a great tool for college writing.
Make sure you are interested in the topics you rank! You will always write better papers if you are interested in the research and work required to do it. Get to know the professor since it is a small class. And don't worry about what other kids may say about the course...put all you've got into it and it will work out for the best.
All of the material was very interesting; I actually enjoyed writing papers and the feedback actually improved my writing.
Not bad for a required course.  Definitely helps your writing, although it is by no means perfect at doing that.
It is not easy, and the restrictions imposed on the professor by the expository writing program make it difficult for her to teach the subject in the most interesting way possible. Less time spent on writing techniques and more time spent discussing the actual ideas and literature would have improved the class.
Great teacher, great reading
great for students interested in the ethics of psychological experimentation
Great class with a fantastic teacher. Aside from the already fascinating Shakespearean source material, Professor Cordell does a great job of both helping you analze the text and apply that analysis to your writing. His lessons on the actual writing process are incredibly helpful as well.
For this particular section, the class time is great but the readings and writing is difficult. Put your heart into it and you'll get a lot out of it.
It's a great class.
You're here to learn and you CAN learn from this class. Worry less about the grades you might receive and try to engage with the material and the truly beneficial process of essay writing as much as you can.
This class can be challenging at times, but once you have a breakthrough in your writing, you will find that it can also be very rewarding.
This class is extremely worthwhile and there is a general great sense of class enthusiasm. The preceptor is very helpful and tries her hardest to understand her students and always tries to better the course.
The material was very interesting in my opinion, but I was not extremely fond of the preceptor. She was not terrible by no means, but I just didn't like her style.
Expos is never going to be a perfect class. Considering that you HAVE to take expos, though, this is absolutely your best bet. Jane is an amazing preceptor, and your preceptor makes all the difference in expos. (She's enthusiastic, funny, and helpful. You will love meeting with her and her class.)
Contemporary theatre, since it was such a new topic for me, actually made the class quite interesting and Dr. Urban taught the material well so it didn't feel so much like writing 101.
The subject of this Expos class was really interesting and easy to write about.
This class is challenging at times, but you will definitely see improvements in your writing from the first to the third essay.
Great course to take
the material we read in this class is incredibly relevant and interesting; therefore, it is relatively enjoyable to write papers for this class because the issues we are grappling with are very real and significant
This course is good and I think better than a lot of other expos courses (not as much reading or long pre-essay assignments) and the teacher is really nice and helpful, but if you feel very weak about writing maybe not the best, but I enjoyed it.
Many students come away with a bad impression of Expos. It doesn't have to be that way! The Moral Life is a great Expos class, as you'll be able to read interesting articles and debate them with your peers. Hopefully, you will also emerge as a better writer.
Only take if you are genuinely interested in Victorian literature.  The preceptor is very knowledgeable and passionate about her topic, but it's hard to devote the brainspace required when you're not interested.
Its a requirement. JUst go in with a positive attitude and get it over with. You'll actually learn a lot.
If you have to take an Expos class, which you do, this is a good one.  Be prepared for some depressing reading material (it's all evil all the time).  That said, the class is interesting and the professor is great.
My impression was that Expos is a deeply-flawed course, irrespective of which section you are in. Having said that, people I know in other sections enjoyed the course more. So my advice would be to find a different section, preferrably one with a lighter reading load. Expos is not a course where it is easy to enjoy your reading assignments.
The class has a lot of reading, but it's an interesting topic and the essays topics are interesting and thought-provoking.
BEST EXPOS EVER! All of the essays were 5-6 pages of persuasive writing in interesting subject areas like the death penalty, animal rights, abortion, death, etc. The teacher is great and explains everything realllly easily, so don't worry if you haven't done philosophy! The class required almost no work, and it was not difficult to write essays! Plus the readings were actually interesting. all my friends were really jealous I got into this one, for good reason!
Michele Martinez is an excellent instructor. Because the course is text-based, you will actually learn about the course's subject matter in this course, unlike in other Expos courses. Don't expect a deep and thorough working knowledge of the Gothic, but do expect some fascinating reading. And you'll polish up your writing habits too.
Enjoy and listen to the discussions. They will really help you in the understanding of the literature.
Take this class if you're interested in exploring philosophical arguments about evil. Other aspects aren't addressed as much.
always be on top of things
The course is a fun and engaging course on contemporary immigrant fiction in America.
Choose this section if you want more emphasis on literary analysis than writing skills throughout the course.
For a required course, it's certainly manageable and can be enjoyable.
It's a challenging class, but you learn a lot and it definitely improved tremendously.
Darwinian Dating will be your favorite class if you are lucky enough to be assigned your #1 Expos choice, i.e. this class.
Art of Persuasion was a tremendous course!
The class is quite easy.
The preceptor is a great guy. You're going to really enjoy the intellectual conversations you share with the preceptor and your classmates. Just make sure you read the material before you go to class.
The course materials are very interesting if one is interested in gender and bi-cultural relationships.
You have to take it. Make the best of it.
I recommend but one should know that she is an very tough grader and one should be prepared for not doing as well as one would hope.  Overall the class is engaging and fun.
I would tell students that the class was unfulfilling overall, because the course description promised a lot more than the actual class was able to deliver. It seemed somewhat superficial to be categorizing men into "bad boys" and "nice guys" and though there was biological evidence and evolutionary reasoning supporting certain short- and long-term preferences, it still seems somewhat far-fetched.
depending on your section topic, good interesting class
Effort on your drafts is important to receive constructive feedback. Dont hesitate to go to office hours for help during the writing processthe guidance can be very useful.
Many people do not look forward to taking Expository Writing, but it is extremely advantageous to have this background in the first year.  Enrolling in a section which covers a topic of interest is also beneficial and helps to extract the most out of the class.
it was terrible and unnecessary.  Especially since the quality and distinct type of writing needed to do well in this course is way more advanced than all other courses.
Just make sure to establish good communication and you should be good
If you are not comfortable with learning how to develop English skills independently, this course may not be for you.
Manageable readings with a very interesting topic. Experience with philosophy helps.
Hard, but an interesting class. Expository writing is miserable, but this isn't the worst time.
Paul Sludds is an excellent and resourceful preceptor. He is always willing to talk with you if you do not get to bring up certain ideas in class. However, if you do not like philosophy, do not take this class. Also, unfortunately, As are very scarce in this class.
This course is great!
I think we had it easier than the other sections so why not?
Definitely interesting stuff to write about, and fairly good readings
Belonging and Alienation is a great Expos. Lydia is very helpful in constructing arguments and giving constructive criticism - all with a relaxed classroom atmosphere.
It definately provides training for more difficult, writing-intensive courses to come in the next three years.
This is a class that is good for psychology or science concentrators. The course is not reading intensive, which is good, and does a great job teaching you how to write science-type papers.
A clear interest in Shakespeare would make the class much more enjoyable.
This class is useful and necessary to bring your writing to a higher level, but the quality of the class is entirely dependent on the preceptor.
Take this class! It's easy and fun. There's almost no reading, which for expos is AWESOME! Tad is the nicest person ever. All my friends complained about their expos. In addition, the subject of the class is applicable to many fields. Plus, you get to watch movies!
If you like Shakespeare, this might be the class for you. The class gets you deep into some of Shakespeare's classic plays and even puts them into a historical context.
This was an amazing class. I didn't have high expectations for Expos. I was wrong.
I know expository writing has a bad reputation as being an annoying requirement, however, the Voice of Authority was a great course. Jane Unrue works with you, regardless of what your writing abilities are, and helps you improve your techniques through engaging discussions and interesting assignments. Jane gives life to this course-- she is eccentric, funny, and really interesting.
The subject of "The Art of Crime" is very unique, and therefore makes the class content quite interesting.
The professor gives great personal attention and revolutionizes the way you write!
For expos, this class is interesting and fairly graded. The more you are interested in theatre, the more interesting the class will be, but no matter what it is a painless way to fill the expos requirement.
This course definitely helped me become a better writer. It was my favorite class this semester and I'm positive that the material, as well as Dr. Syba were a huge part of that. The readings and topics we covered in class were contemporary, and therefore nothing was too cryptic in the sense that you would read something and have no idea what it said. The work was definitely manageable and you really learn so much from Dr. Syba. She gives you a hard copy of handwritten comments and a full page of typewritten ones for all of your submitted work, which include response papers, drafts, and final copies. She invests a lot of time into her students, which is definitely a reason to take this course because not every instructor is willing to give up so much of his or her time. On a final note, make sure you participate! When you contribute your opinion during discussion, it really makes the class more fun and you get so much more out of it. Take advantage of being able to be in a classroom setting based on just talking to your peers. You'll see things from a new perspective.
Limited readings, great preceptor.
This is a fun Expos!
This is probably one of the more bearable expos classes, but certainly not the most stimulating.
Owen Chen is an interesting, evocative teacher who will challenge your way of thinking in interesting ways. But at the same time, the course assignments can be a bit awkward at first.
At points, Expos is very time-consuming and difficult, but ultimately it teaches you a lot about writing in college.
Class was interesting, and the reading was relatively short and not dense (The Jungle excluded).
You'll learn some of the basics of psychology without getting in depth, into the boring parts. It's a well thought course; it'll feel like a seminar, not an expos class.
AWESOME CLASS! Prof. Cordell is a lot of fun and doesn't take himself too seriously, but you also read some awesome Shakespeare plays and learn a lot.
this class is awful but you have to go through it
This particular section is really not cohesive at all. The subject matter is barely connected throughout each section of class.
Be prepared to write complex, challenging essays. If taken seriously, this course can make you a much better writer.
In Diversity, I wrote about things that matter for reasons above and beyond learning for the sake of mere knowledge acquisition. This is the kind of course that any one who wants to see the relevance of their academic pursuits.
Don't forget that no matter how cool the subject of your course is, Expos is ultimately about writing papers.
This class is the best Expos class!
Unless you are passionate about photography, you won't particularly enjoy the class.
Given the Expos requirement, this class was a great one. I really enjoyed a lot of the material. The grading is slightly difficult, but if you put in the work, you will do well.
Write the best essay you can in your first draft. Your final essay will be much better than your original intention if you take the feedback seriously and work to fix them.
This class was one of my favorite, which is uncommon for people to say about their expos classes.  I thought the topic was great and really interesting.  It made the reading and writing so much more enjoyable.
This is a great course. The instructor is great and he is very enthusiastic about the course and the topics covered in the course. He helps you through the writing process and ensures your success.
Professor Davies is amazing! He is extremely helpful and an awesome preceptor. The material you write about is interesting and your writing will probably improve significantly. Take this class!
You should note that the stress in the course title is more on TALES than on murder.  Our essay topics were more about how murder is discussed than murder itself.  This class was difficult, but Emily is terrific and was really helpful.  The reading was also really light; we worked with a variety of materials (songs, short stories, and a documentary) rather than critical essays or novels.
The subject matter of this class was very deep. I feel like you must like philosophy to enjoy this class
This course will be occasionally painful and sometimes dry, but your writing will improve, even when you least expect it. Mr. Cordell is an impressive editor, and has clear and important thoughts on how to make your writing clear and concise.
The amount of reading is less than the other Expos classes and the preceptor is very understanding.
This class was definitely one of my favorites this semester!  The topic was really interesting and always created dynamic discussions among the students that made the actual essay writing much easier.  I think the topic is definitely one that you have to find intriguing for the class to have the same type of effect, however.  All in all though, the professor is very approachable and easy to talk to (conferences were my favorite).  Highly recommend this class!
Expos was a class that really did help prepare me for writing at Harvard and for writing in general.  Sometimes tedious and challenging, I nevertheless grew as an essay writer and as a student.  Expos doesn't just help you learn to write, it helps you formulate an argument logically and effectively; a skill needed for any class.
Rather than over-burden us with mounds of reading, the instructor gave us very specific, short passages to read closely, making it much easier to follow and contribute to the course.
The most important element to creating a good essay in this class is picking your sources wisely. Writing about a play you like can make or break and essay, and picking your secondary source on the final essay is CRUCIAL. It is a painful experience to be reading through a long secondary source because your original secondary source was too flimsy. Choose with caution when approaching sources that aren't books or are published by unknown authors.
You have to take Expos, so try to like it! It's not completely horrible, and I found class discussions to actually be quite enjoyable.
The class was a waste of time.  You learn how to write in the style of your preceptor, which is different from the TF's who grade the papers in the other classes.  Does not improve writing skills on the whole.
Just get through it and try to enjoy and appreciate what you learn, despite the somewhat monotonous feel of the course.
I learned to open up my mind to different ways of looking at documents and sources, working to integrate them into a logically flowing argument. I came to see essays as scholarly conversations.
Everyone has to take it.
