Awesome material. I'd take it just for what I learned about human behavior.
This course is the best expos 20 course out there! Mandatory writing is never fun, but this class really writes about very interesting subjects. The reading is also fun and helpful.
It's a fun class and not to difficult. Probably the best of the expos sections from what I've heard. Definitely sign up.
This is the best expos class. The material is so interesting so it makes it much easier write essays when the content is exciting.
If you take this class you will genuinely enjoy your expos class. The material and essay assignments are both very interesting and you'll learn a lot about the material while learning to write at the same time!
This class is cheeky and fun, but you really do get a lot out of it. If you are not familiar with writing scientific papers, it's a great intro course to that.
This class makes will make sure the expos requirement is not a chore.  The readings are short and the material  is very interesting and engaging.  Elissa is a tough grader, but your ability to write analytically will definitely improve throughout the course.  Elissa has a passion for the subject and makes the classes interesting.
This class is great!!! The readings are interesting and this allows you to fulfill your expos requirement without feeling like you're taking a humanities class (especially if you're more of a science person).
It was an extremely fun class. The topic was amazing, Elissa was amazing, and classes were always enjoyable to go to.
This class is one of the most interesting and enjoyable expos classes, if not THE best, and probably one of the most interesting and enjoyable classes at Harvard. My regret is that I didn't spend enough time really working on my weak points by scheduling a writing conference every time, getting a peer to read over my essay, and asking Elissa more specific questions on how to improve. Make sure you do that, and your improvement as a writer would be greater.
I know Expos generally has a not-so-positive reputation, so I reccomend you take this class and make your lives a lot easier and more fun! Writing essays is never fun for me, but the subject matter covered in class is actually interesting and the second and third essay topics (Bad Boys vs. Nice Guys, and What Men Want) make the experience less painful. You get to do actual research too, which is neat but can be as intense as you make it. The feedback is extremely helpful, if you ever want more advice you office hours are really useful as well. All in all, I enjoyed this course, and did not at all have a bad experience with Expos.
Great class, interesting topic, go into Office Hours!
The course is graded fairly and instructively. The topic is fun and interesting.
This is by far one of the most fascinating courses I have ever taken, not only because the topic is extremely interesting and appealing, but also because it gives you the necessary tools to improve your writing ability and truly increases your writing confidence.
It is very scientific and factual. Make sure you want to write scientific pieces before you decide to choose this class.
Take this class! Probably the best Expos class you can take. Elissa is awesome! The course is super interesting (especially your own research project), and you really improve your writing. Not only for science-y people!
Professor Krakauer was fantastic, but I feel like she is being the best she can within a broken framework. This class is focused evaluating how well one can already write and is extremely discriminatory toward students who did not receive excellent writing instruction in secondary school. Many of my friends remarked that the AP/community college writing classes they took were far superior in stressing the details associated with good writing. In this regard, Expos fails. Hard. If you looking to actually LEARN to write, and not simply receive three graded essays, look elsewhere.
Elissa is a great instructor and finds creative ways to present the required Expos material. The readings, primarily journal articles, are interesting and relatively short among Expos courses. The essay topics allow plenty of room for creativity, especially in Unit 3 where you get to conduct your own survey on what men want! I loved this class and would highly recommend placing it high on your Expos rankings.
Take this course because there are no discussion papers and we do not have to highlight and photocopy our sources. Those things sound really annoying and remind me of high school busy work.
Elissa is an amazing preceptor and I learned a lot about my style and areas of improvement over the semester. The material is interesting and honestly, I didn't have cause to complain about expos the way other students did. Overall, a great experience.
This course really is for students who are interested in pursuing the sciences.
TAKE IT
The course is so interesting you don't even realize you're doing any work.
This is the best expos class ever. I can even say that this is the best class I've taken at Harvard. It's very interesting and makes you think objectively about sexual attraction which is very relevant to our lives. The readings are very light and Elissa is an excellent teacher. I could acually feel that I was getting better at writing. I'm so glad I got into this class and it was my first choice.
This is a fascinating class if you're interested in biology and theories behind human attraction. There aren't too many readings and they're almost all scientific research articles. The preceptor is very easy to talk to and very helpful; don't be hesitant to reach out to her through email to ask a question or set up an individual meeting to discuss your paper.
Darwinian Dating is probably one of the best Expos options- the material is relevant and interesting, class discussions are fun, and Elissa is warm, friendly, and helpful. The courseload is reasonable, and we got a lot of feedback on written assignments. Elissa is also very responsive to emails and is always available for help.
Darwinian Dating is an awesome Expos class to take. First off, the subject material is super interesting. What college student doesn't want to know more about sex and dating? Full disclosure though: this is not a Dating 101 crash course, you're not going to learn how to talk to girls any better from taking this. The essays are a pain, mostly because the way Expos is structured, but Elissa (the preceptor) is one of the nicest and most critically-constructive teachers I have ever met. She really focuses on the logic/arrangements of your essays and does an amazing job teaching you how to improve your writing.
Darwinian Dating is a great Expos!  The course material is interesting, and one has the opportunity to write thesis-based scientific papers, which does not occur as often in the sciences.  Sections are helpful to analyzing the assigned text, and the readings provide a great background on the topics for the Unit papers!  The feedback given on drafts and pre-draft assignments is extremely helpful and detailed, specifically addressing good point for improvement.
Expos - if you need to do it, take this class. The preceptor is really passionate about the topic and Darwinian Dating is the best way to go through it painlessly.
Darwinian dating is very unique in that it is one of the more scientific Expos courses you will be able to take. The articles we read are very interesting and give some rational perspective on how heterosexual attraction works. Also, Elissa is very approachable and helpful whenever you need help in drafts or class works in general.
This class is a science writing and not a typical humanities course. I found the title of "expository writing 20" to be misleading. Also the one letter grade per day of lateness is unreasonable. In addition, some of the prompts are simplified to the point of being sociologically flawed or politically incorrect. For example, "what do women want nice guys or bad boys?" is a question we spent one third of the class trying to answer, and I find that reducing the desires of women to a heteronormative binary scale is an intellectually discouraging methodology for academia.
If you mean Darwinian Dating specifically, I would definitely recommend it!
Great material. Teaches you a lot about why you find certain men/women more attractive than the rest and grounds all these explanations in the theory of evolution. You also get to read a lot of scientific biology articles so it is good practice for a science major.
More science based than you would expect
This class does not have a big reading component and the reading that you do have is very engaging and interesting.  Also, the writing component in this class is different from other expos classes as it is geared more towards science writing with a bit of a humanities twist.  Overall, this class is really great and allows you to look at human attraction in a completely different light.
this class is awesome - one of my favorites this semester. essays are hard but she's a fair grader and is there to help.  the feedback she gave was not like anything i had received before and was really helpful
SUPER interesting topic, and the work put into the essays is worth it
This was such a wonderful class! Professor Krakaeur is one of the nicest professors I have met at Harvard so far and she really cares about students and their writing. She does a great job in making sure the literature is engaging as well as informative and useful for writing papers.
It's a really fun class as Expos goes. Elissa is fair and helpful, and doesn't really make people complete rewrite papers like some other preceptors. You learn a lot and the material is really interesting!
Elissa is an amazing preceptor and person who gives insightful feedback on essays to help you improve your writing.  The topics were all interesting (at least for me personally) and the readings were never overly monotonous or boring.  This class is a great choice for expos.
TAKE THIS CLASS! JUST DO IT -- YOU WILL LOVE IT. This class is so much fun. The material is so relevant in college. The final paper allows you to explore any aspect of "What men want" and is inherently applicable as a college student. The preceptor is fantastic. EXPOS was the best class i took this semester -- maybe all year!
