Philosophy may seem weird, hard, or flat out freaky at first, but there's no one better than Dr. Hahn to lead you into the waters. This Expos course was amazing for many reasons, including the light reading assignments, but the most important was Dr. Hahn. If you're unsure of what to do, just take this Expos for no other reason than the preceptor!
This was one of the best Expos selections by far. I never found the sections boring, I enjoyed doing the readings, and Professor Hahn knows how to engage his students. I could see my writing skills gradually developed, and by the end of the semester, I felt more confident as a writer. It could've been a lot more painful!
Imagining animals is a great expos course
You really learn a lot--how to formulate questions, how to analyze and find logical errors in arguments. But you would have to expect lots of workload (readings for every class) and lots of extremely complex thoughts in order to write a good paper. The writing assignments are really different from essays you have written throughout your life.
Dr. Hahn may appear intimidating at first, but be honest to him. He is extremely understanding and wants to help you have a good Expos experience. Try to keep up with the readings, and if there is a week with lighter readings, try reading ahead. Always check what you are reading against what you believe, but only after you have deconstructed the reading's basic logical argument.
This class will mostly likely challenge your views on the moral status of animals. Don't expect the course readings to consist of whimsical shorts; Imagining Animals explores numerous dense (yet tractable) philosophical papers. The class is a perfect introduction to philosophical reasoning and comes with a reasonable workload. Also, Dr. Hahn is hilarious and a fair grader.
I really enjoyed the content of this course. Professor Hahn is engaging and gives useful feedback.
At first the class is scary but once you get into a rhythm it gets much more fun and interesting.
It is a really engaging and fun class. Not only does your writing improve but your overal general knowledge is greatly expanded. The philosophy we read is very applicable to many other classes.
I think that this class was an EXCELLENT expos class. Dr. Hahn is a great teacher and the class is a great way to learn the expos material. I would highly recommend this class to anyone who is choosing expos classes.
Imagining animals is a great choice for expos, the issues are so interesting and complex that the context is perfect. It is helpful to tackle the issues in such a structured context, and there is so much to think about that the formulaic nature of expos paper assignments is much more engaging than I imagine it might be in other expos classes.
I was randomly assigned this section of expos because I never submitted my section choices.  I strongly recommend thinking critically about your choices - don't submit any choices for sections you wouldn't want to - and taking the time to submit your choices.
Ridiculously interesting and super fulfilling. If you keep on the work in the first two units, the third one is a breeze. Actually improved my writing. Literature is easy to read and relevant, as well as thought-provoking.
This may show you that college writing classes are a lot less painful and a lot more interesting than high school ones, as what you are writing about actually makes sense.
This course will either teach you to refine or help you practice refining arguments, which is hugely important regardless of your discipline. Dr. Hahn is a great preceptor who will help you improve your writing in a non-stressful way. The readings are interesting in themselves, and the assignments are specific without being limiting. This course is an excellent way to fulfill the Expos requirement.
It is a fun, engaging class.  If you want to write dog diaries or create fairytale creatures then you have misread the course description.
This class made me decide to pursue Psychology as a Secondary concentration.
Awesome and wonderful. This class' purposes is to not write about your dog, but rather question the understanding of animals. This class dabs into philosophy, but not to an intense level (I'm not crazy into philosophy). Hahn is really thorough in comments and helpful!
I really enjoyed this class, but it is expos. The writing assignments can feel annoying at times, but then again everyone has to do them for some class and at least this topic is interesting.
The class was very interesting but not at all what I expected. While I had heard that it was very philosophy-heavy, I didn't know what that meant until after I had taken the course. To reiterate, it is a PHILOSOPHY expos, not at all a science-based (or other field) expos class. While I found it to be pretty difficult, I did learn a lot through the class and I feel enlightened to have been able to try out philosophy for a semester, something I wouldn't have done otherwise. I also have a great interest in animals and animal rights, so the reading and discussion topics were intriguing to me, but if you don't have an interest in those areas, the class may not be interesting to you. Overall, what you get out of the class is what you put into it; if you don't read or engage in the class, it won't be fun, but if you do, you'll learn a lot.
It was fun, but the readings were pretty difficult to understand. If you don't interpret them correctly, then you do poorly.
Excellent expos class. The topics are interesting and the professor gives extensive and useful feedback.
Expos is expos, but this class is decent as these things go, especially after the first half. I ended up appreciating it a lot more towards the end, because for the last project you can basically write about whatever you want as long as it pertains to animals. Be forewarned, it is very heavily based in philosophy, something which I had had no background in, which made it a bit difficult at the beginning. Once you get the basics down and get used to David Hahns teaching style it gets better. There is a fair amount of reading, but not so much as to be overwhelming. You arent generally forced to talk if you dont want to, and there are opportunities for small group discussions, which I was more comfortable with. Often times youll feel like you dont know what youre doing, but youll get a decent grade if you put some effort into it, and your writing will most definitely improve. The one-on-one conferences are uncomfortable of course, but the feedback is helpful. You have to get through expos, and this is probably as good of a class as any.
This is a fair expository writing course. You will see your writing and thinking skills improved by taking this course, although you may not come out loving the material or Philosophy/English at Harvard. Dr. Hahn can be personable at times, but he can also come off poorly, as well. The material is not that engaging, although towards the end of the course you are introduced to several important foundational concepts in philosophy. From those with whom I've spoken, I believe that very few people actually put this course down as one that they would like to take.
This class does have some positive points to it-- you learn how to analyze and reason through philosophical arguments, and you learn about a topic that you would otherwise probably not even think about. However, I did not find it that fun, and if you are not philosophically inclined it can be very frustrating.
