This is no substitute for AP English Literature; by this, I suppose I mean that while I can successfully weave together some Toni Morrison quotes and Angelou poetry into an essay given a forty-five minute window, generating a unique, original thesis regarding scientific ideas requires different skills. Had I known this, I would have perhaps opted for the Bronte class; yet I'm glad I didn't, because I gained some useful science-writing skills.
While this class often contains fun elements and little known facts about evolution, overall it was not as fun as some of the other expos classes I have heard about. Make sure to try to get interested in the material, or the course will be a constant counting down of how many days until its over.
First. This is a science writing course. Plan accordingly. For example, if you are well trained in writing about literature or philosophy, stay away!Second. Grading is a complete mystery. There are no rubrics or specific guidelines. You essentially hand your paper in and your instructor rolls the dice to see what you get off for or criticizes you for purely arbitary / inane reasons.
if you are interested in scientific writing, take it
This was actually a good course, particularly for Expos.  The feedback was really helpful and the topics were interesting.
This is not always the most exciting course but it can be very helpful so it's important to take it seriously and do the work.
keep up with revisions, which are tedious but worthwhile
There is not as much pre-writing assignments, though you need to be able to read and comprehend scientific papers.
The class covers an incredibly interesting topic in Evolutionary Leaps that I previously had very little interest in. However, the approach to the pre-draft component could be improved. Feedback would also come too late to make any meaningful revisions to our drafts before the conference with the preceptor.
It is an interesting topic, but it is very difficult to write about and come up with analysis for papers.
Erin's gives really good help with papers and does and excellent job guiding us through the process of writing a college level paper. However, I wasn't super interested in evolution, so I would recommend this to someone who is more interested in reading about the evolution of birds, fish, and humans.
The material is engaging and you will finish with a pretty thorough understanding of how to approach future writing pieces!
This class is a standard Expos class with comparatively light reading expectations.
You HAVE to take it because it's REQUIRED.
Most people hate their expos classes, but this one was really interesting and informative! If you are scientifically minded and want to learn about evolution and biology while you also develop your writing skills, take this class. As a prospective life sciences concentrator, I figured that learning how to write scientific papers would be extremely helpful. Erin is friendly, approachable, and highly knowledgeable, and offers great constructive feedback on drafts. Unlike most expos classes, we primarily read short scientific articles so you don't get bogged down by tons of reading. Finally, we got to handle blind fish, Triassic dinosaur bones, bird skeletons, and other cool primary sources--very hands-on class.
Which other Expos 20 class makes use of game shows in class to teach about plagiarism? If you are interested in writing about science, definitely consider this class -- Erin is a great preceptor and class was always a pleasure to attend. Just be sure not to underestimate the workload, and do the readings and exercises diligently to get the most out of it.
The essay prompts are formulated to be very difficult to argue and require lots of time/effort to respond.  An extremely strong science/evolution background will put you at a great advantage in this course.  I would not recommend this course to those without a strong background.
Don't worry about not getting an A.  It's very hard to do so.  Just try to learn how to write better and it will serve you well in the future.
Not too much reading and fun assignments in my opinion!
This could be a good expos if you know you want to right about science, as there are not many science based expos classes available. The readings, assignments, and in class exercises were probably not the strongest out of the expos classes, but I took it in the first semester it was offered and they are sure to improve. Erin is always willing to help out and holds regular office hours which are very useful.
In terms of Expos classes this class does not require as much reading. But the essay topics were no very interesting and the class was boring in general.
