This is the best expos offered if you have an interest in children's literature and are willing to participate in classroom conversations. There is not a lot of reading but that does not mean that the class is easy, you have to do the same amount of work (drafts, response papers etc.) as any other expos. The professor is engaging, enthusiastic about the topic and really helpful throughout the writing process (his comments are amazing).
This course, Wizards and Wild Things, lets you read books like Tom Sawyer and Lord of the Flies and write about it. This appealed to me because I would be reading and writing about literature I enjoyed and am passionate about. If you are passionate about children's literature and the messages it contains I would strongly recommend applying for this course.
My preceptor, David Barber, is the reason why my expos experience was so positive this semester. His feedback is unbelievably thorough and he is always willing to help out in any situation and it is obvious how much time he puts into the class. While sections themselves can sometimes become a little boring, the essays were very engaging and I always looked forward to Barber's comments and feedback as I felt my writing improved tremendously throughout the whole term.
Super fun class with very manageable and interesting readings
An engaging and fun expos class
LOVED IT! Take this class if you love literature, fairytales, etc. It is not too hard but very fulfilling.
Take this course because it is easy and interesting. I enjoyed class discussions without feeling stressed about getting work for that class done.
I LOVED this class and recommend it to anyone and everyone. Professor Barber helped me improve my writing immeasurably and led incredibly interesting yet relaxed discussions from rhetoric to child psychology. Readings are not only manageable but enjoyable, and there is a lot of freedom in choosing topics for papers. TAKE THIS COURSE! It's everything expos should be.
Take this expos class! I loved it and after hearing horror stories from my friends about their expos classes felt positive this is THE BEST EXPOS CLASS! Professor Barber is a wonderful man and goes and beyond after every draft and essay to give us reflective and thought out feedback. He dedicates himself so fully to the class and makes everyone want to do their best. The readings are pretty cool too.  I definitely feel that I have improved as a writer after taking this course.
This is a really great expos class. The readings are enjoyable because they're either excerpts from classic children's books or critiques of children's books. Professor Barber gives amazing feedback and great constructive criticism. His conferences are really helpful as well. Definitely take this class.
I can say quite confidently that this is one of it not the best Expos course offered. Prof. Barber is gentle, thoughtful, intelligent and the syllabus is incredible. He gives such detailed, thorough feedback on all of the assignments that you can't help but become a greater writer with him. And best of all, the class is very flexible.
