As far as expos goes, it's probably one of the most enjoyable.
A wonderful expos!!!! Justine is a great teacher who really wants to see you succeed. You do NOT need previous experience (I have literally never written a 4+ page paper in my life in high school and I got A's) but strong interest in the subject matter is non-negotiable. Also be willing to put in a lot of work, and critically evaluate your own writing.
If you are at all interested in art, you should certainly take this as your Expos course. The course not only provides you with new writing techniques and skills, but also with techniques and skills of examination and analysis of art.
This class was challenging for me personally, but worth it.  Professor de Young is a tough but fair grader, and recognizes efforts made in improving.  I wanted to take a class with some artistic element, and this certainly satisfied that.  But don't fear, science concentrators!  Artistic knowledge was not necessary, and our readings were very helpful in understanding art.  Overall, I would definitely recommend this class.
This class is GREAT. You go on field trips, draw in class, explore many controversial pictures and look at nude models for homework. You write about pictures, and not long and dreary books/journals. It's a great way to concentrate on improving writing techniques (as opposed to skimming/reading techniques).
I can't imagine a better way to have fulfilled the Expos writing requirement.  Though I had never taken an art history course before, I really enjoyed the opportunity to learn how to write about art and analyze both historical and modern-day response to art.  The course is also extremely well structured -- the analytical skills you develop in the first unit are honed in the second unit and come together beautifully with other opportunities for comparison and research in the third unit.  Prof. De Young also provides a wealth of support, from tons of helpful worksheets to valuable discussions.  Take it!!!
Professor makes the class uncomfortable and awkward.
I'd recommend to art lovers but not others.
Professor De Young is very helpful and super thoughtful in her comments, evaluations, and advice throughout your writing process! If you're interested in art and love writing about art, this is definitely the Expos class for you.
No matter what the professors say, classes outside of Expos DO NOT and WILL NOT grade as harshly as Expos. I took this course second semester and struggled to make good essay grades while I flew through with great marks on the five non-Expos papers I had first semester. This class is a lot of work, but its a requirement, do not let its difficulty get you down.
This class is a lot of work, but I definitely feel that I am a better writer because of it. Don't be intimidated by the art history aspect of this course, I do not think it will hinder your performance. It is about the writing.
It helped me to understand what professors look for in college level writing. It constructed a useful writing/revising process for me that I would consider using in the future.
expos classes will always be stressful and frustrating-- but as far as expos goes, this is probably one of the better ones. prof de young exposed us to a complex assortment of new ideas and encouraged us to think critically about the artistic legacy we inherit in the present. if you're interested in art you'll never be bored.
Great class. Take it if you're an art person; take it if you're not. You'll learn a great deal either way.
This is a great expos.  Dr. De Young is very funny and very smart, and provides immensely helpful feedback and revision strategies.  You will learn very rapidly about what may be a new field to you (art history) and its techniques and epistemology.  You get to choose your own final project.  I was inspired by this class to begin a serious writing practice again.
It is more work than every other expos class, and I found it very difficult to be interested in the topic. People with an interest in art history might fare better.
Excellent class to learn writing and fundamentals of art.
This course is a lot more work than you would expect. Expos in general is considered to be a lot of work, but if you enroll in this course expect to be doing a lot more busy work than your peers. Although some might be beneficial, it felt at times superfluous and annoying. Additionally, you have to really love art. Even people who like art end up upset and annoyed writing about it this much. The preceptor, although she really wanted to help, was a very difficult grader and really pushed you because she compared you to your peers.
A good class to take if you want some more exposure to writing about art or just learning about art in general, but know that the workload is heavy and that the grading is tough.
This class is so much work, but if you're really interested in art and nudes, you don't want to miss it. The preceptor is very funny and I personally love her sense of humor. There are some nice visits to museums, which also give you extensions for papers if you go. Personally, there isn't an excessive amount of reading, but usually there is a small assignment with every reading, which was not too enjoyable. The readings themselves sometimes also take a lot of thought and time to understand. Writing about art is actually not that hard when the painting is isolated. So for the first unit, you have to critically analyze a painting, which in itself is not too bad. The difficult part is simply writing out and conveying your ideas eloquently. However, in the second unit you're expected to bring in one source as a lens for looking at a painting, and you still have to analyze the painting. It became much harder to work on the ideas AND the language of the essay at the same time. The third unit is pretty difficult because you have to research a collection of works (that you choose) and join the "critical conversation" about those works. This could be very difficult, because there is the requirement of originality and relevance. Also the research process is just super long and frustrating at times.Also the last two papers are squished into the latter half of the semester - just a warning that it can get pretty crazy near the end. This is not an easy Expos, but quite interesting. People also get jealous when they hear you've gone to the MFA twice in one semester. My writing did improve a lot, especially my critical eye for picking out what I need to fix in my essays.
I came in with no art background. This was a completely new field for me. But I thoroughly enjoyed this class. It was fun learning about this subject and the homework was never bad. It was a great to class to fulfill the Expos 20 requirement.
this is a great course to learn how to look at art and write about it...Professor De Young teaches a very specific style of writing that sometimes I don't agree with, and to get a good grade you'll have to adhere to these standards.  But the readings are great and it's a relatively painless way to get the writing requirement done.
I would tell students that the work load is minimal although I am not sure that my writing improved as much as it could have.
This class is interesting if you like art, but it definitely helps to have an art background or the class may be a bit difficult. It seems almost as though you are graded on how you interpret the art, as opposed to your actual expository writing abilities, which makes it difficult for those of who don't really know much about art or art history. There is a lot of reading, but there's homework for every class, and it's not always that interesting.
The class presents some really interesting ideas regarding gender roles and the depiction of women in art. The readings are interesting and give you new perspectives on how to analyze art. The revision process teaches you to look at your own writing critically. You definitely learn how to construct a clear and compelling argument.
This expos is amazing in its exploration of art! You will learn how to think about art critically AND also develop your writing skills. Although expos may seem tedious and at times this class will be very time consuming, you will not regret such an interesting expos.
