This class is amazing! Probably one of the best expos classes out there.
The course does live up to the hype in terms of the quality of the material. Dr. Krakauer is very good at facilitating really fun and interesting classes in section, and it really does help to have read the readings beforehand, although if you haven't, the discussion is not too technical that you would feel incapable of contributing. One thing of note is that this is NOT an easy course - do not expect to put in minimal effort and get an A. In terms of Expos classes, I would say this falls somewhere in the middle in terms of difficulty of grading.
This is definitely one of the most interesting Expos courses, and Dr. Krakauer is super nice. She is always willing to help you outside of class!
It is a lot of work, but overall it is manageable and helps your writing develop.
Dr. Krakauer is very helpful and really talks through your essay with you. This is coming from someone who gets very stressed writing papers. She really is willing to guide you every step of the way as much as you need.
It is a science writing class--very different from most english writing classes.  You do not read books or write normal english essays.
Objectively one of the best expos classes. Expos is going to be tough regardless of what class you're in, it's just a lot of writing. But Darwinian Dating makes it a fun experience.
This Expos is class is one of the most popular Expos classes - many people rank it as their first choice and few get it. If you're lotteried in, consider yourself lucky!
The topic may seem very interesting but overall, because of the nature of the class, you might not get too much into what the meat of the subject is.
You will have more fun than in most other expos 20 classes
One of the best expos classes.  It was actually interesting and I learned a lot about the subject matter ;)
The readings are super interesting but when writing the essays it is very hard for your opinion not to come into play. When that is the case, you aren't able to express it in your paper unless you can find evidence to support the claim.
I'm so glad I was placed into this class and I highly recommend it to anyone and everyone, especially those interested in science, psychology, sociology, and of course, sex.
Take Darwinian Dating! The discussions and topics about which students write are incredibly fascinating and relevant to their lives as college students. Though at times writing the papers can be quite difficult, this class is so worth it.
Even though expos may seem daunting, Darwinian Dating is actually a very fun and manageable class. The discussions are very interesting and Dr. Krakauer is an excellent preceptor. She gives great feedback and grades very fairly. Don't expect to get A's on every paper, but work hard and it will pay off. Darwinian Dating was definitely my favorite class this semester.
Take it! Although I usually dislike writing, the topics covered make the papers for this Expos really fun to write. And the preceptor is absolutely amazing, and is constantly challenging you to make your ideas and argument more analytical, complex, and nuanced.
I thoroughly loved this class. I would 100% recommend! It's a very interesting topic, and I actually felt very strongly towards the subject matter I was writing about.
Without a doubt the best expos subject available.
This class was SO much fun- I can't imagine a better expos experience.  Professor Krakauer is extremely nice and did everything in her power to make every class engaging and to make deadlines as flexible/late as possible.  In addition, the subject matter is really interesting (which is important when you're researching for your essays) and the Professor does a really fantastic job of teaching how to become a better writer.  GO TO OFFICE HOURS.  SHE WILL HELP YOU SO MUCH WITH YOUR ESSAY AND GETTING STARTED.
BEST EXPOS CLASS: Professor Krakauer was a fantastic preceptor - she was very detailed and constructive in her comments on individual papers, and each class felt engaging and informative. The material of the course was fun (who doesn't love to talk about attraction, dating, and cave-man mindsets?), and class felt very organized, yet organic in structure. Make sure to rank this #1 on your choices, or else you'll have a very low chance of getting into it.
Elissa is wonderful as a teacher, and the class is very interesting. It's a lot of psychology papers and data reading, so be prepared for that. As someone for whom this was a new thing, I found sifting through and making sense of all that data was very hard.
It is extremely fun to learn about all the things that men and women find in the opposite gender.
If you're interested in what people find attractive in other people, you'll definitely find the material in this class interesting.  It is an Expos class, but at times it's been my favorite course this semester.  For science-minded students, this is definitely a good choice for an Expos class.
This course is perfect for students interested in science.  We read real science data papers and studies.  My favorite part of the course was learning about the scientific method through reading the studies; I loved scrutinizing the procedures of the scientists who conducted the studies and reading their conclusions/analyses of the data they collected.
This class is probably the best expos class around. You get your writing requirement done while learning about sexual attraction, what could be better?
Even though expos isn't really a course that people love or look forward to, this one is definitely one of the better expos courses out there and it makes the requirement a little more bearable.
Take this course if you can!!! Darwinian Dating is hands down the best expos class. I had so much fun in this class, and Elissa is the best preceptor in the world. I'm actually sad that it's over. I hate writing essays, but writing essays in this class was actually pretty fun since the subject matter is so interesting. You can really take it and run with it.
Your writing will improve from taking this course, if only because of the extensive time spent preparing and perfecting each draft. My impression is that this is the case with most expos classes, but Elissa will do a good job of giving you thorough comments and feedback.
It is a great class. Get to know Professor Krakauer by going to office hours she really is a great preceptor.
The amount reading is not as overwhelming as what I heard other expos section have. It is a really interesting topic and it comes up all the time in conversation.
This course is both intellectually stimulating and enjoyable.  That said, the grading is very unforgiving and near-perfection is essentially expected.
Expos is going to hurt, and this class has a good professor and a minimal amount of reading. That said, I would wake up on many Tuesdays and Thursdays thinking, "Ugh, I have Expos today." Seeing as you must take Expos, however, I would lukewarmly recommend this class. I suppose the subject matter (when not over-analyzed, which it is quite frequently) is interesting.
This class is largely scientific writing (APA format) so if you're like me and are considering something within the humanities, this is not the best class to take as interesting as it may seem. I personaly took the class after seeing the high Q scores from last year but looking back at it now, it was not a good choice for me. Not only does the last essay require you to do your own research and look for your own sources (like all other Expos 20 classes do), you have to conduct your own experiment. Which is a pain if you're a huge procrastinator and end up with less than 30 people as your basis for the survey.I did not really enjoy the class itself either since it's a writing class and honestly, you can't teach writing without doing a lot of it yourself. We looked over examples of others' writing mistakes, but I think that this is completely useless without actually doing them yourself. This makes grading extremely unfair in my opinion since it's basically just three grades from the three essays you have to write but since those three essays are the only things you are writing, it makes it even more stressful to get essays done. And I personally hate writing.
You have to take expos and this a great option. It isn't too hard and its fun.
The class is demanding, as are all Expos classes. But since you have to take one anyway, take one that's relatively fun. This class, because its topic was so interesting, was actually one of my favorite classes, despite the work.
This may be a difficult class to get an A in.
it's an amazing class
Great course to take for expos!  Interesting reading (all are scientific articles though)  Best alternative for someone who doesn't want to analyze lots of literature
Take this class! If you are worried about expos, this class will alleviate your fears!
This class is great for writing practice, especially analytical writing. It is very much focused on science, but the writing techniques you learn are applicable to any subject. There wasn't so much focus on the specifics of writing style though, we focused more on essay structure on the whole.
If you think you're going into the humanities, then this class may not be the best for you, since it is so scientific.  There are many things you learn, such as rhetoric, that can be applied to any type of writing, but if you don't want to be reading scientific articles, then you shouldn't take this class.
This was a really good Expos class.I thought that topic was really interesting, and the teacher was really good.
Professor Krakauer is awesome! This is a great class to take to fulfill your expos requirement. The workload is not that heavy compared to other expos classes, and you will enjoy the material. Work hard on your essays, especially the final drafts.
You find out all kinds of odd things!
Expos 20 can actually be a fun and helpful course.
This is definitely one of the best Expos classes out there. The reading is very interesting and engaging, as are the discussions, and it changes the way you think about sexual attraction. Definitely highly recommend it.
I definitely recommend this class. This expos topic is something that is fun and interesting. It makes this mandatory requirement enjoyable.
I heard a lot of people complain about how much they disliked their Expos sections, but I really enjoyed mine.  The material was engaging, and the feedback was really helpful.  I wasn't expecting much, but my college-level writing definitely developed due to this class.  Put an effort into the drafts so that you can get good feedback and then write a killer final.
This is a really interesting and fun course which, even though it has some somewhat dry scientific papers, is a great course to take. The professor is amazing and obviously really cares and knows about the course.
This material was very interesting, especially considering this fulfills the writing requirement.  The readings are all scientific pieces and usually no more than 10 pages.  The homework was really easy and helped when writing the essays.  Elissa is amazing!! She is so enthusiastic about what she is teaching and makes you excited to learn.  Definitely take this if you're at all interested in the basis of sexual attraction.
Very interesting readings and subject
Interesting material and great teacher! Made the expos requirement much more painless :)
This is a great class. The work is fair and very interesting. The course is taught well with a balance between the topic and the writing strategies.
If you are not a very english type of person, definitely take this class. It is not so english-y and it fills the requirement. The subject is also very interesting.
