It was an amazingly positive experience and I loved reading plays (which are short and easy to read, though not easy to understand) but it was hard. Dr. Urban has high standards for writing, which isn't a bad thing at all, but while the class isn't very reading heavy I spent a lot of time revising my essays.
Great class if you are ready to put in the work. Dr. Urban will certainly help you polish or build your writing strength.
It's a challenging class, with challenging material and assignments that challenge what you're used to in writing. Learning how to change the way you write takes time. It's hard to break habits. I recommend going in to office hours when you can, to write several drafts, and to take peer conferencing with a grain of salt.
if you really want to grow and learn to write academic papers and if you're strong enough to be okay with getting you're writing ego bruised - go for it.
I would say that if you're interested in theater, ready to work really hard, and willing to accept harsh criticism, that the class is definitely worth taking.
Professor Urban is amazing. His analyses are spot-on and he's absolutely hilarious. As far as Expos goes the amount of reading is very manageable, mostly focusing on relatively short plays. Some of the plays are disturbing but very interesting and definitely worth reading.
Advice: First of all, if you end up taking this class, my biggest piece of advice is to be aware of the timing and spacing of work in this class (as a freshman). As there are only three main assignments, you need to make sure that you don't get complacent and start working on the essays early (coming up with ideas, talking with peers/Dr. Urban). (Full disclosure, I procrastinated more than I would've liked to, and you probably will too.) I would highly recommend going to office hours and to the writing center (probably drop-ins), at least once per essay, especially if you are worried/struggling. In general use your resources (such as time, or the conferences) well. About the course: First of all, Contemporary Theatre is a great topic in general, as it is fun but still deep and engaging. (It's modern art, in play form.) Ken Urban is great at teaching how to approach the plays as an academic, and he keeps the classes interesting. (Perks include not much reading.) I felt that more writing could have been taught in class, rather than focusing more on discussing the plays in class. As it is, most of your improvement in writing will come from Dr. Urban's comments, on drafts and in conferences/office hours. I didn't find grading to be overly harsh.Obviously, this is a very English-y course, so take it if you like English/Literature/Theatre, want to explore it, or just want variety. I lean towards science, so while I feel that one of the science-y Expos would have been easier/more practical, it was nice to get to read plays and to be able to write more interpretive essays.
This is a difficult course on difficult material, and its difficulty is its greatest asset. Dr. Urban will teach you what it means to make a supported argument that adds something new and important to the academic discourse in your field, but he will not let you get away with anything less. This is the course that taught me why the BS that earned A's in high school is, in fact, BS, and what real literary analysis ought to look like. It also exposed me to some brilliant plays, and as an actor and playwright, I loved the subject matter as much as I loved the improvement I saw in my writing. I strongly recommend this class!
The grading is very hard, but the workload is not too bad and the material is interesting.  Dr. Urban is an awesome person to meet.
If you do not like reading about subjects like rape, suicide, cannibalism and pedophilia, do not take this class under any circumstances.  If you like having an instructor who conducts himself/herself in a professional manner, do not take this class.  Dr. Urban swears excessively in a way that, rather than making him seem more "relatable," made me feel uncomfortable.  Unnecessary cursing from a writing teacher also struck me as ironic.
Dr Urban is an excellent expos preceptor, and does a fantastic job of both widening the students' experiences in studying theater, as well as developing their skills as writers.
If you have any interest in contemporary theater and are taking Expos 20, take this class.
Prof. Urban is a lot of fun, and gives helpful feedback on writing. There are a significant number of actors/theatre enthusiasts taking the course, and sometimes discussions on cruelty and ethics can be hard to jump into, but not a huge deal. Solid expos class.
TAKE IT! I believe this is hands down the BEST expository writing class offered. The reason is is because Ken Urban is hilarious, extremely intelligent, and chill.
Dr. Urban brings an energy to the class that is absolutely incomparable. Not only is he highly knowledgeable about the history of theatre, contemporary playwrights, and the direction in which theatre is heading, but his passion shines through his work and inspires his students. You will spend a lot of time perfecting the essays (which you'll have to do in any expos class), but Dr. Urban's comments are really helpful and his honesty and high expectations really help you become a better writer.
This was a thoroughly enjoyable class. It's difficult grading-wise but you'll get so much out of it. I'm confident that I can attack essays in other classes now, and as a plus, these plays are interesting, though some might be classified as a bit shocking for those that get squeamish easily. This is not a class where you process a ton of material--you read a couple of plays per unit and then digest them slowly, so if you like close-reading, this is for you.
It's a wonderful experience, also one of the very few theatre classes at the college - so take it if you're interested in theatre. Urban's a bit of a tough grader, but you're in here to learn to write, and if you keep up on the conferences and drafts and communicate with him on the direction of your essays it's rather hard to get a bad grade on an essay.
Be ready to work.  Its not comfortable material.  But you learn to write.  I think there are few opportunities like this class, take it.  The material should never be comfortable, it should be something we have to grapple with.  You will grapple with tough questions if you take this course.
This is by no means an easy course but Ken gave extensive feedback on drafts and revisions of essays, both through comments and conferences which really helped improve my essay-writing skills. If you are really interested in learning about contemporary theatre (more so than getting an easy A) then I would highly recommend this course.
I would like to tell future studentsto prepare themselves for a sometimes intense but always enjoyable journey through absurd and hilarious wonderland that Doctor Urban calls "Contemporary Theatre".
I came in as a science major averse to essays and wary of the theatrical. It was a hard course, but I left not only having improved my writing a lot but also gained an appreciation and understanding of contemporary theatre. Tough feedback on essays you thought were perfect will make you cringe, but then fix your mistakes and go on to be better for it. Plus, Professor Urban is a funny and interesting person. Our section had a bit of a cult following around him.
The class is not easy, and it is likely that you will struggle through the first unit. Don't panic. Everything gets more interesting as the course goes on. Dr. Urban is funny and engaging, and if you listen carefully to his advice, you'll learn a lot. If you want to learn and read some really interesting and heavy material, and don't mind getting a B, this class is perfect.
Not at all difficult as it's made out to be, but still engaging, challenging, and well-taught
Ken Urban is a very hard grader, harder than most in fact, but his criticisms and feedback will make you a much better writer, making it well worth the lower grade.
Dr. Urban may be a tough grader. The content of contemporary theatre may be difficult to wrap one's mind around. You may spend moments ripping your hair out piece by piece. BUT. And there are many "butts"...this class is worth it. Your writing WILL improve, and at the end of the semester, you WILL be proud of your progress.
It really is called Sexpos for a reasonthe texts were definitely interesting, raw, and eye-opening.  Ken is an AMAZING preceptor, who brings his whip-smart humour, harsh love, personal life experiences, deep insight, and sharp intellect to his class.  He knows what he's doing, and I learned immensely from him.  Take this expos.
This course is very intense and demanding. Make sure you are interested enough in contemporary theater and be open to a rather debilitating critique-process. Ken can be ruthless but there's method to his madness. You will benefit so much from this course if you make the effort and have the enthusiasm.
Urban is a great preceptor and you'll learn a lot.  The class isn't easy though.  There are definitely other expos classes where getting a good grade requires less effort, but you'll improve as a writer. Instead of just focusing on your writing, Urban also delves into the content of your essays (meaning the ideas you put into them) so you become a better critical thinker as well. I was always engaged with the texts we read and Urban kept classes exciting and interesting. Great class! Definitely one of the best expos classes at Harvard.
If you like reading plays about sex and violence, this Expos is for you.
Dr. Urban makes every class entertaining and informative. Reading assignments are definitely provocative, with intense subject material. I feel like I developed my writing skills through the process of multiple revisions and addition of theoretical lenses; however, some assignments seemed a bit esoteric.
If you're interested in contemporary theater, this class is wonderful. You'll enjoy the reading, you'll love getting to know someone as wryly passionate about theater as Ken, and you'll become a better writer. However, if you're not interested in contemporary theater, you'll just be confused. Another thing--speak out in class!
Know how to analyze text well or the class will be quite difficult.
Contemporary Theater should not be taken by a) people who want to get Expos out of the way with as much ease as possible or b) people who have problems with "bad" language, graphic sex and violence, challenges to moral and religious convention, etc. However, for everyone else I would recommend this class wholeheartedly. It is extremely interesting, enjoyable and challenging. It provides a wonderful survey of important yet mostly obscure works of 20th-century drama, as well as an enticing introduction to literary and dramatic theory. And Dr Urban is tough and wonderful.
Professor Urban is brilliant. The work can be difficult, but my writing improved so much. Furthermore, having the opportunity to learn from Professor Urban alone was worth it.
This course is one of the hardest expos classes offered here at Harvard. Dr. Urban is a very smart man who expects a lot out of his students and their papers, but I do feel very prepared for whatever any other prof may throw at me. Be aware of the dramas that will be read, they are very graphic and rather disturbing. Some like them, others hate them, just be sure you know what you are getting yourself into.
If you have an inkling of an interest in literature or theatre, if you truly want to become an awesome writer, if you want a professor who is enthusiastic and extremely fun, this is your Expos Class.  It can't be beat.  You'll become an excellent essay writer and become capable of effectively close reading virtually any passage.  After this class, I feel prepared for anything Harvard can throw at me.Professor Urban's feedback is simply excellent and feedback (as you'll find out) is crucial for any course, but especially for Expos.  Overall, it feels like he truly understands your troubles and is giving you individualized attention.I've heard a few people complain about the tough grading.  I don't completely agree with this, but even if this were the case - take it.  The skills you'll gain for your future years at Harvard are well worth it.  This is by far the class that has helped me the most this semester and were I only able to take one class here at Harvard, I'd choose this one in a heartbeat.
Even though there's a lot of work and the readings can seem a bit sketchy, Dr. Urban makes everything worth it. He's an incredibly entertaining and intelligent preceptor, which makes for an excellent expos experience.
Take this course! Dr. Urban is fantastic, and an advantage of this Expos over some other humanities-based Expos courses is that the reading is not too bad. That being said, while a play might only be 40 pages, you might need to reread it several times in order to understand it. The course itself was highly engaging; discussions were enlightening, mind-bending, and sometimes hilarious. The comments that we received on papers and the lens through which we discussed our writing was incredibly helpful. I am so glad that I ranked this course as my first choice and got it because it really did change the way that I approach a writing assignment and review my own work. Some of the readings are rather graphic, however, so if you are particularly sensitive or easily offended, look over the syllabus.
Ken Urban is awesome, but this class is hard mainly because you have to close read/analyze theatre.  Be warned if you don't like analyzing literature.
This class is absolutely incredible and everyone who I spoke to loved this Expos 20 course. Ken is an absolutely amazing teacher who is young, humorous, and incredibly thought-provoking. He inspired us all everyday. This all being said, the class is still under expository writing, so be prepared for a lot of work and quite a bit of struggling. This is definitely the best class choice out of all the expository courses, but it is quite a bit harder than its peers because you will tackle harder (and more interesting content) and Ken really pushes you to become a better writer.
If you want to do well in Contemporary Theatre, you should be prepared to grapple with difficult ideas and figure out how to analyze and articulate your thoughts about them. The large part of the time that I spent working on the papers for this course involved close-reading the plays for themes and topics to write about. The writing is the easy part compared to trying to understand the plays (as in don't plan on understanding them the first, second, or third time you read them). You can definitely skim the surface of the plays and discuss a less complicated or intricate theme in your essays, but you'll have to dig deeper if you want good grades, and that is really, really tricky, but really, really gratifying if you take the time to do it. With the stupendous Dr. Urban at the helm, this is a fantastic class. Myself and my classmates in Contemporary Theatre were literally some of the only people I know who enjoyed Expos.
If you have a strong interest in theatre, I believe there is no better course than Expos 20 to cultivate that interest! The assignments are usually a bit daunting, especially with the slightly challenging and incomprehensible articles from Artaud, Brecht, Schlovsky and Barker. However, with the help of class discussions and under the guidance of Dr. Urban you actually get a very clear picture of everything. I have to say that Beckett plays in the curriculum are especially fantastic, and they allow you to shift your paradigm of contemporary theatre! You may feel that you are not learning too miuch in the class, and this is true to a certain extent; because, in my humble opinion, the actual component of learning starts when you're all alone in front of your screen, struggling to write a paper. By then, you will see that you have been provided with good resources as a starting point. One last note, this course is METICULOUSLY organized and you always feel secure at the hands of Dr. Urban.
Just do the papers like they're supposed to be done, not how you would want to write them.
Ken is hands-down amazing. Coming into this class with absolutely no experience with theater, I really feel as if I have left this course knowing how to discuss theater with a sophisticated, critical eye. The writing skills you learn in this class are invaluable, and although it was a lot of effort, it has been such a rewarding experience. Favorite class!
This was by far my favorite class first semester. The plays are fascinating and Urban is the best teacher I've met here!
An absolute must if you are interested at all in theatre.
This class is intriguing, exciting and will make you a stronger writer.
The course is a difficult Expos class because the preceptor is very knowledgeable and established in the field of dramatic literature and critique. However, if you put hard work into it, you will improve your writing greatly. Overall, a very fun course that cultivates a strong sense of community among the students in the class.
"Kurban" is AWESOME
