This is a very challenging expos course, where a lot is expected from you at a very high standard. But because of this you grow in your writing and the hard work pays off when you see the progress you have made.
Disclaimer: You will not enjoy this class, but you'll become a better writer.

Professor Mukherjee is very strongly opinionated, demanding, even controlling and bossy. For most of class time you will be listening to her very sternly and slightly aggressively lecturing us on what the class is doing wrong, what it needs to do, etc. Most of your class will be intimidated by her, a few will be genuinely afraid of her. In your draft conferences (where you and the professor review your first draft of an essay), she will be a very harsh critic and you'll likely walk out of there believing that you are a terrible writer and, ugh you have so much work to do.

BUT, the bright side is that Professor Mukherjee is very smart, insightful and knows how to help you develop the right skills to improve your writing. Even though she tells you it in an intimidating manner, Dr. Mukherjee gives very, very good advice; you'll see your written arguments visibly improve.
This course was definitely one of the most memorable experiences of my academic career, which can be interpreted either way.  While I did learn a lot about how to logically construct arguments and analyze texts, the course is very challenging.  I dreaded going to expos many days because Sri can be rude in class to her students.  She shows up late (she calls it Indian time) every class and spends the first 15 minutes talking about logistics, in which she repeats herself multiple times.  This makes it so we have no time for the real content of the daily task.  She also calls out individual students.  In the beginning of the course, I remember her saying something along the lines of "Expos is a competition, and you are most likely going to lose it.  You may be used to winning in high school, but that won't be the case for this class."  I don't think it's good for preceptors to frame the class as a competition with classmates when our ultimate goal is supposed to be to learn.  You will form close bonds with your expos classmates because of the mutual struggle.  She will make you question every single idea you think of.  In our final essay, we had to use 6 sources in a specific manner, and it ended up being nearly impossible to do correctly.  She poses these challenges to you as a student, but does not necessarily help you in attaining ultimate success in overcoming those challenges.  She teaches you some ways to improve your writing, but only right before the final essay is due.  She also does not respond to emails, and she even says this at the beginning of the course.  She claims to push for discussion between students rather than the preceptor, but she interrupts the conversation after nearly every comment to give her own insight.  She tends to talk a lot during the course rather than wanting to hear our voices.  She also puts unnecessary pressure on students for discussions and assignments.  I remember her saying multiple times something along the lines of "this is the most important discussion of this unit.  Many of my students will be on border line grades, and this is your last opportunity for good participation.  This one discussion could determine your letter grade in expos" when we had five minutes left in class to talk about a text.  Right before it is time to give the q-score for the class, she tries very hard to get a good q-score rating from each student.  In this course, you will constantly be on your toes and stressed.
If you have a choice don't take this class. This class hasn't taught me much  the schizophrenia of the class prevents me from learning the skills of college writing effectively. This course's expectations are overblown and is graded much too harshly. I've never feared turning in assignments and talking in class before, but this class has succeeded in doing just that. Assignments take too long considering that you can spend hours working your hardest and produce a great paper that probably will still not meet expectations and receive a low grade. Material is usually difficult to understand. The instructor also acts like she is superior to her students. She says she doesnt like to interject in conversation, but does more often than she doesnt. If youre wrong in conversation or in writing, she lets you know it, and makes you feel inferior.
You will learn a lot from this Expos, however, you will likely not enjoy the class. The preceptor has an antiquated teaching philosophy, pitting everyone against each other in competition for grades, and is very set in her ways. She took over two weeks to return each essay, inducing stress, as we had no idea how we could improve for our next assignments. It is little things (not accepting questions over email, sending us assignments and instructions often time the night before a paper was due or five minutes before class started) that add up to a less than ideal Expos experience. Yes, you will learn a lot, but I am sure there are better Expos classes in which you will learn equally as much and not have to suffer so much. My entire class (as well as the other section) had numerous complaints, and we bonded over this experience. Workload-wise, there is a fair amount of reading (not that much for a literature-based Expos)- first unit was three short stories, second unit was essentially two essays and a novel, third unit was six short stories. There were also several smaller assignments (workshopping, analyzing model essays, handouts on plagiarizing, intros and conclusions, etc.), which were very helpful. The shame of the class is that the material is fascinating, and you learn a lot, however, the instructor experience makes the entire thing not worth it.
A lot of my peers disliked the class, but to a certain extent I think that's inevitable with expos. I enjoyed the material. Sometimes the class was very very stressful but at the end of it, it was a rewarding class.
Do not take this class, if you want the easy "A," everyone says expos is. This is not it. She's a good writer, a good thinker, a good academician, but in the human department she fails. She tries to pit her students against each other to get an A. She puts pressure on her students to give her a positive score on the Q guide, implicitly and at times explicitly. The subject could be a lot more interesting than she made it, but I guess the class is about writing and, in that regard, she succeeds in helping us.
A very difficult class with material that is uninteresting in the first two units.
Pretty much everyone hates Expos, so odds are, you'll dislike it no matter what course you take. That said, comparing my Expos to my friends', this one is definitely on the harder side. Sri is a tough grader, and will make you work very hard to revise your drafts. She also tends to dominate class discussion, so you won't get a whole lot of conversation in about the works that you read. The workload when you aren't rewriting your whole essay (which you'll probably have to do), however, isn't that heavy, and the works you read are pretty interesting. Also, Sri's comments are incredibly helpful during conferences - she pretty much tells you exactly what you have to do to rewrite your paper, so while you have to redo the whole thing, at least it's clear what you have to do. Be prepared to be challenged and frustrated if you take this class, but you will definitely grow as a writer.
If you're looking for an easy Expos class, this definitely isn't for you. If you want an excellent, rigorous preparation for college writing, look no further than this class. It took a long time for me to warm up to Sri and her teaching style, but her clear expectations, detailed and insightful feedback on essays, and commitment to working with individual students through 1-on-1 conferences really helped me to make significant gains in my writing skills. The reading are also fascinating as well, giving you a variety of perspectives on such a critical yet often overlooked element of human society and the human experience. You may hate yourself for taking this at first, but you'll definitely leave with no regrets.
Sri is an extremely capable and dedicated instructor. You will certainly improve greatly as a writer and as a critical thinker, largely thanks to individual conferences about each essay. However, Sri is not very eloquent when it comes to delivering criticism, and can often say things that are blatantly derogatory, making discussions (a large part of the class) extremely uncomfortable at times. Although the group dynamic of the class, I would still recommend it - the material is interesting, and you will learn a lot and get a lot better.
Overall the class is helpful in improving your writing skills but for the most part it overly emphasizes  literary analysis.  If you are interested in this then it is a great course but if you are not interested in literature then I would avoid this class.  The teacher is very helpful but at times can come off as a little pretentious.  She is very good at helping you improve your essays though.
I would like to tell future students that not much of the actual class time is spent analyzing/talking about the texts, but that it is instead expected that you do this on your own outside of class. The conferences with the preceptor are very helpful and it's important to take her comments and apply them to your paper in order to see improvement in your work.
This is a pretty decent Expos course. The aren't too many readings and the paper lengths are very reasonable. The workload isn't huge but be prepared to come up with good quality work in your essays.
Only take this class if you really like literature.  However, this course was invaluable for teaching me how to improve my writing from high school to college.  If you really want to challenge yourself, and learn how to write, this is like the AP of expos.
At the start, I hated this class, but it eventually became more interesting. The problem was the subject matter - it's based on literary encounters between Western and non-Western people; I was hoping more for a more intercultural, sociology-based class, which is what I inferred from the title. So be aware of exactly what this class is about before you pick it. About Sri - although she can sometimes be pretty intense, Sri is incredibly intelligent and a great teacher. Her feedback on drafts is always relevant and if you use it, your writing will improve immensely. A caveat: If you thought you were a good writer, think again. I guarantee that on at least one paper, you will spend hours perfecting a draft and be told in conference that your work was (essentially) rubbish. Don't overestimate your abilities, be prepared to accept criticism, and you'll emerge a better writer. If the subject matter is your thing, by all means take this class.
This class is a great introduction to academic writing at Harvard, and teaches you valuable skills such as ensuring a clear ideational progression in your essays and defining your thesis effectively. Dr. Mukherjee is an outstanding preceptor, who gives you wonderful feedback on your writing, and works closely with you to help you improve; be sure to ask her for help, as she's very accessible and kind.   When considering sectioning for this class, it's important to realize that it's heavily focused on literary analysis. It's also expected that you come up with original and interesting theses, in order to be highly successful in the class(which is probably the same in any other class); this should not influence whether you choose this course, but it's important to keep in mind. I came into this class with little high school academic writing experience, and emerged much more confident about writing papers and research; recently, I wrote an 11-page paper for another class, and found how helpful this course had been in teaching the skills that I needed to know. I would definitely recommend this class!
You'll become a much, much better writer after this class, unless you were already seriously an absolutely phenomenal writer. Professor Mukherjee truly does give a TON of feedback, and the conferences and personal comments on your drafts are incredibly helpful. Granted, while I learned a ton, I will say that I also spent a lot of time writing, and the few days before drafts and papers were due were spent writing non-stop for almost the entirety of the day(s). I should include a note of background and say that I was told that I was one of the best writers at my decent, but rather average, public high school, but even then, I managed to get away with my BSing. In this class, though, you won't be able to get away with any BS at all and actually think about the literature. If that's your cup of tea, definitely take this class (although I suppose you have to take expos anyways). Otherwise, take this class if you're interested in thinking about how different cultures influence each other since you have to take an expos, and you'll learn a lot. I personally don't like writing a lot, but I enjoyed the conversations we had in class.On the weeks that you don't have a deadline, there's barely any work involved and not that much reading. On the other weeks...don't overdo too much other activities/classes/extracurriculars, because you'll definitely want to leave time to do quite a bit of writing for this class.
I think that out of all the expos classes, this class is probably one of the better ones if you hope to really learn something in terms of how to write conceptually. As a person, the professor does not know how to connect with students (I did not find her likable in general), but she absolutely has changed my writing for the better, teaching me more about how to write than almost any other writing teacher I have ever had.
You got into Harvard, congratulations. Now is time to work.  Prepare to realize how awful a writer you are and look forward to how great a writer you will be.
I seemed to have less reading than students in other Expos courses, but still improved my writing just as much.
Meeting with Sri is extremely helpful, so if you really want to learn how to write better take this class.
Though Expos is not a class I would have taken on my own, I think it'll definitely be useful in the future. You will get a lot of useful feedback on your essays, and it's up to you to incorporate it in your final drafts. If you work hard on your first draft and then implement the feedback you receive during conferences, your final work should be much stronger. Be ready to defend your ideas, especially if your essay is workshopped in class. The texts are diverse, complex, and interesting to read. Be sure to spend a lot of time crafting a complex, original thesis, as this is basically the most important elements of a paper.
Expos courses are a requirement, and if you are not interested in the subject it will be hard to get through the semester enjoyably.
Sri is a great teacher. Ask a lot of questions in the conference, spend a lot of time revising and you should be fine.
Sri Mukherjee is a very smart woman and her background makes her the perfect fit to teach this class.  While the course readings are interesting, Sri's teaching style can be abrasive.  Her feedback is, however, helpful, and you will improve as a writer.  Also, class section was not helpful really, but rather the conferences were helpful.
This is a decent course.  After talking to my friends, I realised that the preceptor does give much more feedback than most other courses.  However, I recommend with reservations because there are times when you have to be careful in your conferences.  Make sure that you don't have Sri tell you your thesis / modify your thesis greatly, because that harms your grade for the paper. The readings for this course are not that intense, which is very good!  The material, itself, is decent.  Not that interesting, and not that boring.
Sri is an incredibly intelligent teacher who cares very much about giving personal attention to each of her students. Her feedback on essay drafts is always extensive and extremely helpful. If you're prepared to work hard and be challenged, you will be amazed as to how much your writing will improve by the end of the course. The topics of discussion are also very interesting. If you are interested in the intersection of cross-cultural contact with race, gender, and socioeconomic class, you will find this course very valuable.
Expository Writing is a very difficult class as a whole, but this section is very helpful.  The feedback is very useful, though class time is not particularly helpful.
Sri gives LOTS of feedback, which in the end will be very helpful to you as a writer. Conferences are great, they will really help you find a direction for your essay. Also the longest paper is 7 pages, so if you don't like writing 12 page papers take this course. Be prepared to rewrite a lot of your drafts (especially the first one).
Good class with interesting subject matter and materials. Sri will give you plenty of helpful feedback.  I feel like my writing definitely improved.
This course definitely helped me to improve my writing to a large degree. The class work itself was very light and the readings were definitely interesting. No matter what you may want to pursue this course will definitely peak your interest. Sri is a very helpful and constructive. I believe that if you truly apply yourself and take the most out of your conferences, you will definitely do well in the class. Procrastination is almost certain, but remember that in order to develop your writing skills, it may be beneficial to start at least 3 days before the due date. Each essay gets progressively more difficult, however it's very doable even with a heavy workload.
I think that if you don't mind sitting through obnoxious and condescending conferences then you might be able to stomach the course. Overall, the feedback does allow you to improve on your writing but at the expense of your individual dignity.
I applied for this course because while it was not my first choice, the subject matter looked interesting.  It turned out that I was the only person in the course who had not been abroad or come from another country, which at first seemed like it would hinder my progress in the course but actually really didn't matter.  The writing was difficult for me just because I lack the patience and confidence, and some of the readings were difficult to understand to me, though to others they were very clear.  I was very intimidated at first but as time went on the expectations became a bit clearer and I knew a little better what to expect.  It was a challenging course but the teacher gave good feedback and although the process was somewhat unpleasant, I have a much better idea of how to write an academic paper.
A fine class.
This was a great course to take to satisfy the expos requirement. The topic was interesting and Mukherjee was brilliant in all areas of teaching this course. She was extremely on point on helping the students understand the tools that Expos wants to teach. Defintiely recommend this class
Definitely listen to this preceptor--she is brilliant and if you take her advice to heart, you will immensely improve as a writer.  The course material is interesting and will challenge you to think on a deeper, more analytical and argumentative level.
I found the beginning of the course a bit hard. I as able to catch up with everyone later in the class thanks to the thorough explanations of Prof. Mukherjee and very clear feedback on each and every assignment. Prof. Mukherjee never wrote less than 2 pages of comments at the end of every assignment. It freaked me out at first, but later realized the importance of the comments. I also wanted to point how dedicated Prof. Mukherjee is to this course. I am so glad to have had such a interested and interesting teacher.
There is a lot of feedback and it will help you develop as a writer.
final drafts are often completely rewritten after individual conferences but usually for the best
The professor assists students a great deal in developing the ideational component of essays, but in terms of structural and grammar-related things (which the grade also depends on) the students have to work on those independently. Overall, the course is a rewarding experience.
