Obviously Expos seems to have a negative connotation associated with it, but this class was actually very interesting.  I was a person who really disliked writing, but this class by far made it much more enjoyable because of the topics involved.
It was a great class. Full of energy and you learn a lot!
The subject of your essays is generally of your own choosing.
It was very relaxed and it helped me get better at writing in different styles.
Rebecca is a great teacher. She is always willing to meet to discuss papers and her meetings are very helpful. The material for this course was also manageable and interesting.
Great preceptor, great course.
Stay on top of your work, see Rebecca more than once with a draft and specific questions because she might not cover everything that isn't working in your paper before you hand in your final version.  The final paper is cool since you get to pick the topic.
This is something you have to get through.  If you put in your best work, you will without a doubt become a better writer.
This was a great Expos class. Rebecca is extremely sweet and helpful, and her feedback is always very detailed and constructive. In Unit 1 you look at a museum object and make a point about it; In Unit 2 you read Darwin, Lamarck, Malthus, Paley, and A.S. Byatt.This said, the class is very skewed toward the humanities, so if you really don't like analysing art or literature, then you might want to look into an Expos class that focuses more on scientific writing. But definitely consider taking Rebecca's class: Low reading load that allows you to focus on your writing; A fantastic preceptor; Fair grading. Expos is not easy, but also not as dreadful as you might think. Put in effort, and you will do very well.
This class is great for students who want to learn more about how the body is perceived in society. It does not have as much reading as other expos classes do and is a great class to improve one's writing skills.
Take this course if you are not a big fan of writing literary analyses. The assignments, though they touch on common writing techniques, are not altogether "conventional." Our first assignment required us to closely analyze a medical instrument -- may not be everyone's cup of tea. A decent Expos choice if you are not a big fan of tons of reading.
This Expos class is everything I could ever ask of an Expos class, and more.  The reading is minimal (Darwin, Lamarck, etc.) and the discussion in class was incredibly insightful and opened up new ways of thinking about these pieces.  I learned so much about how to write and think critically.  Rebecca is so nice and easy to talk to, and very receptive to new ideas.  She does an absolutely wonderful job of breaking down the writing process.  I thought I was a decent writer going into this class, but Expos has made me so much better. Also, there is SO much freedom on what to write for on each of the 3 papers, which was wonderful because you can always find something you're interested about (whereas my friends in other Expos sections were assigned specific prompts). TAKE THIS CLASS! Excellent.
It's a really great experience and you learn about unique topics in interesting and thought-provoking ways.
Rebecca is a sweetheart. This class is very open ended. For example, we got to choose the topic for our last essay, as long as it had something to do with the body (so essentially we could write about almost anything.) It's very easy to incorporate the medical world into the material, so consider this course if you are interested in medicine.
If you have any interest in writing well, take this course.
Even if you're not premed, take this course.  Rebecca does an amazing job at taking your writing to a new level and making this whole process enjoyable.
Rebecca is an absolutely amazing preceptor who really knows how to teach writing.  Writing can seem like a really solitary and lonely task, but Rebecca really guided us through the process and made writing something more engaging and purposeful.  The things that we learned in expos will prove very useful in future writing courses!
Reading the body is a great Expos 20 class! Rebecca is great!
Relatively interesting option for expos
It is hard to come up with your own ideas. I would recommend just picking a topic as early as possible and going with it, even if it is not the best.
It is still coming up so it is not that exciting. But the instructor is really nice!
Try to use the conferences to your advantage. Rebecca takes time to read your draft and provide feedback that will help you write a better final draft.
This course is a great course. I have heard horror stories from other expos courses, but this one is far from a horror story. Of course expos can be a little boring and stressful here and there, but the feedback you receive from Rebecca is like no other. She really works hard with every single student to ensure that they are conveying and articulating their ideas in the best way possible.
You won't get feedback on assignments in time to actually improve.
If you have any interest in, like the course description says, ways the human body is represented in a variety of environments, it's worth considering. The readings are interesting, the type of analysis you learn to do is interesting, and the flexibility on the final paper lets you write about whatever you want, which is interesting. Beware, your essays will never get back to you, however.
Expos is, quite literally, a necessary evil. My writing improved over the course of the semester, and while I can not in all good faith give Expos much (if any) credit, I do understand that Rebecca was trying her best. That said, of all Expos options, this course was the most substantively incoherent of any taken by freshman with whom I've talked (NO clear narrative or project with the readings or the one, random book on the syllabus), and while the preceptor is perfectly charming she's atrocious about feedback and will extend deadlines as far as administratively possible without any clear explanation. Prepare to wait. And then wait some more. And then? Who knows, but my guess is you'll still be waiting.
This course is one of the best Expos classes for students interested in the sciences but also willing to try humanities writing styles.
Take this class! I dreaded expos because of what I had heard from others, but because of how wonderful Rebecca is and how well designed the class is, expos ended up being my favorite class of the semester. It isn't overwhelmingly stressful, she's a great teacher who really will improve your writing, and the material is generally quite enjoyable. Plus there's a huge amount of flexibility with the research paper so that you can really write about something you're passionate about.
This course is extremely well taught. Rebecca really invests in her students, looking to develop their skills as writers.
For Expos, this class is lower on the stress and actually quite beneficial. Having an interest in either medical history or evolution/morphology would help, but not required at all.
This class is great. You go from writing about medical objects to analyzing literary texts to researching a topic of your choice that relates to the body. Rebecca is a thoughtful preceptor who gives helpful feedback and really makes you think about what your argument is.
I would say that this is a very good expos class. The instructor was super helpful in guiding us to improve our writing. Additionally, the structure of the class, progressing through the essays, was very well-thought out and the work was spread out well. The readings were short and sweet and discussed really interesting ideas about the body and evolution.
Its a very interesting course that is not too overwhelming but definitely provides enough challenge for you to grow as a writer.
best expos out their. What really matters is the preceptor and Rebecca is the best!
Expos-you have to do it
You will see great meaning in elements of art and objects that you would have otherwise never even known existed.
Definitely consider this course! it's an expos class that flies under the radar, but that doesn't mean it isn't amazing! I'm so happy I got placed in this class.
This particular course is interesting because you are not extremely restricted to the course material for your essays. The course title is slightly misleading; the course focuses on embodiment and how there are different ways of looking at the body and its capabilities. There are many fewer readings in this course than in others, however, that leaves a lot of room for personal interpretation, which some students found intimidating.
Rebecca is a truly kind and cool person, though the course got to be a little bit much at times.  Generally it was not very much work, save for a few terrible weeks.  I wish class time were spent more productively, or that more class discussion of interesting literature could occur.
definitely not work intensive. not a class I necessarily looked forward going to, but a relatively painless way of getting through expos
Rebecca Summerhays is a fantastic preceptor. While the material may not seem interesting at first, she engages every member of the class with enthusiasm and ensures that your time spent in Expos is not wasted. I managed to enjoy my expos experience entirely because of the teaching in this course.
