I LOVE THIS COURSE
I loved it. I got to rediscover what made childhood so magical and improve my writing at the same time. Professor Barber is an amazing writer and an incredibly helpful and attentive teacher, and I think even the most advanced students will come away from this class stunned at how much they've learned. Rank this as your first choice Expos class!
Wizards and Wild Things is generally considered one of the best expos classes. All of them require a decent amount of work, but this class is actually pretty enjoyable, because you get to read and write about children's literature. Moreover, Professor Barber is a very friendly and dedicated man. His feedback (both written and in draft conferences) is super helpful for identifying the strengths and weaknesses of your essay and pinpointing the parts that you have to focus on in your revision. Overall, I strongly recommend this expos class.
I would recommend you do this class. Barber gives great feedback on drafts.
Take this class. The professor is great.
A very painless expos course - instead of reading huge amounts of dry material, you get to write about your favorite children's books. I enjoyed writing the essays and found it really fun to go back through Peter Pan or Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and analyze them. The instructor is extremely passionate about the subject, and very kind and encouraging.
This class was my favorite class all semester. If you're looking for an interesting expos class that you'll actually like, take this one. Prof. Barber is so descriptive with feedback and really cares about your success in the class. He's really understanding if you need any help at all. This class is the best!!
This is a pretty solid choice for Expos. It's a fun throwback to write about children's literature! That being said, David really preferred to discuss the technicalities of writing rather than the actual stories, which could get pretty boring. I felt like the course did not immensely improve my writing skills, but it did show me some of my weaknesses. As a science concentrator, I would have been more conducive for me to have taken a science Expos, but it was fun having something different I my schedule!
If you love children's literature, this course will be fantastic.
Take this class if you want to write on an interesting and fun material. A lot of people complain about hating their Expos class, but I actually really enjoyed mine. Plus the preceptor is very understanding and really clear and helpful when it comes to reviewing your papers.
very good way to fulfill your expos requirement. I very much enjoyed!
If you love children's literature, this is definitely the class for you!
Since Expos is mandatory, this is definitely the one to pick. The readings are super manageable and DB is very laid back and understanding about extensions. He is very willing to talk about your essays and give feedback. I would venture a guess that this is one of the best Expos choices.
This is a WONDERFUL Expos class. I heard so many horror stories about Expos prior to taking it (as I'm sure you will too), but I am so glad that I ended up in this one because it was great. David is a wonderful preceptor and really takes the time to talk to you and make sure that you are improving over the term. The readings and the course material are really interesting (I mean, you get to read Alice in Wonderland or Harry Potter for homework!), and it is a very laid-back, good class. I would definitely recommend - the best and most painless way to do Expos!
If you're looking for a fun, rewarding Expos experience, this is definitely the class for you. Barber, while not a particularly effective section leader, is certainly passionate about the material and is excellent at guiding students through the paper-writing process. The flexibility in paper topics (people in my class wrote about all manner of children's literature, from fairy tales to Harry Potter to Seuss to Oscar Wilde to Winnie-the-Pooh) makes this course a much more interesting and engaging course than other Expos courses, and the lack of a required outline made the course much less tedious than it could have been. When I found out Expos was required, I dreaded having to take what seemed to be the equivalent of another high school English course. However, Wizards and Wild Things has become one of my 3 favorite classes of freshman year. Definitely rank this course first of the Expos classes.
This was by far one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard so far. The material is fascinating, Dr. Barber is extremely helpful and very relaxed as an expos preceptor. Plus, he is extremely knowledgeable and will guide your writing to be actually better, rather than mechanical and bound by expos guidelines. From what comparing with peers, this expos class seems more enjoyable than all the rest I've heard about. Anyone who takes this class will have a wonderful time in it.
This expos class had great content that made it more enjoyable than others. However, make sure that you come in with specific questions during the meetings after papers.
The material for this expos was actually quite engaging and interesting. Although sections were a bit disorganized, David gave excellent feedback and was great one-on-one. If you liked reading as a kid, take this expos.
If you love literature, this class is amazing. It allowed me to approach texts from such different angles. Students could look at them from the perspective of "what about culture shaped this text" or from the perspective of "what does this text say about culture." David's feedback was excellent, and I definitely improved as a writer. His enthusiasm in class also made the materials that much more worthwhile. If you this course, you will definitely leave it a better writer, a better thinker, and very knowledgeable of children's literature and what it says about our world.
David is fantastic - super sweet, very intelligent, and always willing to help. Wizards and Wild Things is phenomenal compared to other Expos courses. The workload is heavier at the beginning of each unit (~80 pages a week), but it is relatively light the rest of the time. Definitely manageable.
