You will not be graded easily but as long as you like Jane Austen writing your papers and doing your research will actually be very enjoyable. Otherwise, I wouldn't recommend this course.
If you enjoy Austen, it's an excellent class to explore her works while learning how to write analytically.
Really work with your teacher on discussing your essays and strategies. They are more than willing to help and give great advice one-on-one.
I couldn't imagine a better writing teacher than Tess. She's truly an inspiration to me every day.
To make sure that they actually have an interest in Jane Austen, and to be prepared for lots of writing assignments.
Unless you are extremely passionate and familiar with Jane Austen, this class can be difficult and frustrating. This class requires a considerable amount of time and is definitely not one of the easier Expos classes. Being a literature Expos, I would also not recommend it for those who are interested in studying the sciences or other fields outside of literature.
To enjoy this course you need to love the study of Jane Austen, merely enjoying her books was not enough for me. The teacher expects you to work a lot for this class and you should expect deadlines that are not on days when the class meets, this includes weekend deadlines. I would only recommend this course to someone who is considering concentrating in English or Literature as it has very little material that will be useful in other disciplines. This class is also not discussion based. If you take this course use office hours and tell Tess exactly what you need help with, she will help you and I think sees this as a priority.
This class is a lot of work. I enjoyed it overall, but sometimes had to spend quite a lot of time on assignments. I really liked reading Austen books and watching movies based on the novels! Some of the expos required aspects of the course were somewhat boring (especially the hours spent studying citations), but these aspects are required in all expos classes. Overall, I recommend this class!
You have to take it, and it's also helpful for learning how to write at Harvard.
It is not the easiest expos out there, but if you like Jane Eyre and are ready to spend time and energy in this course, you will learn a lot. I learnt so much. Tess is an amazing and patient person. I have been through a lot and she has been there for me throughout everything. Summary if you love Jane Austen, take this course!!
Tess is definitely a tough grader but gives voluminous feedback. Not my favorite class, but if you want to write English papers or about literature this is the class for you. We didn't talk about Austens books per se so much, so don't make my mistake and choose this section for that reason.
If you love Austen, take this Expos! (if you don't love Austen then by all means DON'T TAKE THIS!) Tess is a wonderful instructor and I could not have had a more positive experience in Expos. She is a hard grader though, so be ready to put in a lot of work, especially in the revision process. Be prepared to have final essays that look completely different than drafts. But, I genuinely feel like I've become a better writer and thoroughly enjoyed this course.
Tess gives incredibly helpful feedback and you have a lot of freedom to choose what topic you want to write about. However, you do have to dedicate a lot of time to watching the films during the film unit, so you should plan ahead for that.
Learn how to write for college while reading your favorite novels! What a deal.
If you really like Austen and would like to become more familiar with her works and with recent scholarly critiques of her work, this is a great expos class to take.  If you like analyzing films and watching film adaptations, I would recommend this class even more.  You will definitely improve your writing, because even though Tess is a hard grader she gives excellent feedback.
This class can be hard, and the expectations set by Tess for her students are very high.  That being said, your writing will improve tremendously throughout the semester.  Tess gives great feedback.  If you are considering taking this class, make sure that you are interested in Jane Austen.  You will be reading books by and about Austen, reading literary criticism, and watching film adaptations of her books -- it helps if you already have a passion for the topic.
There is much too much busy work. You have to hand in every step of your papers electronically and physically. You are also constantly required to submit things the next day by timed deadlines. It's hard to remember every requirement and every staple. And if you don't, expect to receive a lower grade. There is barely enough time to complete assignments and this Professor expects this course to be your first priority, even though it's a REQUIRED course.
This class is a great Expos choice if you like Jane Austen
Definitely take it if you want a class that actually feels like an English class.
This class is enjoyable, but obviously, if you don't like Austen or novels in general, do not take the class. It is not the sort of class that, in my opinion, would change your mind on the matter. The preceptor is fairly available and willing to help, and if you have questions (or complaints), it would be better to bring your issues to her rather than to your friends or classmates. In other words, if you're having trouble on an essay, go to her, ask her about it, and don't say you understand until you actually understand.
I would recommend this course with a few reservations- if you are looking for an expository writing course that will specifically prepare you for any type of writing other than literary criticism, this is probably not the course for you.  However, I did find this course useful for improving the way I approach writing even though it is not the type of writing that I will probably be doing in the future.  Also, I would advise being relatively familiar with Jane Austen's novels and movie adaptations of her novels.
If you are interested in Austen, I would definitely take this course. It is nice to read (or revisit!) Austen's novels and engage with them over the course of the semester. Not to mention, Tess is fantastic and will spend a lot of time with your work to give thorough feedback. That said, if you are not interested in Austen, this course is obviously not for you, as you will spend a lot of time on single texts and rarely leave the Austen world to find a "bigger picture."
This course is going to be hard if writing is not your fort, especially if you thought you were a good writer and you find out your not.
The coursework is challenging and takes a lot of time (more than two of my other classes combined) but the course and Jane Austen's novels themselves are simply amazing. I worked extremely hard but that was ok because I was never bored. Take this course if you love Austen and don't mind dedicating a significant amount of time.
It is very important to actively engage and participate in class, if you feel that something the preceptor is saying, ask a question because that will help you engage more effectively with the ideas she/he is presenting instead of just feeling lost.
If you like literary analysis, this is a good Expos class to take. Tess is a wonderful preceptor and gives great feedback. You don't have to be a Jane Austen fan to enjoy it. This is as good as Expos gets.
The Jane Austen expos class has been the best class I have taken at Harvard. It really taught me what argumentative writing is, and I learned so much about writing through conferences with Tess. Tess is an amazing preceptor. She offers detailed feedback on all writings and really help each individual grow as a writer. The materials are really fun and interesting for this course. I would strongly recommend this course. It takes time time to prepare for each class, but all the reading assignments and homework are actually fun and educative.
I learned a lot, but the class didn't include as much lively discussion about the Austen books as I had hoped it would. Although the class was seated around a table, oftentimes it felt more like a lecture course. The content was useful, but I never really enjoyed the class itself.
Make sure that you really enjoy and are somewhat familiar with Jane Austen and her novels.  It is a lot of work, but if you stay on top of the essays and do not leave them for the night before the deadline, you should be good!  Tess gives very helpful and extensive feedback which is very helpful between draft and revision stages.
Tess gives excellent feedback and really helps you grow and focus as a writer.  The subject matter is focused, however, so if you are not interested in reading Austen do not take this course.  If you are, this is a great choice for expos and creates a lovely little community of Jane-ites :)
You may not be able to spend as much time reading Jane Austen as this course will make you want to.
The coursework for this expos section is definitely challenging, and there are a lot of assignments, specifically a lot of source reading as our sources were Austen novels, but I really enjoyed the class. I think going in, I wasn't expecting such a fast paced class, but the amount of reading and outside assignments excluding our essay made for a heavy workload throughout the semester. If you like Austen, I really recommend the course, and even if you're wary of reading her novels, it will open your eyes to her work.
The class overall is mainly for Janeites. You must like to analyze her works and not simply enjoy reading them for fun. The instructor is many times domineering and it is difficult if you do not agree with her opinions. She is definitely a harsh grader, but does give back lengthy comments on your work. This is the kind of Expos class that will break you down and make you feel like you are not able to even write a coherent sentence. This might just be what all Expos classes are meant to do so do not get down on yourself.  I honestly do not feel my writing has improved, if anything it has made my writing voice less pronounced.
You have to really love Jane Austen's writing to get the most out of this course, and the novels can be a lot to read, especially if you've never read them before. Dr. O'Toole is a really fantastic professor- totally invested in the class and in the novels, and she is very approachable.
You get what you put in. Tess will give you the help you ask for. She gives detailed feedback that is very helpful. Be confident and assertive about your ideas and writing (but not so much that your head's in the sand).
As a Jane-ite, I truly loved the content of the course. Tess's enthusiasm for Jane Austen is quite contagious. You should expect a lot of work, especially as a transition from high school english classes, but Tess's feedback on essays are extremely helpful for improving writing overall.
This class was so much fun and also really helped improve me as a writer! I wouldn't change my choice for anything.
Unless you sincerely love Austen's works and writing about literature, I don't suggest taking this class. It is a lot of work (as all Expos classes are), but it's especially hard when you aren't actually interested in the topic. Tess is an interesting instructor: she gives great feedback on writing assignments, but I personally found her personality to be a bit domineering , which made class discussions very stagnant and conferences slightly uncomfortable, as there was little room to disagree with her opinions.
It is a class that is a must for any Jane-ite, and it will convert anyone into a Jane-ite after taking this class.
This is a great class if you want a teacher that is really involved in engaging students, both inside and outside the classroom. It's a fairly work heavy expos, but if you do the work, Tess will reward you with meaningful comments. This is a fun class and if you get invested in it, your writing will improve.
I took this class because I love Jane Austen, but I probably shouldn't have - it just wasn't the right style of writing for me.  Do not take this course if you don't have a strong interest in (and believe in the importance of) literary analysis.  That said, Tess was great, her feedback was amazing, and out of the expos courses I heard about this sounded like one of the best.
This class requires a bit of work, but it is very enjoyable, especially if you are already familiar with Austen's works already. The work for this class is rigorous, but the feedback and many of the exercises are helpful.
As a pre-med/math/science person, Expos was bound to be difficult for me to get through.  That being said, Tess actually made my Expos experience enjoyable.  Our workload was heavier than other classes by virtue of the fact that we read novels while other sections read articles or plays.  But analyzing Jane Austen, and particularly the modern film adaptations of her novels, was really interesting.  Who else gets to say they have to watch the 2005 Keira Knightly version of Pride and Prejudice for "homework"?  But by far the best part of Expos was the feedback Tess gave us.  She literally wrote an entire essay with comments/critiques for your essay.  I saw feedback from other preceptors who would just write tiny notes in the margins and give you a grade.  Tess wrote so much, and I really felt like I got something out of the course.  The grading was hard, but hey... it's Expos.
Take this class if you plan to go into the humanities as it will be immensely helpful.
Expos was enjoyable! Tess is a dedicated teacher and always willing to help out. She gives fantastic feedback on your drafts. Unlike some classes where you fly through reading simply to be able to write a paper about it, you really get to understand Austen on a new level. I would recommend trying out at least on of her novels before you take this class to make sure that you like her enough to be able to write about her for a semester.
The course load is large and the grading is tough, but it is worth it because of the value of the feedback and conferences.
Whether or not you are familiar with the works of Jane Austen, this course is an incredible opportunity to not only explore Austen, but to do so in an interactive, interdisciplinary way that-- if you let it-- will really let you think! Even more, this class will give you the foundation you need to really write at Harvard!
