For those who enjoy American History, this class would be especially interesting.
The week-to-week workload is not bad at all in comparison to other expos classes I've heard about.  The final paper requires a lot of textbook analysis, and if you pick a topic you enjoy, the paper will not seem bad at all.  You get to read a few chapters of an interesting book critiquing American history textbooks for the second paper and watch about an hour of a documentary for the first paper.  You get a lot of feedback from Dr. Adams, which I found very helpful when making revisions.
It is a good course with interesting essay topics and not a lot of extraneous reading which allows the course to be focused and Dr. Adams is a great preceptor!
This is a great expos class. Most people complain about their expos because of all the extra work, but this class didn't have that. The teacher was really nice and helpful. She was extremely flexible with deadlines, which can be helpful for certain students.
It helps you look at American history and society in a new way.
I would say that it is great because it does not involve a lot of extraneous, unnecessary reading, but that the subject topic was tricky.
This wasn't my top choice, and while it wasn't horrible, I wouldn't advise anyone to put it as their #1 option.
Laura is really helpful when it comes to brainstorming and revisions. If you put effort into the drafts and listen to her comments for your revisions, you should get a good grade in the class.
Expos is a bummer, but this class does not require much if any work beyond the essays.  You have to read a few texts and watch a video, but it is far less work than many of the other expos sections.  Being able to pick your own third topic on an event in American history allows you flexibility that most other expos classes don't give you.  If I had to take expos again, I would have re-taken this class.
Make sure that you take advantage of the classwork.  She is a flexible preceptor, as long as you make good use of your time and hers.
Professor Adams is great! She understands students very well and is lenient with deadlines. She definitely taught me how to write college essays.
If you're interested at all in history or social science, pick this as your expos course.
Great TF, and a manageable work load.  Very interesting units.
Laura is a great teacher and you will take away a lot from this class both in writing (as Expos is intended to do) and in Social Science (a great perspective which Laura adds to the class). All of the units are actually fun to do but the research paper is super interesting!
This is a really great expos course in my opinion.  Dr. Adams is helpful in her critiques of your writing but at the same time is really nice and makes class as fun as it could possibly be. I would recommend this class very highly.
