This course is different from what you would imagine. There is very little science involved in this course. Instead, it is simply a literature writing course that happens to analyze works of literature about the environment.
It was interesting, but a lot more literary focused that I had thought when I enrolled. There's not much on environment as a science.
If you are expecting it to be about the environment well you are out of luck. As will all expos classes, the topic is used to explore writing rather than writing to explore the topic. It's meh but you have to take it anyway and there are worse expos classes.
There are better ways to become acquainted with environmental issues than taking this class.
This class is challenging but a great way to gain a new perspective on the debates surrounding the environment.
This course explores the various themes and motifs regarding the world in which we live while taking you on a journey that helps you explain and express that world in much more
Martin is a great preceptor and very friendly, and the books and readings that we wrote about were interesting, however Expos in general is not that fun. This is definitely not the worst Expos to take.
I thought the topics covered in this course were very interesting, making the writing assignments more enjoyable to do. I also found that some of the readings were not worth the time and effort, given that they did not have a direct, significant impact on my writing assignments.
You don't have to be a nature lover to enjoy this class. The readings are engaging and there is a lot of latitude to choose interesting topics for your essays. Just be warned that this is one of the less popular expos, so if you rank it anywhere on your list your are likely to be assigned it.
It was good for an expos course. If you are interested somewhat in the environment or documentary film this course might be of particular interest to you.
Martin is a great precept, and my dislike of the class has nothing to do with him. He is passionate and interesting in class and very helpful outside of class. However, I found the Unit 1 and 2 readings to be quite boring, and there is also quite a lot of reading assigned on top of the primary readings, often seemingly for no reason. You must be an English fanatic as well as a die hard environmentalist to really enjoy this class.
I could not have learned more.  This class is exciting, engaging, and worth all the work.
