Through the overall topic of murder, you will learn writing strategies that you will be able to implement throughout your Harvard career. The beauty of the course is that it is not centered around flowery writing, but effective writing that has strong motive and has a overarching meaning.
Dr. Shelton is very thorough and helps you develop on a whole new level as a writer, but she is a hard grader. Take this class if you want to learn a lot, but not if you'd rather spend more time elsewhere.
Interesting materials
I would tell future students that this class is fun, but hard. Be ready to do a lot of work, and be willing to take a lot of feedback on your writing.
It's more work than it seems!
It is difficult, but it is helpful to adapting to the different level of writing in college.
I've always heard about people dreading Expos, but I genuinely enjoyed this class. The material is interesting and it's easy to feel like you're simply in a murder seminar, with heavy writing assignments. Emily helped us to find our strengths and improve upon what was lacking, and the prompts were broad enough that I could tailor each paper to my specific area of interest within the readings. It is a fantastic class, funny (perhaps darkly so) and very interesting.
By taking this course, your writing will almost certainly improve. Dr. Emily Shelton is a wonderful instructor who gives a great deal of truly helpful feed back on assignments. I would consistently receive a page and a half of single-spaced comments on every paper that were thoughtful and engaging. This course is all about analyzing poems, literature, and film, so if that is not your thing, then I would recommend another Expos section. However if you seek to grow in academic and analytic writing, look no further.
It is really an interesting topic, and the assignments were diverse and most likely very helpful for future courses. A lot of hard work is required though in order to create good results.
I was not thrilled about having to take expos, but Dr. Shelton is an amazing teacher and I thought that the course was very well put together and engaging.
The subject matter is relatively interesting and Emily Shelton is a great and understanding professor.
Emily is the best and gives really great feedback on all of your drafts. I would highly recommend this expos. You need to take it anyways and if you enjoy literary analysis you should take this class.
If you don't like horror movies or weird things don't take it, but if you do like this sort of subject, it is a great class
Emily is awesome! This reading can be a little boring and the focus is on the Poe readings which are not classic tales of murder and detective stories.
The subject matter is very interesting compared to some other Expos courses.
This is probably better than most other sections, because Dr. Shelton is great and caring, but I just don't like writing that much.
As preceptors go, it sounds like Emily is one of the best! She's really easygoing and willing to meet with students outside of class.
Expos is compulsory so you should get a section that you actually enjoy. Tales of Murder is really interesting and the preceptor knows what she is talking about, she studies murder (she's currently writing a book) and is an interesting individual as well, also really helpful and unambiguous, compared to other preceptors and classes I've heard about.
The material is actually not incredibly interesting. I have certainly heard of worst experiences, but I have also heard of better ones.
The subject matter of this class is very interesting. Instead of studying about the actual murder cases, the preceptor focused on how these murders were told. She exposed her students to tales of murder mediums such as ballads, short stories, and films. Since the class has a low demand of your time, however, you might feel disconnected from it until the week before the conference drafts are due. The preceptor, however, gives great comment on your drafts and has potential to have great conferences with you if you come prepared with specific questions.
The topic was interesting and we got to read/listen to/watch readings/sources from a variety of time periods, which was great.
The professor will push you to be a better writer which is great but difficult. Take the work with a grain of salt.
It is a good class and the preceptor is awesome but it is also very demanding timewise.
The class is very interesting and fun for an expos class.  Just make sure that you have enough time to do all of the assignments and papers, since they do pile up rather quickly, and if you're not careful you will get behind.
That it is very interesting if you enjoy learning about things like murder and mystery.
It is not as bad as people say.
The papers are a lot of work but not too much busy-work in between. All expos classes have a lot of work and are generally difficult but this one has a stellar preceptor and interesting topic material so I would definitely recommend it!
This is a good class as far as expos goes. The essays are challenging but the material is intereting and not to long or dense.
A very interesting class for someone who is as interested in gore as I am.  The preceptor is great - I highly recommend this class!
This is a very difficult class but one that will definitely improve your writing. At times it seems slightly boring, but there are definitely useful skills taught.
She grades hard
It was awesome! The materials we worked with were (for the most part) really interesting and represented a big range of different sources. Emily was an incredible preceptor and really puts in the effort to help you improve your writing. I've seen my writing improve dramatically. She also addresses broader topics such as how to critically think about any material you work with, which can be applied to so many other courses, not just writing ones.
Dr. Emily Shelton is one of the best teachers you will have at Harvard. She is absolutely brilliant and through discussion elicits truly fascinating topics to study.  I came into this class a strong writer and am leaving even stronger. Take this course.
TAKE IT and have fun with the material and go out on a limb.
Grading is hard and conferences can be frustrating at times but Emily is just trying to make your draft as original and creative as possible. Emily is a great preceptor-- very kind and passionate about the subject.
Be prepared to spill your guts out and receive a B
Emily is a great teacher, but make sure you have INTEREST IN LITERARY ANALYSIS. I cannot stress this enough - no matter how good Emily is or how much thought she puts into the class, if this form of argumentative writing/subject matter do not interest you, you wan't enjoy writing the essays.
The material of this class was cool. It was really interesting to get into how murder accounts are told. As far as Exposes go, I feel like this one wasn't that bad. I really feel like this is one of the better ones. That being said, you still have to work hard, and the papers always take longer than you might expect them to.
This class and the material was so great! The material was interesting and Emily was probably one of the best Expos professors out there. I'm not saying this because she is nice (which she is), but I'm saying this because she knows what she is talking about and is very enthusiastic about teaching the material to her students. She takes the time to write critical responses to your work (response papers, drafts, finals) and she returns things very quickly, even the final papers!
The course is pretty much what you would expect an Expos course to be--however, you are able to work with interesting materials to produce papers that your are interested in.
Professor actually reads and comments on your papers, and is willing to help you at every stage in the journey, in a timely manner, which is unexpectedly not the norm in Expos here.
Only take this class if you're fascinated with murder.
That it is a lot of work but that Dr. Shelton's section on Tales of Murder is arguably the most interesting of the Expos options. She is a great teacher.
Be prepared to recognize your flaws as a writer.
Emily is a very caring and involved Preceptor. She enthusiastically teaches every class and knows a lot about the readings. She grades very tough, however, and provides plenty of criticism for your essays. The readings are not that extensive, but require significant analysis.
This is not an easy class. You will be graded rigorously. However, that being said, you will learn how to be a better writer. Your writing will improve, and many conceptions you may have had in high school will be shattered. The material is interesting, and the movies in unit 3 are definitely a nice touch and change of pace. Come to this class with an open mind and come prepared to learn to write!
I would never recommend a writing class, but since it's required, Tales of Murder with Emily Shelton is probably the best one. She's a great teacher who provides helpful and honest feedback,is understanding, and really tries to help you think critically in all the essays
