This class is challenging. Dr. Becker presents to you and encourages you to write in a new way. I had never done "close reading" before this class, and it was difficult to adjust to this new style of tearing apart a paragraph in a text to find deeper meaning. I definitely strengthened my writing skills after this class; there was a remarkable different from my first essay and my research paper. You should try to meet with Dr. Becker as much as possible to discuss your essays and how to improve them--I found that this was the most effective way to improve my writing.
If you are interested in Slave Narratives you won't be disappointed
Dr. Becker is a great Professor! Really articulates reasoning well. You will read literature and films much more closely than before and understand what it means to write an arguable thesis. He also brings in coffee and cookies on your birthday! Really nice guy.
Reading assignments for the class were fair and beneficial. Writing essays was a completely different story. You pretty much learn nothing over the course of this class, and the comments you receive are not helpful whatsoever. Even the writing center did not know what to make of some of the comments I received from this class. My friends in other expos classes did not have this problem at all; they had very responsive and helpful preceptors. I would say the only motive to writing essays in this class is to please the prof, but even then virtually no one in the class knows what he wants most of the time. You are almost guaranteed to completely start over for all or most of your essays in this class. If feedback is important for you, I would NOT(!!) recommend this class at all. I do have to say though that this prof is more reasonable about reading assignments than others. It is definitely possible to read everything, although it was pretty hard to finish Beloved. Some students had the advantage of reading it before, so I would recommend trying to read it in advance, if possible. Otherwise, you'll end up like me and have to sit for hours on end trying to read it and make sense of it all.
If you're looking to improve your writing, this most likely is not the course for you. If you enjoy analyzing literature and are okay with your current writing skills, sign on up.
Make sure that you realize this is NOT a class where you talk about the impacts of slavery on today's world. You will learn more about the authors of the books than the Underground Railroad. In this class you will analyze diction, style, why authors wrote things a certain way. So its great if you are interested in the reading list but this is not a course to solely learn about slavery.
If you are interested in learning about the traditional slave narrative and how that changed throughout time, or if you are interested in a expos class that requires reading only three books and watching two films, try out this class!
its a lot of fun
This course is like any expository writing course in that it has 3 papers you must write, and they are difficult to get As on, especially that last one, as it is a research paper. But Professor Becker teaches well and is a great resource, always readily available to students, so that makes the class more manageable.
Take this class! You won't regret it!
One of the best expos 20 classes offered. If you have any interest in the subject (which you probably should) take this class. Becker teaches you a whole lot about writing and close reading.
I would definitely recommend this course for Expos. Dr. Becker is a really nice guy and a good teacher. The feedback he provides on rough drafts is very helpful. Class discussion is very comfortable. At times the course can be a tad disorganized but this should not stop you from taking this course. One thing I wish I knew beforehand is that you jump from 5 pages to 10 pages for the second big paper/third big paper. I found this to be a big jump.
If you are at all interested in African-American history/literature you will love this course. Although Becker is initially a little intimidating, don't be put off because he's a really great, friendly guy who cares about his students and their writing. By the end of the course our class was really close. Getting to study the evolution of the slave narrative, from Douglass to Django Unchained to 12 Years a Slave was fascinating. Not an inordinate amount of reading and all the stuff is really interesting, academic articles and primary material alike. The final paper on Django Unchained made me appreciate the movie more than ever and I learnt a lot about film/film analysis.
You will never again in your life have an opportunity to engage with one of the best faculty members on campus if you do not take this course. Even if slave literature does not interest you, Doctor Becker will make you appreciate the value of a close reading, which is necessary for every concentration. By taking this class, you will not only become culturally aware of America's ignominious history, but you will also become a better analyzer of the written word.
Be prepared to have to look really closely at text. This is a LITERATURE class that involves a bit of film study toward the end. There are only 3 real grades for the semester.
I was one of the few people who said I enjoyed my expos class when conversing with fellow students. We went on outings and learned so much all while improving our writing. There was an excellent balance between the material and the goal of working on the skill of writing. Do this expos.
As long as you're open-minded enough to respect the slave narrative, this is an excellent (I would argue, the best) way of fulfilling the Expos requirement.
This class played a huge role in my thinking about concentrations. Ultimately, it showed me what I loved, through our work in the course, which is the intersection between history and literature in an era as monumental as the American Slave Age. For that reason, the course materials and authors that we read were astoundingly powerful, and it became easy to write passionately and well about a topic so important in history, and in literature. Dr. Becker is fantastic - he is definitely one of the best English/Writing teachers I've ever had because he is so great at constructively developing your thinking and writing in a comfortably, progressive way. I always felt like I was making progress in my writing when I was with him, inside class and in conference. It is a great class, and I recommend it with enthusiasm!! I only wish that we had more time, to do more writing and to take the books/narratives more slowly as a class. Overall, it was a great experience.
As far as Expos go, this is a great course.  Expos in of itself is difficult, especially since you won't be used to the fast pace of reading and writing.  But the end result is fantastic; you learn exactly what it takes to write an essay, and much of that happens outside of class.  It is moments in the library, tearing apart the essay, re-writing, and organizing that make you realize the necessary steps for a good essay.
Its really good if you love reading engaging books, and enjoy history!
