This is a great course. The structure is developed so it remains interesting and fun throughout the semester! Get prepared to share your work with others and participate in class.
tad is great and the class is pretty relaxed and you learn alot, but getting high marks is tough
Little to know readings, and all papers are based on either YouTube videos or short articles.
Put this as your number one choice! Tad is fantastic--you will learn a lot about writing, the content is interesting, and it's pretty pain-free.
Write a bit of your paper every day rather than trying to sit down and create it in one sitting. Don't pull all-nighters.
This Expos class deals with the fine arts (with politics and government as a broad backdrop).  Know this fact before choosing the class.  Concise and pertinent readings.  Tad is an awesome preceptor, but he grades rather strictly.  From what I've heard from other Expos students, this class should be near the top of your section choice list if you're interested in the course's themes.
The paper prompts are harmless, even interesting, and Tad is helpful, funny, and smart. Sure, you'll still be cursing out Expos when you're up at 2 am finishing up your draft, but this is a terrific version of this required class and one that I would highly recommend if you have even a modest interest in government.
Tad is a great preceptor, and the course is genuinely interesting.  The amount of required reading is pretty low, but it is very interesting and engaging, which I found particularly helpful in making me want to do work for the class.  Tad wants all of the students to improve as writers, and he strives to make sure that everyone becomes better by the end of the course.
Everything an Expos class should be. One of my favorite classes of the entire year. The material was fascinating, work completely appropriate and do-able, and I honestly noticed my writing improve. I use what we learned when writing papers for other classes. TAKE THIS CLASS.
About as painless as Expos probably gets. Tad's a cool guy who gives good feedback and allows you significant leeway in developing your ideas. If you'd prefer to visit the Massachusetts State House one afternoon and write a double-spaced page about it rather than read a novel and write a several-page response, this is your Expos.
ask questions, be creative with your topics
This expos class is very enjoyable. Tad is a great teacher, and the reading really isn't bad at all. The only things that are pertinent to the subject matter are assigned and they're not time consuming at all.
Probably one of the best expos classes. Not that much work. Interesting paper topics.
PUT THIS AS YOUR FIRST CHOICE EXPOS! I'm absolutely glad I did and most of my friends regret not doing the same. Tad is the man. He is totally understanding and just a chill guy in general. He definitely does grade the essays critically, but he provides enough feedback in conference to guide you on the golden road to getting a good grade. Some of the topics are very broad and so it is difficult to come up with an argument/topic, but once you do, you feel really proud of yourself since you basically created your own prompt. TAKE THIS CLASS!!! IT MAKES EXPOS ENJOYABLE!
This is a good expository writing class to take. Preceptor is helpful, prompts can be interesting. If you are in to the subject matter, even better.
This is a great class.  Take this class if you are interested in politics or analyzing the factors that shape political behavior.  Consider taking a different class if you want to work solely with books (this class uses other sources in addition to the written word), you have a need for getting immediate feedback, or if you don't like having fun.
Tad is a great preceptor, the materials/assignments are really interesting, and the course workload is totally manageable!
The course is thought-provoking and relevant for any student that has a moderate interest in American government and its general perception in the public eye.
I did not enjoy this class at all. I took it because 1. it got GREAT Q-scores in past years and 2. the topic seemed interesting to me. I am not a gov concentrator (you don't have to be to take this class) but it seemed cool. Boy was I disappointed! If you take this class, be prepared to NOT get your assignments back in a timely manner. This may sounds trivial but it really took away from the class and my potential to improve as a writer. We got our thesis back the day before the rough draft was due. After our conference to go over the rough draft, we did not receive those comments until days later. And we did not even get our final revision back until after the next rough draft of the next paper was already due. In the case of the third paper, we got our second paper back the same day that the final third paper was due. THIS IS NOT PRODUCTIVE OR USEFUL FOR LEARNING AND IMPROVING. Also, though Tad is awesome and a really nice guy, it seemed like there was always an excuse as to why he didn't turn something in-sick, excited by spring weather, etc. I just felt that in a class designed to improve your writing, this just was not the case here. I came away from the class with new and really interesting friends.
If you have an interest in politics and government, this course is a great way to fulfill your Expos requirement. Tad's comments are always very helpful, though he may not get back to you right away. The assignments are very fun, interesting, and creative. I felt like I got so much out of this course and really improved my writing.
Comparing my experience to some of my friends', this expos class was one of the easier ones. Grading was difficult (i.e. very, very hard to get an A), but the readings were minimal and you get to write about interesting topics like commercials and movies. You don't need to be a government concentrator to enjoy this expos.
Tad is an awesome preceptor. He goes out of his way to help you and make sure you become a better writer. He is a fair grader. Also, he is a huge bro. I recommend taking this expos.
This is a great Expos section. It is important to note that you'll need an interest in architecture, as well as a strong interest in government to take it, as they focus a lot on the "representations" as well as "American government." That said, this is a great class, and Tad is great.One thing to note though is that Tad does not return papers very quickly, which occasionally makes turnaround times for us to rewrite them shorter, but he is usually very flexible about giving extensions, etc, and understands when people turn things in late, which is thoughtful. His comments on papers are awesome, and have really helped me improve my writing.
I wholeheartedly recommend this expos section. Tad is arguably the best preceptor of all those who teach expos, and he is funny, fair and an amazing teacher. They say that you can only have one of the following: a good teacher, an interesting topic or a fair grader; Tad and this course offer all three. My writing improved by leaps and bound, and I feel very prepared for future paper courses at Harvard. He maintains a laid-back, friendly class, with fun discussions and the occasional tangential story (ask him about his plagiarism stories!). Overall, an awesome class with an awesome preceptor; even if you don't want to study government, this is the expos for you!
Fantastic class. Gives great responses. Works hard to imrpove your writing. Very interesting material that I had never covered before. Forced to me to grapple with some interesting issues I had never tackled before.
This is a great expository class, especially if you are interested in government. Gives an interesting introduction to different areas that the units focus on: political commercials, architecture, and conspiracy films. Feedback on essays and assignments is constructive and helpful for improving writing. The only negative aspect is that the class could get a little slow at times.
Don't get held up on the title. The papers can be taken in any direction you like.Class has standard work, 3 papers - two 5 pagers and one 10 pager.Professor is great - gives good feedback and is pretty lenient,Negative: don't hone in specific techniques. more just gloss over things and the professor tells you to incorporate them.
This is the best expos out there. Tad is great and the assignments are interesting and relatively easy.
The assignment's are generally fun and the course is very easy. Tad is very flexible with due dates and willing to accommodate the demands of individual schedules. However, Tad is perpetually late, often by weeks, in turning back assignments which is very frustrating.
This is a great expository class to take! The reading is minimal and the visuals that you delve into are very interesting. During the first unit you watch presidential campaign commercials, the second unit is governmental architecture and for the third unit you get to watch conspiracy films. You even take a field trip to the  Massachusetts state House!
I loved it! Great course - Tad was awesome, sparked great discussions and gave really helpful feedback. Take this! The discussions made this course my favorite of all my courses all year.
I would definitely recommend this class as an expos class to try and get into. The subject matter is fairly interesting, even if you're not a history or government person (I am not), and the reading is not heavy at all. Pretty much the only work you have is the response papers and essays, which are of course required by all expos classes. I think one thing that separates this class from the others is Tad. Tad is a really really nice and reasonable guy and his classes are fairly interesting. On top of this, he gives really useful feedback on assignments and in conferences, and generally if you follow his advice, he grades you very fairly. I feel very fortunate to have been placed into this expos class.
Tad Davies is the best! Great class
It is a great Expos course to take. The reading load is light, the topics are interesting, and class always has a relaxed atmosphere. I highly recommend it.
It is a great class if you take advantage of all the opportunities you have. Make sure you like the topic you are writing about other wise the class will seem pointless and painful. An 8-10 page research paper on a boring topic will seem be hell.
I have heard awful things about Expos, and fortunately I don't think this is one to fear. Yeah it's annoying at times but at least the topic is interesting and you're not drowning in readings. Note also that the preceptor does not return the assignments in a timely manner, which is extremely rude.
Tad is a very kind and approachable person, and the workload is relatively manageable for this class.  Feedback is accessible when you need it and the course material is engaging.  However, this course still runs into all the classic problems of expos classes: contrived essay structures, formulaic expectations and lots of busy work.  We also didn't engage with the topic of the class nearly as much as we discussed the mechanics of writing.  This is a relatively painless way to get through expos, but the requirement as a whole still has lots of issues.
Undoubtedly one of the best (and most underrated) expos classes. Tad is a wonderfully friendly, thoughtful, and helpful preceptor who cares about his students and helps them improve significantly.
If you have any interest in American politics or government, this is the best expos to take!
The class requires very little reading, and is a good way to practice writing with moderate workload. Unlike other expos courses, Tad does not "workshop" one particular person's essay in front of the whole class, but rather allows us to work and discuss with each other. This makes the class a lot less stressful. After all, this is a writing course, so don't expect to learn that much about democracy. The majority of the knowledge you gain is on writing strategies.
Easy yet fairly boring course. Good for expos because it's low work and thus would recommend, but it's not ideal because you really don't learn much.
Of the Expos options this one is a good one! Tad, while late on everything, gives great feedback and is very lenient. Interesting content and every essay can be taken in so many different directions it's not hard to find something you're interested in.
Unlike other Expos', this course did not require a lot of work. The only time I found myself really busy was when I had to write papers. Aside from the easy workload, this class is a pretty standard Expos class. One thing I found difficult was how late assignments were returned to us.
Professor Davies is absolutely great. He is extremely helpful and he is always available through email or office hours. The more work you put into the class, the more you will get out of it. Professor Davies is often willing to walk you through particularly difficult aspects of the essays. Furthermore, the essay topics are quite interesting, especially if you are interested in American politics.
The drafts are not graded but are very important for making revisions.
The preceptor is wonderful (Tad). This class is very interesting.
1. This is the best expos.2. In case you are having trouble choosing, see 1.
This expos gives students a lot of freedom as to what you write your essays on.
great class to take considering that an expos course is mandatory
the workload in this course is very manageable if you stay reasonably on top of the essays. the course material is very interesting - i would say that it's slanted more toward the "representations" part of the title than the "american democracy and government" part. most of the readings are about art, architecture, and the like and less about theories of governance.
Definitely take this expos! Tad is a fantastic preceptor and is very understanding with assignments. He is a great teacher and the course overall is not reading intensive. You get to watch a lot of presidential campaign videos and write about a conspiracy theory at the end of the semester so the course material is very interesting as well.
Tad gives great feedback on all assignments and the course content is very unique.
