Your writing will improve, but this course is very time-consuming compared to other Expos classes.
Interesting material, definitely useful for learning to write about history.
Overall, the course is great. Professor Liazos is engaging, as she always asks questions that inspires meaningful discussion in class and makes an effort to connect the material learned in writing to all other disciplines students may need to write in the future. The knowledge gained in civil rights is minimal: the first paper deals with set primary sources on famous speeches, the second with a provided secondary social science paper, and the third research paper left to any topic loosely related to civil rights. The class is strucutured so that you may learn civil rights if you truly want to, or you may simply focus on writing skills with the civil rights movement as a simple background to your work. 

I highly recommend it as an Expos course because, despite the workload, it develops your writing skills significantly. I now feel prepared to take on Harvards most challenging humanities courses.
At the end of the day, any EXPOS class you take is a writing class. It is a not a class solely devoted to the subject you chose. So, as a recommendation take EXPOS in a subject you like because if you do you are more likely to enjoy the subject material you are able to read and enjoy writing about the subject. Therefore, if you are interested in the Civil Rights Movement chose this EXPOS. If not, chose another.
From what I hear, compared to other Expos classes, this one is a bit tougher. I learned a lot, but I won't know how much of an impact that has on my writing until the future.
You will be bored out of your mind. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS.
This course is an interesting look at what the field of sociology looks like at the same time that it allowed me to explore a subject I'm passionate about, the civil rights movement. The trouble with it was its timeline, which was sporadic. However, if you can manage to stay on top of the work, it is manageable and interesting.
You don't have much of a choice for Expos, but this is a good and interesting one. Too much focus on Birmingham earlier, but the creativity allowed in the third paper makes it a good class. You have to like History to like this class.
In comparison to other expos classes, it is far more work in between papers. However, you will most likely be more prepared for future endeavors.
Do not take it. I got stuck in it because it fit my schedule, but I would highly recommend that you not take it. If it's not something that interests you its very boring and repetitive.
Even if you are not interested in civil rights or black history, you will definitely have a great time in this class. The preceptor is very helpful and supportive, and the writing assignments incorporated different writing styles.
If you enjoy the civil rights movement, this is the class for you.
Good material, difficult to receive the grade you want.
Think about this class beyond the mandatory requirement, it is a very interesting time period and movement.
Dr. Liazos's expectations are really clear and that class isn't terribly challenging, but you'll find that this topic, which has the potential to be engaging, gets completely bogged down in the requirements and mechanics of the Expos program. I imagine there are definitely worse courses you could select, and Dr. Liazos is a clear, helpful teacher who is very available, but you can definitely tell that this is a required Expos class and not a class that students have selected by choice.
Take this course if you like history or the Civil Rights Movement. Ariane gives terrific feedback and it's an exceptional topic. Pick the Expos you'll be passionate about.
This is an ok class, but in general all expos classes will have the same feedback. A student may be really interested in the topic, but you never really go into the topic in tremendous detail.
Take this course if you are interested in taking a closer look at the political and group-centered planning that went into the Civil Rights Movement. The readings can occasionally be lengthy, but they are typically quite engaging.
Be prepared to really think about each assignment and the writing will be very interesting and rewarding.
Dr. Liazos provides great feedback for drafts so it is very worthwhile to follow her advice. Some of the intermediate assignments weren't completely helpful, but overall the course teaches you a lot about writing and about the content.
I would recommend this class, especially if you are interested in the Civil Rights Movement.  However, do not expect the only assignments to be the three papers, as there are other assignments as well that may seem unnecessary but I think they helped me.
This class was not only interesting but really made me want to become an activist. The amount of work was just right, and I gained a good amount of experience with writing.
This course is very challenging. It is one of the most rigorous expos courses offered due to the amount of reading necessary. The writing part is difficult in every expos course, but in this class, you are required to read a lot to prepare for your writing, which means that you'll have to spend a lot of time reading and won't have as much for writing. If you have a challenging schedule outside of expos. I wouldn't recommend this course. If you have a bit more time, then this class definitely makes you a better writer.
The teacher is great and the subject matter is interesting. It will make you think and develop as a writer. Don't take this class if you're research-averse.
This class was a lot of work (more than other expos 20 classes I discovered) but I enjoyed the class time and it definitely helped me improve as a writer. Dr. Liazos is a very good teacher and is dedicated to helping you improve your writing skills.
Make sure you are interested in the topic
Expect to write a lot. There're basically response papers and letters and all sorts of drafts after every class. Also, there's also quite a bit of reading. But you come out of the class learning a lot about the civil rights movement.
It is a great way to learn about our nation's history while also learning writing techniques that can be applied to other classes.
The subject matter is great and the discussion is even better. The only thing that I would caution about is the fact that many assignments seem pointless and tedious.
This class will require you to do more work in less time than many of your fellow Expos cohorts, which has its advantages in that you will take more out of the experience and be done sooner, however, there are times where it can definitely be a pain.Alas, more than the work, which will be tedious with all Expos classes, choose Expos for either the subject matter or the time (hopefully both).
