Take this expos class! It's one of the only ones that will give you a large degree freedom in choosing the topic of your final paper, and trust me, it makes such a difference in the level of enjoyment you get from writing. GREG IS AMAZING.
Greg Harris is a great preceptor.  He brings a broader perspective to writing than most other expos teachers. If you don't enjoy anthropology/sociology though, then you probably won't care much about the class. If you do, or have no opinion either way, then you'll like Writing Culture
This is a spectacular expos course. Greg is great and fun, and can help anyone improve their ability to create and shape an argument into something that matters and is interesting. This class doesn't have a lot of work as far as "response papers" go, but the readings you do study are helpful and mostly fun. Take this course.
Not too hard
You will not be studying many different cultures or their writing styles, rather you will be studying ethnography (the study of cultures) which can be very boring.
An interesting class with a very nice and enthusiastic professor.
This course helps you decipher the often baffling connotations given to the term culture and the according implication that the term bring about.
I suppose I am not likely to recommend the course because I did not find it that I got much out of it, or at least as much as I would like to have. Personally, the subject matter was somewhat interesting, though not particularly engaging, so getting through the papers was often burdensome. I feel that if you enjoy the topic, you will love the class; otherwise, you will most likely just feel ambivalent.
The class will teach you a lot about writing and expose you to interesting ideas about culture.  Great course.
Take the class if you are interested in anthropology, or at least willing to read and discuss theory, because it represents about a third of the work. The gradual shift from academic essays to creative non-fiction that you get throughout the term is pretty unique and very interesting.Overall, I'd say that even if at some point the work was a pain, it was still extremely rewarding in the end (and I don't think it's the case in every expos class!).
Lots of flexibility and openness to change, a very dynamic EXPOS Course
