Because you have to take Expos (which, by definition, is horrible), this is a pretty good one to take.
One of my favorite classes freshman year. Dr. Mumme is understanding and is one of the rare down-to-earth teachers at Harvard. Her feedback is very to the point and very helpful, and I find her criticisms to be very valid. The topics (food psychology and policy) are applicable to everyday life; I felt like I grew not just as a writer but also felt like I walked away learning something practical.
I loved this class. Dr. Mumme was extremely helpful in conferences and over email. This was the first writing class that I actually enjoyed or wanted to write and revise for. The class is fun and we got food sometimes! Not a ton of reading and other work. Definitely a good Expos class.
Such a good expos class. Dr. Mumme gives very helpful advice and is always willing to talk to you about your writing. The topic is also very interesting. The emphasis on the psychological background to what we eat and why requires no previous experience with psychology.
Take this class! The material is really interesting, the teacher is always available to help, and it really helps improve your writing skills. If you don't like to read a lot, there isn't a ton of required reading, and if you do like to read--like me--the readings are enjoyable. Dr. Mumme is great at providing feedback and in creating a class in which everyone's opinions are respected. I've heard some people complain about their preceptors or the content of their expos class, but I have really enjoyed this class.
Take this class! It is a great expos experience.
Very interesting
This class obviously involves a lot of writing. This class will help you transition to academic writing by helping you improve your essays one step at a time. Don't procrastinate and the class is very manageable.
This is a great class. The topic is really fun and makes you really think about what you are eating.
Definitely recommend this Expos class! Donna Mumme is an excellent preceptor, especially compared to other Expos preceptors. She is extremely helpful during the revision process, makes class engaging, and the class is very well structured. The paper topics are interesting and relevant and the workload is manageable. Readings are light (mostly scientific articles).
I absolutely loved this class and would definitely recommend it! It was a wonderful experience!
The subject of this course was great, but I was not a big fan of the course work.  The psychological aspect of food is interesting, but most of the class time is spent talking about how to write, not about the actual topics introduced through the readings.
The most important expos class because everyone eats food.
This class has insanely interesting material, especially if you like psychology, but do not let the work sneak up on you and complete things ahead of time and it will be perfectly manageable.
