If you're at all interested in law and government, you should take this for your Expos course.  The material is enjoyable, the reading load is relatively light, and Deirdre is possibly the ideal Expos preceptor - dedicated, perceptive, and easygoing.  There are certain aspects common to all Expos classes that no one really enjoys - mostly scheduling-related, I found, as the papers always seemed to come due precisely when I least wanted them to.  Don't let that dissuade you, though: you have to take one Expos class, and this one is excellent.
Loved it!!
Please take this class. I'd heard so many horrible things about expos and I was prepared to hate it, but this was amazing. I'm also the only person I know who loves expos. This class is so great because Deirdre is awesome. She is so smart and caring and puts so much effort into getting to know all of her students. Her feedback is excellent, conferences with her are so helpful, and she is really accessible outside of class. Plus, the course material and assignments are actually really fun.
Great class.
It's Expos, so you have to do a lot of writing, but the material and assignments are so interesting and the preceptor is great.
People complain about expos a lot, but this was actually one of my favorite classes I took all year. Deirdre is awesome, and she really helps you with your writing and is really fair. The outside reading isn't a lot at all, and I actually found the papers quite interesting to write.
Deirdre, this course's preceptor, is among the most sincerely kind people I have ever met. She is helpful and encouraging--both with respect to the course and life in general. She made expos a non-intimidating and--dare I say it?--fun experience. If the law interests you, take this course. The readings will be manageable, and Deirdre's advice will be specific and useful.
Although many students exclaim that expository writing courses have been horrible, I really had an awesome time with Deirdre. Not only did I get to have more insight in issues surrounding Freedom of Speech, I was able to brush up on my writing. The work is very manageable and Deirdre is so sweet, helpful and understanding!
You have to take expos. This is problem the best one you can take. It's still expos, so it sucks at times, but the topic is interesting and Deirdre is an amazing preceptor! She's extremely nice and helpful, and I really learned a lot thanks to her teaching.
Like any freshman, I came in skeptical of expos in general; however, this is without a doubt the best class I have taken at Harvard. Deirdre is passionate, extremely helpful, supportive, and everything you could ever want in a preceptor and so much more. She approaches her role as a coach who has the unfortunate task of giving you a grade in the end, and you really get the sense that she is on your team and wants you to succeed more than anyone.  The subject matter is also extremely interesting and the assignments really let you go in whatever direction you want. And, even if for some bizarre reason you don't find dangerous speech interesting, the reading load for this course is incredibly light so you'll be fine regardless. Make this your first choice Expos class and pray that you are lucky enough to get it! You will love the class and Deirdre, plus you will improve exponentially as a writer under her tutelage.
This is a great expos class. Even if you are not interested in law! Deirdre is wonderful, and the essays are definitely manageable and fun.
As Expos courses go, this one manages to engage with truly interesting topic matter while still offering effective lessons on improving your writing.
This class suffers from the same problems that make most expos classes relatively unpleasant. Namely, the class talks a lot about writing and not a lot about the titular topic. However, if you are interested in law or hate speech, this is a reasonable class to take. You will learn something about these topics, just not as much as you want. The paper topics are the very good, which makes the class more bearable. The first paper was about comparing two Supreme Court opinions, and the second (the one paper that I legitimately enjoyed, if only somewhat) was constructing a mock Supreme Court Opinion based on a hypothetical case. Getting an A is difficult, but the reading required for the class is very reasonable. Overall, this is probably one of the better Expos options.
It's interesting material.
This is a great expos class that doesn't require a lot of work, yet is interesting to anyone with a mild interest in constitutional issues (or maybe even not). I would definitely recommend this class.
If you're interested in the law, then I would recommend taking this class! It's interesting and taught me more about the First Amendment than I had previously known. It's not an 'easy A', but Dr. Ziparo gives great feedback and will help you a lot during conferences and with comments on your drafts. Overall, I'm glad that I took this Expos!
This course is a good introduction to legal reading and writing.  It makes a good attempt at teaching how to think logically through legal arguments and read the literature, but I think it is so constrained by the expos requirements that at times this becomes more difficult.  Overall however, the course was very interesting and valuable.
This class has interesting readings and material, but the preceptor is a hard grader.
If you're not into law and arguing, don't even put this class in your expos list.
This class is very interesting, Dr. Ziparo is awesome, but the class was harder than I expected Expos to be.
This class is a fantastic way to explore the legal system and knock out your Expos requirement at the same time. Very interesting, not nearly as daunting as a lot of the other classes are.
