All freshmen have to take Expos.  This is unfortunate, but when facing a wide range of evils, Human Death and Disease is one of the better ones - like one of the skinnier kids at fat camp.  The course greatly prepares all students for future writing in college (this is undeniable), and the subject of this section was very interesting to me as a pre-med student.  Achterberg is a great preceptor as well, since she gives wonderful feedback and is very available to her students.  There is a lot of work that comes at a fast pace, as with all Expos sections, but this particular section is a really good one.
Though this class focuses on scientific writing, don't be scared away if you don't have a strong biology background, as you are graded on the strength of your arguments, not on the scientific validity of them.  Regardless of your background, you will come out of this class with a more critical eye to any health-related writing.  Jerusha is an awesome preceptor, and this class seems to have less reading and homework than other expos classes.  If you are interested in biology or public health policy, you will enjoy the writing assignments in this course.
I really liked the types of papers assigned in this class but sometimes class discussions could get a little repetitive.
At first, this class may intimidate some students since it is the mandatory class for all freshmen. However, through class discussions and writing assignments, I was able to find my weaknesses in writing and work to improve these areas.
This class is to better your writing in the science field.
If you work hard on the papers you will get a lot out of the class and it is completely worth it. I feel my writing has advanced significantly since enrolling. If you are considering a concentration in science or a research based field I definitely recommend this course.
This is a great class! Really teaches you how to write scientific papers, and I feel like my writing has improved substantially throughout the year. You get a TON of feedback, and as long as you put in the work, you should get a good grade.
As a person who is more into science and less into writing, this course was PERFECT. It obviously involved a large amount of writing, but it was writing on topics that I was interested in (Malaria, TB, etc.). Dr. Achterberg genuinely cared about the class and her students and it showed in the effort she put into follow-up emails. She made herself available during office hours and over email so you could always get your questions answered. I can honestly say that I have emerged from this course a much better writer.
Take this course if you are considering to do research or to become a scientist. This course gave me a real hands-on experience of what writing for science may be like. The instructor is amazing and gives a lot of feedback. Sometimes you may feel a bit lost because of the amount of freedom you're given in a field you know very little about.
If you are interested in diseases (in terms of history and/or regulation) this course is a perfect fit. The readings are very light and decently frequent, but very manageable. The preceptor is outgoing and very devoted to helping her students. Overall, I highly recommend the course and had no regrets taking it.
Look, you have to take an Expos20 class one way or another. Make it easy on yourself by taking this one. There isn't 100s of pages of philosophy reading every week. You just read some very interesting papers and write papers that you will actually write in real life. Dr. Achterberg is incredible as well! Take the class!!!
Make sure you organize your time for this class! DO NOT start your essays the night before. When Dr. Achterberg tells you that she is available for office hours go to them! Also, make use of the writing center on your essays otherwise you will not be able to improve completely at first since you need other people to read your essays and critique them at first. Lastly, try to prioritize readings according to how you can use them to your essays. You should be fine if you do not fall behind.
It's a great class and very interesting, but be prepared for a good amount of work.
This class is extremely helpful no matter how well you write. There is always something that can be corrected within a paper, and Expos did a fantastic job teaching me everything I need to know about college writing.
This class will help you with your writing, but it's pretty torturous. The homework is drudgery, and the first two papers are boring and after each unit you'll be sick of learning about the topic. The readings aren't very interesting and it's just a lot of work that doesn't feel like it's helping you write better. In the end, you learn a lot from writing and revising the papers, but I'd recommend choosing a different section - don't make the mistake of thinking "oh I like science, let me take this expos class on human death and disease!" No. Just no. Also, you will submit every assignment and paper 1 minute before the deadline and count down the days until the semester is over. Class of 2016 and beyond, save yourselves!
This section of Expos is great as long as it is viewed from the standpoint of a writing course and not a course on the specifics of diseases. Some aspects of the class seemed unnecessary at the time, but came together meaningfully at the end of the semester.
There are a lot of heavy science readings but I would highly recommend this expos for those considering science concentrations.  This class focuses specifically on writing in the scientific field so for those wanting to do research and be published, it is at least an introduction.
Great class, especially for students interested in the sciences
This is a great class with a preceptor who works very hard to help you individually.
Suck up in the cover letter and pretend to pay attention during conferences, and watch your B- turn into an A-.
Its not too bad, if you are interested in science and human disease. If you really don't like them, your life will suck.
It is a science expos, but it will improve your writing abilities overall.
If you're a premed student, don't hesitate in taking this course. The third paper, a research proposal, was a great introduction to the world of research. The course also gave something of an introduction to health policy, so it was enlightening in that sense as well. A great thing about this course is all of the help offered. At the same time, you have to put work in to get the most out of it, but that's to be expected. The more you put into the course, the more you'll get out of it.
If you are interested in reading science articles or writing about them, you would enjoy this course.  If not, the course is still very approachable.
Disclaimer: only science writing
It's a "writing in the sciences" class
This EXPOS class is a great choice if you want to learn how to write scientifically. The course goes over a lot of different styles of writing used in the scientific academic field and teaches you how to write effectively in those styles. However, it is very unhelpful if you are interested in the humanities or something because a lot of the writing techniques you learn will seem irrelevant or be difficult to use in a humanities setting.
This course is very science focused and does not help you grow as a writer. Only pick this course if you want to read scientific articles and are happy with your current level of writing.
like all expos courses it's a difficult writing adjustment, but the subject material is interesting.  see if there's enough time to meet outside of class
In the future, the class may run more smoothly, in which case it would be a good class. The subject matter is really interesting. Although it is very unclear from the course description, the class is very science-based and does not at all cover humanities writing.
It improved my writing tremendously. Moreover, the course readings/lectures are very interesting and Dr. Achterberg is a great preceptor. Dr. Achterberg gives excellent comments on drafts.
First of all, it's a science writing class. Although you can choose to go into "perceptions of disease," it's largely from a social sciences standpoint. Do not expect a class like, "read these short stories about stigmatized AIDS patients in farming communities and write a literary analysis." It will be more like "read these articles about stigma and healthcare-seeking behaviors of AIDS patients in unindustrialized countries and write a literature review suggesting possible directions for the field." I'm planning to go into a science concentration, so I thought this class was really useful, particularly in curing me of my fear of intimidating research articles. (The V-method was a good conceptual tool, but not something I intend to actually use.) Although I am probably capable of writing literary analyses, just based on AP English Lit, I think this class fills an important gap in typical high school education most relevant to non-humanities folk.Unless you're an incredible published author, you probably won't get an A. Don't worry about it. According to the rubric she gave out for the first paper, an A is "an ambitious, perceptive paper that grapples with interesting, complex ideas... clean, precise, and often elegant. Readers feel surprised, delighted, or otherwise have their ideas shifted...something only the paper's author could have written and explored, in this particular way." There are high standards; make sure you pay attention when you revise. I almost miss high school, but I think the grading here is more honest, even if it stings your pride to see the grade on your first paper.P.S. Dr. Achterberg is a fun teacher, despite the rather morbid course title. Unfortunately, she has a tendency to set awkward deadlines. I hope the calendar will be better next year, but this year, draft deadlines put a damper on both Thanksgiving and Halloween celebrations.
a lot of scientific writing
The class is very science-oriented. The class was more science and less culture or anthropology.
Do not take this class unless you are science major. It is only for studends who want specific science skills. Very unhelpful for everyone else.
