Take it!! It seems like it might be a dry science class, but its really more sociological and abstract. And Joaquin is an amazing preceptor. So helpful!
the readings and essay topics for this course are awesome! be aware that it's a literary analysis course, not a course on scientific writing--you'll be writing about short stories, works of art, and books, not doing original research.
The teacher is unenthusiastic but nice. Very helpful feedback on essays. Helped improve my writing, but the course material was not interesting or valuable. The movie and some of the readings were awful. It seemed to be relatively busy for an expos class. Unless you are very interested in AIDS, I would avoid this class.
This class contains interesting information about AIDS through the context of literature, but it is not based on science. While the essays are not extremely demanding, it seems as if you make similar arguments in each one. Some people may be disturbed by some of the content of the readings, but some may not mind it. In addition, assignments are not returned quickly, so consider that before taking this course. Only take this class if you truly want to learn about AIDS through literature, not science.
As far as Expos classes go, this class was pretty standard. It did get a bit tiresome to write about AIDS for every essay, especially since this class focused on deepening an understanding of writing more than it focused on deepening an understanding of AIDS, making each essay even more repetitive.
The class is interesting to say the least.  The three Units consist of writing on a short story, comparative analysis between a poem and an image, and a research-based paper centered around a longer work.  Joaquin is very friendly and is willing to "meet you halfway" on many things.  Deadlines are important to him, but extensions are always an option.  This expos actually was not one of my choices at all, but it was okay.  I think it helped me grow a little bit as a writer.
joaquins a great guy. great class atmosphere, the topic gets depressing though and can be hard to write about if youre not that interested in it. this is definitely an above average expos though so have no worries in taking it
Expos is a lot of work, but you won't find an Expos which isn't. Just have a good attitude, be willing to learn and work, and you should be fine.
probably the most painless expos. you don't have to be a premed to enjoy this course - no annoyingly dense readings, fair essays. good class.
Although not my first choice for an expos class, I was pleasantly surprised. The material was interesting and really gave me several perspectives on AIDS/HIV that I had never thought about before. The assignments were interesting and fairly graded, although I felt like I made similar arguments in all three essays. The first essay was about a short story, the second was a comparative essay between a piece of art and a poem, and the third was a final research paper on a longer work or movie. So there was a good deal of flexibility in what you got to write about and the workload was constant but not too bad. The essays were graded fairly and Joaquin gave a LOT of excellent feedback on the assignments which made it a lot easier to approach your next essay and know how to do better on it.
It is an interesting class.
This class gives a great perspective of people with HIV/AIDS during the height of the epidemic. It's interesting, and doesn't have a lot of reading. There's variety in the material, in that you study written stories, poetry, and visual art. The TF is definitely a qualified person for teaching the course. However, don't expect to get as much feedback or your essays back in a timely manner. A lot of the work and experience will be self-generated. You do get interesting debates and topics in section, but usually among the students. The TF doesn't really do much... teaching. But he does give useful pointers for writing a better essay. This class, however, won't teach you how to write or find your specific voice or style.
Only now, at the end of the semester, can I fully appreciate how lucky I was to be placed in this class. Joaquin is friendly and funny during our class discussions, but more importantly, he genuinely changes the way you look at writing.
The preceptor, Joaquin, is absolutely phenomenal. Even though I have not taken other expository writing courses, I can confidently say that Joaquin is definitely one of the best expos preceptors. He is extremely helpful, fair, understanding, patient, and kind. He genuinely wants his students to excel in his course, and is undoubtedly passionately about the subject matter that he is teaching. He is very accessible, and always offers extra help when necessary. Seriously. He is the best.
Take this course, Joaquin is wonderful, really supportive and helpful and the material is interesting
Joaquin is the best preceptor, and possibly my favorite instructor at Harvard. He definitely has carefully set up an incredible course, but only if you are open to it all. Let it change your thinking and take the course even further than he leads you and it will be incredible.
Joaquin is excellent at helping his students make their papers successful. The content he presents is really eye-opening and interesting.
PLEASE JUST TAKE THIS CLASS! You will not regret it, it's really laid back and while all of your friends will be complaining about their horrible expos experience you will be taking about how expos is your FAVORITE class!!!
Take this class. Joaquin is an amazing teacher who has a lot of enthusiasm and passion for the subject material. The conferences were super helpful and he goes step by step through how to craft a good paper and how to edit your drafts. The readings were very manageable and the videos were extremely interesting. This was my favorite class.
This course gives its students a unique outlook on AIDS and its cultural effects
A relatively interesting expos class but the particular section that I was in was unfortunately very unmotivated as a whole. Most of my complaints about the course would be the same in any expos, so I would recommend this course pretty strongly because I liked the course material. Some very interesting stories.
An interesting course that is not too difficult
Good luck
Don't expect to get your papers back quickly (or for some people, at all). Don't expect to get written feedback on your drafts. Do expect to get tried of writing about AIDS over and over again. Joaquin is extremely friendly, but he takes forever to respond to emails, and I question whether he truly cares about students' success. Regardless, I do my think my writing improved from taking this course, but that might simply be the result of completing three rigorous writing assignments, rather than implementing Joaquin's advice.
It's an awkward class.
Prof Terrones was a good TF, and very interested in the material we were covering, but my one complaint about him was that he returned our assignments pretty late, so it was hard to build from one paper to another, but other than that, it was a great class.
Joaquin is very passionate about and knowledgeable of this particular subject and provides us with a unique, more than surface level interpretation of the different readings. He is also an excellent writer that gives actually helpful advice during our draft conferences! I often came out of these one-on-one meetings thinking "Wow, that solves the exact problem I was having."
don't write it off because of the title of the course, it is actually very interesting and give you a better understanding of the world
This class is super fun.
Take this class. Everyone talks about how Expos can be a horror but this class quickly became my favorite of the semester. It will illuminate ways to improve your writing in a very explicit manner that can be easily applied.
THE BEST EXPOS. Joaquin is knowledgable, patient, and always encouraging. The subject matter and the reading material was fascinating.
This is probably the best Expos class. In my friend group, everyone took Expos at the same time, and I was the only person who wasn't complaining about it all the time. Joaquin is a really great preceptor who actually cares about you as a person. Also, the subject matter itself is really interesting!
This class does not deal with topics in science. It is much more about the people who are infected with HIV rather than HIV itself. Know what you're getting into.
This class was really helpful for writing, and was centered on a very interesting topic.  If you have any interest in exploring the role of HIV/AIDS in our society, take this class.  Expos is notorious for being a painful class to take, but if you take it on a topic you are interested in, it's not so bad
Joaquin is, a great instructor and this class teaches you wonderful things; I would recommend taking it even if it were not-requirement filling. The only bad parts are Expos 20 related, and those are unavoidable. You may as well learn great things while on the Expos struggle-bus!
This is the ideal way to fulfill your expos requirement. You'll learn about a fascinating topic through a wide variety of engaging art and literature, with incredibly helpful guidance that will improve your writing more than one would expect Expos ever could. You'll learn how to structure your writing and how to engage with texts and arguments with a depth and clarity that goes far beyond what you experienced in high school.
Great way to learn about the cultural impacts of AIDS/HIV! The readings are interesting and the prompts encourage you to be creative!
Though this course could be a lot of work at times and pretty difficult, I feel more confident in my writing as a result of this course. I think that is especially due to the help I got from my preceptor.
You learn so much from the class. Make sure to start your essays early. Do the reading.
I was initially concerned about Expos because of all the horror stories I had heard, however Joaquin was the most incredible and engaging preceptor and made me feel like I was in another class that wasn't expos. The material is very varied and interesting, and it also combines different areas of study like history, epidemiology, and sociology.
This is a great expos class! It does not have a terrible weekly workload and Joaquin is a wonderful preceptor. You will learn a lot about a serious cultural crisis that is still relevant.
Take this Expos if you can! Joaquin is a wonderful teacher and will give you very constructive feedback.
HIV/AIDS is a fantastic course. The course really examines the history of the epidemic from a social perspective. I loved the fact that it compared the epidemic in communities that have been historically erased from the study of HIV/ AIDS, particularly in women and the black and Latino communities, and the experience of the epidemic in Latin America.
This is a great course for anyone interested in studying HIV/AIDS through a literary perspective. Writing assignments include analyzing a close reading, doing a compare and contrast between artwork and a poem, and then a long research essay. Each class is well-designed and presents a different facet of writing. There is not much reading and Joaquin is very fair. The only downside is that Joaquin is not easy to contact so do not expect too much in the form of office hours. However, if you are decent at writing, you can get all the help you need during draft conferences. Overall, I really enjoyed this class and looked forward to coming everyday.
Great class -- Joaquin is a great preceptor who really loves his class and his students. His feedback is really good, and he makes sure that your essays show visible improvement. As with all Expos classes, the constant revision process cycle might be a little mind-numbing, but this one is pretty great. The literary material is fun to learn, especially Angels in America.
This class is so interesting even if you know nothing about AIDS (I didn't). The preceptor is great and very enthusiastic about the course material. Always gives great feedback!
This class was far and above my favorite class of freshman year.  Looking at the interplay between our medical and social understanding of AIDS was fascinating, and the class changed how I thought about disease and social marginalization.  If you are interested in activism, civil rights, sexuality, or public health, definitely take this class.  Joaquin is also an awesome preceptor.  He is really chill and gives great feedback during draft conferences.  If you take his advice seriously, it isn't too difficult to do well on your essays.
