Your writing will improve greatly after taking this class.
If you are interested in studying about the intriguing and ever-so-changing urban environment in the United States, then this class is for you!!
You have to be interested in American cities and different aspects of the the American urban experience.
As far as Expository Writing classes go, this class is not that bad. You won't get particularly helpful comments, but the workload is reasonable. I would recommend putting effort into your draft because then you will get comments more about the finer points of your paper and you will have less work later on.
Make sure you do all the readings and stay true to the syllabus.
I would tell them that you do need to know how to write before you come into this class. The professor does a good job of orienting everyone to writing strategies. Make sure that you are actually interested in conditions in urban America, or else you will not enjoy the course.
Write your drafts as if they are your final paper.  Put a lot of time into them.  Silver Cohen did a great job of writing extensive comments, so the better your draft is, the better her comments will serve you in writing your final paper.
The material we covered was interesting as long as you enjoy learning about urban issues. Even if you lack an interest in Urban America this course seems to be a good choice in comparison to other expository writing courses because of the moderate workload and the understanding nature of the preceptor.
Don't take this class unless you know that you're interested in urban development and urban life. It's a very narrow topic and the class is about what it says it's about. You can get away with not doing all of the extra readings.
This class is what you make of it. If you read the books, complete the assigned readings, and complete the final paper on something that is of interest to you, you will learn something about urban America. The primary focus of the class is on honing your writing skills, and I think Lindsay does a great job at that. She is so approachable, friendly, and sometimes funny. She thoroughly engages with your drafts and pushes you to write better.
The class is extremely interesting and also easy! I highly recommend this class.
The topic is not always the most intriguing, but Lindsay is a great teacher and really cares about her students.
If you're interested in America and how aspects of it have changed over the years, then you'll probably enjoy this course.
It is hard and does have a good amount of reading, but it was interesting and does help improve your writing.
I didn't love the first unit, but the second and third units were very interesting.
The material itself is not hard but writing academic essays is so just be prepared to learn and work hard when revising.
Very attentive preceptor, and the workload is not at all overwhelming. Take if you want to spend time researching the evolution of the American city and its demographics; would highly recommend.
Expos is not a popular class. But of the Expos classes, this is one of the best. The instruction is wonderful, you learn a lot about both writing and urban america, the teacher is nice, and the reading is on the more reasonable side of Expos classes.
This course is interesting overall. However, it is not quite as open-ended as you would expect. After this course you will feel more prepared for writing at Harvard. Take the class seriously and you will see your writing skills improve drastically.
Covers a few interesting aspects of urban American history, but this course is really all about writing. Lindsay does a great job communicating what she expects and how to improve your writing. Also, she's very accesible. A manageable, fun Expos class.
There is a good deal of reading, and the timelines are rather inconvenient, but one can learn much about writing from the class.
This class is engaging and interesting, and your writing will improve as a result. It is a relaxed environment where you feel comfortable asking questions and really understanding what Harvard expects from student's writing.
Great class!
Be prepared for awful submission dates, and bulks of reading within 48 hour spans.
Definitely take this class if you want a class that is laid back and has interesting readings. I was never stressed out about the workload for this class. The good readings made it enjoyable to do the work, and the preceptor is very chill. Despite this, you will definitely improve your writing skills.
The preceptor is fantastic and the assignments are straightforward and helpful. Unless you are very interested in urban issues, the material itself is dull, but this class is more about the process of writing anyway, and Lindsay is great for that.
Great class. Interesting material and Lindsay is an outstanding teacher. Good class discussions and I feel like I became a much better writer with her help. Workload is not bad at all and most of it is interesting.
I would like to tell them that the course material isn't the most interesting, but the course itself does teach you to write better in a collegiate environment.  Also, take advantage of the opportunities to meet with the professor in addition to the mandatory conferences, because they can be very helpful.  Try to avoid doing things at the last minute so as to get the most out of the class, because I feel like it was very helpful overall.
fun fun
Great teacher. You will certainly learn a lot, but the texts are not the most exciting and their is a decent amount of reading.
This was a great class with interesting material. Lindsay had great feedback with the assignments. I learned how to be a better college writer.
great preceptor, interesting subject matter, not too hard
This class will train your writing- it is not a free A, but you will be glad you took it.
