Take this class if you have any interest in Shakespeare at all, or if you have read and enjoyed one of Shakespeare's plays. All Expos classes have the same basic structure, so it is important that you pick a topic that interests you. In this class you try to answer the major question of why we read Shakespeare, looking at his plays, film adaptations, as well as academic research on the subject.
It is hard to compare it to other Expos classes that I have not experienced, but if you enjoy Shakespeare, I recommend this class and believe you will have a positive experience.
This course successfully lived up to the expectation of the expos nightmare. Although the material itself was good, class felt like an unpleasant waste of time and the preceptor was often caught up in his own defensive complexes. The few large essays and the editing process may have been useful for the future, but I struggle to come up with a defense for the class otherwise.
It's Expos, you'll be really lucky if you get a section you enjoy. This class is great if you want to read Shakespeare's two longest plays and do more of the type of writing you did in high school. If you want to get more of an idea of other types of writing, this is not the class for you. Additionally, this class is not at all discussion-based, as some Expos sections are.
Some weeks, the workload for this course will be much heavier than other weeks, and some weekends will be very much devoted to writing for this class. 

You have to take Expos. When compared to other Expos sections, this one's pretty good. I would recommend it.
If you enjoy Shakespeare at all, and Jeffrey Wilson is teaching this course, definitely take this. Wilson will give you a lot of attention if you need it, and he's so well versed with Shakespeare that you'll surely learn a lot about Shakespeare while improving your writing.
That many of the skills you learn will not only become useful in the next coming years, it may actually help you that semester. You will need to write papers and essays in other classes, and the skills you learn in Expos will help in that process. t
This Expos course might be a little difficult if you don't have interest in Shakespeare and close readings.
Wilson is incredible. For an expos class, I actually really enjoyed it and I learned a lot. Shakespeare can be daunting, but Wilson makes it really fun.
Very helpful and interesting
This class is as much about thinking and translating your ideas into writing as it is about Shakespeare. Come into it with an open mind.
More than a Shakespeare course, this is a writing course. Your ability to craft an effective argument will be more important than your ability to say something meaningful about Shakespeare. In fact, it is impressed upon you from the beginning that as a freshman you won't really be saying anything groundbreaking about Shakespeare, and should instead focus on "contributing to the critical conversation." Anyways- Wilson is a great prof, very engaging, hilarious, and passionate about Shakespeare. This class is a lot about how much you put into it. Getting good grades is difficult. Some passion and familiarity with Shakespeare is very helpful and more or less assumed, if you're going to be able to keep up with class discussions. The ability to quote Hamlet on the spot is especially impressive.
This course requires a significant amount of effort. In addition, one should take the class if one is interested in Shakespearean studies. Otherwise, I do not recommend the class.
This course is required, but should not be looked at with anguish.
