Great class, preceptor is fantastic. Very interesting and improves your writing.
As far as Expos classes go, this class has a great teacher and very interesting subject matter. The workload is manageable; the most difficult part is drafting and editing the three essays over the course of the semester.
This course is a fascinating discussion of the legal details of surveillance policy. The substance of the surveillance was quite interesting, but as in most expos courses much of the material on writing was tedious and boring. Gillian is very nice and reasonable though.
Everyone has to take expos, but I would honestly have taken this class anyway. It was actually interesting and even though I felt confident in my writing, I still feel like I gained useful skills. Gillian is also fantastic and I thoroughly enjoyed getting to know her.
You're most likely not going to get above a B+
This is a course where the material is always interesting and constantly relates to current events. Ms. Sinnott is also an amazing teacher and person.
Very interesting course with a very informed preceptor who can simultaneously teach you the issues with modern surveillance and improve your writing.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Firstly, Professor Sinnott is a great instructor. She is strict in terms of grading and she will point out tiny mistakes that you have - but that's how you learn stuff from the class. However, she is  very sweet lady and makes you comfortable asking questions both in class or in office hours. Secondly, the reading materials are really interesting and intellectual inspiring. As an international student, at first I thought that I would not be interested in this class (it was my 7th preference...), but in the end I really liked the topic and I enjoy dealing with legal documents. Lastly, Prof Sinnott's Office Hour was super helpful. After I got back my first paper, I knew that I had a lot to catch up with, so I went to her office hour every time. She provided useful suggestions and detailed feedback.
Write essays in advance and do not procrastinate
Not easy to get a good grade as Gillian gives positive feedback on draft papers and in the conference but then doesn't give you a matching grade. The research paper is very hard as there are not many available sources for the content.
Provides a great expos class for students interested in law and public policy.
It's hard but rewarding.
