It's very difficult and I found our preceptor to be very intimidating, while she obviously knew a lot.
Of course I haven't taken any of the other expository writing classes, but from what I've heard from my peers, this seems to be (one of) the best ones out there. Yes, it requires a lot of outside reading. But Professor Becker is phenomenal. The classroom environment is so encouraging and she truly values all discussion and input from students. She is welcoming with offering help, and her comments on my writing benefited me greatly. The class may be a bit more work than other expository writing classes, but overall I didn't find it to be too heavy of a work load and this was honestly my favorite class this semester.
It might be a difficult course for students that did not have a great expository writing program in high school. However, it was so well taught and the material is incredibly meaningful if you like reading and writing and are interested in English. Dr. Becker is excellent, thoughtful and diligent.
If you love literature, then this is the expos class for you. Hemingway and Woolf are incredible writers and the discussions we had about them were intriguing. However, if you want aren't interested in writing responses to literature and want an expos class that covers different genres in writing then this course is not for you.
This is a great class with a fantastic teacher. There is a fair amount of reading but, it is definitely worth the workload.
While I would not call the course "easy" since that largely depends on high school writing preparation, it is certainly manageable, but only if you do the readings and prepare the assignments in a timely fashion. The primary materials as well as the academic articles/chapters are all interesting reads, so I recommend this section of Expos if you like the authors.
It's a GREAT Expos class - really, really interesting, and Dr. Becker is amazing.  But - go into it expecting a very English-focused course, involving lots of in-depth reading/textual analysis, and be ready to work because it is a competitive/toughly-graded course.
The essays are tough, so DO NOT procrastinate and actually complete the exercises that Dr. Becker assigns! Doing the steps that precede submitting a draft will make your job so much easier.
This is a fantastic Expos course! If you want engaging readings, useful feedback, and interesting discussion, take this course! Dr. Becker is extremely knowledgeable and dedicates so much time and attention to her students--your writing and organization will improve drastically after taking this course. Even if literature isn't your thing, this is a great course to take. It balances out scientific and pset classes very nicely.
This is an excellent class if you're interested in literature by two very influential artists (Virginia Woolf and Ernest Hemingway).  However, get ready for a lot of work...possibly the most work required of any Expository Writing class.  With that being said, Dr. Becker is amazing and your writing skills will surely improve under her guidance.
stay on top of your reading
Only take this class if you are seriously interested in majoring in English
The course is reading-heavy but not necessarily on a regular basis. You spend a lot of time analyzing the novels and short stories but not much time learning how to write.
It's a great way to improve your writing and critical reading skills.
Highly recommend this course to anyone who likes literature and perhaps is considering pursuing it as a concentration. I personally found that my essay writing and literary analyses really evolved over a short period of time. Dr. Becker is a really nice lady who is incredibly approachable.
The class is great. At first close reading might be kind of difficult, but it becomes quite enjoyable once you understand how it is done. The readings can get dense sometimes, however, there is nothing you couldn't understand if you put in enough effort.
Great class if you love Woolf and Hemingway!
It's a fair amount of work. The fact that quotes come from novels means it takes a long time to compile evidence. However, the materials are good.
I loved this course. It was my number one choice at the beginning of the year and it did not disappoint me one bit. The readings in the class are amazing and engaging and I never once dreaded doing the reading for class. I think that the discussions I had in this class were some of the best discussions I have ever had in a English course and I would recommend it to anyone who is interested in literary interpretation.
If you're particularly fond of either of these two authors or of literature and literature theory in general, this is a great expos to take. Be prepared for a little disorganization, but generally Dr. Becker is approachable and available!
If you like Hemingway or Woolf, this is the course to take!
Make a better use of office hours time (I didn't know they existed up until the very end of the semester), insist on getting specific guidance with papers
If you like English, literature, or modernism, take this class! Dr. Becker provides insightful conversation and the content-- the novels, short stories, and secondary sources-- are all very compelling. Usually you hear that expos classes are pretty bad-- this one was great!
I think it was a great class that taught me a lot about writing college-level papers and formulating clear theses. The readings were great, even though we did not directly compare Woolf and Hemingway's works, as the course description seemed to suggest. I would recommend it to anyone interested in literature. There are many different themes to explore in these works, and it leaves us a lot of freedom to choose what we want to write about in our papers.
I did not really the Woolf part of the course, but I loved delving further into Hemingway's works.
