This class may be doable if you are good with time management, but if you are looking for an easy expos writing course with a low time commitment, this is not the course.
This class can get awkward at times, but that's when it gets fun.
There aren't a lot of readings in this course compared to other expos classes which is good, but if you have no interest in art or do not have an eye for art the class may seem boring or unpleasant.
This class is a good expos if you are at all interested in art or art history. It gives a good background on how to approach all types of art, not just nude art. Professor De Young also does a very good job of helping to improve your writing skills and I feel much more able now in my ability to write more comprehensive essays.
This class had a large variance between workload throughout the semester. When essay deadlines were close, I often spent hours and hours writing and perfecting my writing. When there were no essays due for the while and assignments mainly involved reading, the class was low stress. Be warned, however, that the class is quite art intensive. For a person like me who is not particularly inclined towards art, I found the class to be difficult at times and could not come up with an appropriate thesis that was critical or relevant enough. The teacher was very prompt in answering emails, gave ample and helpful feedback after drafts, and was willing to help during office hours. While I found the class to be challenging at times, I do think that it helped my writing overall is definitely not impossible.
It's a great class if you want to write papers analyzing art, as I don't think there are many other Expos classes the would give you that opportunity. Prof. De Young is a little eccentric but overall really knows her stuff and is good to work with.
Definitely take this class if you have any interest in art or art history or the portrayal of the body. Readings and daily assignments are very doable--they are interesting and never dense or very long. Professor De Young is incredibly enthusiastic about the subject matter and provides really in depth, thoughtful feedback. The course's focus and subject matter does not vary greatly throughout the semester; do not take this class if you dislike interpreting art or discussing nudity (which there is a lot of!) Overall, this was one of my favorite courses this semester and a very painless way to fulfill the Expos requirement.
If you like art, take it. If you don't, just don't even consider. The workload is significantly higher than for other expos. Also the writing book assigned is incredibly boring, filled with truisms.
This class was very comprehensive and allowed me to gain a lot of analytical skills that I did not have in the past when looking at art. Or naked people.
This course is probably the most unique Expos you can take. I would recommend this class to someone who is looking for a way to complete their Expos requirement and wants something completely different from their other classes. I would not recommend this as something you take because you think it would be funny to take a class on nude art.
Be prepared to do a lot of work for very little. But also to actually do your readings as we talk about them every class.
If the topic sounds interesting to you, take this course! The visual element will probably make whatever workload you'll have much more well-rounded, and the eccentricity of dealing with nudes and nudity was a nice break from all the generic intro courses.
This is a very difficult course. It is harder than most Expos classes. I highly recommend having at least some art history background coming into this course. You will leave with a tremendous improvement in your writing skills--probably more than other classes--but you will have to work your butt off to see it.
If you are interested in art, you will find this expos interesting
You have to be really sure that you like art if you want to take this class. If you're merely curious but haven't ever given art much thought before, you should take a different Expos.
This is an excellent class. Prof. De Young really has the skills to teach you how to write, and while the class certainly requires a significant amount of work, your writing will improve dramatically. Her comments were superb, and allow you to specifically improve areas in your writing that are weak or could use improvement. While experience with art or art history is certainly not a requirement, it is helpful to be at least interested and appreciative of art, as you will get much more out of the course. We got to visit the Museum of Fine Arts and Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston, trips that were really fun and make the most of going to school near a vibrant city. A trip to the rare books library to look at original manuscripts was also a highlight. Prof. De Young is witty and really an excellent teacher with a lot of good advice to offer. The course readings are interesting, and one gains an amusing familiarity with talking about nudity. There will certainly be times when the class is stressful or hard, when a paper seems like it's going nowhere or peer comment letters seem to be taking over your life. Yet that is the nature of a challenging and rewarding class- put in the effort and you really will gain a lot.
If you enjoy art history then I would definitely do this class, as it mixes art evaluations/history with expository writing. If you have trouble with art and evaluating it or seeing the hidden nuances, you might want to take another class.
No matter how hard you wish, Expos won't go away.  Overall this was a great course to fulfill that requirement.  The subject matter is interesting and Prof. De Young definitely helped me improve my writing.
The structure of Expos is just kinda annoying across the board, and it's the same for every class no matter its topic. So if this looks like a topic that's appealing to you, take it! I really enjoyed it from an art history standpoint. However, if you have no interest in art history, the combination of a topic you don't like and annoying structure will be really not fun. In general for Expos, it's best to go for a topic and/or preceptor you enjoy.
Be prepared to really think. I went into this class with some false preconceptions about art history without even realizing it. It is surprisingly extensive; it goes beyond the pieces themselves, and plunges into every other aspect of life possible.
Expos is a necessary evil. I found that gritting my teeth during class helped immensely.
You do not have to be an art person to enjoy this class at all... If you are a techie/ STEM person be not afraid. Though this course will absolutely challenge you and at times force you to completely question all that you ever learned about writing, rest assured, with great effort and professor Deyoung's help you can come out with an enlightened perspective on writing and LOVE ART!
This class challenged me very much. It was difficult to write about art, but I think Professor De Young's comments and feedback helped a lot to guide me with this. Her comments were very helpful and made me into a better writer. The trips to museums to see the artworks were also engaging aspects of this class!
This class is definitely not the easiest expos. While you might be experienced writing about literature, writing about art is completely different. Without a great passion for the topic, you will find the class frustrating and difficult. I recommend taking an expos about something that you love - if you love art history, then take this one.
