This is one of the best Expos classes, from what I've heard from my friends who are in less fun ones. Lindsay is a GREAT preceptor. She cares about her students and is always accessible by email, which is helpful. She has a good sense of humor, which keeps things fun in class, and is flexible when it comes to outside commitments that sometimes conflict with essays. TAKE THIS COURSE.
Urban America is very interesting. The subjects we talked about gave a great insight into the minds of those before us and how they dealt with America at the beginning of it's urbanization and how urbanization effected race and class and urbanization in the present. IOt was very interesting and it allows for a lot of interesting discussion
It was a good experience
Take the course, but just try to make sure you are interested in the material. The section leader is awesome.
Don't take this course because you feel strongly about learning about Urban America, because this course is really about one thing only and the is the writing process.  The paper prompts and readings are all only loosely linked to Urban America and in the most uninteresting ways possible.
Nothing in the class will be too earth-shatteringly new to you if you know much about poverty in America, but it's still a good illustration for the problems that have plagued and continue to plague our country, in addition to being a great foundation for your writing skills.
As far as Expos classes go, I think this is a good one to take. It's not terribly demanding, and Lindsay is extremely nice and interesting.
The workload in this class is pretty painless. I would recommend the class to anyone.
LINDSAY IS AWESOME!No really, not a lot of students can speak fondly of their expos experience, but I honestly think I can. The readings are interesting and Lindsay does a great job of covering their significance in class. The essays were broad and allowed for different views on the subject matter. Lindsay's comments and conferences were supremely helpful. She's a fair grader and an enthusiastic helper. I'm really glad I was placed into Urban America.
Great course. As long you as you actually do the readings its relatively easy
It's a nice Expos class!
This Expos is easily the best. Though perhaps not as mentally stimulating, response papers are short and essay lengths are reasonable. Readings are long but not impossible to get through.
Overall the course was good.  It is a course for learning how to write with a little bit of urban America thrown in.  Lindsay's feedback is fantastic but the timing for her due dates is sometimes a bit of a crunch.  You should be interested in working with nonfiction books, plays, articles, essays, and real world data if you take this course - it's a good mix, but you definitely spend a lot of time with each.  We read more than in some courses but less than in others.  I enjoyed the final essay topic, about Cambridge the most because I got to write about something that really mattered.
If you are interested in urban problems and even any urban parts of sociology this is your course!
It's a pretty demanding class and Lindsay assigns a lot of work (sometimes on very short notice) but I thought that she ran the class very well and that I got what I was supposed to get out of the course.  It definitely helps if you are interested in Cambridge issues, however - even though the course if titled "Urban America," I felt that we focused heavily on Cambridge and neglected other areas.  (I thought I would be able to write about New York, but I never did.)
This is a solid Expos class and Lindsay is very kind and helpful. It is not the most thrilling class, but readings and assignments are easy and interesting enough to keep you engaged, so overall, as Expos classes go, this one is worth adding to your list no matter who you are.
It has the shortest length and papers and very straight forward prompts.
