While the writing aspect of the course was overall a good experience, the start of the course was a bit babying to us, and be aware that the topic is very strongly legally oriented.
If you are interested in law this is a great expos to take, because you're both fulfilling the expos requirement while taking an interesting class about the first amendment. While I would have preferred that we spent a little more discussing the case studies than discussing the papers, the class was overall very interesting.
I LOVED the focus of this course on the First Amendment. If you are interested in law, you will really enjoy all of the essay assignments, including writing your own "legal opinion."
Topic was not very interesting to me, but still found it engaging!
Hands down, the best Expos class you can take.  The essays were all fun to write (In the second unit, you're a Supreme Court Justice writing the Opinion of the Court on a tough free speech case), the readings were all relevant (mostly Supreme Court decisions), and Dr. Ziparo is an incredible preceptor.  Your writing will improve, I guarantee it.
This class is an interesting way to fulfill the Expository Writing Requirement. Dr. Ziparo's essay assignments will get you thinking and help you improve the way you approach college writing. Overall, the class provides an interesting way though which to explore the Constitutionally gray areas of free speech.
Even though I have grown a lot as a result of this class, it is very difficult to manage with my other classes.
it is more interesting than most expos classes
As a first-semester freshman, you hear all sorts of Expos horror stories from upperclassmen, PAF's, etc. This course is not one of those horror stories. Dr. Ziparo is very passionate about the class, and is very up to date on the law and developments of the First Amendment. The reading assignments and response papers are doable, although the essays are tough. I certainly feel as though my writing has improved somewhat, and I learned a significant amount about a topic I knew close to nothing before taking this class. (First Amendment law)I would say that Dr. Ziparo's greatest achievement, aside from providing good comments on essays, and being available to discuss ideas, is making this course relevant to wide range of people. I would recommend this class as a rewarding, but fairly difficult, expos.
This class is hard. Just know that this course is tailored very particularly to the legal field. If you haven't tried your hand at something like legal writing or analysis, give it some thought and really think about whether you'd like it. Don't romanticize the fun debates you can have about free speech.
This is an excellent Expos course. Deirdre is an excellent preceptor; she's kind and encouraging while also being critical. She is really easy to talk to, in class and outside of it. If you're at all interested in the freedom of speech, this is the class to take. We considered the extents and limits of this freedom in the United States as well as internationally in the third unit (in which you research on a topic of your choice). A lot of the readings are comprised of Supreme Court opinions, but they are really accessible and aren't too long. I also happened to find them really interesting. Also, the paper assignments for this class are pretty intriguing; my personal favorite was the Unit Two essay in which we wrote Supreme Court opinions for a hypothetical case. The work load isn't too bad; like any other Expos, there are 3 units and therefore three essays to write (a draft and a final version for each). There are about three response papers for each unit that don't take a very long time to do and are really helpful for gathering your thoughts.I'd highly recommend taking this class; I thoroughly enjoyed it!
This was my favorite class of my freshman fall.  I learned so much from Deirdre about how to write in general (having come in with a solid writing background), and she was just the nicest professor to talk to.  I feel extremely prepared for writing research papers now.
As far as Expos classes go, this one seems to be great. The reading is manageable and the workload is sane - Deirdre is a helpful preceptor and provides great feedback. If you're even remotely interested in legal topics (not even just in the context of studying law or becoming a lawyer/legal clerk/etc.), this class will hold your interest for the semester.
Do not take this course without an interest in law.
Possibly the best Expos 20 course, but it is still Expos. That means you will need to pace yourself, and leave nothing to the last minute. If you can manage your time and ask questions when you don't understand, this course will teach you how to write well. Deirdre herself is a wonderful resource, and grades on the harsh side.
Best Expos class you can take. Take it! You won't regret it.
This is a wonderful expos class. If you have any interest in law or government you should take it.
Deirdre is wonderful, energetic, and always willing to meet with you to discuss your work. However, her feedback is often not specific enough to really help you improve your paper/writing. Overall, it was an enjoyable class, but I'm not sure how much it helped improve my writing. This might just be standard for Expos and/or I might have had too high expectations.
Dangerous Speech is an awesome class! You spend most of the class looking at Supreme Court cases dealing with the First Amendment and all of the major assignments are centered around these cases.
For expos, its a great class.
Dangerous Speech is (in my biased opinion) the best Expos! Deirdre is amazing, super chill, and fun to be around. If you are even mildly interested in the topic of the Freedom of Speech, take this class!
You have to take the class so you will suffer through it but it was not enjoyable.
Deirdre is an excellent preceptor. Definitely take this class if you have any interest in law. If you don't think you'll be a fan of exploring legal issues or reading Supreme Court case law, however, this class might not appeal to you.
This is a solid expos section. Deirdre is extremely nice and always willing to help. The topic is fascinating, an excellent section for potential lawyers or those interested in constitutional issues. The average amount of reading per week is pretty light but usually you get a ton the first week and then nothing for several weeks following. The papers are graded pretty strictly, like all expos sections, but are generally well designed. The pace of the course really accelerated as we went through the semester leaving not much time after the second paper was due before you had to submit research ideas for the final paper. Overall, I'd recommend this expos section to anyone vaguely interested in the First Amendment.
Interesting topic and a great instructor. Would be a great course for someone interesting in law or related fields.
The course is not reading-intensive, but has powerful and interesting subject matter.
Only take if you really enjoy reading justice opinions.
be engaged
I highly recommend ranking Dangerous Speech high on your list of Expository Writing requirements.  The essays are very enjoyable if you have an interest in law, and Deirdre is a great preceptor.  She is helpful and accessible outside of class, and I very much enjoyed working with her on drafts.  If you enjoy learning about law and have an interest in questions about free speech, this is a great way to fill your Expository Writing requirement.
A very interesting topic presented in a very interesting way. I looked forward to class discussions greatly. There is little to no background knowledge necessary to be able to fully participate in the class.
It's hard for me to say how this compares to other expos classes, but I had a lot of fun in this class. The topic was interesting (despite my initial skepticism) and the feedback you receive is good. That said, I felt that the grading was a bit difficult, but this might be an expos wide phenomenon.
It is fantastic!  By far my favorite class, which I know is weird for expos.  But, the teacher is fantastic and knowledgeable, and the subject is fascinating!  TAKE THIS CLASS! you won't be disappointed.
Deirdre is a wonderful teacher that you just cannot miss having her in improving your writing. She is kind, engaging, and helpful whether you talk to her in class and outside the class. Although this course is not much about memorizing courses, it still gives you a strong foundation in legal field by giving you an insight on how the Supreme Court Justices think and argue in their opinions.
As far as expos classes go, this is a pretty good one. The subject matter is really interesting and Deirdre is a really enthusiastic and caring instructor. Really Smart, too.
