Jane is the best! She made the class very enjoyable with her great personality.
I had no writing background and this class helped me so much. Jane is an amazing person and I learned so much from her. I am now much mor confident to take expos 20
This class was so helpful.  It forced me to really analyze the words I put on the page.  I can't imagine not taking it.
Gives you great practice and guidance into writing and makes you feel more confident
Only take this class if you feel you REALLY need help writing, or struggle greatly with writing in English. I was placed into 20, but decided to take this class because I wanted to be a better writer (have never written papers longer than 2-3 pages, etc). I'm not sure if this class has met those expectations. I think that I learned to be a better writer, but it was basically the exact same thing that is done in expos 20, except much slower. The slow pace leads to boredom, and I regret that now I have to do the same thing all over again in 20. Also, in both expos 10 and 20 it is pretty hard to get a good grade, so that is another con. 
TLDR: I did learn quite a bit about how to analyze claims made by authors, and how to approach writing a lens/case essay (the same kind given on the freshman writing test), but I do wish I had just taken 20 and been done with it.
Jane motivates you to write and to develop your arguments. You will be more confident in your writing and feel more prepared to take on Expos 20.
I would suggest taking it because it is a course that is fairly easily graded and a helpful transition from high school writing to college.
Do not be ashamed to take Expos 10; it taught me a lot about writing and analyzing that will be very beneficial in Expos 20.
This class is fundamental in improving one's writing skills and is great for preparing one for Expos 20.
If you are not confident about your writing and would learn to write academic essays step-by-step, then this course is perfect.
Take it!
It teaches you how to make a great argument
Take time to do the readings! They are very interesting.
This class is great if you are feeling uneasy about college writing. It gives you an opportunity to have a semester to gradually transition from high school to college.
It is a good way to get introduced into college writing
Good, basic writing class to start with
It's a great class. Jane's a great instructor who really does her best to make sure you grow as a writer.
If you feel that your writing is not as strong as you would like it to be, take this in the fall semester to prepare for expository 20. You will learn a great deal about the basics and intricacies of writing.
Fun and enjoyable class with lots of discussion. Good atmosphere. Readings were insightful, current and interesting.
This class will give you confidence in your college writing.
Although it requires a full year of expos to freshman it greatly improved my writing techniques.
Expos 10 is a great way to shore up your writing before being thrown headlong into Epxos 20.
if any doubts about going into expos 20, definitely enroll in expos 10
If you are unsure if you're ready for Expos 20 and academic writing, this course is extremely helpful to understand the important components of good writing!
Talk in class to get more out of it for your writing.
This is a good class to take if you have to take Expos 10 because Jane is really helpful and she really wants your writing to improve. She makes it comfortable transition into college writing.
This class is extremely helpful and should be taken if you are suggested to.
Expository Writing 10 helped me to understand what it means to write at a college level and how best to change my habits during the writing process.
You should take this class if you want to learn how to write properly. Expos 20 is more like a writing exercise, kind of a "swim or sink" class.
I recommend that students who are not completely confident in their ability to do well in Expos 20 should take this class. Expos 10 can do nothing but help your writing abilities.
to take it.
