It's really fun if you make it fun. Jane has a lot of personality, and if you engage in the class, it can be really entertaining. It's like any Expos course, a chore, but it's at least a better chore than other Expos classes I've heard of.
The class definitely engages your mind with the topic and forces you to really carefully consider what sources you are chosing to write about and why.
Take it!
Everyone seems to hate on Expos but this class is actually great. Jane is awesome, and you learn a lot about different essay styles and how to strengthen your writing techniques. Her feedback is incredibly helpful as well. And the assignments are fun! While everyone else is struggling through their readings, we got to watch "Curb Your Enthusiasm," and read "Maus"! There was a great class dynamic - it seemed less like a class and more a group of friends discussing interesting theories on the Holocaust and Judaism.
This is probably the most painless way to fulfill your Expos requirement. Jane is awesome, and fosters an extremely relaxed yet productive classroom environment. The course readings are boring at worst (select short stories) and awesome at best (Curb Your Enthusiasm, Maus), and there is lots to chew on in your essays. While others complain endlessly about Expos and their incompetent preceptors, Jewpos is da bomb (as far as Expos goes...).
Take this course if you would like to learn more about Jewish culture while fulfilling your Expository Writing requirement.  Jane is really good at helping students improve their writing.  I enjoyed meeting with her about my essay drafts and discussing opportunities for revision.  Every time, I came away with a good idea of the direction I needed to take my essay.  In addition to learning how to write, I became more connected to the Jewish community on campus simply by meeting other interesting Jewish students.
A great expos choice for Jews (jewpos). Others welcome as well. Not bad.
You will become a better, more thoughtful writer.
Few people are enthusiastic in a positive way about Expos, but everyone in this class had a great time.  This was undoubtedly the most comical expos conceivable, from the material to the discussions to the characters in the class
Interesting subject (really, by evaluating American Judaism you can talk about some very serious issues about being a minority in America in general) and awesome preceptor.
Take this class. It's a great way to fulfill the requirement. Although most people hate Expos, I didn't hate it. However, Jane does have high expectations for your writing.
Interesting reading, great topics, great preceptor.
Take this expos!!!  Jane is a really great preceptor and class is always interesting.  I went into expos thinking that I would dread class every day and not learn anything, and I actually wound up looking forward to expos each week and learning a lot about how to be a better writer.  The readings are also really fun-- short stories, a TV show, and a graphic novel.
This is hands down the best expos class offered. Jane is an incredible preceptor; she is extremely knowledgeable with regards to both the material and writing at Harvard. Her feedback is extensive and the course material is interesting. While your friends moan about other expos classes, you will be enjoying yours. Have no fear if you are not Jewish; you will gain even more from this class than your Jewish classmates. Take my word - rank this first!
Jane is an awesome preceptor! She really knows what she is talking about and always provides insightful comments on your papers. My writing improved tremendously. The class itself was enjoyable(I'm not Jewish and I loved it!) and the material was very interesting. I loved this class!!
I think Jane's comment were genuinely helpful. I was originally nervous about taking a class that was designed to help "improve" my writing, but I think the class if flexibel enough to accomodate writers with different styles.
You watch Curb Your Enthusiasm. As far as expos classes go, this class is really good.
This class was wonderful.  Honestly, expos was not bad as everyone made it seem.  Jane is a wonderful preceptor and gives out great course material.  The readings were very manageable - they were short and sweet. We even got to watch and analyze Curb Your Enthusiasm.  I really recommend this expos class because you not only get interesting readings, but you get a very attentive and caring preceptor!
Jane is absolutely incredible! The readings for this course are very manageable and interesting. You even get to watch a "Curb" episode! Jane gives really good feedback which is really helpful when writing the final paper.
While I did not expect this to be the case coming into second semester, Expos with Jane was my favorite class this semester. Jane not only teaches you to be a better writer and pushes you to write to the best of your ability, but makes the class a fun and collaborative setting. The material is fascinating to both Jews and non-Jews alike, in that it features universal themes relevant to all students. Whether we were watching Curb Your Enthusiasm or reading a short story on the Holocaust, all of the selections Jane chose were interesting and made writing essays a lot more enjoyable. This is definitely one of the best expos classes out there, and Jane is fantastic and always willing to help. I will miss her advice on my writing and class time dearly next year!
Jane really cares about you and your work. Start your papers early, and do the readings and you will FOR SURE have a blast.
Great class and Jane provides excellent feedback on your writing.
Pretty good expos class! It's still expos, but, the readings are fairly interesting (Maus is friggin awesome!), and the essays are alright, too. Just, time consuming, and eventually becomes pretty unfun.
TAKE THIS EXPOS. Jane is amazing and super helpful. This expos was a breeze and you get to read/watch awesome material such as "Maus"and "Curb Your Enthusiasm." An interest in Jewish culture is recommended in order to keep you engaged. I am not Jewish and I absolutely loved this expos.
The class has its interesting moments, but the subject matter begins to feel dry after a couple months.
Whether or not you are Jewish, you should take this class
This is a good expos class that really helps you improve your writing.  The source material is very interesting and not difficult to base papers around.  While Jane is a great preceptor, she is definitely demanding and requires a very high level of work.
This class was alright; you really have to enjoy the subject matter to get interested about this class. I felt that Jane's assignments were pretty vague at times, but that is what all expos classes are like. Overall, it wasn't that much work but, again, you really have to like the material to enjoy taking this class.
Great expos class. The readings are interesting and Jane is a great preceptor.
This class is a pretty good way to get expos out of the way. The readings are fairly minimal, and for the most part, enjoyable. Also, the feedback that you get is very extensive, including at least a page for each draft you hand in.
This class is great, the topic is fascinating and there are so many interesting discussions that come from the readings, and most of all, Jane is great! She provides a comfortable setting for discussion, without pressuring people to speak, which leads to relaxed and meaningful discussion. She gives a lot of feedback and really helps you think through and make sense of your ideas, even when you aren't even completely sure what those ideas are. As long as you put in the work (which really is easy to do given the structure of the class), you will get fine grades but it is not by any stretch easy to get an A on assignments in this class. However, that that holds for any expos class, so since you have to take expos anyway, take this class with Jane, she is great, nice, helpful, and funny!
Even if you aren't looking forward to taking Expos, this class will be fun. You get to write papers on interesting topics and Jane keeps the section from getting boring.
This is a wonderful Expos option! Jane is a really knowledgable, funny, and kind preceptor. She is tough but fair, and just really wants to see you succeed to the best of your ability and learn some skills that will make your college experience better. She has picked some great texts that offer a lot of food for thought and material to write about, no matter if you are Jewish or not. Since you have to take Expos, you should at least try to have a little fun and learn something out of it, and this class is a great way to do both.
For an expos class, this is a really great choice. Jane is amazing, and the classes are fun and engaging
If you know anything about or like Jewish culture or find it interesting then you will love this class.
Great Expos! If you are interested in the topic, definitely take it!
Jane is the best! Even if your not a huge writing fan, Jane's energies will influence your perspective on writing! And will get you more interested in writing!
This is a gem of an Expos course and you will not be disappointed if you take it. Period. Whether or not you are Jewish, whether or not you are interested in Jewish identity in American culture, you should still take it. Jane, our preceptor, works to make the syllabus as accessible as possible. You don't need to be a Hebrew school graduate to make sense of the material (which includes short stories, engaging papers, and "Curb Your Enthusiasm"); instead, the focus is on using the material as evidence to make a persuasive argument in any given essay. If that's not enough, Jane provides abundant comments on your writing, comments that are never mean or overly critical but are instead as helpful as can be; she really wants her students to grow. If that's still not enough, consider that although some people complain about the Expos requirement, I never felt overworked or overburdened by this course. It's interesting, it's very fair, it's (dare I say?) fun. If you want to improve as a writer and as a thinker, do yourself a favor and take it. You will not be disappointed.
Take this class. Jane is an amazing preceptor and the class was really interesting.
Expos is expos, whether you like it or not you're going to have to take one. So, with that in mind, this a fantastic option! Jane is great, both extraordinarily kind and a great editor. Class discussion is also always very interesting and section is something to look forward to. At times it unfortunately seemed we were writing for the sake of writing and not necessarily with something to say but that is an issue more with Expos than with this class.
TAKE THIS CLASS!! Honestly, it's easily the best Expos at Harvard. The class (and previous years agree) unanimously finds Jane engaging, hilarious, and a great teacher. Whether you're a strong or a less confident writer, you have a lot to learn from her. The workload is very manageable and the texts are really fascinating and painless.
Jane is a wonderful preceptor who really has your education and learning in mind.
Take this course if you want a laid back atmosphere but also want to learn something. Only take this if you are willing to be engaged.
This has been my favorite class at Harvard. Jane is an incredible preceptor and the course material is fantastic. I LOVED the readings in this course. Each reading greatly informed my understanding of Jewish American culture. Each unit challenged my preconceived notions of Jewish culture. Janes comments on my papers were incredibly helpful and insightful, and she will certainly help you improve your writing skills. I am very glad that I took this course.
This was an incredibly enjoyable Expos class. The material was interesting, the essay topics were never boring, and the class itself was always fun. I really looked forward to coming to class, and even enjoyed writing the essays. Jane is an amazing preceptor and really cared; she made sure that we were all learning and improving. She made me think about my papers in new ways and helped me to dramatically improve my writing. I highly recommend this course. Because of Jane and this class, I'm actually quite glad that Harvard requires us to all take an expository writing course. This was probably my best class all year!
Jane is an incredible preceptor who will undoubtedly improve your writing.  Her feedback is excellent, and she makes class interesting!
It is not as Jewish as it seems!  Don't be scared away by that.  I almost was, and I'm Jewish.  It really is a lot of fun, and you learn so much.
This is a course that can be very interesting, exciting and fun if you put a minimal level of effort into reading the materials and doing some research when necessary. You can also probably just get along without doing much, pass and leave it behind, but Jane is a great preceptor and this is an amazing opportunity to grow as a writer and enjoy yourself if you want to.
Jane is incredible and really helpful. You really don't have to be Jewish to take this course. I actually really liked the material (you watch Curb Your Enthusiasm!), and I thought my writing really did improve. 10/10 would recommend, as far as expos goes.
This is certainly one of the best Expos classes offered. Jane is the best preceptor ever, and the class never feels overwhelming like I think some other Expos classes might. Take this Expos! Even if you're not Jewish, you'll be able to do just fine.
Jewish Identity in America is not only a superb expos class, but a superb class overall. Jane is probably the best preceptor you could get. Her feedback is always helpful, incisive, and specific. I am absolutely a better writer than I was at the beginning of the class, or at least more conscious of what I need to do to be a better writer. The material is interesting and well chosen, and Jane does a great job moderating discussion so that we can really engage with the texts. Of course, there will still be some boring stuff, like explanations of what a thesis is or whatever, but overall you can't go wrong with picking Jewpos. Maybe my favorite course I took this semester.
Jane is the best teacher I have ever had. Make this your Expos class.
Jane is an amazing preceptor who really cares about your development as a writer. I feel like I've learned a lot about college level writing and most of that is due to Jane's teaching and feedback.
Jane is a great preceptor. The stories she gives us to read are very interesting. She gives you a large amount of feedback for any assignment you turn in, and is always disposable to talk through ideas or any questions you might have. She is also great at facilitating discussion. The topics we covered were extremely interesting, and you do not have to be Jewish to be able to enjoy and relate to the topics.
Probably your best option for expos. Jane is a fantastic teacher, and her writing advice will help you improve immensely. She also keeps the class fun and as entertaining as expos could possibly be.
