Pretty sure it's the best expos out there (especially for someone with an interest in psychology - take this concurrently with SLS 20!!)
While the course material and Dr. Mumme are above average, I felt as though only students who are very good at time management should rank this as their number one choice. Dr. Mumme leaves us on our own to get through some long readings, and to write rather long drafts. If you like hand-holding teachers, this is not the course for you.
Be aware that this class isn't so much for those who aren't committed to the sciences.  It seemed to me that the focus of the class (and the grading) was more on technical accuracy (not even grammar, more like citations) than on writing.  The stuff we read about was interesting and all, but most people wrote conventional essays - just a synthesis of the readings rather than something more.  Essay comments focused more on technical details (again, not grammar but things like citations) rather than more substantive comments.  If you are down with that stuff, this is the class for you.  If not, look elsewhere.
One of the best expos classes. Dr. Mumme one of the most engaging expos teachers you could find and somehow makes talking about very dull topics of sentence and paragraph structure not as boring. The readings too are actually very interesting.
Go for it.
This section was phenomenal. The readings are brief, painless and interesting, and Dr. Mumme offers fantastic feedback on every draft. In conference she aptly clarified any revisions that confused me. Consequently, it was  easy to earn a desirable grade by following through with those revisions; she makes no mystery of how to succeed in this class. All said, this is a fantastic way to fulfill the writing requirement, particularly if you have any interest in human behavior or psychology in general.
This course is challenging, but my writing improved enormously, so I think the level of difficulty pays off in the end. I thought the course content was super interesting to argue and write about, and I actually enjoyed going to class and writing the papers. Dr. Mumme is really great about giving feedback and helping students improve. Grading-wise, she's tough, but fair.If you're willing to put in some effort and work hard to improve your writing, you'll probably get a lot out of this class.The content of our readings and assignment revolved more around psychology than ethics, so if you're not at all interested in psychology (particularly social psychology), you might want to pick a different Expos. Also, this class teaches you to write for the sciences and social sciences, so if you're leaning towards a concentration in literature or something of the like, you'd probably be better off in a different Expos class. If you do take this class, always make sure you're well-prepared for conferences. Have a list of questions and concerns to talk about, or else the conferences will be a complete waste of time.
Best Expos class for sure. Readings are not difficult or long and the grading is fair.
If you have any interest in psychology whatsoever, this is an excellent class to take to fulfill your expos requirement. The readings are interesting and manageable, the preceptor is very helpful, and the writing style is very useful to learn for future psychology courses. Dr. Mumme may be a hard grader, but she does help you improve your writing a lot.
You learn a lot of life lessons along with the writing instruction. Mumme leads a great course, even though she is a bit of a hard grader.
Out of all expos classes, this does not have a lot of readings and the guidelines and expectations are very clear. The readings and discussions are very interesting and aside from the typical 3 expos essay assignments, there is not much other homework.
Just make sure you are interested in the topic.
This is an awesome class. Short (but good!) readings and Dr. Mumme's feedback is top-notch.
This course is very interesting and Dr.Mumme is great. This class almost felt like a freshman seminar at times because discussions in class were so engaging. Also, aside from the essays, the workload in this class is very light, especially compared to other expos. The only downside for this class is that your writing may not improve as much as it would from a more literary-based expos class. Also, Dr.Mumme definitely isn't the harshest expos grader, but she isn't the easiest either. If you're looking for a class with a light workload that it is very enjoyable, then this class is perfect for you. However, if you want an expos class that is an easy A, then this is not the class for you.
This is a psych course, with little reading. Donna is nice and helpful and I feel that my writing has improved a lot. Although I did not find myself interested in the course materials. Also pretty harsh grader.
This is a great expos class. The material is really interesting and the essays aren't bad at all. There's not too much work outside of the three essays besides a few readings. Dr. Mumme is great and gives really detailed comments on each draft. She's a tough grader but she's very willing to work with you on your writing. A lot of my friends complained about their expos classes but this one is a really good way to fulfill the requirement.
Sweet mother of Dumbledore, its rather difficult to describe the total awesomesauciness that IS the Ethics of Human Experimentation. Lets begin with the inevitable first-day scenario. You will walk into class, perhaps a bit nervous from all the ghastly rumors of Expos horrors. By the end of that first class, though, all those rumors will promptly fly out of your head. Instead, your head filled with lively discussion, entertaining (as well as educational) YouTube videos, and analysis of widespread psychological phenomena. You will delve into exciting (and relatively short) readings that describe these psychological phenomena, and then you will be even more excited to write about them with Dr. Mummes helpful and inspirational suggestions to guide the way. You will very soon realize that Dr. Mumme is a truly fantastic preceptor, explaining concepts in an easy-to-understand way and dedicating much time and effort to help you improve your writing. Under her supportive tutelage, you will grow as a writer. More importantly, you will grow as a person who can question the fragile line between right and wrong  moral principles vis-a-vis natural impulses. In a nutshell, if you take EHE, you will taste the delectable concoction of psychology, morality, and Harry Potter (and expository writing, of course).
This is a good, safe choice for expos. You won't be dissatisfied. It's not a literary course, although I don't think you'd feel uncomfortable if you weren't in the sciences.
This course is directed towards students aren't necessarily literature buffs. Everything in this course has prepared me to be a better writer in the profession I am interested in. I highly recommend this course for students who prefer research in scientific based topics.
If you look at Expos 20 classes collectively, this one is one of the best.
This class is great, especially if you are the type of student who was not inclined to the literary-analysis types of English classes in high school.  As far as I can see, it was definitely not as much reading as many other Expos classes, and the readings were actually interesting (like, psychology research papers and stuff!).  The grading is, by no means, easy, so you should try your hardest, but I think this is true for basically all Expos classes.
Compared to a lot of my friends' experiences with other Expos courses, mine was definitely among the least painful and I am happy to have taken this course. We didn't nearly have as much reading assigned as many other Expos sections yet when we did have to read, the articles/studies were always incredibly interesting and so applicable to modern life that you wanted to read them. However, your enjoyment of the readings/course may depend on having a healthy interest in psychology or science in general since the course does seem to attract more potential science concentrators that other Expos sections. Other than that the preceptor, Dr. Mumme, is great. She is funny and always generally enthusiastic about what she teaches. She consistently gave awesome feedback on essays and other writing assignments (the best out of any writing/English class I've ever taken) that really help you identify what your major strengths and weaknesses are. This class is definitely not an easy A but unless you absolutely cannot stand science then take this class! You can be one of the few who can say they actually don't hate Expos.
The instruction and subject matter (psychology/social psychology) of this course make it a great one to take. Dr. Mumme gives great feedback on the essays that help you determine both what you're doing well and what you need to improve.
This is a science/psychology based writing course and I'm glad that this option was made available to students who are not particularly interested in literature and creative writing.
Dr. Mumme is the best writing professor I have ever had. Her thoughtful feedback and engaging teaching style are two very positive aspects of this course.
It is a really cool class because you get to learn about psychology and writing at the same time.
Best expos. Hands down.
It's an interesting course for students who would like to explore into psychology.
Harsh grader....
This expos section was great (compared to stories I've heard).  I recommend it with enthusiasm to anyone interested in the sciences.
While you will need to put a few long nights into each essay, the class is incredibly interesting, and the discussions are quite enjoyable.
Dr. Mumme is a friendly, approachable instructor and puts in a lot of time making sure students receive plenty of feedback on each writing assignment they complete in class. Definitely a great class if you are interested in ethics or psychology in general.
The course covers a wide-range of interesting topics based on ethics and psychology. The required readings are not overwhelming and placed at a convenient pace. Dr. Mumme's line-by-line commentary and feedback were the most helpful part of the course and definitely helped me identify and fix any problems I had. The class discussions were entertaining, and often helped with writing the essays.
This course was absolutely fantastic! Coming into freshmen year you hear horror stories about Expos 20, however, Dr. Mumme does a great job of making the best out of this requirement. The class was straightforward and fair and you will get out of it what you put into it.
The professor is amazing and the topics discussed are really interesting if you want to follow the psychology/science study track!
This class is amazing if you're interested in science or related ethics. There isn't that much reading and all of it is interesting.
Dr Mumme is great, this is a great expos as far as expos go.
