Social Words of Friendship was relevant and inspiring, and it's interesting material facilitated my growth as a writer.
As an Expos class, I think this course is one of the easiest ones; it has fewer readings than the others, the topics are very interesting and you get a lot of feedback from your instructor.
Dr. Fee is a great preceptor, but this class will be focused on social science writing. I prefer more concrete subjects, so I got frustrated with the topic. But it is a relevant topic which made it more interesting than it would have otherwise been.
This class was pretty great for an Expos class. The topic was very interesting at times and you had a lot of freedom to formulate some really unique ideas (especially on the final paper). I think Expos as a whole is structured in waves, so sometimes you will find yourself not really having too much work for this class then suddenly find yourself behind or trying to catch up. It's important to stay on top of the deadlines. Dr. Fee as a preceptor was absolutely wonderful! He is so kind and helpful. He was really invested in each student's work and he wanted to see you improve as a writer, which I definitely think I did! Definitely one of the best Expos out there, I think!
Take this course if you like sociology.
I loved this class. It made me realize that this is exactly what I want to study. It really got me excited about my future of academics at Harvard.
If you are looking the best option for Expos, I would highly recommend sectioning for Social Worlds of Friendship. Dr. Fee is the preceptor. He is fantastically supportive and also really relaxed about deadlines. He also gives great comments on drafts and revisions. Dr. Fee was at no point intimidating and help us all grow as writers. Ironically, I met some of my close friends in this friendship expos. The topic of friendship gets a little boring at some parts of the semester, but it's overall pretty interesting and not too difficult to write about. Be prepared to be up for hours writing, though, because it's still an Expos class.
This class is an excellent choice for Expos.  A lot of my friends complained that their preceptors were harsh, but Dr. Fee is a kind and thoughtful one with great feedback for essays.  A lot of my friends complained they had too many readings and not enough time.  The readings for Social Worlds were good and not too heavy.  The topics in this class are timely; we talked about how social media affect friendship.  As a whole, the subject of friendship is underdeveloped in the world of academia, which is a shame, but this class is a great step towards developing it!  I recommend this class to those interested in sociology, psychology, and government.  A lot of what we talked about stemmed from sociology and psychology.  I, myself, will be a psych concentrator.  I found many parallels between this class and the introduction to psychology class I was taking at the time.   All in all, this class is a great class to take, especially freshman year when you're focusing a lot on forming your own friendships.
This class is definitely not challenging, but I don't feel like I learned a lot. I don't feel like my writing improved more than it did in my other class that involved writing - but I also don't feel like I learned any interesting material.
Take an expos class that interests you. Friendship can interest just about anybody, so take this class, Social Worlds of Friendship!
incredible class
The class is not a very stressful one, and the amount that you learn from it sneaks up on you. This was my favorite class this fall, and I wish I could take it again.
Take advantage of how reachable Dwight is, because meeting with him if you get stuck really helps the writing process along.
I found myself enjoying this class far more than I expected - as far as Expos go, this is definitely one of the better ones.  Dwight is a great preceptor, brings in food during workshop, and led interesting discussions that made the class surprisingly enjoyable.
Definetly one of the best expos classes out there. Dwight is awesome.
If you feel like you are struggling or just have any confusions or questions at any point in the course, do not hesitate to talk to Dr. Fee. He always is willing to give the time, and does all he can to help and talk out the issues.
Super great! Very little readings and very helpful teacher.
That the teacher is excellent, and that the information is interesting, but that it is a lot of work, particularly after the first unit.
This is an easy expos class that exposes you to the different ways of writing you may experience at Harvard.  Although still challenging, you get to put yourself into this class because you draw on previous friendships for examples and ideas for papers.  Professor Fee is always available and his feedback is very helpful.
I would tell them they should take this for their Expos class because the subject matter was pretty interesting to write about.
Expos 20: Social Worlds of Friendship is a really interesting course to take because the transition college has us thinking so much (whether actively or passively) about friendship theory anyway, and it's really nice to have a class facilitate those ideas.
