The workload can be difficult at times, but in the end it is a very rewarding experience.
If you enjoy Gothic fiction, then this is a great class. We had lively discussions about a subject that everyone seemed to be interested in. The authors that we discussed were great and the stories were sufficiently creepy.
We read a lot of great works. Think carefully about time management, and take advantage of the resources available to you (such as office hours, email, draft and response paper feedback).
Put in a lot of effort on Response Papers and do all of the readings for class. This will prepare you to write full essays and help you get the most out of class time.
Don't believe what random people tell you, this class does not require that much reading.  There was only one point during the semester where I felt overwhelmed with reading.  Professor Bellanca literally wrote the book about how to write college essays so she really knows her stuff!  Overall, this class is extremely manageable and pretty interesting considering its an Expos 20 class.  I highly recommend it.
This is a very good course overall, but do not take this if you don't like Gothic literature or don't find it interesting enough to write about. The preceptor is great, especially in terms of reachability and ease of communication, however her feedback (which is great once she has graded the draft/revision) is not very helpful in the actual writing process.
Take this class if you plan to do a lot of literary writing in college. Otherwise, choose a theme that's more applicable to your interests.
I would tell future students to really get into the material the class covers. What I mean by this is, students should become interested in what they are reading about and thoughtfully analyze what is going on. Also, do not be afraid to share your thoughts in class because this is a great way to check your understanding of the work.
This expos was my first choice and definitely did not disappoint. The material was fascinating. The professor was very knowledgeable and insightful yet unpretentious. She gave great feedback and provided ample opportunity for class discussion. If you are interested in fiction, take this class. Even if you are not, definitely consider this class, because I don't think you will find a better expos.
If you like reading Poe you'll love this course.  However, the section on Jane Austen is a bit grueling, especially considering it covers her very early work.
The readings for this class are very dense and often difficult to get through.  And then, it feels like a waste of time to read them, because we barely (if at all) discuss them in class.  I would definitely NOT recommend this class.
If you really like Gothic Fiction you will love this class. If you know a little about Gothic Fiction you could take it and it might push you to like it more or not like it. If you don't know anything about Gothic Fiction don't take this class as your first experience.
If you like studying literature and want to improve your writing, take this course. The breadth of material pretty much guarantees that you'll find something compelling in the readings.
Take it. I was a littler nervous at the beginning because I wasn't sure I was going to like Prof Martinez but she's awesome! Stick with it and it's going to be a good class. Her feedback is insightful and always useful. If you disagree with anything she's willing to listen and explain and even change her mind.
Even if you are interested in gothic fiction, choose wisely as the assignments focus more on writing style than specific gothic themes.
Expect this course to be fairly time-consuming, as there are a lot of readings in addition to the writing component.  However, as long as you don't fall behind, the workload is manageable; assignments come at regular intervals rather than all at once.
This course is not a bad course, and your writing will definitely improve.  I would suggest that you only sign up for this class if you KNOW you will enjoy all of the readings (especially Northanger Abbey by Jane Austen).  This course has a lot of reading and if you do not like one of the readings, it can be quite a struggle to get it read.  That being said, Michele Martinez is simply OUTSTANDING and you will become a better writer.  All in all, it's Expos.
Expos is a lot of work and can be miserable at times, but this course is definitely not that bad at all. The readings are all spectacular. If you don't feel like reading much, or find it very difficult to be motivated to read at all, then make this one of your top choices:  The readings are suspenseful, grotesque, and perplexing; they are certainly not dull like most Expos' (from what I've heard). Though I thought the course seemed a bit unstructured at times (class almost always ending 5 minutes after the hour, obscure assignments, not much explicit direction on how to write the college essay, etc.), Michele gave incredible feedback on your essay drafts in conferences with her (most preceptors just say "your essay's bad", while Michelle will say something like "The structure of your 5th paragraph doesn't match the flow of the others, so focus on revising this one for your final draft." She is a master at her craft (Gothic literature) for sure. You will most likely see a progression in your writing from your first essay to your third (and last) as you adjust to the longer, more critical, and much more unique style.  Expect to write a LOT in Expos (not just this one). The essays are a tease because they are only 3 of the 15+ wiritng assignments that you will be given (response papers are killers, reader's letters, other short, 1-2 page responses), and these will be the most miserably annoying part of your Expos experience (but we all have to go through it!) I thoroughly enjoyed the subject matter, but if you're a science-y or math-y person, pick a different Expos as your first choices. It is very literary intensive, and critical analysis will be at the forefront if you choose this course. I recommend it!
Only take this course if you have an open mind and can interpret fictional stories in various fashions.
Make sure that you have an actual interest in Gothic Fiction. I personally did not, and found the course a lot more difficult than those who did. The stories can be pretty dull and dark. But Professor Martinez does give really helpful feedback
This is definitely one of the better Expos 20 courses. You get to write about awesome horror stories, so it's pretty easy to care about the material, which makes writing about so much easier. I would definitely recommend it!
As far as expos classes go, this is a great one.  I actually really enjoyed going to class and Michele Martinez is a great preceptor.  She's very nice and gives great feedback, definitely go to her office hours.  It's a little heavy on the reading side, but the readings are almost all fiction and really enjoyable so it makes up for it.  Try not to fall behind in the reading or you won't benefit from the class discussions which are really helpful. My writing improved a lot over the course of the semester and I feel like I can actually write a college paper now.  All expos classes are a lot of work but if you want one with a great preceptor, interesting material, and helpful feedback, take this one!
This Expos class was the most interesting class I took this semester; it was also not the most time-consuming. In many other courses, I occasionally felt that professors, TFs etc. were not really interested in reading the assignments, essays ... not so for this class. For each draft or response paper or any other assignment, I genuinely felt that the instructor was interested in my work, in what I write, in how I could make that better ... In many ways, it convinced me that university can stil work like that, something which at one point I wasn't even sure about. The upshot - instructor is brilliant and topics are interesting.
You would be hard-pressed to find a better Expos 20 experience.
Take it! The material is fantastic, class discussions are great, and Prof. Martinez gives really helpful feedback regarding essays. Yes, it's Expos, so you will spend a day talking about plagiarism, a day talking about transitions, etc; this is unavoidable, no matter which one you take. However, the actual Gothic fiction is very interesting (just make sure you enjoy creepy stories about insanity and imprisoned women.)
The Gothic Fiction section has some of the best readings of any of the options for Expos that I know of, due to the fact that topics were fascinating and of a very reasonable length, and they interacted well with one another.
From what I've heard about other people's expos courses, this is one of the better ones, and I personally enjoyed the great variety of reading that falls under the category of Gothic fiction. Students write three essays over the course of the semester, and each essay is preceded by three smaller assignments (two of which lay a sort of prospectus for the essay; the last is a draft). On a basic level, the class covers a fairly important literary genre and fairly necessary essay-writing skills; but it is in the painless and even enjoyable way that these two are covered that the course's strengths lie.
A small interest in Gothic fiction will make it a great class. While it may not discuss archetypes, such as Dracula or Frankenstein, it gives you a view of Gothic through the ages and how it's evolved to accommodate changing views. It's readings will certainly keep you intrigued.
I really loved reading and learning about Gothic fiction. Dr. Martinez really structured the class well, and the response papers make sure that you stay on top of your work. All in all this was an excellent way to fulfill my expos requirement.
The class is great because of the very appropriate feedback given on each paper, which will prove very helpful and will contribute to improving, as the course progresses.
It's a good course but with A LOT of reading.  I took the course specifically for Edgar Allan Poe so getting through the first two essays took some patience since I really only wanted to read/discuss Poe.
Do the readings and essays FAR in advance. They stack up quickly.
This is an amazing expos course, especially for people who enjoy literature and literary criticism. The work is somewhat more than in perhaps some of the image-based expos classes since there IS reading involved, but the texts are all enjoyable and well worth reading. Class itself involves much discussion of the texts themselves, which is also a benefit.
You get to read interesting fiction while improving your essay writing skills.
The reading material for this class was excellent.  However, the emphasis of the class is on writing, not necessarily reading or analysis, so sometimes it felt as if the class was short changing the depth of the texts involved.
Although there is quite a bit of reading, the exploration of Gothic literature is very intersting.
