This is an excellent class where we learned to write great papers and the plays are very interesting. Take it.
You will find this class difficult.  Your writing will be broken down systematically.  It is hard, but it is at the same time quite rewarding.
The essay prompts are not easy
This course is hard -- you have to write about challenging plays and you have to write about them well. BUT. You really learn. And the discussions are great. And the plays are great (but intense). And Dr. Urban is great. If you're at all into theater, this is a fantastic way to fulfill the expository writing requirement and feels more like a Dramatic Arts/English elective. Since it tends to be somewhat self-selecting in terms of who takes it, it's also a good way to meet lots of interesting and talented freshmen. Also, go to office hours if you can; they're super helpful!
Be prepared to write adaptably. The material is very provocative and controversial.
This course is definitely fun and a great way to fulfill your Expos requirement, but the grading is very particular to the professor's own writing style. Do not expect to leave Expos with a universal understanding of how to write a good paper (this is more a flaw of Expos itself than this particular section of Expos). This course is not for theater students but for writing. If you are a theater kid, do not assume this will be an analysis course.
Ken is a good preceptor, and the literature we read is fascinating.  This class, however, will take up your time, so don't take it if you want to fulfill your expos requirement painlessly.
I'm not sure any Expos course can really be enjoyable - but if you're into this kind of thing the readings are great.
Class is difficult, but Ken is a great writer/teacher. Be prepared to be uncomfortably pushed to new levels of thinking and writing.
He's a tough grader, but you will become a better writer. the plays are a little controversial, be wary
The readings and subject matter is great - I really enjoyed my time in class and dealing with the materials.  However, I think it was one of the more specific Expos courses and therefore writing the papers in an area with which I was rather unfamiliar was sometimes more difficult.  Overall, good class though.
This class is demanding, but if you have the time to put into it, it will probably be the most rewarding Expos class out there.
Very text-based.  Take if you really, really, like literary analysis and/or reading and performing plays.
Ken is a really fun guy. Good readings. Be prepared to be a little weirded out, but go with it!
This class was definitely really hard and Urban is a tough teacher, but I learned more from this class than I have from any other english/writing class and would recommend it for people that want a better understanding of writing and theater.
Getting a good grade should not be your priority. Taking this class means you want to learn more about theatre and not just popular theatre.
Even though the readings might appear weird in first place, the insights, interpretations as well as broader issues addressed by them are definitely worth a closer and unbiased look at them. Ken Urban is not only entertaining in class, but a strict and experienced instructor and source of advice. Even for people who have not had any interest in theater before, the topics will in some sense appeal to them and maybe even open up a new field of interest. Additionally, the readings are short (crucial!) compared to other Expos classes and most of the work lies in interpretation and close analysis.
Dr. Urban made the class very interesting with his knowledge and his humor. He gives awesome feedback on essays and with some effort, Expos doesn't have to be as awful as it's often made out to be.
If you are interested in contemporary theatre, acting, or playwriting, consider this expos. Be aware that the papers are obviously humanities/literature based, so if that is not your thing, stay away.
it's difficult. you must like theatre.
Don't be discouraged when Professor Urban writes "So what?" all over your paper. Think of it as a challenge, and your writing will improve so much!
Be prepared to read some strange stuff. Not for the faint of heart.
Dr. Urban is a really tough grader, but it will help you so much. This class is really interesting. Be ready to work hard on developing your own voice and analyzing more deeply than you are used to. By the end of the course you will feel much more confident in your own arguments and the way you construct a successful essay!
the reading is good and is not too demanding.  urban gives good feedback.
Most all-nighters during the semester were because of this course. I learned a lot about the depth and philosophy of theater but my grades were terrible.
Very rewarding. Paper writing is tough but worth it
You can't take it. If it's on your schedule, take it off. Ken's not here anymore. (But it was really good, and if it was offered again, I'd tell you that if you like theatre even a little, you'll love this course.)
It's necessary, but I feel like the entire course is structured in a way which prevents improvement in writing, as we only do each style once, it's impossible to see whether you have actually improved at writing.
It is not a fun class. Find an expos class where the teacher cares as little as possible about the writing part. When the teacher cares about the writing part, it doesn't help your writing in any way. It just means you have to spend more time on assignments that you don't enjoy and that don't interest you. The best (only good) parts of the class are when the teacher talked about theater, so find a teacher that talks about their field and doesn't talk about writing.
The preceptor is really funny and makes the class more enjoyable
The course is really tough and it takes a lot of work, even if you think you're a comfortable writer. Expect to spend a lot of time trying to figure out what you're going to write about and drafting.
