ALWAYS participate in class, go to office hours, and really look at your peers' and teacher's comments on your papers in this course! When you have conferences with your teacher or go to office hours, be sure to come in with questions. Try not to be too broad with the questions because then even the teacher might not know how to help you. Also, make use of the Writing Center! The people there are fabulous! Remember that everything you learn in this course is cumulative-- so just because in one unit you focus on structure and making use of counterargument, does not mean you can just forget about using evidence and close reading effectively from the previous unit!
Sara is a great expos teacher who will make you work to become a better writer. I do think she is a bit of a harder grader and gives more work than other expos teachers from my experiences talking with fellow classmates in other expos courses, but this course can be rewarding if you have any interest in China.
The readings for this class were very interesting and I thought of China and China's rise in a different way than before. As for the actual writing component of the course, Sara does have high expectations for your quality of work, so you won't get away with a subpar paper. However, Sara is a very fair preceptor and very accessible if you want to talk to her about your ideas for your paper.
This is probably one of the better expos classes, but only if you're willing to work for it.  I actually think I put more work into this class than my other classes; however, I also got the most return from this class.  The readings are interesting and the essay feedback is superb.  If you do not know anything about China, this is an amazing class to take because you will probably find an interest in it.  If you do know a lot about China, I do not think you will be bored; if anything, you will just be more able to write interesting essays.
It was a good class, but I think that if I hadn't gone to the writing center, my essays wouldn't have been okay with her help alone. You can do well in the class but I think that if you don't have some other outside help and you're not already a great writer, it might be a bit challenging to do well.
This is likely one of the harder Expos classes, so be warned. However, if you love China/social science, you will enjoy this class anyway (you end up doing a lot of social science actually). Take advantage of every opportunity to get help! Sara, the Writing Center, friends, etc.
Rise of China was a pleasant class even though it was my last choice for Expos. However, I think those who really wanted to be in the class got more out of the material than I did.
This class covers an interesting and pertinent topic. While the readings might be a little boring and tedious at times, the discussions more than make up for it and Sara is a wonderful preceptor. I would recommend this to anyone.
It's a great course. If you're interested in China at all, there's a lot of great content and topics that we cover. Granted that this is a writing course, our scope on China is limited but it's a great window in. You'll also learn about what makes good writing from this course. Sara in a phenomenal preceptor - she's incredibly accessible, gives great feedback, and really wants to see you succeed. (But she also has high expectations in terms of grading - bewarned!) All in all, solid expos. Great course.
The Rise of China is an incredibly interesting and relevant expository writing topic, especially for those interested in the social sciences.
In the end, this is a writing class; your grade will reflect how hard you tried to improve your conference draft, not how much you know about China.
A great course with interesting content and very good preceptor.
You will end up with a much better final paper if you put a lot of effort into each of your drafts. You can scrape by with doing very little work until the final draft is do, but you'll be wasting resources like conferences with your preceptor or being workshopped. Conferences for this course are best used to refine, not to brainstorm. Set plenty of time aside to do research/assigned readings. Annotate the readings and read critically, because you are likely to use them in your paper. Skimming can be helpful if it's ten minutes before class and you haven't done the reading, but if at all possible, make time to read thoroughly. Additionally, take notes during the class discussion (especially things said by your preceptor), because they can being really useful additions to your paper. I can't count how many times I wished I could remember that things someone said during class.Be prepared for your conference. There are those who say the conferences aren't useful, but those are often the students who spent very little time or effort on their draft or didn't come to the conference prepared, having read and thought about the comments on their draft. They can be the most valuable part of your writing process if you allow them to be.
The class requires you to put in some work, but not too much that its ever really difficult. The readings aren't always necessary to get through class, but they are helpful. Sara gives great feedback. As long as you stay on top of your stuff and you enjoy the topic, it's a great class.
There are a bunch of deadlines but Sara is a really effective teacher, and by the end of the course you will feel like your writing has improved dramatically. If you are organized and stay on top of the deadlines, then you will really enjoy this class.
Students should have no illusions that this is going to be an overview or in depth look at the Rise of China. Instructor made this clear during the first session but still important to stress. This is overall a writing course, and the readings will be related to the titular subject and will be interesting if the student is interested in that subject, but this first and foremost about writing for the sake of writing.
Lots of outside reading and research required enough to create a high quality paper. No hand-holding.
Of the Expos options, this is the best. I learned so much about a relevant topic that actually interests me and had research available. Plus, it is changing every year! Sara is a wonderful preceptor.
As far as an expos class goes, I think this isn't too bad. Don't take it if you don't care about China. It's also very social science focused. If you don't want a future in the social sciences, try something else.
This class is very interesting because the matter of discussion is growing as we speak. Also, the preceptor for this class is amazing and provides amazing feedback on your essays.
If you have an interest in foreign relations, then this class will be rewarding.
If you have any interest in Asia or global politics, this class is a wonderful way to fulfill the Expos requirement. If you are not at all invested in the subject, another expos might be more suitable, but Sara is wonderful and can make just about any student intrigued!
Don't pick this just because the topic is interesting. Pick this if you are confident about your writing skill as well.
If I had known how terrible the instructor is at teaching and helping you to understand how to improve your writing and thesis construction and development skills, I would never have taken this Expos course in the first place. I feel I have learnt nothing from the course at all. Whilst the instructor is knowledgeable about China and the societal changes within it, she is in no position to teach her students the very main aim of the course; how to write!!!! While undergraduate student advisors at the Student Writing Center provided helpful, constructive comments about our essay-writing skills, I feel that the instructor, whose job it was to guide and teach us, failed to do so and was not qualified to teach. Her instructions were unclear about how we should develop our essays and she was very poor at providing further advice or quality comments whenever they were sought. The numerous times that "Conference" (mandatory essay discussion) meetings as well as additionally scheduled meetings (requested by myself because of how much difficulty I was having with the instructor's poor explanations and lack of clarity about how to improve drafts of my essays) resulted in little progress is just disappointing and was extremely frustrating. As a result, I dont feel my essay writing skills have improved at all thanks to the instructor or this semester-long course. This Expos class led to so many unproductive, confused and wasted hours of work!In summary, although the subject material is fascinating, the course instructors inability to teach pupils how to write college-level essays and improve their writing skills ruins it. You will often find yourself tearing your hair out in frustration because of the instructor and seriously regret taking this course. There are so many better Expos courses out there.DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE.
Make sure you are interested in China, first.
The Rise of China was well taught, interesting, and engaging. It fills a generally unpopular requirement in a manageable but really interesting way.
I think that this is one of the best expos courses without doubt. Sara is great at giving feedback and it was due to her comments that I was able to improve as a writer. The course topic is fantastic. If you have any interest in the social sciences or desire to understand globalization, then you must take this course.
I really enjoyed this expos class. I learned a lot about writing. Previously in high school, I was very used to writing five paragraph essays or 20 page research papers and nothing really in between, but I learned how to write much lengthier academic papers and enjoyed writing them after this class.
Very difficult, but rewarding
This class is challenging in that you are exposed to concepts and readings that are strictly at the collegiate level.  However, it is certainly manageable.  If you seriously want to learn (a) how to write and (b) about the rise of China, then you should take this course. The course will not be a waste of your time.
That this class is thought provoking and engaging but do not assume this class will be easy. You will get out of it what you put in.
Unless you're very interested in China's developing politics and economy, this course will be rather dry. You will also need to formulate arguable and pertinent thesis, and the originality of the thesis will have a great bearing on your final grade.
i found the readings for this course extremely difficult and had difficulty writing the essays not because of the writing portion but because i was writing on topics completely beyond my understanding.
this course is difficult. Be prepared to do a lot of work to fix up your writing because if you think you can write well for this course, you are wrong.
