It's interesting, but if you're not really interested in archaeology it might be boring at times.
This course is suited for those that are already interested in the topic. I was originally taking this class to try and broaden my horizons but i feel like the specificity of the course was not what i expected. There were 3 specific instances that we examined instead of the theory of "who owns the past?" in a broader sense. If you are interested in the topics listed in the cyllabus janling does a great job of teaching and gives very helpful feedback and is available upon request.
Take this class if you have existing interests in ancient history or museum studies. It takes more of a "science and society" approach to archaeology, so be prepared to read and discuss social theory. Janling's feedback is usually detailed and helpful. Most of what I'm taking away from Expos with regard to my own writing will be from his written comments and the one-on-one draft conferences.
Based on my talks with kids in other Expos classes, this one was fairly easy while at the same time interesting.
Janling is a great preceptor who offers constructive feedback on papers and makes the class interesting with humorous anecdotes from the field.
To take this class you definitely must have some interest in archeology or anthropology. The readings are centered around this. I found the reading enjoyable because I was invested in the topic.
It's an expos class, so there's definitely a limit to how much one can engage with the subject matter. Janling either only brings a superficial knowledge of archaeology to the class or really only has a superficial knowledge of archaeology, but since it's more of a methods class than an archaeology class this isn't too important, just keep this in mind when you set up expectations for this course.
Everyone looks at Expos and is afraid. This may be the one expos section you DO NOT need to be afraid of! Great feedback, great preceptor, and light workload!
The readings were generally short and this course does not take much out of your schedule, take if if you like the topic!
This course is very interesting, even if you do not have any interest at all in archaeology.  Janling is a fantastic preceptor.  We engaged in a lot of discussion in class and learned a few social theories that I really enjoyed pondering.  That being said, I think it is hard to do extremely well in this course because for writing to receive an A, it must be very good.
Make sure you're interested in archeology going in. Preceptor Fu gives a lot of good feedback, but you might get bored with some of the longer pieces of writing, particularly Said's Orientalism. Make sure you manage your time effectively so that you aren't rushing to submit at the last minute.
This Expos class is one of the easier of the Expository Writing courses. That being said, some of the reading material is not the most interesting for many people. There is a lot of this reading, but it is not too bad. There are few assignments besides the three main papers, and these additional assignments were helpful.
You get a lot of feedback on your writing, but unless you are very interested in archaeology, you will probably find the subject matter boring.
Take this class if you are interested in archaeology, otherwise it is tough to understand, be enthusiastic, and do well.
This is certainly a fairly easy expos class, in that there is minimal reading. The class is largely facilitated by in-class discussions, which make it almost like a seminar. My one comment on the course's content is that it focuses much more on argumentation than on specific writing techniques. If you are more debate-oriented this is probably a good class for you -- you write a position paper and your final research paper also ends up being somewhat of a position paper -- but if you are literary or if you want a class that will teach you the details of how to write well, this is not for you.
This class is very engaging but make sure you are interested in archaeology before you sign up for it.
Archaeology is way more interesting than you think
The instructor, Janling Fu, is an excellent teacher. Regardless of whether you want to pursue the study of archaeology in the future, Janling inspires you to work harder through his infectious passion for archaeology. I think that the course is so wonderful largely as a result of him. His input on your papers really helps to strengthen your writing capabilities as well. It helps that the course material is also interdisciplinary and fascinating when one has to write a long paper. I would highly recommend this course.
This class challenges your ability to think critically by offering a novel spin on ideas you might think you already understand. Also, Janling gives great feedback on papers and tells you exactly what you need to improve to better your writing style.
Unless you know you absolutely love history or archaeology I would not recommend this class. It is very history intensive, the reading is dense and often very boring, and the writing is all geared towards someone who plans on continuing on with history or anthropology.
