It really does prepare you for the essays you are going to have to write at Harvard, and this course just gives you extra support.
Through Expos 10, you gain an appreciation for the writing process.
Rebecca is the sole reason I am able to ace my essays and reports in my other classes. She is great and really knows what she's doing. Super cute lady, and knows how to make writing enjoyable. She changed my whole perspective.
The preceptors that teach this course are good however it might be worth skipping it and going straight to expos 20 to save time and energy. Although I learnt a lot (since English is my second language), I would not recommend this course to people completely fluent in English
Expos 10 will help you no matter how strong or weak you feel your writing is. All you need is enthusiasm and interest in improving your writing. It provides you with many tools that help you for writing on many different topics in other classes.
it is a great way to transition from high school to college english with the small classroom and the availability and willingness of the professor. i would recommend it to anyone who is questioning their ability to write in college. this course gives you all the tools you need to succeed and it instills confidence while helping you improve.
This class is well worth you time if you wish to learn the true fundamentals of college writing and receiving individual feedback on all of your work.  It is a learning environment and prepares you for Expos 20.
Its really worth the time if you feel rusty about your writing.
I used to hate writing with a passion and I never thought that I would enjoy it, but Expos 10 has totally changed my perspective! Like a complete 180! And Rebecca was great! She is like that blonde haired, blue eyed, enthusiastic teacher you think of.
It is extremely helpful with writing and I feel more prepared now
I was nervous to take Expos 10, I wasn't sure if it was a course for only the students who didn't know how to write, jumping into Expos 20 would have saved me a semester of writing work, but the experience I had in this class was great, I look forward to Expos 20 knowing that I am fully prepared because of this course and the wonderful instructor.
Do all the readings and try to make connections among them.
just take 20 and get writing requirement done with.
If you are a non-native English speaker the you should definitely take Expos 10
Rebecca is an amazing preceptor who truly wants every student to succeed in the course. She provides constructive feedback on all papers and is always open to discuss your progress throughout the course. This class has given me the foundational skills that will allow me to thrive in other writing-intensive classes at Harvard. If you're in doubt about taking Expos 10 or 20, I'd highly recommend taking Expos 10. You won't regret it.
It is a very good course for students who want to brush their writing skills. It is an excellent  preparation  for Expos 20
Best basis of writing you can get.
If your looking to expand your writing skills and your mental thought process, this is defiantly the course.
The instructor is amazing.
It is a good idea to take Expos 10 because it can prepare you for writing essays in all your courses in college
This class is set up for anyone who wants additional practice in writing. Its slow pace and small classroom setting provides such an amazing opportunity for anyone to improve their writing skills, no matter if they are new to the language or at an advanced level.
if on the fence between 10 and 20 for first semester--take 10. it wont hurt and really helps!
Take this if you are not comfortable with your writing!!! It is so helpful and a lot of fun
Even if you are a good writer, but struggle with academic writing, this course is awesome. It really helped boost my confidence and lay a foundation for the rest of college.
It's hard to want to take this class because you feel as though it means you are a bad writer, but it really is quite a helpful class. I feel that I am much more confident about my writing after taking this class and it helped me explicitly know what is expected of my writing as a college student. If you were placed in Expos 10 or are nervous about Expos 20, I would take this class.
If you're willing to spend an extra semester on Expos and you're not quite comfortable with your writing, this is a very good class.
It was extremely helpful, and applied to some of my other classes.
The slower pace of this course makes writing less stressful and more fun to look forward to as you see your own significant improvements.
Everyone thinks of Expos 10 as the course you take if you aren't good at writing, but I think this course would be beneficial to every student at Harvard. Writing is so essential for many of our classes here and the chance to work on improving it was extremely helpful.
I would take this class every semester,every year,forever, if I could.  I learned so much!
