Brian is a great teacher, and this has been my favorite course at Harvard by far.
If you love sports, this is the Expos for you. I was in a class with 14 guys and we had a wonderful time this semester. Brian is one of the most knowledgeable preceptors you will find and it's impressive the class he has created. You will never look at the sports sphere in the same way after this class. The material is interesting. The discussions are thought-provoking. Even the paper topics are entertaining. Hands down, a great Expos experience.
I would tell future students that this course ifs the best that I have taken at Harvard so far and that the preceptor was an amazing teacher whose feedback is not only incredibly valuable but also tailored specifically to your writing.
good class to take
If you like sports take this class.
Favorite class so far
This is the perfect Expos class. The 15 of us in the class were probably the only people who could claim Expos was the best class they took freshman year, and with good reason. Fobi, the instructor, is amazing and has great stories (ask him about his cousin Bo). The classes are extremely engaging--we spent the first day of class discussing LeBron James' decision to leaving Cleveland and whether we thought it was fair. Even the assignments were fun, as we could write about any topic that we so desired as long as it was related to sports. If this class is offered again next year, you have to take it. Legitimately no other Expos class can compare, and I'm not just saying that.
By far the best option for expos.  Even if you are not crazy about sports, the class will be fantastic.  Sports served as a proxy for legal and social discussion, so its not as though the class was not intellectually interesting.
If you love sports, the law, or both, you should absolutely take this class. This was my favorite class hands down this semester.
If you read, Fobi does a great job of indirectly pushing you towards ideas for papers and helps to guide you in any way possible.
This is an extremely awesome Expos course! While others were complaining about how boring their class was or how they hated writing essays, I was absolutely in love with Mr. Fobi's course. I looked forward to every class meeting and actually enjoyed (that's right, enjoyed) writing every one of the essays of the course. My writing skills really improved because of this class. Through the world of sports, we analyzed topics of race/ethnicity, wealth, social status, nationalism, and many other intriguing issues that truly impacted the way I now view sports. As a hardcore sports fan, I am so grateful that I took this class, not only because it dealt with sports issues, but because it opened my eyes to what sports really means to our modern society.
Will not regret taking this class
Brian is great. He does away with some of the extraneous material a lot of expos teachers use (tons of response papers and stuff everyone ends up bsing anyway). The material is interesting if you are interested in sports (more than the law) but being okay with reading legal material is good too! Definitely rank this up there on your list!
This class is excellent, for sports fans and non-sports fans alike. Fobi is supremely knowledgeable, and sets a comfortable yet intellectually stimulating atmosphere in the classroom. I actually enjoyed doing the readings and watching the assigned documentaries. This class is relevant and entertaining, and I can't recommend it more highly.
BRIAN FOBI IS THE BEST. This is without a doubt the greatest expos class out there. If you don't put this class as your number one choice, you're making a mistake.
Preceptor is amazing
This class is amazing! I didn't even know much about sports before coming in but it was still awesome and completely manageable. As long as you don't loathe sports, you'll love this class!
Fantastic class if you're interested in the material.
This class is an incredible way to fulfill expos. I would take it again in a heartbeat. Brian is extremely smart and really understands the students.
Great class.  Brian is an excellent, relaxed preceptor, and the essay topics allow you to argue for things that interest you without being too vague.  It is a class in critical thinking as much as writing.
Professor Fobi is amazing. The content is great. Overall, a wonderful course.
It is a great class to take. However, keep in mind that it is by no means an easy class to do well in. That said, it is one of the most interesting classes I have taken, and the preceptor is amazing! He is really funny, amazingly understanding, and willing to help :)
It's really good, as far as expos goes!
It is by far the best class ever if you are interested in anything that has to do with the sports and the law. You can write about absolutely anything in sports, and that is an awesome thing to be able to write about.
It is a course that gives you topics to write about that you will enjoy if you are a sports fan.
Brian Fobi is the greatest preceptor. The man knows so much about sports and law. The class is so chill, deadlines and meetings are flexible. There are not too many heavy readings, they are all interesting. Essays have many different choices. If you have ever played sports or have any interest in the role of sports in the history of mankind, take this. Pray that you're lucky enough to be put in this class. #allhailfobi
Take this class. Fight for it. Reschedule your entire course schedule around this class. If you're lucky enough to win the lottery and score this class you will delight to hear everyone else moan about their miserable expos class while you enjoy every minute spent in section. Fobi is an endearing preceptor who cares deeply about his students. He is incredibly knowledgeable about all things sports and will lead you on an interesting journey into the intersection of sports and law. If you have no interest in sports and no interest in law, I can still guarantee you that this class will be better than 90% of all other expos classes. The topic is really less important than the instructor, and Fobi cannot be beat.
It's the best expos class, especially if you're a sports and/or law enthusiast. Professor Fobi is a brilliant preceptor, and I can say confidently that I am finishing this course as a better writer and more knowledgable sports fan than I was when it stared.
