The preceptor is so great. She takes the time to give students helpful feedback and she gives each student the attention they deserve. To succeed in this class, you should manage your time well and write your drafts and revisions in a timely manner.
Take this course--Jane is one of the most enthusiastic, knowledgeable, helpful, and kind people here at Harvard.  She loves the material and puts in a lot of effort to make every assignment worth it for us, and every assignment helps you.  She shares her passion with you every day in class, and whenever you visit her outside of class as well.
Jane is a fantastic preceptor. She makes this class totally worthwhile, and brings out the best in her students, while helping them to improve on their weaknesses as well.
This course is amazing. Jane is a wonderful preceptor who not only offers suggestions on how to improve your writing, but also guides you to discovering new ways in which to improve and discover ideas for your essay topics. My writing has greatly improved after taking this class and I now have the skills to keep improving. Anyone who wants to become a better writer-and have fun doing it-should take this class.
If you enjoy writing, this will be one of the best classes you will take. Jane is amazing and will help your writing out a ton. On the other hand, if you want an easy class and don't plan on working hard don't take this one because you will feel very guilty about it.
One of the most competent, reasonable, likable professors I've ever met.
Best expos imaginable!! It is lively and emotionally-engaging and sure to change the way you approach an essay topic in any discipline- the archetypal expository writing class.
The format of the class Voice of Authority lends itself to Expos more than other classes, I think. There's a great deal of freedom within the class, which makes the fairly restricted structure of the essays a little easier because you have so much material and so many ideas from which to choose as a subject for the papers. It's very interesting as well!
Jane is wonderful.  Expos is a slog.  You have to take it anyway so take this one.
Hard but worth it. Jane is phenomenal
This is a difficult course. Jane is great though.  It's probably as good as you can get with Expos.
Expos does not get better than this. Jane is brilliant, hilarious, and SO helpful. The readings weren't always that interesting and the assignments weren't necessarily fun, but everything felt purposeful and discussion still managed to be engaging. This class will teach you how to write whether you want it to or not. Jane gives really fantastic personal feedback and knows so much -- I could not have asked for a better preceptor.
Jane is a very kind preceptor and she truly cares about your growth. She makes sure to create a very dynamic and welcoming class environment so that you feel comfortable sharing ideas. This was definitely a "plus" in my expos experience because it allowed me to learn how to formulate stronger verbal arguments. However, the class is tough. Grading can be somewhat tough (this is compeltely arbitrary, just judging off of what other people say), however, she gives a lot of feedback from your drafts. I wish that I would have been able to attend office hours more frequently, but when I did, she was very helpful. Through it all, this course DOES make you a better writer. Also, there is not much reading for this course and the third paper is actually fun to write. I mention the reading portion because when you're selecting an expos, I think it's more about the writing than the reading.
If you're not interested in improving your literary analysis skills and don't like writing that type of essay, don't take this class. However, if you are into that kind of writing, Jane will improve your skills dramatically and with a lot of enthusiasm. She is also super approachable if you need help.
I would imagine that this class is one of the better Expos there is. Jane is a phenomenal preceptor; she is very thoughtful, kind, and helpful, and she is incredibly intelligent and knowledgeable about writing. The class's workload gets a bit heavy at times, and I think this is one of the more work-heavy Expos out there. However, the reading material is very interesting, in-class and take-home assignments are helpful, and essay assignments allow for thoughtfulness and creativity. Overall, I feel that I have improved quite a bit as a writer. Jane's feedback, specifically, helps immensely; you will be amazed at the difference between your first drafts and your final drafts.
Expos sucks.  But Jane is so amazing!  I love her and feel like we have a great relationship.  She makes expos bearable, even though the course remains hard.
Unrue is very picky. She wants you to follow a particular format.
I suggest that you strongly consider taking this course! The course's good track record in previous Q-evaluations aren't a fluke, they reflect the enthusiasm that Jane (the instructor) has for the class. Although you may not learn anything earth-shattering in this writing course, Jane will guide you toward adding crucial subtlety and nuances to argument that will reflect itself on any piece of writing that you may do in your future classes at Harvard.
If you want to get the most out of mandatory Expos, this is the class. You don't have to feel anything for the topic; take this class for Jane, our wonderful preceptor. She will make you a better writer, and the scary part is that you'll notice it, essay by essay. A notable aspect of this course is the second unit, where you meet the authors of works read in class and learn about their lives in exile from their homelands.
It is difficult, but worthwhile, as long as you put in the work.
this class is a lot of work but it's worth it
Take advantage of Ms. Unrue to the fullest - engage with her personally and academically. She is one of the most fantastic teachers I have encountered, and surely Harvard's best Expos Preceptor. This course is demanding and, at times, difficult, but you will receive tenfold everything you put into it.
This is an excellent course as far as Expos courses go. There is nothing wrong with this course that is not a result of the difficulties of making every freshman go through an introductory course. Within that framework, this class is unmatched.
This class doesn't pretend to be a class about anything besides writing. You think you can write? You can't. Not until you take this class. Jane is incredible. This is the Expos class you need and the one you deserve.
Overall, this is an expos class you will most likely end up enjoying. Not because writing essays are great and the writing process is easy, but because the classes will be very enjoyable. Professor Unrue is very kind and clearly passionate about the class so you can't help but feel engaged as well. Also there will definitely be interesting class discussion and you will learn plenty from everyone else. But in terms of the actual curriculum, be ready to really work hard and craft your writing. You learn lots of useful skills in this class and it does require a lot of effort to produce a good paper.
Just be prepared and always talk with Jane! She's very helpful!
Jane is a wonderful preceptor who really works to help you improve your writing. The feedback she gives is incredibly helpful, as is meeting with her outside of class. The class is definitely challenging, but after it all I feel like my writing has improved so much in an interesting and dynamic environment. Highly recommended!
I really loved this expos class!!!  It is engaging, interesting, challenging, and extremely rewarding.  This is probably one of the best expos classes out there!  You should definitely take it if you have the chance!  Jane is wonderful, helpful, fair and pushes you to improve your writing skills.  This course is difficult, but is worth it because of how much you learn and improve in your pursuasive writing.  I feel extrodinarily prepared for future writing assignments at Harvard because of this class.
when it comes to expos the most important thing is not the topic or the time but rather the preceptor. Jane is amazing and you'd be so happy you took this class with her. She really help each student to grow as a writer and doesn't assign an overwhelming amount of readings like other expos classes.
The Voice of Authority is a class that will fundamentally change the way you view the writing process.  As a result of taking this course, you will no doubt grow as a writer and become intimately comfortable with the conventions of academic writing.  This is one Expos class which cannot be neatly boxed in...it's a class that discusses practically everything, from education, to human rights, to politics.  No matter your particular leanings towards a certain subject matter, you will love this class.
Jane is not only one of the nicest people at Harvard but one of the most dedicated.  She gives amazing comments that will improve your writing while being supportive throughout the whole revision process.  I expect to stay in touch with her throughout my whole Harvard experience.  Do yourself a favor and choose this course!
Take this class! You will read incredible pieces from scholars at risk and learn from one of the most enthusiastic professors. I looked forward to class every day.
Jane is absolutely AMAZING! Her class is very organized and my writing significantly improved throughout the course. She returns every assignment with extensive, articulate comments and feedback very quickly. Section was always fun and engaging. Be prepared to spend a lot of time on assignments; but, the time spend on the assignments was well worth the rewards of truly becoming a better writer. TAKE IT! Also, the readings were really great. Students from other expos sections complained about boring readings; however, I was never able to find a student from The Voice of Authority who did not enjoy the readings. We all loved our experience in this section. And we all love Jane Unrue.
People might convince you to dread Expository Writing, but this was truly my favorite class of the semester. There is never a dull moment with Jane and her feedback and guidance will truly, and painlessly, make you a much better writer. Take this class!
Your writing will improve in this class, especially if you really pay attention to what Jane says. She uses her own terminology to describe writing techniques, but if you try to understand and apply it to your writing, you will profit from it.
I came into Expos with low expectations, but it turned out to be a very fun and interesting course.
Jane is a fabulous preceptor and I highly recommend this expos section. The readings are not too time consuming and very interesting, and you even get to meet the authors! She gives great feedback, just make sure to learn from it.
This is by far the best Expos class to take. Unrue is a wonderful teacher and the topics for the papers are enjoyable and easily to tailor to your own interests. I strongly recommend this class!
I'd recomment the Voice of Authority to freshmen who want an interesting but challenging expository writing course. It's not an easy class, but Jane is a great teacher and really allows you to develop as a writer, especially in forming smart and coherent arguments. The course readings were also great, ranging from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest to works by authors who actually visited the class. This was one of the most fun events in the class. This class is a solid option.
THIS IS THE BEST EXPOS YOU CAN TAKE!Jane is fantastic, very enthusiastic, and gives excellent feedback!!!!The topic is also very broad so you never get bored of the theme of the course and its easy to enjoy :)Be wary though, expos takes a lot of time.
It's a difficult class (like many Expos classes) but the readings are really great and the topics the class covers are worthwhile.  Would definitely recommend.
TAKE IT!!! Jane is wonderful to have as a teacher, and her comments genuinely helped me improve my writing. Also, it was an amazing experience to talk with an author from Iran, Nigeria, and Nepal.
It's a great class with a very nice teacher.
If you want to learn how to write well, take this class. Probably one of the best expos classes offered here.
Jane is a great teacher :).
The instructor is very enthusiastic about the subject matter which really helps get through having to write expos essays.
Jane (our preceptor) is great and class is fun. However, be prepared for a difficult workload.
There was definitely more work than I expected for this class. I always seemed to have readings, pre-draft assignments, drafts, and/or final revisions due. It is important to manage your time extremely well. The preceptor is encouraging and approachable, though, and the subject matter is interesting.
