It helped ease me into writing at Harvard and gave me the resources necessary to move forward.
If you are not sure about your writing prowess, let Expos 10 screen you.
It is hugely helpful in preparing for college-level writing.
Good. Take.
it is not necessary before Expos 20
It is helpful in order to get use to the college writing process, especially if you rarely wrote papers prior to college.
Despite taking an extra class up in the first semester, I feel that Expos 10 is very helpful and is worth the spot if there are any doubts on writing ability.
This class is awesome. Don't be afraid to take Expos 10. I was not feeling good initially when I took the class, because I was worried that my friends would think that I am not smart enough. But now, I am really glad that I took it.
I really like the pacing of the course. I felt like there was enough time to complete all of my assignments and be satisfied with the final product. Tad also gives good feedback. Don't think that Expos 10 is beneath you. I was a bit disappointed that I wasn't placed in 20, but I am so glad I took this in the end. You will realize that your writing before had a lot of flaws, and the class does prepare you for academic writing. Also, it serves well as a transition class into college because it is not as intensive as 20.
Follow the instructions of your Preceptor carefully.
The preceptor is really good. Definitely make good use of the personal mini-conference before each essay draft/revision, and go to office hours/arrange extra meetings. Talking to your preceptor is not only helpful to your writing but also insightful and sometimes mind blowing.
If you are told to take this course, take it. In the end it's worth it, you're writing will improve, maybe not greatly, but at least a decent amount.
It the class to take to improve your writing skills and any weakness.
While interesting, this couse is not challenging at all and completely unnecessary for most freshmen. This class covers the basics, like summary skills and other fundamental skills like how to make proper citations. It really is a shame that international students are encouraged to take this class just because we studied under different educational systems. Formatting issues regarding citations need at most one or two workshops, not an entire term. I guess the mentality I have is that I certainly enjoyed the class, but I could have taken another awesome class offered at Harvard. Future students should only take this class if they didn't do much writing in high school and need a refresher, or if they want an easy A.
I definitely recommend this course to anyone who isn't sure how to write college papers!
Great for improving writing skills. Moderately paced, so you have time to put in your best effort.
This class is a great transition from high-school level writing to college level writing academic writing. It provides a solid background for a student's subsequent years of academia.
Definitely take this course if youre recommended to take it. Its a great introduction to college writing and a great preparation for Expos 20.
This class is very helpful. Mr.Wandler is a great preceptor in facilitating student's understanding of the text and analyzing the arguments.
