Take it if you're very into poetry; if not, definitely don't take it. The actual classes themselves are sometimes a struggle to get through.
You need to really like poetry to enjoy the class.
I would take this course if you love poetry and you are willing to overextend yourself to carry the class and facilitate your own discussion. However, if you are treating Expos as a requirement and have little motivation for making the class great, don't take it. If you want a moderate Expos class that doesn't require much focus in class, but will teach you a lot about the subject and about essay writing, then take it.
Only take this class if you're interested in literature (prose or poetry)! If you are interested, then you'll find the material both aesthetically beautiful and interesting. But if you're not interested in literature, then the material will be kind of dense and boring. I like literature analysis and you also get to do more than literature analysis in the formal essays. I recommend the class and the essays are relatively easy, but the sections are pretty boring.
It is hard to get interested in the course if you aren't really interested in poetry and the history of poetry.
You will receive tremendous feedback on all of your ideas and essays.
Awesome expos class. David Barber is excellent. Feedback and conferences were seriously great. This was not my first choice expos, but I'm so glad I got it.
Amazing teacher (though can get a little boring), will definitely teach you to write better and think more deeply about what you write.
IF you do or you don't like poetry, there is much to learn from this class. The conversation in this class can go virtually any direction you like. Take it there! You are the discussion leader in this course! Barber does a great job of guiding discussions, but don't be afraid to say what you think.
David is a very good preceptor and is always willing to help and give advice through email, office hours, and after class. I came in disliking poetry but left with an appreciate for it. The readings are minimal and can be skimmed and finished relatively quickly. The in-class discussions are dry and boring when the class is not engaged but that is my only major complaint. He grades very fairly and gives great feedback. I like how he does not push different writing styles onto you. Instead, he takes your current writing style and helps you develop and improve it. From someone who dislikes poetry, I would recommend this class.
