It's a great class with good reads, but it is dense.
Everyone needs to take expos. If you have some interest in political philosophy, then you're in luck, because odds are, you'll get this course almost for sure if you put it as your top choice for the lottery. The reading material may be bland if you don't like the topics, otherwise the class can be quite enjoyable. Dr. Chen is extremely knowledgeable in the class material and facilitates great in-class discussions. He provides exceptional feedback in the form of written comments and one-on-one conferences. You'll definitely learn a lot about writing and about political philosophy. The drawback is, don't expect this to be an actual philosophy class. Those of you who were put into this class against your will can rest assured that it is still primarily about writing, same as any other expos class.
I would recommend this class, the material is very interesting and you will learn more about the English language and strategic writing than you would ever expect.  Owen Chen truly cares about his students and will help you become a better writer.  If you take this class, the way you read academic books and arguments will be transformed.  However, be careful because there are a lot of dense philosophical readings in this course.  A lot.  While this class will require more effort than other Expos classes, you will get A LOT out of it (dare I say more than any other expos class?).  Take this class if you are up for a challenge and if the topics interest you!  The topics were super interesting to me and they changed my outlook on how I view certain issues and ideas.
Make sure that you are interested in the material. It's hard to write about material that you have very little opinion on or feel is out of your range of knowledge.
- perhaps a bit intimidating, this is an enjoyable and rewarding course
Besides the great readings and interesting subject, Professor Chen is one of the most engaging, educated, and caring teachers you will likely meet at Harvard.
If you are interested in political philosophy this would be a good intro class to gov or philosophy classes. Even if you have prior experience or familiarity with the course material this will likely expand your perspective. A lot of discussion about ideal vs reality as it applies to states, anarchism, human nature, etc..
The preceptor gives good feedback.
This course is definitely the hardest of the expos classes. The readings are numerous and difficult to comprehend fully. I didn't take that as seriously when signing up for the course as I should. The course is rewarding, because it forces you to really think critically and understand the material. Do not take this course if you aren't willing to work really hard and if you do not have an interest in political philosophy specifically.
be prepared to read a lot. if you like obscure gender lessons from a long time ago... Do not expect much discussion about the state.
If you are intrigued by tracing the habits and customs of the human state, are willing to read extensively and critically and you don't mind a heavy workload, this is an excellent class with an excellent teacher.
Take a different expos.  If you are interested in political theory, take a government class.  If you re interested in becoming a better writer, take a class for which the material is comprehensible and light.  Additionally, Dr. Chen is not approachable and is rather prickly.  This class is too hard to be worth your time, especially considering that you get the same credit for taking classes like Sports and the Law.
You got this.
This class involves quite a bit of reading, but it is definitely worth it. The books that we read in class are classics of Western philosophical thought that everyone should have some background in. In addition, Dr. Chen is extremely nice and good at facilitating in-class discussion. His comments on writing are also fairly helpful.
If you have any interest at all in philosophy, this expos class is a fantastic choice. Dr. Chen's teaching made expos much less painful than I anticipated, while simultaneously improving both my understanding of philosophy and my writing.
This course may seem intimidating at first but it's awesome and you are definitely gonna love it as you proceed!
Be ready for lots of reading!
It is more of a philosophy class than an writing class; if one thinks philosophically, which this class assists one in doing, the essays are actually enjoyable to write.
Do not take this course. The readings are long, dense, and confusing and your papers will suffer incredibly as a result. This class made my freshman fall miserable.
This is a difficult course, particularly for an Expos class. There is a lot of reading and the material although engaging is very dense. Dr. Chen is brilliant and gives excellent comments, but he is not an easy grader and he demands a lot both in and out of class. This is less of a writing course and more of a philosophy course. Only take it if you really are interested in the material because it's a significant investment of time.
Be prepared for tremendous amounts of reading which often seem irrelevant or uninteresting. Compared to most other expos writing courses, this expos has a much greater burden of reading. The essays also require a lot of thinking. However, many of the topics and texts covered in this course are important to be familiar with when engaging in political or philosophical thinking and dialogue.
In this class, you will get to work through a number of those great thinkers (and texts) whom you are "supposed to" study in college. It's tough - you must do the reading, you must come to class prepared, you must gird yourself for the fact that this is much more of a "real" class than are most exposes - but it's absolutely worth it.
The class is a lot of work and you often will have to rewrite your papers many times. Dr. Chen is an excellent teacher and a very intelligent man who will point out the many flaws in your papers. Overall, your writing ability will increase.
A basic, but thorough, understanding of philosophy and the energy to read people trying to win the use-as-many-words-as-possible-to-explain-a-concept contest.Be ready to put in some effort, but expect to see real improvements in your writing. Dr. Chen gives really great comments and the class is definitely engaging and challenging. I just don't know if I would do it again if I had to start over.
Although I had my doubts at first, this class turned out to be my favorite class of any I took the entire semester. Dr. Chen is simply fantastic - he gives great comments on essays and facilitates extremely interesting and stimulating discussions. It is important to realize, as Dr. Chen said himself the very first day, that this Expos class is much more reading and writing intensive than any other Expos class you could take, but because of how much you will learn and how much your writing will improve through it, it is well worth it.
This class is definitely much harder than you expect it to be, but it is pretty interesting. There is quite a bit of material to go over and if you can't get enthusiastic about the readings, it will be hard to come to class prepared. With that said, the class is structured in such a way that the readings are not exactly crucial, as discussions hinge upon your interpretations rather than what each author was trying to say.
Expect to put in more time per week for this Expos class than you would for many other classes. That being said, the discussions in section are lively and Dr. Chen is an incisive questioner, so you won't often find yourself bored.
I feel like I missed a great opportunity on this course; at the end of the day, after Physics 16 and Math 25, I never had enough time to do my readings, or my essays, or anything really. Maybe I would have had enough time to properly dedicate to this class (or gotten enough sleep that I didn't sleep in/through class) if I hadn't already overloaded my schedule.At the end of the day, Expos is either a thing you dedicate a lot of time to and get something out of (maybe, if you have the right professor) or a waste of time you just slog through to get it over with. For me, this class could have been the former, and ended up as the latter (plus some pain and suffering).
Be prepared for a tough expos class! This is not as easy as the ones your peers are taking, but if you stick it out, it will definitely be worth it.
This class is difficult, and if you want a walk in the park expository writing class, you may be better off looking elsewhere. The readings are dense, extremely philosophical, and very abstract. The papers you will be asked to write will be held to high standards of understanding the philosophers you read, and the logic of your own argument. However, provided you are willing to put the effort forward, this class will be an extremely enlightening experience. I had enjoyable class discussions on the nature of government and what the best state is and of civil liberties and more, and wish that we had more time to discuss. I learned so much about the political philosophers we hear about in daily life, but never actually read, like Hobbes or Plato. I looked forward to coming to class discussions. This class is really interesting.
It is a very interesting class, and I enjoyed our discussions of political philosophy , but it is a lot of work for an expos class. Several weeks we had close to 100 pages of difficult reading from the likes of Plato, Aristotle, Locke, etc. that required a lot of time to read and comprehend. From what I've heard from my friends in other expos classes, this class assigns much more reading and expects a much greater time commitment than most other expos classes.
If you are interested in political philosophy (i.e. philosophy of the state), by all means take this class.  The readings are relevant and interesting (again, if you are interested in that sort of thing), and have interesting implications in the sphere of normal citizenship.  However, if you are looking for a class that will help you drastically improve your writing abilities, this isn't it.  It is moderately helpful for learning how to logically structure an argument, but only minimally helpful for truly improving the quality of your writing.  Generally, you become aware of your flaws as a writer- but you don't necessarily learn to fix them.
The readings assigned, while at times a wee bit lengthy, were all readings I felt I should have been doing in college. The class hit Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Mills, Plato, Aristotle, and a number of other important thinkers and writers. As much as you learn to write (and you do), you gain an overview of important philosophers throughout history. The comments received were excellent, classes were well structured, and class discussion was great.
It is a great class, which combines development of writing skills with knowledge of the main ends of the state through reading valuable books.
Take if you are at all interested in polysci/ international relations with an idea on the more interesting ideas of a philosophy course.
Be careful to give yourself adequate time for the reading; political philosophy CANNOT be read late at night right before the assignment is due. Come prepared with questions to your conference in order to make the most out of them.
Be ready to work.  No pain, no gain.
If you decide to take this course, it will be challenging, but the readings and the ideas covered are good things to know as a student and as a person. Thinking in philosophical terms is challenging, but you will probably find it to be a useful skill.
Be prepared to devote a substantial amount of time in this course, but your gain and progress will also be amazing.
This is a very enjoyable course if you are willing to do a lot of reading for an Expos class.  The paper structure and workload are otherwise probably similar to any other Expos class, but there is a lot more reading (though it's really good reading and the discussions are enjoyable).
Philosophy of the State isn't for everybody: there's large amounts of long, dense reading, and the subject matter can be difficult to understand. Thay all being said, if you like political philosophy, and you like probing into the origins and purposes of the state, this is an amazing class to take.
This course is great, if you are interested in the topics which are discussed in class. If you are not interested in philosophy of the state, then you would be better off not taking this course. The amount of reading for this EXPOS course is also greater than the other courses.
