A lot of reading and he's a hard grader. A very good teacher thoughhe's very smart and very nice.
NAH
You receive quality instruction in this course, and the instructor is very generous with his time. However, it is less about Philosophy of the STATE than you might think. A lot of it is actually about the family, which comes up in discussion as a contrast to the state. The final paper is actually focused on the family more than the state.
The class has a fairly high work load, but Dr. Chen was very helpful in helping me improve as a writer.
I thoroughly enjoyed this course, but I know many people didn't. Be prepared to read a lot of dense, philosophical works (many of which don't have SparkNotes or other summaries posted online) and work hard on your assignments.
Unfortunately, I am unlikely to recommend this course. Although Professor Chen is passionate about the subject, the course overall doesn't meet its expectation. The purpose of an Expos class to educate freshmen about writing skills; however, this class did not provide useful resources for fulfilling that purpose. The class discussions and readings are centered on philosophy, but with no connection to lessons on writing. The work is manageable with effort, but it barely relates to the essays. The essay topic are reasonable, but very little guidance is provided. The feedback provided on the drafts is very vague and unhelpful for the final drafts. On top of that, grading is on the harsher side. It is very difficult to ask for constructive feedback since office hours are not very accessible. The syllabus is not followed throughout the semester and this creates much confusion. Some of my peers obtained more writing resources and guidance from other Expos classes. Thus, I would not recommend this particular class to fulfill the Expos requirement.
Lot of work/reading but very rewarding.
Great class albeit with a lot of reading. Assuming you invest in the class, you will see concrete improvements in your writing and earn a greater understanding of effective writing.
Most students take this class because they love philosophy, and so the level of discussion is high and very engaging. I took the class because I knew nothing about philosophy and wanted an introduction without a full course- I learned a ton from my fellow students. While Dr. Chen seems at first to be less-than-friendly, you will learn over the course of the semester than he is actually very kind.
You must be passionate about state philosophy to take this course
I would inform them that this class demands many hours of work outside the classroom setting, so if you were not looking for a course with a demanding workload, this was not the class for you. That being said, if you do enjoy philosophy of the state and discussions about the struggle in the balance of nature and society, this is an awesome course.
This class is always rumored to be very difficult, and that is accurate. However, I learned a lot about interesting philosophy and Dr. Chen is a great professor, although he does expect a lot from you. Take this course if you want to learn a lot about critical reading and writing. Expect to have a lot of reading material as homework, though.
Philosophy of the state is a very difficult class, but it makes you much better at writing essays in college. The subject matter is also extremely interesting and it will make you think critically about the society you live in.
I learned a great deal about political philosophy and I feel that my writing did improve, but the focus was more on the philosophy than on improving writing so my writing may have improved more if I took a different class. There was also a huge amount of reading.
Philosophy of the State with Dr. Chen offers many stimulating class discussions that cover a wide variety of topics with fellow students who share similar interests.
Dr. Chen begins this course by attempting to terrify his students. He assigns 150+ pages of dense reading to be done in two days and offers up a syllabus mainly consisting in warnings about all of the things (including occasional tardiness) which might earn you a terrible grade. He is not, in fact, terrifying. You will learn this if you take the course, which is interesting and not overwhelmingly intensive or difficult. There IS far too much reading assigned to do all of it, but it is all quite interesting and enough of it(not too much of it) is essentially mandatory that you will develop a solid understanding of a few important, interesting philosophical works. As far as Expos goes, it's a good course.
I found that Professor Chen was difficult to work with and the hundreds of pages of reading were entirely unnecessary because we rarely engaged with the entirety of the works. I was excited about this class and I thought the material had the potential to make it really interesting, but I was disappointed in the experience.
Class discussions are often very interesting but you should only take this class if you're willing to read a lot of philosophy that is often not that interesting and can be frustrating.
Dr. Chen starts off scary, but in the end he's the man. I truly hope to somehow run into him around Harvard. The readings are heavy but interesting, some kids (myself excluded) hating them or just not doing them. The section discussions often times were on interesting topics, but depending on the student they either discussed interesting points or just reviewed what we read in annoyingly detailed ways. If you like political philosophy, that's all quite acceptable. The major downside is the writing component. I feel no better a writer than before the course, perhaps even worse. This is not because I'm a great writer by any measure but merely because it's not what's focused on. You may want to consider another course.
The readings are great and your understanding of political philosophy will get much better. As far as writing goes, Chen will not specifically teach you how to write but the readings he provides will concretely help you with your writing. Do no leave reading to the day before, as the material tends to be really dense.
Dr. Chen is the man. Though he is tough, he cares and is a fantastic teacher.
This was by far my favorite course. Dr. Chen is a professor unlike any other. Even though he might seem kind of intimidating at first, and the reading a little overwhelming, he grew on everyone in the class. He is enthusiastic about what he teaches, and likes to teach just as much as you want to learn. He really validated my decision to come to Harvard, as this was by far the most rewarding course that I took.
It is an enlightening class
Very interesting subject matter and provocative discussion. Dr. Chen is an incredibly well-learned man and an excellent teacher.
If the reading list looks interesting, I highly recommend the course. The readings will require a bit more time then most expos, but the readings are interesting and discussions are great. It is a great way to look at government and some of the greatest philosophers of all time.
This class is enriching if you do all of the readings, however there are quite a number of them. Expect to devote a large amount of time outside of class reading a lot of the classic -- Aristotle, Rousseau, Mill, etc. -- and be prepared to contribute to the class discussion. If you don't read, it will be apparent.
Take this class if you are interested in the classic philosophies on politics. You will have to read dense readings, but the discussions will be interesting and force you to think. You will never be overwhelmed, however, and you learn how to improve your writing.
Writing about philosophy is kind of an idiosyncratic style involving a lot of definitions-- if you're looking for a broader introduction to academic writing, I would choose a topic that does not concern philosophy.
This was my favorite class from freshman fall, not because I enjoy essay-writing (at all), but because the topic was presented so well.  If you're at all interested in politics and/or debate, this is the Expose class for you.
This class is great for anyone interested in law and government. It requires a lot of time spent reading and thinking about dense philosophical texts. Although I was initially concerned about the workload and difficulty of this class, I am glad that I took it since I now have a much better understanding of great philosophical works like Plato, Aristotle, Locke, Hobbes, Machiavelli, Marx, and Mill.
Dr. Owen Chen is an amazing, intellectually stimulating preceptor. He will challenge you but at the same time lead you to a level of essay writing that you did not know you could achieve. If you are not an academically oriented person, this is not the class for you. If you are even slightly interested in political philosophy and want to improve your essay writing, I highly recommend this class!
Discussions were great, but the readings were too long. If the instructor narrows the scope of the readings, then it could be a very interesting course. However, as it stands, readings are more painful than interesting. Having some background of major concepts would help immensely.
I truly enjoyed taking this course, and am glad I took it. If you are interested in the subject matter I would recommend it, however, the readings are longer than the typical expository writing course (Dr. Chen even warns you of this on the first day), and consequently I would take that into your consideration in making your decision.
Be prepared to read
You'll have to think deeply about your opinions, and it'll be hard, but the prereceptor is incredibly intelligent and if your section's good, you'll learn a lot from them as well.
This class is a challenge, but a challenge that becomes the reward in and of itself. The readings were dense, but the class discussions were riveting. The papers were similarly tough, but finishing one came with a great sense of a accomplishment,
The reading load is the hardest component of this class. However, the class conversations on the assigned works function on a very high level and are truly thought provoking. Dr. Chen is a great preceptor.
