You will be hard pressed to find another expos class that was actually awesome and interesting. A lot of people will complain about their expos class...and the subject matter/reading material...you will not be one of those people. The preceptor is awesome and will make you a better writer...no easy A's here-but the improvement is definitely there.
This class was definitely not easy, but the work was totally worth it.  I think I have become such a better writer after taking this course and know how to write the different types of essays necessary in college.  For an expos class, this one is not only interesting, but is taught by an amazing preceptor and you learn so much about writing and analyzing.
Professor Watters is hard to please, but you will come out of this class a much better writer.
The grading is a little harsh even compared to other expos courses. But given that, I loved everything about this course. The readings are very interesting, and it is definitely nice to read literature, especially if your other courses are textbook/theory-heavy. I loved the opportunity to discuss the readings in class and to think more about our own family experiences. I would say Professor Watters is the best expos preceptor hands down. She gives such excellent feedback on your essay, questioning your every move and guiding you through improvements for your draft. She is very engaging, accessible, and helpful, and you will come out of this course as such a better writer! I would say do all the readings on time, go to her office hours, and do your best on your drafts because that will only make your revisions stronger.
this is definitely the best expos class! although aliza does push you and you're certainly not guaranteed an A, i would rather be pushed in a class that i enjoy with interesting readings than be pushed in a boring class with dull readings :)
I really enjoyed this class. Professor Watters is a very capable and engaging professor. She is a challenging grader, but she is very good at giving students guidance and support in the writing process. She is very personable and relatable as well. The course readings are interesting, and the course topic is worthwhile to consider. My assignment of this course as my Expos class positively impacted my overall Expository Writing experience. If I was not in this class, I may have had a bad Expos experience, but this course was a positive experience for me.
Professor Watteres is a tough grader  and you might get Bs on writing that you could easily get a's for in some other section, but Aliza is AMAZING! You'll really have fun and walk away with a lot, even if you think your writing style is at its peak entering the class. The readings are amazing, and Aliza is super cool, friendly and always willing to help! Even with her tough grading, I would take this class again given the chance to redo freshman year. This is one of few classes here I can honestly say that about.
This class is no walk in the park, but honestly, I wouldn't have had it any other way. I feel like my writing has improved, and without the Dr. Watter's scrutiny, this improvement wouldn't have been possible. If you're looking for an easy A, you won't find it here, but if you're looking to improve your writing abilities, this is the class to take. The readings are fantastic and Dr. Watters is great!
fantastic! aliza is a harder grader, but she's really interesting, a great teacher, and chooses great readings. i was always engaged in class, and if you're already a pretty good writer, don't worry about your grades. if you're not, you'll learn a lot and it'll be super useful!
I thought I would dread going to expos. However, after only a few classes, I came to look forward to meeting with our class up in the top of annenberg. I learned something new every class and I enjoyed the comfortable and energetic environment that Professor Watters fostered. Both my writing and my ability to share my ideas improved.
Professor Watters is an excellent teacher, and this subject of Expos is so interesting, be excited that you got lucky enough to take it.
TAKE THIS FOR EXPOS. Aliza grades really hard, and it's a hard class, but you will gain SO MUCH and your writing will improve tremendously. It really is incredible.
Take this course if you want to learn a great deal in an intense course setting.
Literally no reading - you can get away with 50 pages total for the semester. Ms. Watters really focuses on writing technique so if you are less confident at writing (like me) this is a great expos. Main problem is that she is offputtingly attractive
If you want to become a better writer, take this class. You get as much as you put in, and Dr. Watters is more than happy to help you improve!
Dr. Watters is absolutely brilliant. She gives you a little more work than other teachers but after all you are there to learn to write properly!
Family Matters was one of the best classes in my freshman year and Dr. Watters is truly amazing! Always up to the point, she made the course challenging and fun (this comes from a science student that did not really like writing up to now). The readings (mostly short stories, or articles) were very interesting and fun to read. I feel Dr. Watters and the class as a whole helped me so much to improve as a writer and I strongly encourage you to take it. This is not to say that it was an easy class. In fact, it was pretty hard for me, but it was one of those classes where I felt I was learning all the time!
Dr. Watters is amazing. She presents the material in a fun and exciting way while maintaining that you actually learn about how to write.
Awesome course. Prof. Watters is sooo good and she gives you so much extensive feedback. Take it even if you get a B!!!!
it's required...so you have to take it. but the family matters expos was great
You will work very hard in this class.  You will most likely not receive an A. And it will all be 100% worth it. Family Matters and Professor Watters push you to become a better writer and more engaged reader.  The course materials are really interesting and fun to read and the assignments are clearly applicable to every course at Harvard -- from single source essay to multi-source research paper.  It's definitely worth taking because in the end you will know how to write and be successful at it in college and beyond.
It's a very challenging course but it forces you to make great changes to your writing process and is a great class overall
It is difficult but totally worth it. Take the class seriously and you'll get a lot out of it.
