It will teach you the elements of a true scholarly paper that contributes to knowledge on a certain subject. The subject that this course studies may seem boring at certain times, but very engaging at other times.
This class is definitely a pretty good class to choose for Expos 20.
Really interesting, take it if you like harry potter or witches! It is hard but i think all expos classes are, this one doesn't have too much reading!
It's a great way to further develop the skills from high school
This class was demanding in the amount of time required for assignments, but its definitely one of the better expos classes. This class provides helpful structure and guidance but also gives you the independence to write on a topic that interests you.
Expos 20.267: Society and the Witch, while still being as miserable as the other Expos courses, was probably more interesting in terms of its subject material. Students who did not do much writing in high school, such as myself, will have a very difficult time, and those with a lot of writing experience will still find it unenjoyable. However, if the student takes initiative and puts a lot of individual work in, they may improve as a writer through Expos.
Some of the anthropologists' reports on magic were boring, but working with your choice of magical primary sources (like Harry Potter) is really cool.
Writing is by far not my favorite thing to do. I am a much more math and science oriented person. The class was a challenge and not always enjoyable for me. That being said, I did enjoy lots of the readings and movies for the class (harry potter, etc.). Talking with other people about their expos, I felt other expos classes were less demanding and provided more overall guidance.
Everyone else in my class seems to have loved it. I thought it was fine, but not quite what I expected.
Most people hate Expos, but the topic was interesting and made the mandatory requirement a lot more bearable. The preceptor is enthusiastic about the topic and helping his students. If you are a Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings, or Wicked fan I highly recommend this class.
The readings cover a range of field - from cinematic to anthropological - so you will likely find at least some that interest you and other that are incredibly boring. That said, in terms of actually teaching writing, this class didn't feel productive at all. There are probably better expos classes. Take it at your our risk.
