To just take Expos 20 so they don't have to take two semesters of the seemingly equivalent difficult course.
If you're unsure if expos 10 is appropriate for you, it is
Good to secure your reading and writing skills base
If you would like to work more on your writing skills, regardless of high or low skill level, this class will give you the opportunity to do that.
very helpful in developing your writing
If you are deciding between Expos 10 and Expos 20, there is no shame in choosing 10. I feel that this course has set me up with strong foundations and a methodical approach to essay writing, that I can use throughout college. The pace is much kinder than Expos 20, which I fear I may have struggled to keep up in
This course is designed for students that want to take their time adjusting to college writing. I thought it was helpful for me; however, it was slow and repetitive at times.
It is a good learning experience. If you feel unsure about your writing, take this!
Take this if you are on the fence about Expos 10 versus 20. It will strengthen the foundation of your skills.
At first, I was disappointment in myself for not being recommended for Expos 20. After taking Expos 10, I would recommend it extremely because I would have never learned how to write college papers as effectively and quickly without this class. I had friends from Expos 20 who said that they wished they would have taken Expos 10 instead because it is at a much slower pace and gradually helps you improve your weaknesses.
The curriculum does explain to you exactly what is expected for college writing.
It is a great way to get introduced to college writing.
Expos 10 was a great way for me to ease into academic writing and improve my skills. I learned so many things in this course that I'll be able to apply to my future essays and I think the information will be very valuable moving forward. Even if you place into Expos 20, you should still consider taking 10; several students I know who went straight into 20 wished they had taken 10 first (though just as many said 20 was fine.) Also, try and take the course with Dr. Jehn if he's available! He was great.
Good class to get your feet wet with writing at Harvard. I really enjoyed it and though it was super helpful in learning the proper way to write a paper for both Expos and other writing courses.
it was very helpful if you haven't done much writing in high school, or just want more practice.
You'll learn to produce coherent paragraphs that are able to captivate and audience's attention.
Expos 10 gave me a wonderful introduction of how to write with confidence and prepared me with a solid foundation to tackle Expos 20
Get ready to get better
If you are worried about college-level English academic writing, you should take this course.
I would tell a future student that this course is an excellent course to take if they have any reservation or doubt about their writing abilities.
Don't take this class if you're expecting an easy A. The notorious expos curve still holds true here.
Don't just run into Expos 20 because you feel like you were "placed incorrectly." You probably were not and it's not because you are inadequate, it's just a lack of experience and this course will give it to you, and in only a semester no less.
This class offers a really smooth transition from high school writing to college writing.
This class is very useful. Consider taking it if you want to improve your writing skills.
If you want to communicate your ideas in a written form, there is no better class to thoroughly prepare you well other than Expos 10.
Even if you think you know how to write and get into Expos 20, I would recommend taking Expos 10. This course is just a great way to get the hang of college writing and see what different professors might want from you. It is a wonderful way to learn because it is slower than Expos 20 and has fewer people in class, which means discussions are very intimate and you have much more time with your professor. I loved this course and had a great time.
This is a pretty great class, and you will be able to improve your writing.
I would take it even if i wanted to take expos 20 because it gives you a bomb foundation.
If you do not feel confident in your writing abilities, take this course.
Don't skip Expos 10 just because you don't want to take two semesters of writing. It gives you the advantage in Expos 20 of already being prepared with a more structured class.
Its a great class and will help prepare you for college writing.
Unless you don't know how to write, don't take this class.
This class was super fun and engaging. I would fully recommend it!
the class is very helpful if you are not confident in your writing skills and would like to ease the already stressful freshman year by taking the expos 10 rather than the expos 20
Don't take Expos 10, just go straight to 20. Unless maybe you're an international student or athlete.
If you want a very basic intro to writing, this is the course for you.
If you don't feel entirely comfortable with writing, take this class. It is a great learning experience for people of all writing backgrounds.
Expos 10 is a very good choice if you are coming from a high school without a great writing program. It is also great if you are looking for a low pressure class during your first semester. I would though recommend if you have a stronger writing background to skip Expos 10 and go straight to 20.
Taking this course is very helpful because it does not only prepare you for Expos 20, rather for all types of writing courses, in your college future. It might seem unnecessary to take two semesters of the courses for introduction into Expository Writing, but think long run, because the quality of your writing will be key to success throughout the college career.
This class greatly refines your skills in writing response papers.
Good Class
Just take expos 20 because if you don't then you'll take expos for 1/4 classes freshman year
I recommend expos 10 to any student who feels that they want more help developing their writing. Because writing is going to be part of your college experience no matter what there are always ways to improve it. This class is a good foundation to help you in the future. Not only is there advice for the current papers but also technique and style advice for other types of writing such as the social or hard sciences.
The class is not out of reach. There are many opportunities to help you to become a better writer and the feedback that you receive from fellow students and proctors is very helpful.
If you feel the slightest uncomfortable with your writing you should definitely take this class - it's a small size, the preceptor is amazing and you really learn how to write good papers one step at a time.
Take it.
Even if you are recommended for expos 20, I would highly suggest taking this class as a way to improve confidence and be fully prepared for college writing.
I learned a lot
If you are between Expos 10 and 20, go with Expos 10.
This course is going to equip you with skills you'll need to approach writing assignments at Harvard.
I would tell future students to really immerse themselves in the experience and pay close attention to what is being discussed.  What you will learn in Expos 10 will serve you well in all of your classes during your time at Harvard.
would definitely recommend this class to anyone who lacks confidence in their writing abilities. It teaches you valuable skills which are very useful when writing papers in other classes. A little slow at times, but work-load is not too bad at all.
The readings are very interesting and the preceptor is very helpful!
This class was one of my favorites this semester due to some of the interesting readings we had. The readings do depend on the teachers, so I wouldn't base myself of the readings when choosing this course. However, I feel like this class can benefit anyone who just wants to improve their writing skills and be a bit more prepared for college writing. After taking this class, I definitely do feel more confident with my writing.
If you're a little unconfident with your writing going into Harvard then you should definitely take this course.
Only can help you. Gives you a strong base.
This class is very helpful for those who feel they need more support before tackling college writing.
Dr. Mumme is a person that defines this particular Expos 10 class. I wish I could take Expos 20 with her though I can't. After hearing a lot of bad things about Expos I was skeptical of this class. However, I enjoyed it greatly and hope you do too.
Take it if you are pre-med or unsure about your writing. It helps.
Definitely take expos10 if you have any concerns or anxiety with expos20 or your writing in general.
Fosters confidence in your writing.
If you feel unsure about your writing, and this is confirmed by your writing placement test. Take this course. However, if you feel that you don't need to take this, you will probably do fine in expos 20 without taking 10.
Take this class only if you feel that your writing needs a lot of help before Expos 20.
gives you a good foundation for writing in college
If you feel you are not confident with your writing level, at least try it out.
Enjoy the class and use all the resources available to you
Better to go basic and take expo 10 rather than go straight into expo 20
This class reinforces your writing skills and helps you get ready for college level writing.
He is a tough grader but for the quality of the class it is worth it. He is funny, his lectures are actually interesting because of his personality, and he seems to care about his students.
This class is great for students who want to be able to learn more about the basics of writing so when they are asked to write a longer paper, they know how to clearly express their ideas.
This is a class for students who may have had a lot of experience in writing or not.  It is a great transition to college writing, and I feel well prepared for what is beyond.
This course is a good way to transition from high school writing to college writing.
It is a good transition into college writing
Only take this class if you really need it. Otherwise, take expos 20.
Just take Expos 20.
Very helpful to international students.
This class is a great way to smoothly transition to college writing.  I would highly recommend this course to anyone who doesn't feel the most comfortable with writing.
Take the class! Tad is the man.
it really isn't necessary
if you come from an insufficient writing background, this course will give you the confidence you need for expos 20 but won't teach you anything that is completely going to change your writing
it was a great introduction to college writing
take it before expos 20 for sure
It is a fun and easy way to dive into Harvard style writing.
If you have never done argumentative writing before, expository writing 10 is the best place to start.
This class is an excellent class to take. My writing transformed and I learned how to write in a much stronger way.
I would recommend even students who feel like they're prepared for college writing to take this course. It is a good way to ease into the new style of college writing, and to learn how to structure and articulate your own arguments, which is central to any kind of writing beyond high school.
recommended
You'll learn to write a basic college essay with ease.
I would tell them to request Jill Constantino as a professor.
It was the best class ever. I have grown so much as a writer. You will not regret if you choose to take this course.
You cannot go wrong with more development as a writer. I was in limbo between taking expos 10 and expos 20, and I am happy overall with the fact I enrolled in 10.
If you think you need help with writing, take this class. If you think you are a phenomenal writer, still take this class. Expos 10 is not only a very powerful tool for sharpening your writing skills, but it is also very fun.
If you tested into Expos 10, or if you feel that you would benefit from taking an extra writing class, Expos 10 really helps you develop your abilities as a writer and gives you a good foundation on writing college papers.
It requires a lot of writing work but if you are willing to put in the time, it pays off.
It's a lot of work but it does help to improve you writing.
This class hones writing skills in important ways and is extremely effective at jump-starting college writing.  This class also provides more feedback and opportunities for help than other classes.  Here, there is real incentive to learn and participate in classroom discussions.
Do not think it is inferior to Expos 20!
Tat it helps you a lot.
Your writing will definitely improve.
It's fun, and it's not as much work as other courses.
Mrs. Rosenzweig is a great teacher and will teach you on how to propel your writing abilities.
Jill Constantino is a wonderful person and instructor that really cares about her students.
If you think you would struggle in Expos 20, definitely take Expos 10.  I found the course to be very helpful.
This class has some very interesting readings and essay questions for the first two parts of it. However the third part, which included readings and a 10 ten page paper on Memorial Hall were quite boring.
Great work to build a solid writing foundation
Not a burden when it comes to time commitment.
It is a class that everyone should take. This class will help to improve your quality of writing overall. It is extremely helpful and has a laid back, yet helpful atmosphere.
If you lack confidence in your writing abilities, this class will give you the feedback to trust your ideas and present them effectively. "Practice makes perfect." Well, this is the perfect opportunity to practice!
Although, I came into this course, not liking writing and reading with English as my weakest subject, I learned so much more about myself and the way I think than from the courses that I wasn't quite sure if I wanted to major in. I was a little disappointed at first about how my other classes, the ones I was considering majoring in but wasnt quite sure about, didnt tell me more about myself. But then it was made up for from this class which I thought would not tell me as much about myself.
Make sure you do the readings and keep up with the work.
The preceptor is excellent, and will really engage with your writing to help you imrove it.  However, it is not a particually engageing ior stimulateing course
give yourself time on the papers because is more likely to grow and become more complex, discuss with the teacher about your paper
Makes you a better writer
It makes you realize certain things about your writing that you may never have noticed before. By realizing these things, you have the opportunity to improve on them, and your preceptor is helping you along the entire way.
If you are questioning your writing ability, it would be beneficial to take Expos 10
Expo 10 is a great class if you want more practice with writing. But in order to gain most from it, you must be willing to do extra work at times and make sure to take advantage of conference hours.
it's a great way to start your Harvard career.
go for it!
If you are not very confident about how college writing differs from high school writing, definitely take this course.
great source for introduction to college writing - so much help and feedback from preceptor
if you really think you have no complete idea about academic writing, this course is specially meant for you.
The class is really hard if you want to learn how to write properly. I am happy I took this class though because it really helped me develop my writing skills.
Everyone should seriously consider taking Expos 10, especially with Preceptor Ellie Schaffzin. It is not shameful to take Expos 10, regardless of what first-semester-overly-eager-to-prove-themselves Freshmen say. The course is instructed on a humane pace that allows learning to actually happen. The amount of time devoted to each individual student allowed him to learn writing skills but at a pace where he could retain and practice them.
They should open and flexible with ideas in order to appreciate the course.
This class is extremely helpful to those wishing to receive personal feedback on writing essays at the college level.
That although people make it out to seem like taking Expos 10 is more of a hassle, it's actually quite beneficial. It helped my writing so much that I'm positive I'll do better in Expos 20 and in other classes in the future.
This class is a very goo preparation for expository writing 20, that the students will have more time to adapt with academic writing and learn how to write very clearly. But this class is also time-consuming.
It works wonders.
If you don't feel confident about your writing, this course will definitely help you feel better about your writing.
This class will help with expos 20 because there are more conferences with the teacher. There is more one on one help and we relearn the basics of writing and clearing expressing ideas.
You should make sure to look at the course structure and speak with someone at the Expos writing office to make sure that this course it actually a good fit for you. There are certain objectives that the course wants students to take away with them and it may not address your specific weaknesses with writing.
If you are not confident in your writing or your high school never taught you how to write, you should definitely take this class.
People who feel unprepared for writing assignments.
This class is integral to the transition of my writing into "Harvard Writing".
It is the best way to get a feeling of what kind of writing is expected at Harvard.
Make sure you don't wait until the last minute to revise your paper
It is certainly worth it. It was the best class of my semester. I learned a lot and I had fun too.
This class is a very interesting class. You are lucky to get it!
Some people may be reluctant to take Expos 10 for various reasons, but I assure you that once you complete the course, you are not only ready for Expos 20, but more than ready for Academic Writing at Harvard
This course provides excellent preparation for future courses that will require writing assignments. It provides good foundation to learn how to write a strong thesis, find tension in a paper, and how to write a research paper.
It's a really good class.
This course is a great introduction to the extensive amount of paper-writing that will be required throughout your college years. It teaches you how to effectively develop ideas and articulate them in a well-structured essay.
this is an awesome start to help with academic writing, take it!
Great introductory class for college writing. It really helped ease me into the new and more difficult college writing process.
I suggest taking it because it will give you confidence in your writing abilities. It covers new material that wasn't stressed in high school so it's not boring and it gives you a solid essay writing base to work from in your later years of college.
If you have difficulty in writing, Expos 10 would be the ideal course to give you a good foundation in what academic writing requires before you take on Expos 20
If you re unsure about your strengths as a writer, you would be smart to take this course.
Expository Writing 10 is an excellent course for those who need extra help in writing before jumping into Expository Writing 20.
If you're writing skills are not that great, this course definitely will help you become a college writer.
I hated writing in the before coming to Harvard, but this has turned out to be my favorite class. Jill was amazing.  My writing has improved so much because of this class.  If I could go back I would not change a thing.
Yes.
This is a really good class to take if you're rusty on writing.  Since I hadn't written an essay for awhile before coming to college, I wanted to be well-prepared before going to Expos 20.  So, if you think you need to get the rust off your writing gears, I would recommend Expos 10.
if your recommended for it, do it
If you really suck at writing, take the class. If you think you have SOME writing skills, opt for Expos 20.
If you think you are a decent writer and you get placed in Expos 10, I would ask to be moved to Expos 20.
A great introduction to college writing. Very helpful in promoting better writing skills and techniques. Will help you write better papers in all of your classes throughout your time at Harvard and in life.
If you're not confident in your essay writing and don't mind taking an extra class to improve it, expository writing is definitely worth the time. The teachers sit down and analyze each one of your writing samples. I can't think of a better way to become a better writer, and expository writing 10 might be your only opportunity to do it.
The class is a great opportunity that should be fully taken advantage of when transitioning from high school to college level writing.
You shouldn't be scared/worried to take Expos 10.  It will only helpful.
This is a really nice class and I'm sure you will enjoy it.
A good class for beginners in writing
write early
It is great to take, especially if you are unsure of how prepared you are to write college papers on your own.  the feedback given by your preceptor is awesome and really helps you improve and learn HOW to write, not just what writing is all about.
It's a good choice if you don't feel comfortable going straight into Expos 20 or if you want to develop your writing style before Expos 20. It may feel slow in the beginning, but it picks up. The comments she left were helpful.
The class helps reduce the stress of the writing process and the assignment can be personalized into something personal and very much enjoyable.
A very useful preparation for Expos 20 or College writing in general.(especially for international students)
It really helps you if you are not confident about your writing to start with this before moving on into expos 20.
An awesome class with a great instructor and intriguing material.
If you have any doubt about your writing, please take this class.  It was actually pretty easy and made me feel confident about writing papers.  Now I feel less stressed and more confident about my writing.  The class is also very personal and very similar to a seminar.
This class is such a great help to introduce college writing, especially when you have no prior experience in writing academic papers.
This class helps you create strong arguments and serves as a great preparation for Expos 20.
This course is great if you do not have a lot of experience in academic writing of if you writing and analtical skills are not where you want them to be.
If you are debating between taken expos 10 and 20 I highly recommend taking 10. The course is a great introduction to college writing and will ultimately help you not only in expos 20 but writing for other courses.
Use your response papers to help you out a lot with your final essays.
Speaking from my experience with Rebecca Sumemrhays, this course is extremely helpful. You really think you know how to write or that writing cannot be taught- and then you take this course and you actually learn and see your work improving.
Though it may not be an enjoyable course for all, it definitely helped me to think and improve my writing in ways that I had never thought of before.
That it can only help you with your writing skills and that the material you learn is very helpful.
Take this course even if you feel that your writing is a bit weak.  I feel that I am more prepared enrolling in this class although I did not necessarily need to take it.
It is highly recommended and might help you to boost up your gpa
it helps you a lot to know how to write a "college" essay
This class will prepare future students to succeed in expos 20 and make them much better writers to start of their college careers.
It is a fabulous experience in writing. I am so more prepared for expos. It is worth it to take expos 10 when you are suggested to do so.
If you have a difficult course load, it might be wise to take this class instead of Expos 20. After this class, Expos 20 will be a breeze.
This class can not be funny, but it helps those who don't have a solid background in academic writing. It's worth the time.
have an open mind about how to change your writing
Its really not worth. Being far more an annoyance than a benefit. The conferences are great but section is dull at best and in terms of actual writing I didn't learn anything. By applying how I write in my other courses I was able to improve. My other courses were of far greater help. If you have any experience writing academic essays rather opt for Expos 20.
If you feel that you need a writing-intensive course to help you understand college writing a little better, Expos 10 is the class for you.
It will definitely prepare you for Expos 20.
It is a very fun class. It build up confidence and skill for writing essays later on.
It's a great class that helped me go from having no confidence in my writing to believing that I am a strong and effective writer.
Expos 10 is not necessarily a bad idea, even if you are placed in it, don't feel like it is less valued as a course. You get a better preparation for Expos 20 and you get to work very closely with amazing teachers.
If you feel like you might not be ready for Expose 20, take this class, specially if you are an international student.
That it's good preparation for Expos 20.
I was hesitant to take this class in the beginning of the year but sometimes you have to swallow your pride and do whats best for you. I feel so much stronger as a writer and I have gained a lot of confidence in the process.
Despite the negative stigma associated with Expos 10, it is a great course to take if you have any hesitancy regarding your writing. It breaks down the writing confidence and serves as a true confidence booster going forth with Expos 20 as well as the rest time at Harvard. Learning how to write is a valuable investment of time!
This class is extremely beneficial to your ability to be a successful college writer.  I feel as though taking this class will not be a decision you would regret.
If you are coming into college wanted a touch up on your writing skills, or did not have the best instruction in high school, this is the class to take. It is not too demanding, but all the work that you do is constructive and gives you a sense of satisfaction when you complete. You know you are becoming a better writer and after going through the class it is clear that I have become one. You are taught how to navigate through a college paper and introduce a question, solve it with a thesis and then give supporting examples and analysis. Basically, this is a great way to be introduced to college writing.
If you have any doubts in your writing capabilities than you should take this course. I feel that a lot of people went to 20 just because they placed out of 10, and they could have performed a lot better if they took 10 first.
I would suggest that they spend time with their essays, try their best to enjoy the material, and have a personal attachment to their writing - make the assignment their own.
It is a great way to improve you writing skills.
I would not mind telling willing  students who are not strong in writing.
Even if you get placed into Expos 10, take it only if you are by no means confident about your writing and believe can benefit from a relatively less intense introductory course. You will of course learn a lot about Expos writing, but not on a sophisticated level that lives up to Harvard's standard.
Requires a significant amount of time for writing.
Discuss many things you normally wouldn't consider.
The course is a great step for those of you who are a little nervous about college writing. This class does a great job of involving everyone and help is available every step of the way, absolutely nothing to lose out of the course, only to gain.
It will definitely prepare you for a college writng career. If you are still vacillating between Expos 10 and 20, I recommend you take 10, it will only be for the best. You will become a better writer and a better analyst.
This is a great class that i think all incoming freshman should take
I would highly recommend this class to anyone. Whether or not you are a strong writer, this class will teach you to approach essays in a new way and force you to think differently about writing a good paper.
I would recommend this course to any individual who may have doubts of their own writing skills as freshman. This course can serve as a great foundation for any other course that involves writing, especially expos 20, and establishes the confidence necessary in college writing.
This is a very good preparatory course for students having trouble with writing.
I recommend this course if you do not feel confident with your writing.
It has really prepared me for expos 20
Even though you think your writing may be good enough already, taking this class will improve it. It's not too difficult to do well so long as you consider the preceptor's views.
An extremely good course; improved my writing greatly.
This class is really good for transitioning from high school to college writing.
Take your preceptor's feedback and work on fixing that with respect to your writing, it definitely helps.
It is a great class to further develop yourself as a writer. It taught me how to think and read critically. Most importantly it gave me confidence in my own writing.
depends on your preceptor.
It will pave the way for Expos 20 more than you'd expect.
Very informative and can help but if you don't like writing that much and you want to get it over with go straight to expos 20.
It is pretty helpful if you focus on developing each skill the class works on every week.
If you are recommended for Expos 10, take it. This class is definitely worth the extra semester of writing. It is not demanding and you will get the chance to improve your writing extensively. I feel much more prepared for Expos 20 and am even looking forward to it. Also, Professor Bellanca is amazing!
This class will be awesome with great preceptor!
Definitely a good base to have before going to Expos 20.
Expos 10 is an awesome experience.  Not only do you learn how to improve your writing, but you learn to do so with the help of your wonderful and respectful peers as well as an expert in writing.  The small class setting facilitates an open learning environment that is beneficial to everyone in the class.
It's a great way to improve your writing skills as well as prepare you for college level writing.
An Essential First step in organizing my writing.
If you are unsure with your writing skills, bare in mind that it is always helpful to start in the lower level class and afterward be really successful at the Expos 20 level.
Great preparation for writing at Harvard. If you have to choose between expos 10 and 20, take 10 first.
This is a great class if you are new to the American system of writing or really, really feel like English class and writing papers is not your strong point. However, if you were a relatively good writer in high school and for whatever reason don't feel like the placement exam expressed your abilities, feel free to try Expos 20. I was so overly concerned about my writing skills before entering Harvard, and was on the borderline for my Expos 10 decision. No, it didn't hurt to take the class and my expos teacher was great, however I don't feel my writing improved significantly because I was already a strong writer who only needed improvement in one specific category.
This class was actually much more fun and helpful than I expected. I was surprised at how entertaining each class was, and happy that I took it myself.
If you feel like your high school English teachers didn't really teach you to write, I highly recommend taking this before jumping to Expos 20. Expos 10 is slower and takes better care of you than Expos 20, and while it's still going to be hard, you'll come out feeling better than when you went in.
You should consider taking this class even if you believe your writing skill is up to par with college level.
Expos 10 really isn't a terrible thing.  I feel like taking it before Expos 20 makes the overall Expos experience less daunting and probably more effective.
Take it if you want to learn valuable skills regarding how to organize your ides and format and work with a thesis correctly. But if you can actually write, don't waste your time. I would've been fine without it - but I'm a better writer because of it.
Take this class if you are even slightly unsure about your writing ability.
This class will definitely help you improve your writings in ways that would never expect.
