Make sure you pick a subject area you are interested in and will find useful to your concentration. Although it is not possible to choose as such, try to make sure you have an interest in at least some aspect of every option you put down, otherwise expos will be a long old slog.
Do not push the essays until the last minute. Take the time to structure them and think about them sufficiently.
Jonah is hilarious and really understanding. Best expos preceptor ever? Possibly.
This is a great expos class with good material covered and great guidance in the writing process.
Your best writing will come out if you are truly interested in the topic on which you are writing.
As you have to take Expos no matter what, I would recommend this class because I imagine it is better than most others, but that being said, don't expect to learn too much from section. Jonah is extremely nice and understanding, but the structure of the course is not the best. His one-on-one help is great, though, so make the most of his feedback and go to office hours if you can.
Professor Johnson is an excellent teacher and he will teach you things about writing that most people are oblivious to. His knowledge as a professor will more than likely keep you intrigued and happy to come to his class every section.
This is a fantastic Expos class for those who are interested in reading amazing classical tragedies and watching cool psychological thriller movies. The readings may be a little more work than some other Expos classes, but it's totally worth it. Jonah is great and hilarious in a slightly self-deprecating manner; he makes class interesting and fun and the process of Expos is entirely bearable with him. Grading is very fair, as well; you get what you deserve for an expository paper. Expos itself is a strange class; it really has nothing to do with your writing ability, only your ability to follow a checklist. Take this class with Jonah for a great Expos experience!
As Expos classes go, this one is pretty good. The material is great, especially if you're interested in classics and/or classic film. Unfortunately, very little time is spent discussing the material. Instead we learned about writing techniques and mechanics, which was often dull. The redeeming factor was Jonah, who is a great preceptor. He has expertise, enthusiasm, and a good and self-deprecating sense of humor.
This is a terrific course taught by an even better preceptor.
Jonah honestly makes what would otherwise be an excruciating expos experience memorable!  You are given a lot of creative freedom to write what you want as long as you run it by him so many essays I wrote turned out to be a very fun experience.
Great preceptor. Jonah is very thorough in commenting on the drafts and revisions. He's also very available for discussing about your essay outside of conferences. But, be sure to only pick this class if you enjoy reading classical tragedy plays. Although the movies in the last unit are undoubtedly interesting, most of the class is still centered on the plays and they are pretty dense reading if you don't find them interesting.
