Be prepared to be pushed to improve your writing - but also be prepared to become much better at analysis and structuring your papers!
As far as Expos classes go, this class might be the best option. The material in the course excellent--you read "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," a series of short stories from exiled writers that I probably would not have ever encountered if not for this class, and then you research a topic of your choice (really anything from the Supreme Court to Kanye West), not a given in most Expos classes. The instructor, Jane, and the class itself is also excellent. Jane has a lot of fun, quirky energy and will make a potentially slumberous subject engaging. You will also learn a lot from her; she's been teaching expos for a long time and will push your writing abilities, no matter your background. She also gives the class a fair amount of freedom for the in-class discussions, making the day-to-day of the class genuinely interesting. Though it might be slightly more work than other Expos classes, I highly, highly recommend this one.
This class is quite demanding but it is incredibly rewarding.  Jane is one of the most remarkable people I've ever known in my life.
Jans is an extremely enthusiastic preceptor who makes class engaging and genuinely wants to help you learn how to write well. The reading in this class are great. The assignments are often annoying and don't seem to give enough benefit for the amount of time they take. The workload is not very well spread-out, so most of the time you will have very little to do, while a couple times a month it will be overwhelming. I personally, did not find Jane to be that harsh of a grader.
Expos is generally a lot of work, and this course is no exception. However, if you put the work into this class, you'll emerge a much stronger writer.
It is a lot of work in small bursts.
That even though it is a very difficult course, it's worth it because Jane is incredible and helps so much with writing.
It's a lot of work, but it's worth it!!!
This course is not the course to take if you simply want to fulfill your expos requirement as easily as possible, because it certainly isn't the easiest expos class. However, I believe this course does a great job at achieving the desired goal of the expository writing requirement: it will teach you to be a more thoughtful, analytical writer.
Take this class if at all possible! Jane is an amazing preceptor and loves both the material and her students. She's incredibly smart and makes sure the class is fun and instructive at the same time.
This class is amazing. I was shocked that an Expos class could be my favorite course of freshman fall, but it was. Jane teaches with enthusiasm and inspires you to be a great writer. Our readings were fantastic and I loved reading and meeting an at-risk scholar. Highly recommended class.
I learned so much and became a much stronger writer because of how dedicated Jane is to teaching us. Her feedback was always helpful and detailed, and was more than happy to read multiple intro revisions. Her enthusiasm was infectious and every second in class was a delight.
"The Voice Of Authority" might not be the easiest Expos class but you will you learn so much from it: not only will you improve your writing skills but also will you read a super interesting novel, short stories enlightened by a meeting with the author and  Definitely rank this Expos class your first choice
Almost guaranteed that you've never had someone teach writing as well as Jane does. More than my friends in other Expos classes, I can detect a huge difference between my first draft and my last paper.
Jane Unrue reminds me of Ms. Frizzle from the Magic School Bus. She is extremely enthusiastic and encouraging about everything. She really valued what each person has to say.
It's a lot of work and writing, but the topic of the class is very interesting.
Amazing. Jane is the best preceptor of all. I never was bored in class. Jane's enthusiasm and real concern for the well being of her students made the Voice of Authority my favorite class this fall.
This is an extremely exciting expository writing class that achieves its goal of teaching you how to write college level papers while teaching you something new about the world. Jane is one of the best writing teachers I've ever had. A lot of people hated their expos class, but this one was great.
It's a great class but you have to be willing to put quite a bit of work into it.
This was, and undoubtably be, one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Jane Unrue is one of the most engaging teachers I've encountered, and she uses this platform not only to teach about the process of writing, but also to touch on the human aspects of the works she teaches. Most importantly, she is able to keep an open mind to any idea her students propose, and it seems that she is passionate just as much about learning from her students as she is about teaching.
Take this class! You have to take one, so you might as well take the best one. Jane is an amazing preceptor who genuinely cares about helping her students become better writers, and none of the assignments are ever pointless. Expect to work tons, sure, but you'll get out oodles more than you put in.
Take this class! It will make you a better writer and you'll have an amazing time on the way. Jane is one of the most fun and passionate people I've met; she takes a real interest in her students. One word of warning, though-- the first two units of the class are very much geared towards literary/film analysis; do not mistake the course from its description for a government/philosophy-oriented expos course.
I would most definitely recommend this class to all my peers (and have already done so). I feel that coming out of Expos20, I am a stronger writer than I used to be. I am happy to have taken this course my freshman fall since I am certain that my performance in other writing classes (whatever subject they may be) will be stronger as a result of the things I learned in this course.
Take this class. Jane is the one professor who literally makes you want to be in class, because she shows how much she cares about the class, and is rooting for us. Her enthusiasm brings a very unique feeling to the class that is unparalleled. If you want to care about a class, take this.
Overall, Voice of Authority is an excellent Expos class, and I gained a lot of confidence. Jane is a terrific preceptor -- she is energetic, fun, and incredibly thoughtful. But be prepared for some intense scrutiny. I would recommend this class simply because Jane is so awesome, but be aware that you will most likely have to spend way more time on work for this class than any of your friends will for their Expos classes.
Take every single assignment, even (and perhaps especially) the ungraded work very seriously, because each assignment builds upon the previous one and eventually culminates in an essay, which is bound to be of lesser quality if you have not done your other work well.  This is because Ms. Unrue will also give thorough feedback on the ungraded work, which will help the essay be as refined as possible.
From the literature to the preceptor, this course was extremely compelling. I enjoyed all of the various works covered in this course and the assignments accompanying them. Each of the essays  was designed to cultivate a unique set of skills and teaches a different style of writing. While SRPs were a bit tedious, they were an effective gateway for drafts and broadened my perspective on the works under consideration. Overall, the course and the assignments were very challenging, however, both prepare you for the future by rendering you more deliberate in your writing and more nuanced in your analysis.
This is a really beneficial course and since you are required to take Expos, this is definitely the one to choose! Jane's enthusiasm really makes the class.
This class isn't easy, but I have gained so much confidence in my writing ability, and I have seen my self grow so much, that all the work you do is definitely worth it.
Jane is, in my biased opinion, the best at what she does. She gives great feedback, she is very engaging, and she genuinely cares about her students. Here's an example: for Thanksgiving, she took all students  who were unable to go home for break for dinner. I know many people thing Expos is the worst thing about freshman year, but Jane made this class my favorite class. One of my favorite parts of the year was getting to meet the two writers of the second unit's poetry and short stories. Jane works with the Scholars at Risk program and asks writers to come and have a nice discussion with students. It was an honor to meet them. P.S. If my grammar is off in this post, don't take it as an indication of this class, but as a result of my posting this (and three other evaluations) in the wee hours of the morning.
Jane makes the class exciting and wonderful. It never stagnates. The only downside is that some due dates for assignments are too close together.
You have to take this course, so make sure you pick an expos that you can actually write about. This class in particular is great if you're interested in the topic. Jane is a wonderful instructor and has great enthusiasm for the class. If you follow her you will do well. However you also have to make sure you have enough time to do the essays. Don't try to take expos with other time-intensive classes because you will not have enough time to complete all the assignments and one class is going to suffer. Expos, especially this one, requires you to work really hard if you want to do well.
This is the best Expos class at Harvard!! (but it's definitely not for everybody). Jane is an incredible teacher who taught us how to write and appreciate language in an entirely new way. The class is jam-packed with class activities that are very applicable to the essay assignments, and you always have to be on your toes. You have to spend a significant amount of time preparing for in-class activities, and an even greater amount of time working and revising your essays. Jane gives you an incredible amount of help and feedback though! Be warned that the first 2/3 of this class is very heavy in literary analysis, so if that's not your thing than you might not want this class. We read One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, short stories by Iranian writer Mandanipour and poems by Cambodian poet Tararith Kho (and got to talk with them in person!!), and then the last essay is pretty much whatever you want to research related to Authority. I met some of the most interesting and articulate fellow freshman in this class.
I recommend this class with enthusiasm because I am sure that you will not find a better and more exciting Expository Writing class! Jane Unrue is a wonderful teacher, and she knows how to teach you to make the most out of this class. You will learn how to read stories and poems in a different way, structure your essays and write them in a sophisticated way. This class will turn you from high-school writer into a college writer. If you are still in doubts which Expos class to take, just take this one and you will not regret your decision!
We all have to take Expos, and it's a pain, but it helps if your Expos is well taught and interesting. The preceptor, Jane, is not only interesting and enthusiastic, but also a great teacher who will definitely make you a better writer if you put in the effort to follow her guidance. I highly recommend Voice of Authority for an expos pick.
This course does require work, but not much reading at all compared to other courses. You read One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest and then just a few poems and short stories, but essays are graded strongly and most get a B+.
This class is great (in my opinion, after hearing about other students' experiences, it's definitely one of the best Expos classes!), but what really makes this class amazing is the preceptor, Jane. She puts so much enthusiasm and vitality into her teaching! Jane's enthusiasm really makes us excited to work and facilitates open discussion in class (it's a very collaborative atmosphere); in addition, her comments are very insightful. The topics are very interesting and thought-provoking: in the first unit, dealing with the concept of insanity (we read One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest); in the second unit, dealing with stories and poems written by scholars at risk; in the third unit, ranging from art, to human rights, to education, to language, to politics. It is a lot of hard work, but it's well earned and well worth it -- you'll learn a lot. Take this class!
Jane is always enthusiastic and totally engaged in class and in your personal papers; I would recommend going in and talking with her during office hours even if you don't have a specific question, because she is an overall fascinating person to chat with.  The course reading and discussions are interesting and relevant.  As a bit of advice: when you choose your paper topic, choose one that you are genuinely interested in (Jane gives quite a bit a flexibility); I myself highly dislike writing papers, but by picking a topic of personal interest I was able to make the process more bearable.
This is an amazing class. Judging from what my friends have said about their expos classes, I couldn't imagine having a better expos experience.Jane is a wonderful teacher and brings so much enthusiasm to her work. She also gives very through and helpful feedback on every assignment. She is a fair grader and will work with you to make your writing better. As in all expos classes, you can't write a good paper the day before it is due. Time management is key. I would recommend this class to everyone. It not only makes you a much better writer, but a better thinker as well.
This is an excellent class, but you must have a strong desire to commit to your expos class. Don't take this class if you intend to hibernate until the days your essays are due - it's not an "easy" class. Jane will provide you with so many resources and will bring so much energy and enthusiasm to every class - you will be obliged to return the gesture. In the class your writing will most certainly improve, and you will be introduced to many interesting pieces of writing. This year we read "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", short stories by Shariar Mandanipour (which are all really fantastic), a speech by John Ashcroft, a letter from Martin Luther King and so much more. I really feel like I have been "educated" by this class.The other word of advice is that in this course, Jane will provide you with a clear and complete "system" of writing good essays, and you will be required to live within the freedoms of the system. Try to go with what Jane tells you to do rather than fight it. Take her advice even if you initially disagree with it and you will no doubt become an excellent writer.
Do the revisions Jane explains are necessary and your paper will turn out better. As long as you participate actively in the class, read the short course readings, and do your work, you should learn a lot and have fun in the class.
Jane is an incredible teacher, and just meeting her makes this course worthwhile. However, it definitely gave me the most work, stress, and all-nighters this semester. Don't procrastinate!
You need to work hard, you need to edit, put in the work and you will learn! Take the class!
Take. This. Class. End of discussion. This is probably one of the best, if not the best, writing class to take that is applicable to any field you later  want to study. Jane is an incredible preceptor and contrary to the popular belief that "Expos class is boring/terrible/bleh", I had the best possible Expos experience with Jane. She truly knows what she is doing and every activity, lecture, and class discussion we had was useful in someway to help better our essays. For example through one of my class discussions, I got not only a good idea of what the topic of one of my papers should be, but I also figured out how to create a debate and "tension" around the argument. This class after all, is The Voice of Authority, and it's really neat how we analyze and explore different readings (fiction and non-fiction) to extract what techniques the author uses to either earn authority or to allow their characters to have authority. I cannot stress to you how amazing this class is! You will NOT be disappointed if you take this class, you will learn so much. I never knew my writing could improve so quickly in just a semester, but with Jane's help and encourage, I believe that I am a much better writer than I was when I first entered the class. TAKE THIS CLASS :)
Very very useful class! All the materials, assignments and readings make sense in the class, as they all serve a purpose in helping you improve as a writer. This class stretches you, pushing you to become the best writer that you can be. Jane is an amazing teacher. She gives very personalized and detailed feedback/suggestions and really helps me a lot in my writing!
This course is simply the best Expos! Jane is always enthusiastic and engaging. I grew so much as a result-as a writer, thinker, and a person. Although assignments may seem tedious, each has a purpose. I'm going to miss this class!
Take this course. You won't regret it.
It is hard for me to imagine having had a more positive Expos experience.
This is about as good as Expos can get.
Prepare to spend lots of empty time just thinking about how you are going to write your essays. All the all-nighters I have pulled this semester were for Expos and it is a combination of the demanding level of writing here as well as the little time I spent thinking about my essays. While Expos is a huge time commitment, it is also worth every tormenting night you had to go through during the semester once you've realized that your writing has improved so much. Voice of Authority is definitely one of the better, if not the best, of the Expos classes offered.
You'll be doing a lot of revision but it's completely worth it!!!
It's great! Best Expos class ever. Jane is the most awesome preceptor around, and your writing really improves.
Be sure to do your drafts on time and leave a lot of time for revision. Most of all, have fun with the class. Don't be afraid to ask for help, and you'll do well.
Excellent course! Jane Unrue is the best preceptor that anyone could ask for. She'll push you to improve in all the right ways, and strives to make class interesting and worthwhile. You won't regret taking this course-- it was the highlight of my freshman fall.
Jane Unrue is an amazing preceptor, and if you would like to improve your writing, get ready for quite a bit of work, but other than that, it's all worthwhile
requires a bit more reading than other expos classes but it is more interesting than them
You WILL become a better writer, and you will have fun doing it.
I think Expos is very much about who your preceptor is and whether the topic interests you. In my case, I was incredibly lucky to be in a section with a wonderful preceptor who really worked with you to make sure that you are improving on your writing and to push you every step of the way. In her class, I learned so much about the process of writing; what's effective, what's not, how can I make this clearer - it was all incredibly helpful. Unlike several others that I knew, it was never about just grinding through and getting the Expos requirement out of the way; you could actually see your writing improving and thinking differently as a writer. And besides that, the class was actually fun. Jane is so much fun and infectious; you just might look forward to going to class, like I did.One thing that I would recommend is to put in the effort, and to be careful when you section at the beginning. Put Jane's section as your number one choice! Or at least research your list very well - the quality of Expos really varies depending on who your preceptor is.
This has been my favorite course thus far. Jane is really great. She keeps the course interesting and fun, while still challenging. We had great class discussions about various books and speeches. This class really helps you improve not only the literary, but all aspects of your writing. I highly recommend this class!!!
This class may suck sometimes, but the bottom line is that it helps you become a better writer.
The subject matter is good, but the course itself is fairly challenging.  You need to be willing to work with the instructor, even if it means changing something you may like about your writing.
Probably the best expos class.
