If you are not confident about your writing skills, then this course could potentially help you acquire a level of confidence. Of course, how beneficial this course becomes for you depends on a variety of factors including how engaged you become with the readings.
If you were placed into Expos 20, I advice you to go ahead and take Expos 20. Although this course is great for pupils with no writing experience, it is unnecessary for those that do.
It is a perfect starting point if one does not have a strong writing background or is not confident about their college writing skills.
It's a good course if you're placed into it. My section was mostly composed by international students, who didn't have much exposure to writing essays.
Take expos 10 before 20 - it's worth it!
GET JONAH AS YOUR PRECEPTOR. HE IS THE BEST
Expos 10 is a demanding class, just like any other, but definitely one of the very first classes a freshman should think of taking.
I was assigned to expos 20 but coming from another country and a completely different writing system in school I thought that expos10 would be more appropriate for me. Looking back now, I am happy to see that it was a great decision.
The Preceptor is rad. You'll love him and he'll teach you a lot and he emanates good vibes.
It is very helpful, constructive, beneficial and well run. I would highly recommend students to take this course, regardless of writing abilities.
I feel that it was an extra-burden on me. I really just dislike writing and the prospect of having to take another semester of expos is highly depressing. I recommend students fulfill expos in one fell swoop.
Jonah really helped me with my writing. Now when I approach a paper, I know how I'm supposed to write it. Its great and Jonah is the best.
good opportunity to build a strong writing foundation.
Keep up on your work and pay attention to what you are doing during your homework.
Expos 10 really helps you to transition to college writing. It does everything the course description says it will do.
I totally recommend taking this class before Expos 20, even though you might feel prepared for it. I think there is always room for learning and improvement, so really consider taking this class instead of going straight to Expos 20.
If you are considering taking Expos 10, take this class. Zachary is a great preceptor, and you will benefit from his teachings no matter how developed your writing background is. This class does not require a lot of work, but it definitely requires a decent amount of critical thinking. This is probably my favorite class, and I encourage everyone to take it under Zachary Sifuentes.
Expos 10 will bring together students from diverse academic backgrounds with one common goal - to improve their expository writing skills. You will get out of this class as much as you put in, and you will grow as a writer if you do all the required assignments.
Zachary is an absolutely amazing preceptor. Words cannot do him justice; he is passionate about ensuring you develop as a writer and will give you very helpful, concrete feedback that will help your writing in general and will carry over to any other papers you write in your classes.
It is probably one of the best classes you will take! Super enthusiastic, fun, creative, and interesting!
I found this course to be a very goon introduction to college-level writing.  This prepared me excellently for expos 20.
If you have any doubts in your writing ability, take this class in preparation for Expos 20.
If you are wavering on whether to choose Expos 20 or Expos 10, I would enthusiastically recommend Expos 10 because it revealed to me what college professors are looking for in writing and how to transition writing from high school to a more scholarly approach.
It's a bummer that this class is elective and occupies a chance to take another class but it's SO worth it. I feel confident that Expos 20 will be a lot easier now that I've taken this class. I learned so many valuable skills that will help me with any future paper. Zachary is an EXCELLENT preceptor I HIGHLY recommend taking this class with him!!
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!! If you have ANY doubts about your ability as a writer, TAKE THIS CLASS!!!! If the writing board suggests you take it, TAKE THIS CLASS!!! Absolutely loved it. Preceptors are super helpful and they really want you to learn. It really helped me grow as a writer, and I feel I'm better prepared for the rest of my time here.
If you can't make up your mind as to whether to enroll to expos 10 or 20, in my opinion it is worth taking expos 10. You get to learn how to approach college writing and you are better prepared for expos 20. Zac is amazing too. He will make the class fun, enjoyable but also very educational.
TAKE THIS CLASS!! Dont be one of those kids who doesnt want to take Expos 10 because they are too proud to admit that they need help improving their writing. Amazing course and Zachary Sifuentes is the best instructor I have ever worked with. This class will change your life.
It is a great class to take if you think you need an extra help with writing. Although it is one more semester taking expos class, it is worth it because we learn to write and structure a paper much more slowly than in expos 20.
Take this class if you want to improve your writing in the easiest way possible.
Great intro course, very helpful
unreal.
It's great. Take it!
There's not much I can say, this course is required for people who didn't do well enough on the placement test.
If you approach the teacher's advice with an open mind, it is much more beneficial.
it is a very good class. It is not that scary because it starts with basic things and it teaches you everything you need to know. It is a good way to ease into college writing and expos 20.
Pay attention to keywords in the prompts and to the teacher's comments.
