It is a great class for anyone who feels like they didn't receive a really strong background in writing academic papers in high school. Even if AP English classes were taken, this class opens up students to a whole new kind of writing at a good pace.
This introductory course is very beneficial to giving you a foundation of college writing, more specifically the Harvard standard of writing. The assignments are very helpful, and the feedback that you receive from each assignment is beneficial to making you a much better writer than before.
It's incredible
If you have any hesitations about your writing, definitely take this class. I was a little bit worried that they type of writing required of me in high school (mainly just timed AP essays) would not be up to par with what was expected at Harvard, and I was right. That being said, this class was not incredibly difficult and I feel that I am walking away a much better writer. Since I am likely to concentrate in the humanities, I also decided that having a strong foundation in writing could only help me later on in my college career. The class is small, so you get a lot of really good feedback and get to know everyone pretty well. I highly recommend it!
It's the best! Take it, it's awesome!
Take this course if you have any doubts in your writing abilities
I took this class even though I was placed in Expos 20 because I though it will help me be more prepared for Expos 20. Even though the class did help me a lot, I was not completely satisfied with it. The assignments took me a lot of time to complete and I was very overwhelming sometimes. Moreover some of these writing assignments were not completely useful to write the final version of your essay. One good thing about the class though, is that if you had not had any previous experience with writing, it will help you learn how to write at an academic level. In that sense it does gives you some experience so you do not walk into Expos 20 without a clue of how to approach a writing prompt.
Really helpful, especially if you feel a bit self-conscious about your writing.
Take only if you have the desire to improve your writing or else this is just another writing class. In my opinion I shouldn't have taken it since I didn't take this class seriously enough so I didn't think this class was all that helpful, but expos10 keeps getting rave reviews so perhaps it is a very good class if you are willing to put in the effort.
If you are not very confident in your writing, Expos 10 is the way to go.  It really emphasizes focussing your argument and incorporating evidence which is key to writing.
That it is a good class and you learn a lot from it but it does take up a class which you would not have to take if you were just to take Expos 20. I would recommend it to a freshman, especially making the transition into Harvard.
Great class to really get back into writing and work on aspects of your writing that may need to be improved before expos 20.
its so much fun and so a lot of writing at the same time.
great class!
I don't think that I benefited much from this course although I have heard other students rave about their Expos 10 classes.
If you feel like you aren't 100% confident in your writing ability I would definitely recommend to take this class. It has really taught me many skills that will be useful in any writing class I decide to take in the future. No regrets
Personally I was never super confident in my writing abilities. I knew I wanted to take Expos 10 to help and I was pleasantly surprised. It wasn't that my ideas and writing sucked, I just fine tuning and adjustments to be made.
If you have any doubts about taking this class don't worry! This class was so helpful and it got me good grades on papers for other classes and I'm confident it will really help me in Expos 20. If you have any reservations it won't hurt to take the course because it'll do nothing but tremendously improve your writing!
It will improve your writing skills.
You will learn that there is always room for improvement and everyone just wants you to be your best.
I would definitely recommend this class. At the beginning of the year, they gave me the option to take Expos 10 or not and I am glad I took it. Really helped my writing skills and just got me more comfortable with the excepted college format.
really easy class
Is a great base line for the expectations Harvard will have of you and your writing.
In the beginning of the year, I couldn't figure out if I should take this course or not.  I didn't want to be the "dumb" person at Harvard.  I'm really glad I took it.  My writing improved so much, and I am actually confident about writing now!  If you're worried about what your peers will think when you tell them you're considering Expos 10, don't be.  Everybody will respect your decision, and some will probably wish they took it, too.
I was hesitant to take Expos 10 in the beginning of the year but I am super glad I decided to take this course because it has definitely improved my confidence of my writing. I feel more comfortable and I am less worried about Expos 20, since I will be used to the structure of the classes.
It helps you a lot along the way.
If you are not sure whether to take Expos 10 or Expos 20, I would recommend taking Expos 10. It really gives you a solid foundation for writing that will help you throughout your life.
Take this expos course because the TF is amazing and the readings are amazing. You will get your writing improved in no time and you keep your own authenticity with it. It is a whole new experience all together. You must experience it to know it and its a great experience. The course may change your writing but it does not change you
No matter how good your writing is, Expos 10 will make it better
It really helps strengthen your writing.
If you think you need more practice with academic writing, don't hesitate to take this course before taking Expos 20. It really helps you write with much more confidence.
