Expos 10 is a fantastic class and it is a great way to boost your writing skills before taking expos 20.
The class is very helpful due to the very high availability of the teachers. In class, we go over how to edit papers and we revise them as a class. It may seem odd at first, but then you will get a feel of what other people think about how writing should be, which helps you become a better writer because you are conferencing directly with an audience.
This course will make experienced writers feel more comfortable about their writing, and less experienced writers feel like they have the necessary tools to succeed in writing the American essay.
This class is great for helping students transition their writing to what is expected in college.
Take it and you will like the materials you are assigned to read.
Definitely don't be afraid to take this class, especially if you have any reservations about your writing ability. It will definitely help you be more confident about your writing!
Unless you feel that you do not have enough space in your schedule because of other varied endeavors, I highly recommend taking Expos 10 before 20. While it's hard to say if the skills will readily transfer to my Expos 20 coursework, it is somewhat important to realize what the Harvard writing community expects of you as a student.
I was not confident in my writing at all. I was worried about having to take Expos 10 because it would take an extra class. But it is totally worth it! I have no regrets and don't let this fear stop you from taking this class! Take this class! Even if you do feel confident in your writing abilities, this class will help you know what's expected out of college papers.
TAKE IT. It's super helpful and a very good foundation to prepare you for expos 20 in the spring.
This course is extremely helpful to create a strong foundation to your writing.
You can only learn writing by writing. This course offers a great introduction to expository writing and allows you to practice your writing with constant feedback.
This is a great class and you will not regret having this extra writing background under your belt to begin your college writing career.
It is a great class, particularly with Kelsey, and you learn a lot!
I know I was scared to go straight into expos 20 coming from a bilingual school. However, expos 10 with McNiff provided me with an opportunity to settle into college writing, to freshen up on the nuts and bolts of academic essays, and to meet incredibly diverse students in a small, seminar setting.
It is an excellent option for students who are not confident or experienced in academic writing.
All the work can be a little bit boring sometimes, but you do learn a lot and improve your writing skills by the end of the semester.
This class prepares you very well and teaches a lot about writing and your writing specifically.
Great course if you do not have extensive essay writing experience in English.
Stay on top of your work
Professor Lamberth is a great instructor who truly cares about helping you develop your skills as an academic writer. Her feedback is always helpful and she takes a personal interest in you as a student.
This is an amazing class if you want to improve as a writer before taking Expos 20.
Expos 10 is fantastic! Take it
This class was a great course to open you up to college writing. There were small response parts that had you think outside the box in terms of writing, and then we had bigger essays to bring our writing together.
The grading is pretty easy but classes are a pretty boring.
if you have any qualms about your writing, take this class. it will really help you improve your writing, which will be extremely useful when you write papers later on.
Apply yourself and it will pay off considerably
This class will develop your writing skills for life, not just for expos 20.
