Some say it's a necessary evil but the progress you make in this class and how comfortable you become with writing is very credible
If you are choosing between Expos 10 and Expos 20, choose Expos 20. I went through Expos 10 and felt there was little to no improvement in my writing. Expos 20 definitely helps way more than Expos 10 plus Expos 20 gives you a choice in topic so it should be something enjoyable to write about. Expos 10 presented interesting pieces of work, but unless you are into things like Art, I would not bother. If you are thinking of taking Expos 10 as an easy A, don't. Expos 10 and 20 have the same grading policy. Take Expos 20!!
Dr. Tierney puts in a lot of effort to make the course meaningful and worthwhile. The effort you put into this course definitely reflects upon your grade. Be wary - this course focuses heavily on neuroscience and the science of cognition. For those interested in psychology, this course will allow you to pursue that interest, but be ready to tackle a good amount of scientific readings as well.
If you have to take an Expos class, might as well take one that will actually benefit your writing and will allow you to explore new issues. I've never been particularly interested in neuropsych, but I had a curiosity about the origins of emotion. The Science of Emotion really helped me improve my writing, and I found myself getting excited over the pieces we read and our essay assignments.
Really enjoyed it. An interesting way to fill an expository writing requirement.
This was a good introduction to the elements of argumentative writing. The preceptor is reasonable with feedback and grading, and the material is fairly interesting.
What is nice about this course is that the readings are primarily from scientific articles, which has an advantage to other expos classes in that you are not required to read through a whole book, of which you may only select the material on one page.  If you are really interested in the material, this is an extra plus.
This is a required class, which sucks. But if you're going into a science concentration, this class is better than other Expos classes because it teaches you how to write scientifically using APA style and working with scientific studies
Considering that Expos is a requirement, I think Science of Emotion is the closest that science majors can get to a useful experience.
It will be a very difficult class but your work will turn you into a much better writer than you were before.
This class is quite enjoyable and exciting. There are many positive aspects which will appeal to a broad range of students.
The material and concept of this class is very cool. Dr. Tierney may seem a bit intimidating at first, but she is very helpful. Sometimes I felt that she was a hard grader, but I definitely left the class with a stronger command over my writing than when I began.
