It's a low-stress expos course, which could definitely be good if you've got a schedule packed with difficult, time-consuming classes. You don't have to be a science or biology person to take it and benefit; the concise writing strategies that Erin teaches are helpful for everyone of all interests.
None of the expos classes are easy - just pick one that suits your interests.  The first two papers are easy, but the last one really tests how much you enjoy the course.  If you enjoy reading scientific literature and analyzing it, or if you're planning on doing research in some field, this is a good course to introduce you to it.
This class is great. Dr. Blevins is an amazing teacher who really helps you with everything. However, she doesn't give you much time for your rough draft, so take this class if you really want to learn how to edit, because your rough draft will be far from perfect.
I picked this expos because it was one of the most scientifically-oriented ones, and I was not disappointed. The papers we had to write were about some of the biggest evolutionary questions that scientists study, and it was really cool to ask big questions.
Its a great class if you are interested in evolutionary biology.
This class was great and Erin, the preceptor, is outstanding! I'd recommend this class to anyone with any interest in biology and evolution, even if you aren't looking to concentrate (I may not be concentrating in science at all). Having said that, this course is doubly appropriate if you think you'll be concentrating in a scientific field. Compared to other expos classes, the quantity of reading is significantly less, though sometimes the science reading can be dense.
The essays demanded a lot of time, but I felt good about the finished products I produced in the end.
This is a course that's great for anyone who's interested in science. You really get a few for how theories develop over time from this course. Use the Writing Center and take Conferencing up seriously and this will be a rewarding course.
