Sri is a fantastic professor. She is very intellectual and approachable. She recognizes students' effort and development in writing and points out students' weaknesses in writing to help them be better at academic writing. The readings are light and delightful. I think this class is definitely the class I have taken the most out of for the first semester. The conferences with her were my favorite part of the class because she helped me fix the right track of my essay, and gave me very helpful comments that I could follow in revisions. I definitely developed my critical thinking and writing by taking this class with Sri.
If you find the course description interesting, then I would highly suggest you take this course. It was very challenging, and at times it would give me an extremely hard time. However, I know that in the future when I look back on it, I'll be really glad I took it. Yes, my classmates and I struggled, but that makes the end results even more rewarding, especially having seen an upward trend in the improvement of my drafts and essays. 
The readings were all fascinating and nothing too overwhelming (in terms of length, anyway). They were enjoyable.
Sri can be intimidating, but it's mainly because she gets straight to the point when she gives you feedback, even when it's harsh. She is extremely knowledgeable and can really help you improve your writing. Because of this course, I feel more prepared for academic writing later on in my Harvard career, and I'm very thankful for it.
This class is difficult for an Expos course, although it is rewarding. Sri is a good preceptor, and the individual conferences in particular are very helpful in revising each assignment. Overall, great intro to academic writing.
The actual course is excellent. I found the materials interesting and it very effectively teaches you the skills that are supposed to be taught in Expos. The teacher, Sri, really knows what she is talking about and gives a ton of feedback. You have to work hard but the essay lengths (max 7 pages!) are very reasonable compared to other classes that go up to 15 pages. The course preceptor Sri is the trickiest part of this class. She's very good but can oftentimes be rude and abrupt in class without cause. Granted, she is not required to tell students who are wrong about something that they are right, but there are much better ways to convey information. She would frequently ask why my class was so quiet and seemed to have no idea that it was because we were scared of her response if we said the wrong thing. That being said, it's actually a really good class as long as you do the reading and like the subject matter. Sri is also really good at impressing upon us the techniques required in academic writing even if she goes about it an a less than encouraging way.
I highly recommend you do not take this course if you are weak hearted. Although you will learn a lot in the course and you will most definitely become a better writer. Your time in the classroom will be terrible, because of a lot of awkward laughter and unintended meanness.
Sri sometimes can be very passive aggressive with her laugh or comments, and does not allow as much discussion as I would have liked because she talked most of the time. The stories were great, and I do believe that she wants her students to succeed because of all the work she puts into her lessons. However, her wordiness sometimes made things more complicated.
This class is more challenging than any English class you have likely taken before. It is intensive; expect to spend a lot of time thinking, revising, revising, and revising outside of class. You have to be willing to put in the effort to succeed in this class, and it will be frustrating at times. However, I feel that I am more satisfied with my improvement in this class than I am with my improvement in any other class I've taken this semester, so know that your hard work will pay off. The best feeling in the world is knowing that the hours you spent revising your thesis resulted in a beautifully crafted final paper.
The subject material can be pretty boring and the professor is very intelligent but has a style that is difficult to get used to. Did not always feel real comfortable or excited about class. The skills I gained were very valuable though and I learned a great deal but I did not find it to be very enjoyable.
This course is extremely challenging and often frustrating. The professor is knowledgable and demanding in a way that is ultimately beneficial, but you should prepare to hear harsh comments in the process. Despite how much you will complain about this class, your writing will improve exponentially.
Despite of the intensity of the class, I would recommend it to future students because it would definitely enhance their ability to understand the assignment requirements in other courses and apply the writing tools gained throughout this class to other courses too.
Do not judge this class right off the bat.  It is not the most enjoyable class, but then again it is Expos.  You will learn so much about writing, and as long as you don't set yourself against it, by the end you might discover that you like thinking as hard as you do on what you're going to write.  If you want to become a better writer, take this class!!!
Sri is a great writer, that is obvious just having a conversation with her about writing. She is also, however, a harsh critic of all writing that does not exactly conform to her standards.
This course is amazing not only because of the materials that are used but also because Sri is a dedicated and impressive teacher. She wants every students to do well and understand how to write for college courses (she is always available for conferences). I would have never been able to comprehend text in an argumentative manner nor write to this degree without her.
Think only about the assignment and the material you are given, do not let the teacher affect your approach to the class
It's very difficult, but this is the one course that I felt has helped me improve the most academically.
Sri is probably the best professor I have had. Very intelligent, very invested in the growth of students as scholarly writers. Though she has a very high expectation of students, the knowledge in terms of analytical skills that you will gain will definitely help your writing in other academic fields.
The section leader for this course, Sri, is extremely helpful and devotes much time to each student, helping him/her individually to work through papers.
This Expos course is undeniably a great introduction to academic writing in college, and the preceptor does a great job of enthusiastically conveying the material. The feedback you receive on your drafts and assignments is very helpful, and you will develop many new, invaluable skills for writing at the collegiate level. I recommend this course to any freshman who is willing to put in the effort to improve his or her writing skills and who is interested in the phenomena of immigration and cross-cultural migration.
If you really want a challenging course that will greatly improve your writing, take this course. The impression I got from talking to my peers from other Expos classes was that this course's preceptor spends more time with you individually than probably any other Expos preceptor. You will have to put in a lot of work, but the end result is very rewarding if you are willing to devote the time.
This course is very challenging, but you will grow from it and become a much better writer if you take advantage of her comments and work hard.
Sri is one of the most engaging professors there are for Expos and is very willing to spend a great amount of time in conference and other meetings to help you formulate a stronger thesis, clarify ideas and relationships within and between texts, etc. The class has a heavier emphasis on literature than one might expect. In writing papers, you need to have a very clear sense of exactly what ideas you are attempting to convey and how you are going to do it; there can be no vague hand-waving because everything you write will be examined very critically. An excellent course to take!
It is important to manage time wisely in this course, but the professor really makes it worth it. She's great and has wonderful things and feedback to offer.
I would definitely recommend this course to all freshman. It is a difficult course but will significantly improve your writing skills. The best part about this class is the preceptor. She is very good at helping students understand where papers need work, and conveying that clearly. If you are looking to improve your writing, this is the class to take.
I really enjoyed this class. Material-wise, if you are interested in reading stories about different cultural interactions, then I highly recommend taking this course. Overall, this course significantly improved my skills as a writer. The course-work was manageable and Prof. Sri is a really great person and teacher.
This is definitely one of the best expos sections at Harvard. The readings are all fantastic and never tedious to get through, and the paper lengths seem to be shorter than those of most expos classes (5, 6, and 7 pages). Sri expects a lot on the essays, but she gives fantastic feedback that details exactly what needs to be done to make the final draft meet her expectations. By the end of this course I definitely feel like my writing has moved to a new level. It's challenging, but it's worth it.
I went into Expos thinking I was going to hate it on principle, however, as far as Expos classes go, this one was pretty great! I did struggle with this class but it was worth it and I think I grew as a writer.
Over the course of the semester, this class helped me to develop into a stronger and more thoughtful writer. The instructor's feedback was constructive and will be applicable to my writing in future courses. The course material was extremely interesting and those who enjoy immigrant literature or searching for the socio-cultural messages in works of fiction will enjoy the material in this class.
I would tell them that this is IMO the best expos class available. The reading is manageable, the professor has been teaching for quite a few years and has loads of experience (as compared to many expos preceptors my friends had who apparently didn't structure the course very well at all, and gave HUGE amounts of reading). In addition, the preceptor really seemed to care about the improvement in my writing, which was a HUGE motivator. She gives a huge amount of feedback on each essay in addition to the advice imparted during conferences. In addition, she is also very honest in her feedback, which might be seen as scary by some, but I personally felt that honest feedback (like being told that something didn't make any sense at all, instead of a vague suggestion) really helped me pinpoint my faults and work on them. I am an international, and I come from a school which was very math/science focused and I did find it hard to cope with the assignment at first. However, the professor's comments and suggestions really helped and I saw my writing improve with each assignment and I ended up with a MUCH better than average grade in my second essay! Contrary to many of my peers, I really really enjoyed my expos class, and it might even be my favorite class this semester, which is something not many could say about their expos requirement!! :)
I definitely do not recommend this course. I have been waiting more than half the semester to write this evaluation, and even though I may be the most frustrated of the students in my class, I do not believe I am the only one who had a bad experience. To be fair, by the end of the class, I learned what I needed to. However, I do not feel that I was taught this by the professor. Part of my complaint has to do with how Expos20 is structured in general - a high stakes course for freshmen with a negative curve (yes, despite what they might say, it is curved) that doesn't teach you how to write before an assignment but instead has you do it and then gives you a grade on how well you taught yourself to complete that assignment. A major complaint with Sri is that she never had office hours and I never felt like she was available to help us with our writing individually because she was always SO BUSY and apparently the structure of Expos does not allow us to conference with her before our rough drafts have been turned in.One thing that a lot of other students appreciated, and I did as well, is the amount of feedback that Sri provides - an average of about two pages per draft. However, I felt like this feedback came too late - if I got it on my final drafts, and there were only three essays for the entire class, it isn't like there is much time to improve. I remember asking questions in my rough draft conference that I felt did not get answered, and then I got drilled for it in my final draft of my paper. Inconsistencies like this really frustrated me.Probably the most glaring irritation was that Sri can be very passive-aggressive in class. It is very hard to respect a professor when you cannot respect her in person. Basically, class was a place where I dreaded going every week, rather than a place I was excited to learn. I would rather go to my 6 hours of a lab course than a two hour English lecture.Anyways, for those who are not interested in my whining, I will say this: 30 of you will be stuck in this course. Only put it on your top 8 if you are completely interested in the humanities and not just exploring. You will only find this type of writing useful if you will remain in sociology or social studies. Also, don't just believe the Q scores of this class because I don't believe they provide a full image since in a small class, people are more scared of low reviews. I feel cheated because I chose this class based on Q scores, and friends have led me to believe that this isn't entirely accurate. Really make sure you know what you are getting into before choosing this class.
Having had very little writing experience in high school, this course proved very challenging for me. However, I learned so much and am very happy I signed up for this course.
Even though this course won't be an easy grade, one will definitely improve their argumentative and writing skills. With the pressure of deadlines and the process of writing an assignement in steps, one will learn that the writing process gets better with constant revisions and working in a timely manner. In addition, the student's way of approaching a writing assignment will be altered to take more into account the ideal progression and argumentative and clearly-formed thesis statements and topic sentences.
In my opinion, this course was difficult because you had to think with ideas rather than characters/nouns in literature. It definitely helps if you like the material focus of the class, but you have to take an expos class regardless and I truly feel that I received my "Harvard" writing class here, a lot of bang for my buck.
This class is not for the faint of heart. It's certainly quite challenging, but ultimately leaves a student with a sense of accomplishment and deeper understanding of how to formulate a thorough and powerful academic essay and thesis.
From talking to my friends this seems to be practically the best Expos class. It has less pure work than the other classes, but I seems to have the same, if not better understanding of the requirements and techniques for scholarly writing. The readings are well written and interesting, the class discussions are fine, and the essays are on a manageable timeline with excellent feedback for the revision process. As long as you revise thoughtfully doing what is expected you will be rewarded with a good grade.
This class was very helpful to my approach when writing essays, from the beginning to the end. Sri reiterated the important points often. Don't be intimidated when you are in class, or in one on one meetings about your writing because the course is intended to help you.This means it is important to share your ideas and listen to others. It is also important to note that this was a more English driven class, as Sri is an English teacher. I had a misconception about what would go on during class, I thought we would discuss different cultures and social issues, but it is what the class is called- a writing class. If you aren't into the super English focused writing,you may want to look into a more science based expository class.
The texts and workload of this course are very approachable! Best Expository writing course you can take if you are interested in literature.
The subject material was both intriguing and interesting, and the class itself was very helpful as a tool. However, our teacher had some quirks that made class interactions occasionally tense.
I found the course material interesting, but more importantly I found the professor's feedback very useful in developing and improving my writing.
The course taught me exactly what was expected for writing on the college level.  While some of the work often seemed tedious, I believe it payed off in the end.  Professor Mukherjee was very enthusiastic about the materials, which made them slightly more interesting.
This expos class is more like a literature class, but with a focus on writing skills. The stories are really interesting, and at least from what I've heard seem to be more interesting and comprehensible than readings/material for other classes. Sri can be a little overbearing, but is overall helpful and nice.
extremely dedicated and helpful instructor + only short reading assignments = the perfect expos class
By taking this class you will significantly grow as a writer of critical essays, analyzing things from the deeper message of a text to the intertwining relationship between two texts.
Beyond the interesting texts, the applicability of this class to other areas was surprising and I really enjoyed class discussion, which was well stimulated and very lively.
I think this course is really helpful in preparing you for college level writing. Professor Mukherjee provides amazing feedback. If you do not like literature though, I suggest you pick another course.
I would tell future students that this class covers various aspects of intercultural encounters, yet does so in a way that encourages debate, but doesn't lead to arguments and fosters rational discussion about new concepts and theories introduced.
