Keep your thesis narrow!
Read the readings and make sure you can contribute in class. The teacher wants everyone to participate. Also, make sure you begin brainstorming as you read. There is little guidance as you write beyond the draft and reflection paper. He has office hours, but they were at an inconvenient time.
The readings for this class are incredible. Be sure to go over them thoroughly so that you can participate in an enhanced in-class experience and so that you can start off each of your unit essays with some analysis.
KEVIN IS AMAZING. Expos is expos, but since you have to do it...THIS COURSE IS THE WAY TO GO. You get really useful feedback and he is so prompt about it. Also, the material is lively and interesting. If you're gonna have to write a paper...doing it on pop books, art, and movies is not a bad thing. This is as painless as expos gets, plus it will make you a better writer, no matter how much everyone complains.
I absolutely loved this class! I was really nervous about expos because I had heard so many horror stories from friends who had taken it in the fall, but it turned out to be a really rewarding experience for me. Everything on the syllabus is really interesting and Kevin is a great preceptor. He's not afraid to tell it like it is, which is super useful when it comes to writing. I don't think I underwent a drastic transformation in terms of my writing skills, but I definitely fine-tuned my thesis-formatting, my strategies for incorporating evidence, and the clarity of my analysis. Everyone should put this as their first choice!
Kevin is great
Read all of the materials on time, because if you don't, it'll be pretty obvious.
I could not have asked for a better Expos class. The subject matter was fantastic; I was actually excited to write many of these papers! Also, Kevin Birmingham is a wonderful preceptor. I loved this class overall!
Among Expos classes, this is a good one, but Expos classes in general are not good. They're mandatory, though.
Kevin is an awesome preceptor who really knows what he is talking about. The course material is great and interesting to learn about. The course gives great feedback and has really helped my writing.
So much fun! Kevin is a boss and you learn a lot.
This course delves deeply into art theory and performance. It is a very good opportunity to explore your own philosophies on pop art; to make the course profitable, expect to spend alot of time extensively thinking through your writing ideas.
It is a great topic for some, but wasn't my first choice class and so I wasn't that excited about the topics. I do however find that I learned a few things about American culture in different time periods and that part is cool.
It's a very good expos. The material is engaging and fun and classes are run really well.
The class is very interesting and engaging. The material is extremely interesting and Kevin is a great preceptor.
When I tell people that Expos was my favorite class of my freshmen year, they look astonished. Expos isn't supposed to be fun or interesting, I guess, but nobody told Kevin that. In this class, we read Thomas Pynchon, learned about Warhol's art and life, and thought critically about The Rocky Horror Picture Show, all through the lens of a wide range of cultural criticism and primary sources. We even watched clips from "The Room" and "Total Eclipse of the Heart." Put this class as number one if any of the above appeals to you. Kevin is a first-class preceptor who offers incredible feedback and who will improve your academic writing immensely, even if you enter the program as an experienced and strong writer (as I did). I truly can't recommend this class enough.
Almost every freshman sees expos as one of the biggest struggles of their year. Writing isn't really my thing, and I was honestly dreading this class. However, Kevin made expos almost enjoyable. The readings are really interesting and engaging (especially if you are interested in postmodernism).  Kevin was super helpful and supportive as a preceptor, and the class discussions were quite interesting as well. I highly recommend this section!
This was a great class!  The readings and discussions were all super interesting.  The units were great-The Crying of Lot 49, Pop Art & Andy Warhol, and The Rocky Horror Picture Show.  Reading responses weren't very much work and directly related to the essay.  Overall, not a ton of work but still extremely interesting and helpful.
This was a fun expos class, and I would recommend others take it.  It wasn't particularly difficult--the readings were light and the writing assignments were interesting.
This class touches on some fun concepts. I laughed more than a few times in class. I cannot really say that about any other class. While the actual writing part can get pretty serious, the material that we examine is typically fun in nature, especially the Rocky Horror Picture Show.
For specific students, who enjoy Pop Art or at least know about Pop Art, this is a great class. I enjoyed this class, because I came into it with an open mind.
There are a lot of readings (but that might be the case for all expos classes). It helps if you have an interest in pop art, given the theme, though only the second unit is actually about pop art, rather than other types of pop.
Definitely do the readings! They are actually interesting regardless of whether you like art. The themes I learned from this class have been really applicable to other fields. Also Kevin is a great preceptor. He gives really thoughtful feedback and really knows his stuff.
This class is beyond helpful and interesting, and I would recommend because in comparison to other expos classes, people called this one one of the more fun ones so it would almost be a no brainer to say take this class over some boring legal writing class.
You should take this class only if you have an interest in art and are ready for a challenge
I actually do think I became a better writer through this course--Kevin is thorough in comments and in conferences, so that was very helpful in guiding my revisions and my writing on the whole.  I liked the main things we read/watched in each unit (The Crying of Lot 49, Warhol's Pop art, Rocky Horror Picture Show), but the supplemental material was definitely what I'd describe as circle-jerk academia.  It's very ivory tower and infatuated with itself
When going into conference with the preceptor, it is helpful to have thought out what questions you want addressed and what the weak points of your essay is to allow for more constructive feedback. Do the readings on time. Finally, take your response papers seriously. These are not graded and are only a page, so it might be tempting to write one up quickly and plan to change your topics later. However, Kevin, the preceptor, gives incredible, thorough comments on these response papers. So, if your response paper explores what you think you want to write, you will get detailed, guiding advice that will help tremendously as you write your paper and that will make your draft and final paper better.
The Rise of Pop is a pretty interesting Expos and you learn a lot about popular culture as an art form. If you're interested in anything creative, there's probably a unit in this class that will interest you. There's really not as much work as everyone seems to think, mostly a few weekly readings and three papers, which is standard for a humanities class. Some of the readings can be pretty boring and dry or straight up confusing, but you get to watch Rocky Horror in class and POPism is also a pretty fun read. Just give yourself lots of time for The Crying of Lot 49 and the art theory sources that kind of drip with pretension. Kevin definitely read everything and provides lots of comments. In your conference, he'll try to address the major flaws of your paper but won't always tell you how he wants you to change it, which can lead to you getting a little overwhelmed during the revision process. Stick to his written feedback and try to incorporate his comments during the conference as well as you can, and you should be fine. It's Expos--it's basically supposed to give you papers and teach you about writing, which it does. I think maybe some finer points about style and the art of writing would be good--there's only so many times you can learn "don't make your thesis too broad" or "stay on topic."
I would say that this course is good because it isn't like a lot of expos classes, in that we don't spend all of class time editing each other's papers. It felt more like a small seminar with interesting topics and readings.
It's Expos, so it probably won't be your favorite class, but Kevin is good at leading class discussions. Warhol and the Rocky Horror Picture Show are some of the best sources used in any Expos course.  Do not expect it to be easy- I'm expecting a better grade in organic chemistry than I am in this course.
Kevin is a caring instructor who will definitely help you understand the material. I thought that sometimes he had a bit of a binary way of thinking; it felt as if answers were either right or wrong, with no in-between. Most of the material is useful in rounding out your cultural knowledge; it definitely offers experience with pop cultural phenomena that have shaped our society today.
Take this Expos class if you're interested in Pop Art, the 1960s/1970s, Rocky Horror Picture Show, etc. It is definitely a bit art theory-heavy; there's only one unit in which you read a novel. That being said, it's a great Expos class to take. Kevin is super helpful/knowledgable and gives extremely useful feedback. You will become a better writer. There's a substantial amount of reading each week, but essays are definitely graded fairly.
Take this class if you have a deep interest in hour-long conversations about the meaning of a soup can.For people who are really interested in Pop art (the 1960s movement, not "popular art"), this might be a good course. However, the class is not about the sociological trends of pop culture, like I had thought. It really is just a focus on the literature, art, or film that comprise each phenomenon. If you are a science/math-inclined person, I would not recommend this class. You won't actually learn how to write. Instead, you'll read and learn some trivial things that humanities-people like to argue about. If you are a humanities-leaning person, Kevin is a really nice person and the class may be interesting. However, be careful about what you turn in. Kevin is a little vague in what he wants.
Fantastic course!
You should absolutely take this expos if the subject sounds interesting to you at all. All of the readings are really interesting and varied - cultural theory, autobiographies, a novel, a film. Kevin is a fantastic preceptor. He offers helpful comments on revisions and dedicates a lot of time and energy to each student. Class discussions are interesting (except the ones about learning the mechanics of writing) This is easily the least painful way to fulfill your expos requirement.
It gave me the opportunity to study things that interested me in a personally rewarding and self improving environment.
I had enrolled in this class with the anticipation that it would have at least some element of pop music. I personally think that pop culture is pretty fascinating, so I had come into the expos course thinking that I would absolutely love the subject matter. However, many of the readings discussed the much more theoretical aspects of pop culture, which I honestly found were very boring and uninteresting. Because the second paper especially focused on this theoretical component, it was pretty miserable having to write it. Additionally, there was almost no music component for the whole expos class, which I found somewhat disappointing. Nevertheless, I think Kevin is an awesome preceptor, and some of the discussions that weren't about the theoretical component and actually talked about the art itself was interesting. Additionally, compared to other expos classes, it seems to be pretty light on work. I guess if you're taking this class, make sure your expectations aren't as high as mine were.
This class was amazing. So many people talk about how much they hate expos but I loved this course. Kevin is a fantastic preceptor and he actually helps you grow as a writer. He truly wants to help students and he's incredibly fun in the classroom. The readings aren't terrible and they actually are often interesting. This course overall is amazing and most definitely one of my favorite classes of freshman year.
Take this course if you are actually interested in the material.  If not, you will find it horribly boring and probably not end up doing the readings, then not allowing you to reach your full potential when writing.
