Very interesting and informative about the world's hold with China.
As with all Expos, you don't learn nearly enough about the topic as you'd like and spend much more time on writing processes, which some people need far more help with than others. For Expos, this is a decent course, and is certainly relevant to this day and age, but it's not as fun as I expected.
You have to be a pretty strong writer going in to this course to do well. Sara is a good teacher in section and the readings are interesting, but she is a tough marker and you have to be prepared to meet her high expectations!
The class had some interesting points, but could also be quite dry
Kind of too much work
This course is graded harshly, at least if Sara teaches it, so be mindful of that when you choose the course.
Difficult expos class. Only take it if you have experience with or are looking for experience with social science writing and theoretical papers
One of the better Expos topics, based on discussions with other students. I think that it was an interesting class which touched on a very important topic. I also think that this class helped me with the "big-picture" components of academic writing, which is useful.
Do all the reading on time and start all your papers early.
This was a really great class. It really gave me a great introduction to college writing, improved my writing abilities, and covered an interesting and important topic. Sara runs the class very well and provides excellent feedback on essay drafts. The class wasn't perfect, but I feel that the things that could be improved were symptoms of the expos program as a whole, and not this individual section. I highly recommend this section of expos!
Do not take this class.
This class covers very interesting material and is very fair in terms of grading and coursework. Also Sara Newland is great- definitely would recommend it!
A great class! Take it if you are interested about the rise of China and interested in the social sciences.
The objective of this class is not necessarily to teach you about US-China relations.  The objective of the class is to teach you how to write academic, college-level essays, and it does so by using US-China relations as a framework.  It's hard, and it's a lot of work, but only through putting that hard work in will the full benefit offered by this class be realized.
not incredibly interesting
This course requires much reading. The essays are hard to write because they look for very specific arguments. Take this class only if you are absolutely interested in China's rise.
TAKE IT IF YOU ARE A POTENTIAL SOCIAL SCIENCE CONCENTRATOR!!! SARA IS AN MAZING PRECEPTOR-VERY HELPFUL!!! If you have any questions and need extra help, she is always there. The material is very interesting.
Be prepared for some annoying/unnecessary assignments.
The writing process is difficult, but very rewarding.
it's good if you're genuinely interested in the rise of china, otherwise you will die of boredom and confusion. I was in the middle so it was okay.
I really enjoyed this class. If you're interested in social sciences and/or China definitely take it. Sara gives great feedback on writing assignments. I think I improved a lot as a writer by taking this course.
This class has its strengths and weaknesses like any other Expos class. First off, I would not consider taking this class if you are not strongly interested in learning about China and on the different perspectives and arguments of China's role in the twenty-first century. If you plan on brushing off the readings and just doing the essays, then this is not the class for you. The material is dense and a lot, but worthwhile if this is really something that you want to learn more about. The readings offer diverse opinions from all spectrums and gives new insight into how China is today. Like I mentioned previously, the reading is a lot and the assignments take up a lot of time often becoming tedious, but this holds true for other Expos classes as well. Sara is a good proctor and she will help you with your essay writing along the way. Make sure to come prepared to conferences, because this was the most helpful part of the course to orient yourself in your writings. Overall know that if you take this class you should take it with a grain of salt: the material is interesting and regardless of what some may say does affect the class, even if all Expos classes involve the same style of essays, but it will take up a fair amount of time.
While the readings can be demanding at times, this is a very interesting class, even if you're not specifically interested in international relations or government.
This expos class has more readings than some (or so I've heard), but it IS interesting if you are into modern China. I don't feel like I gained as much new knowledge about China as I expected, but I did learn a lot and enjoyed the class.
Since Expos is required, the important thing to do is to find the right topic. The Rise of China is an amazing topic, through which one can learn about the essentials of academic writing, and a more and more important country, at the same time. Sara is an excellent teacher! She structures the curriculum really well, and one almost never feels lost. So good luck on getting your top choice, which should be the Rise of China!!!
