Don't take this course unless you know that you are extremely interested in Orientalism specifically in the context of art and film analysis. I think many of us expected a focus more on Orientalism and theories of discourses and representations, but what we got instead was a lot of looking at art and film and calling it racist. The preceptor is extremely nice in class, but she's not very helpful in office hours, self-contradicting, and passive aggressive in online commentary. That being said, this Expos was significantly less work than many of the others, so if you're willing to put up with frustrating essay prompts, boring readings, frequently pointless class discussions, and the coin flip of "Will it be nice or scary preceptor I talk to today?" then I guess the comparatively light workload is a huge plus.
The class focuses on art, literature, and film. Be prepared to do some heavy analyzing. I found the discussions interesting, and Prof. De Young definitely loved what she was touching. The class pushed me to constantly improve my writing. It is a time sucker, though.
It's hard to judge how good a particular expos class is, compared to others, but the readings and the artwork we dealt with were interesting. The actual subject did become a bit repetitive after a while though.
This class is great if you are interested in the Middle East and art history. The class is very art focused, so it's important that you find that style of analysis enjoyable. Prof. De Young is incredibly helpful. Make sure to go to Office Hours to ask her any questions you have. She is so willing to talk to you about anything you are having problems with. She also responds to questions via email very promptly, so make sure to utilize how helpful she is.
The readings are light in this class relative to other Expos courses, and the essays are heavily art-focused. If you are thinking of concentrating in History of Art and Architecture, this class works nicely in conjunction with the type of essays you write in HAA.
This is an interesting Expos section to take and Professor De Young is patient, kind and understanding.
Prof. De Young is an excellent professor.  Not only does she give great, constructive feedback, she is always available to help either via email and office hours, and every time she does, she really makes an effort to listen and best help your writing.  In terms of the course--if you're remotely interested in Art History or Colonial issues, it's a great class.  Really cool field trips and fun class environment.  You'll definitely learn how to write a paper as well.
If you are interested in the issue of Orientalism and have a love for art and literature then this is a painless way to fulfil your expos requirement. Keep in mind, though, that the course won't really change your writing that much because limited time is spent on writing techniques and most time is devoted to readings and discussion.
A good way to fulfill the expos requirement while exploring a pretty unique topic that you may not otherwise get to study.
It is a great class if you are interested in Art
Many of us came into the class expecting it to be about contemporary portrayals of the Middle East, engaging more with the current media. It's not. The class is (for the first two months at least) mainly about nineteenth-century European art, which Professor De Young knows a lot more about than she does about the Middle East. Unit 2 in particular is not enjoyable, comparing uninteresting literature to uninspiring art. That being said, after surviving unit 2, I found unit 3 gets more interesting, and looks at a wide range of films and touches on the contemporary debate. The early readings, such as Said (only the introduction) and Nochlin are also interesting. Workload isn't too intense when essays aren't due.Professor De Young is friendly and was good at teaching us the basics of the writing process. She was also good at leading interesting class discussions (which was the format of most classes), but you sometimes need to push her a bit if you want feedback beyond the written comments your on essays.
