The reading is fun but explicit and violent; don't take it if you're more interested in classic literature. Professor Urban is hilarious and I always looked forward to the class.
Any Expos class will likely be painful because it's your first college writing class (if you take it in the Fall), but I'd say Contemporary Theater is one of the best available. Prof. Urban is engaging and charismatic. The class is NOT necessarily for "theater people"; Ken works hard to make the course accessible for students who are not used to reading plays. Take this class if you can!
Take this class if you're up for the challenge; your writing, however, will definitely improve. This is one of the hardest Expos classes, but the content is also very interesting and Ken Urban is simply amazing. Finally, the content can be very disturbing so if that's okay with you then go for it.
The most interesting writing course I've taken, because very few courses focus on contemporary material. More attention should be paid to the artists and geniuses that write in our day.
Be prepared to read some unconventional stuff. Be prepared to have hilarious and insightful discussions. Be prepared.
The plays we read were thought-provoking and led to interesting discussions in and out of class. Ken Urban is a very dynamic, interesting, entertaining teacher. He is a difficult grader, but he gives excellent feedback and pushes his students to think very critically and precisely and to be original; I feel that my writing and analytic thinking became much more sophisticated through this course.
Engaging topic and teacher makes fulfilling the requirement fun and interesting.
If you're not sure which section you want to take for Expos, I'd probably recommend this as a light-ish reading load and a great class environment.
Not only is Ken Urban a great teacher, but he also manages to make the class very fun! Although the essays are tough, your in class experience will be very memorable.
very difficult but learned a lot
Dr. Urban expects a lot from papers--a complicated and constantly-developing thesis, a balance between evidence and analysis, and a novel approach to the relationship between form and content. If you love modern theater or think you might love it, however, Dr. Urban's high expectations are completely worth it. A celebrated playwright himself, Urban knows volumes about modern work and is always willing to have a hilarious and deep discussion about the works read in class.
This was my favorite class of the semester, despite the most challenging grade-wise. This says a lot about the nature of the course. IT IS AWESOME!
If you've talked to anyone who has taken this course, they have probably told you that this expos is notorious for being one of the hardest expos classes. And it's true. You'll obviously pass the course, but it is difficult to get an A in this course. But, in reality, there is no reason not to take this course. Everyone hates expos, except the people that choose Contemporary Theatre. It was my favorite class during my first semester. You learn so much and you actually enjoy going to class. And Professor Urban isn't one of those teachers that just says this is wrong in regards to your writing. He actually takes the time to explain why what you wrote didn't work and how it can be improved. I can't accurately describe how amazing this class is.
This was my favorite class of the semester!!! Urban is an extremely engaging, sincere teacher. My class loved him! He provides useful feedback that will challenge you to improve your writing considerably. It is a lot of work, but very worth it, especially if you have the slightest interest in theater. A memorable class!
Fantastic course.  Ken is hilarious and brilliant and helpful.  The class is fast-paced and dense and we learn a lot quickly.  My writing improved drastically.  The plays are heavy, harsh, violent, sexually disturbing, a lot to take in sometimes, but they are amazing pieces of art and it's quite a privilege, in my opinion, to be able to read them for an expos class!
Don't take this class on a whim. If you take this class, be prepared to engage substantially with the ideas of some difficult and often confusing plays. This class can certainly be a struggle, but it does pay off in ability to engage in academic discussions and close read texts. The main weakness of this class is that it spends more time discussing the ideas of the plays than it does discussing the writing process.
The title says it all, if you enjoy Contemporary theater you will definitely like this class! People with diverse interests took this class, including math/science people. But, a ton of people in the Harvard theater community have taken this class, so its something we have in common. The plays you read are MUST reads, and they are FANTASTIC (although somewhat shocking). Not only has this class changed the way I think about theater, but also how I think about people. Analyzing theater is very different because by analyzing characters you learn how to analyze people. But anyways as Expos classes go, this is one of the better ones (even if you don't like theater). KEN URBAN (aka Kurban) IS THE MAN. He's funny and sassy and soo entertaining in class. He is a playwright though, so he will not be an "easy" grader. I do feel like I've learned tips that will help me in all of my future writing. In the midst of mandatory classes I've had to take as a 1st semester freshman, this was probably the only one I actually enjoyed. TAKE THIS CLASS, YOU WON'T REGRET IT.
Ken is a very hard grader, but he really knows the works and you really do become a better writer. It was a lot of work and can be very time consuming at times, but it is an awesome course.
An interest in theatre definitely helps, but I don't think it's necessary. Be prepared for content that can potentially be disturbing, but try to look past it and appreciate the writing, because it is really excellent. Also, you don't have to like the plays, but you do have to write about them so pay attention to what you're reading even if its a bit difficult at times.
The professor is amazing, and the class discussions were my favorite part of the semester. He really stimulates you to think about the form and content of a play, which gave me a much greater appreciation of reading plays.
This class is a great choice if you are a fan of theatre. The plays you read are a good assortment and give you a basic overview of the past 50 years. The assignment topics are also compelling and the class discussions are always fun and lively. Sometimes, though, the tone of the course - and I don't mean the grading - is unnecessarily harsh.
This is an amazing course if you already have an idea about how to write at the college level, meaning you know how to "enter the conversation" with the argument that effectively answers "SO WHAT?" The readings initially very shocking. If you can't handle gruesomeness and blood and death, then don't take this course. If you can get past the gruesomeness, then the deeper meanings behind the readings are extremely profound, revealing, and awing. The essays are graded very toughly, but you will become a better writer. This was an overall great course.
Expos sucks but you have to do it and this class doesn't have too much reading like some classes and Urban's grading isn't too harsh. However, it's a hard class.
It's a terrific class.  Fun discussions everyday, never dull or boring, Ken Urban is great, and it'll definitely help you with your writing.  Even if you don't plan on concentrating in humanities, it's a worthwhile, fun, challenging course that you should take.
Be aware that Expos is tough: Having to write 8-12 page papers is potentially really difficult and stressful.  Be sure to take an Expos class about a topic you really enjoy.  As an English concentrator, I really loved our readings and discussions, but if reading plays is not your thing, you will have a really hard time getting through this class.  Most importantly: Do NOT do what I did and leave these essays until the last minute.  I pulled two all-nighters for this course and stayed up past three on several occasions because I started my essays too late.  Plan ahead.Dr. Urban is great.  He's funny without being silly and he's very good at helping you understand difficult texts.  For Faculty Dinner Night he took eight of us out for pizza at Cambridge 1 (instead of eating at Annenberg), and he was fantastic to listen to but also genuinely interested in each of his students.Almost all the plays and readings are really good and interesting, though they tend to be dense and require pretty intense analysis.  Be warned that if you're squeamish about sex or violence, some of these readings will make you very uncomfortable: We had to read, discuss, and write about some silly and some brutal/graphic violence, pedophilia, incest, rape, and graphic sexual contentbut I have a pretty weak stomach for violence (I didn't mind the sex at all) and I managed to enjoy most of them.
This class is extremely fascinating, and if you're not afraid of tough issues (rape, homosexuality, dominance, cruelty, anger, hatred, incest, relationships, etc.) then it is so worthwhile to pursue. Dr. Urban contextualizes this class on the stage, in his life, and in the text. He is extremely tough and isn't afraid to speak his mind, but that's the beautiful thing about this class. If you love theatre and love to be challenged, take this course.
Dr. Urban is awesome! The readings are interesting and thought-provoking.
Dr. Urban teaches with tough love.  During the course, I was disheartened by the humbling feedback and the either very disturbing or very dense texts, but I eventually was able to appreciate it.  I highly recommend this course.  Everything comes together to mold you into an infinitely better reader/ writer/ analyzer/ thinker.  Dr. Urban is a very effective and brilliant preceptor.
This class is way too hard, and the material is terrible. Do not take. Unless you have a death wish. Worst mistake ever.
Ken Urban is at first intimidating, but ultimately very friendly and helpful. You'll learn a lot of theory about contemporary theater, although a lot of it may be quite confusing and dense.
Take it if you love theatre.
This class is amazing and a ton of fun, but it is a lot of difficult work.  Dr. Urban is an engaging teacher that makes you look forward to going to class everyday, but he is also a very rigorous grader, he really pushes you to do your very best.
If you have any interest in theatre or simply have an interest in reading some obscure plays, this is the class for you! Dr. Urban is absolutely amazing. You'll be the envy of all your friends because you love Expos.
This is the best expos class ever.  All of my friends in other classes hated expos, but everyone in contemporary theater LOVED it.  Not only will you learn to write, but you will also learn to become a better critical thinker and how to analyze literature.  Ken also treats the class like an English/Lit type of class, with lots of discussion of the works you read.  Ken is fantastic...he's so helpful and a really smart man.  The writing part can be difficult, but Ken gives great feedback.  take this class!
This course greatly improved my writing and taught me to evaluate and appreciate plays that, were it not for this course, I would have found completely bewildering and fairly revolting.
Most interesting Expos topics you could get.
The reading material is often twisted and disturbing.  You get a lot of feedback on your work and chances to write and edit drafts.  Some of Dr. Urban's comments are very insightful while others are vague and broadly applicable.  I have a fairly extensive theatrical background but learned many new things about theater theory.  Dr. Urban heavily guides and directs class discussions.  I had a fairly neutral experience in this class.
Dr. Urban is porobably one of the most brilliant people I've ever worked with and he has helped my writing improve so much.
While all my friends were busy complaining about how much they hated expos, I was obsessing over how much I absolutely ADORED Contemporary Theatre with KUrban. Seriously, take this expos. It's the best. While the assignments are uniformly challenging, prof Urban will open your mind and teach you to look at theatre in a whole new way. His witty comments are reason enough to take this class. The plays you read are all fantastic and class discussion is a blast. An amazing way to fulfill your expos requirement.
This class was easily my favorite freshman fall. Ken Urban is fantastic and the course material is extremely interesting. It's a lot of work, but a very rewarding class in the long run.
Prepare to work hard but also get a lot out of the course. Spend a lot of time on your essays, both on their first drafts and on their revisions and take risks with your writing.
It's a great class, but the subject matter might disturb socially conservative individuals. The instructor's expectations are very high--tough grader.
The professor's charisma, his wittiness, and his ability to help us understand the highly complicated, controversial readings made the class extremely enjoyable. I almost forgot it was a required course!
It's my favorite class! He's so amazing!! TAKE IT! You don't have to be a theatre person to take this class!
I was scared of Expos. But Professor Urban is such a great teacher.  I never thought I could write ten page essays with ease.  He is a very accomplished director and playwright which provides students with a rare insight to the world of contemporary theater.
its difficult, but i've come out a much better, more disciplined writer. I'm very, very glad I took this course.
It's difficult but you'll emerge a better writer from the course.  Nonetheless, I would have taken a different Expos class given the chance.
This is a difficult Expos class, BUT Urban pushes you to be a better writer. You won't come out of this class with the best grades, but you will be so much better at writing than you ever thought possible.
The plays are disturbing and wonderful.  Urban is a funny man.
