Take the class if you no prior experinece in writing
A very good class for people without writing experience. I feel like it really helped understand what analytical writing means.
it is a lot of writing be ready
If you don't feel a hundred percent sure about your academic writing, take Expo 10. It's not a stupid course for stupid people, but something that can really help you when you feel insecure coming to Harvard. I myself feel a lot better about my papers and Expo 20 next semester.
I thought I knew everything about writing an essay until I took this course.  Over the semester I learned numerous ways to go about my analytical writing.
really helps your writing skills going from high school writing into expos 20
TAKE EXPOS 10 WITH DR. MUMME!!! Even if you were placed into Expos 20, Expos 10 is an absolutely incredible course that makes you grow as a writer. Dr. Mumme is and INCREDIBLE professor whose feedbacks are incredibly thorough and helpful. You will never feel lost because you can always email her when you are stuck or if you need someone to bounce ideas off of. TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT!
I got a lot out of this class, it made me more comfortable in my writing and I feel prepared to take Expos 20 now.
Expos 10 is definitely helpful
Expos10 gives you an idea of the expectations for university academic papers. If you were placed in expos 10, take it. It will definitely improve your writing.
I really liked Expos 10! It was fun, I had good people in my class, and our instructor was phenomenal. It hones your writing skills so you'll be prepared for the rest of college, and it's not overwhelmingly strenuous.
You WILL become a better writer.  Classes will be intimate and geared toward you.  This will be well worth your time.
College writing is tough. Especially if writing is not exactly your strong point, a little individual attention you get in Expos 10 can go a very long way. I know that it was exactly what I needed.
Expos 10 is a good course to take to ease into college.  It helps with the transition and acclimates you to college writing and work.
