Definitely one of the best expos classes (second only to sports and the law). Very reasonable and nice teacher, great feedback.
Expos I realized is more of a bag than i thought. The requirement as a whole is a decent amount of work because of the effort needed to write drafts and (normally) substantially different final revisions. That being said. American Criminals is one of the most interesting and easiest ones because the essays are all on interesting topics and the in class setting is extremely laid back and often filled with movies/discussions of criminals or crimes. Lindsay gives great feedback on drafts and conferences with her are very informal and helpful.
Lindsay is the bomb.
This is a wonderful expos class. Honestly, I could not have asked for a better expos experience.
As far as Expos goes, this is a great course. Many people dislike Expos, but that is just the nature of the course; every class has three major essays due and the course is based around getting better at writing. That being said, class time was interesting and our discussions and readings were good too. We watched film clips in class, discussed readings, talked about crimes in our hometowns, and criminals in general.
Lindsay is a great preceptor, and really connects with you on both a writing and personal level. Even though it was painful at times, I am forced to admit that I think Expos did actually improve my writing.
It's an interesting class with a reasonable workload. Definitely not as painful as other expos classes seem to be.
This has been one of my favorite classes this semester! Section itself was pretty relaxed, and the topics for the essays were so interesting that writing about them didn't feel like a chore. Plus, Lindsay gives great feedback--she really helped my writing to improve in Expos and in other classes as well.
Best Expos class! All the students in my class agree on this.
As far as Expos goes, American Criminals is probably one of your better options.
This was a very fun Expos class.  The assignments were engaging, and the material is very interesting.
You need to focus on developing a great thesis.
This course was probably one of the better expos classes.  Lindsay was a great preceptor who was not obnoxious and gave helpful feedback, which is really all you can hope for from expos.
Take conference drafts seriously!
This Expos class was great! I was dreading Expos but Lindsay made it fun! The course material is interesting and Lindsay gave great feedback. Definitely try to get this course!
the final assignment is a lot of fun but the class is quite dry and somewhat boring.
I would tell future students that this is among the best Expos 20 courses available. The material is fascinating and actually interesting, and therefore make the course overall more enjoyable.
American Criminals was a relatively fun class with minimal work beyond the three papers. For the first paper, you get to choose one out of three short stories to closely read and write about.  For the second paper, you compare a murder mystery fiction novel to its film adaptation.  For the third paper, you independently research a crime in your hometown.  For each paper there are two short response papers that help you to start your draft. In class we usually work in small groups or have relaxed class-wide discussions. Lindsay has a dry sense of humor and you can usually get a good laugh during the discussions.  Overall, expos exposed me to a painful writing process, but I'm glad I had the fun knowledge of American Criminals to reduce the pain as much as possible.
The problems with this class are really just problems with Expos in general. They succeed in weaning you off of the 5 paragraph essay. Sure, your papers will still be formulaic and bland-- but they damn sure won't be 5 paragraphs.
Can't really get around taking expos, but this class definitely eased the pain of it. Lindsay is super cool and gives great feedback. A great expos class!
It is definitely a good class, but is fairly difficult at the same time.
The topic was fairly interesting, the work and readings were interesting and not difficult. But the feedback on the essays is vague which makes revision much more difficult
Take it
