Readings and assignments are relatively interesting, unfortunately it's constrained by the fact that it is an expos course so the deadlines, format etc is a nightmare. For an expos class, it's decent.
Sara is helpful and informative! If you are interested in China, you should like this course.
Engaging material and well structured course
For me personally, I thought this was one of the better Expos courses available. That will vary depending on your own interests, but if you think the course description looks interesting, then I say go for it.
I went into expos expecting the worst, but I honestly have no complaints about my expos experience -- it was really painless, and the subject matter was really interesting! Sara was a great preceptor -- the level of detail of her comments was really impressive to me, and you can tell that she spends a lot of time critically evaluating each paper. Her comments and the conferences were, for me, the most valuable part of the course. I went into the class a strong writing and I still feel like I learned something -- I have applied the lessons Sara taught to my other essay classes, which is the entire point of expos! The readings weren't excessive. Another thing that Sara helped me understand was how to tailor your writing based on what discipline you are writing for -- I entered with a very "humanities-y" style and learned how to make my style more appropriate for social science papers. Probably one of the better expos classes! You will not regret taking it!
The course readings are very interesting and the preceptor (Sara) is extremely knowledgeable and provides great assistance with essay drafts.  I enjoyed the class discussions, which really served to raise my understanding of the readings.  I would recommend this class to anyone interesting in economics or political science, or to people like me who have no interest in the social sciences but just wanted to learn more about China.
This is a difficult expos course but also a very interesting and relevant one. The assignments force you to think critically about the sources and ultimately allow you to shape your own perspective on the implications of China's continued development.
Sara is a great preceptor and will give you great feedback on your essays. Make sure to read the readings carefully, and always look over the grading rubric with a final draft of your essay to make sure you nail all the points.
Sara's feedback on conference drafts is excellent and very helpful, but only id you put in good effort. Its worth treating the conference draft like a final to get the best feedback possible
A great course! Just be willing to listen and forget your pride; your writing may be good, but there is always much to learn. Take the time to put in the mental effort - writing's not something that just comes naturally (especially to me), but Sara has much to teach you!
Do not pick this as your first choice.
If you like political science, you will like this course- and in turn learn alot about a very important topic. However, beware: Sara is a tough grader, and holds you in the highest expectations.
From what I hear, a lot of people really don't like Expos and think it's a total waste of time and stress factor, but I honestly enjoyed this section. I thought learning about modern China was incredibly relevant and not dumbed down at all, and the actual assignments were really painless, if not actually interesting (the research paper). I learned a ton both about my own writing and about China. I really think it's all about attitude, and if you go into the class thinking "I'm actually going to focus on becoming better at revising my own papers and how I can best go about writing a good paper" with a topic you are remotely interested in, Expos actually isn't as bad as most make it out to be - it can actually be a fun course.
The material is well selected and interesting for those who are interested in the material to begin with, else it can get more than a bit tedious. There is quite a bit of reading in this course, so be warned. Sara is very interested in China and is excited to discuss it with those who are interested, but she seems significantly less interested in actually helping to tangibly improve students' writing, which is inherently frustrating for an expository writing course.
Expos is simply something that you have to get through -- I know few people who would take it willingly, and the majority of my freshmen colleagues seem cynical and pessimistic when it comes to the topic of their assignments. Rise of China, however, is probably one of the best expos courses you can take -- Sara is an engaging, knowledgable and helpful preceptor who genuinely wants her students to improve their writing and gain an understanding of China in the current day. The course packet includes some very famous papers from the last 50 years of sociology and political science that are good to know outside of this class, and the final paper allows you to determine the pace, breadth and scope of your own research (a huge benefit for over-stressed freshmen!) Sara gets through all of the formalities of the expos process (learning about plagiarism, proper citation, theoretical lenses) with interesting papers and activities, and overall I would say this has been a largely painless course. Expos is something you have to do, so you might as well use that class time to explore a topic that is so critical to everyone's future!
The class deals with the growth of the Chinese economy and does a good job at teaching you the necessary writing skills in order to properly develop. It prepares you for college level writing but make sure you are ready for a very heavy workload.
I would not personally recommend this class. However, I am largely uninterested in sociology. If that is something that you are interested in, by all means take this course. However, if you aren't prepared to spend time reading dense journal articles, I would recommend looking elsewhere.
Learning about Chinas recent development was very interesting, and I met a lot of good friends in my Expos section. I was, however, frustrated by the grades I received on my papers this semester. It seemed that no matter how much time I put into them, I couldnt quite produce something that met all standards for a high mark.
This class is fascinating if you are interested in China from a social sciences perspective. I definitely improved my writing a lot from taking this course. Sara can be a tough grader, but she is very understanding if you take initiative and seek out help by going to office hours. Overall, The Rise of China is hard but doable.
The topics can be boring, but Sara is an excellent preceptor and you will definitely be able to improve your writing skills in this class.
