Dr. Fee is an amazing preceptor and if you're interested in the topic, this class will be completely painless! Dr. Fee is constructive but so kind. I actually really enjoyed writing the papers.
From what I hear about Expos classes in general, this is probably one of the better ones out there. Section isn't amazing, but certainly is not terrible either. There's not a lot of debate/discussion in section, which means there's not a lot of pressure to contribute, which makes the class pretty relaxed, and Dr. Fee is very, very nice. The topic is interesting (especially since friendship is such a key part of college) and the readings are good. So again, it's not a great class by any means, but for an Expos class, it's pretty darn good.
If you're interested in the issues of friendships, take this class.
This is a painless expos class, Dwight is amazing and makes it as good as it can be.
It is highly superficial, the subject is not intriguing for me
Dr. Fee is such a great preceptor. But Expos overall needs some re-working.
If you are interested in the topic of friendship (and have many things you want to say about it), this course is a great choice for EXPOS! I really enjoyed it, even though writing is often times painful for me. Professor Fee is great in his feedback and very flexible.
Everyone says that they don't like their expos class. This must be an exception. SWF was one of the best classes I took this semester; highly recommend it!
This is the best Expos class among all! The topics are really interesting and Dr.Fee is really helpful.
The topic is very interesting and engaging.
This is a good expos course that challenges you in your writing. Dr. Fee is AWESOME and really cares about all the students in his class.  You don't see kids complaining about their expos in Social Worlds compared with a lot of other classes.
Good course witha relaxed proctor who provides good feedback. Very reasonable.
Great course material, really nice teacher
This is a great course - relevant to the freshman experience and the changing world of relationships and friendships.  Dwight is a fantastic preceptor, great at engaging the class in discussion and bringing the topics back to our experiences.
Great class! I loved every second of it. Writing doesn't come naturally to me, so I'm really thankful that the preceptor made me feel comfortable asking questions and feedback to improve my writing.
"Social Worlds of Friendship" is a great course. The topic itself is very interesting, but the grading is somewhat difficult. The reading throughout the course was gradually assigned at a heavier amount with each paper.
Go into it with an open mind and a good attitude so you can absorb all the nuances of the course
Before taking Expos in the spring, I heard a lot of negative comments from people taking Expos in the fall, saying that Expos is really time-consuming, it's not a very interesting requirement, preceptors are hard graders and all kinds of things. But Social World of Friendship with Dwight Fee is completely the opposite of all those comments. At least in our Expos section, discussion is fun, writing is not a "requirement" but an interesting process and most all all, our preceptor is really wonderful. Highly recommended!
I haven't met anyone who is wildly enthusiastic about their expos class. It's required, though, so if the topic of friendship is something that interests you, by all means, put this on your list. If not, don't. That's really all I can say.
Really interesting class, but not easily graded
This class is helpful. You don't really have a choice in taking it, so make the best of what you get.
This class is very enjoyable.  Dwight is an good teacher, who facilitates discussion.  The topic is interesting and easy to talk and write about for a semester.
This class is a very interesting and relatively painless way to get through your expos requirement. Dwight is a great preceptor, and if you communicate what you need out of the course, you will most likely get it. Science people: this course is probably not for you. There is a lot of abstraction, and, since the course is entirely based off of analyzing something we take for granted (friendship) you might find yourself struggling for insights. However, the assignments are relatively straightforward, and you can't go wrong taking this course if you know you like humanities but don't know exactly what you want.
It's a good, solid Expos 20 class that has interesting readings, which makes the writing process easier in my opinion.
This is the best Expos section.
The readings weren't difficult, and the material was engaging for the most part.
Preceptor is understanding if an assignment must be turned in late, material is interesting, workload isn't overwhelming
As far as expos goes, you can't do much better.
Dwight was an incredible preceptor. He was thoughtful and engaged. The topic was very interesting, and there was not a huge workload at all.
This class was OK. Dwight talked a lot but was often too abstract and meta, which wasn't very helpful. It would have been better to have a more discussion-based class where we could debate the readings and get creative.
Very nice guy and an excellent writer himself. Also a great communicator. He gives you all the too.s you need to succeed.
