If you would like an Expos class that is going to be informative and helpful, take writing the environment. Martin is a wonderful teacher and the topics are quite fascinating (we read Thoreau and watched movies like Blackfish). Through this course, I was able to learn more about a topic I really had no prior background on (the environment) and I can say that my writing process and structure has undoubtedly improved. Martin makes sure everyone understands his expectations (which are very reasonable), and is phenomenal at communicating feedback to his students, not to mention investing in them and showing them that he really cares. Writing the Environment, in all, was a great addition to my spring term and was a class I found more than enjoyable!
This is definitely the Expos class to take. I dread writing but Martin made it very enjoyable and provided lots of support.
Martin is a great preceptor who is always willing to help you mull over ideas for your essay. The topics of this Expos may sound specific to just the environment, but you'll be surprised how things connect to life in general, so you'll always have something to say.
In comparison with the other expos courses, this one seems to lack direction. Martin doesn't give much direction or preface to writing assignments, which can make them more difficult than they need to be. An enjoyable course, but only take this if you're really into the subject material.
"What you get out of Expos is proportional to what you bring to it." This valuable piece of Martin's advice was an inspiring notion with which to begin our Writing the Environment course. Students in section had varying interests, from biology to literature to environmental engineering, to chemistry, to applied math; everyone brought a new perspective to the readings, and each person's contribution to the discussion about readings and the writing process was valuable to what each in turn got out of the class. This is something you'll encounter in any Expos course; choose ones that cover topics you think you'll be interested in, and even if you do not get your top choice, you can make it a valuable and productive writing and intellectual experience.
This course was likely one of the better Expos options- well taught, and I felt as though my writing really improved, which is not the case with all Expos courses
I would highly recommend this course for anyone interested in learning more about the environment and for those with a science background. Although this course is more literary than some others, the readings and documentaries were very interesting, and I felt that overall, this course was a relatively painless way to fulfill the Expos requirement and improve my writing skills. I did not have much prior experience writing papers in high school, and I felt that I improved immensely as a result of Expos. Martin is very approachable and encouraging to all the students. I felt very comfortable seeking help from him with each of my revisions, and I was very satisfied with the quality of work that I turned in.
This class is a decent choice to fulfill your requirement. However, be prepared to focus less on environmental issues and more how people talk about environmental issues. It's definitely more of a literature analysis class than a science writing class.
Martin is a very nice guy and cares very deeply about how your writing progresses throughout the semester. In my opinion, though, this is not a very stimulating class and I think that other expos electives offer more.
This is a great class for improving your writing and I was very happy with my overall Expos experience. People talk a lot about expos being a painful experience, and the fact of the matter is you're expected to do a good deal of work for it. However, you'll have to do a lot of work in any of them, and I found that putting in a little extra effort in my essays made the class all the more fulfilling.
Martin is great! The reading in the second unit is a bit long(two books with 200-300 pages each), but the rest of the work load is very fair. Please note also that this class does NOT deal with technical aspects of the environmental debate (except perhaps for the third essay, which is a research paper whose topic you select), nor is it really an analysis of rhetoric in the debate. It is more of a literary discussion about humans' interactions with nature. That being said, it is very interesting.
