This class can demand more work than necessary and isn't as helpful as I hoped it would have been.
If you are a science concentrator be prepared to work hard in a humanities based expos class.
I was excited that this course was about Jane Austen. A word of warning however that this is first and foremost a writing course and while Jane Austen is an excellent object of literary study, it is perhaps not the most engaging object of academic writing.
This class is a lot of work sometimes, and I ended up not really liking Jane Austen, but I became more knowledgeable about her work and definitely improved as a writer.
This course was definitely difficult. I was not a strong writer coming into this class, but I have definitely improved. Tess spends so much time grading our work, which is very helpful with all of the comments. She really forces you to think about what your argument is and she is very understanding when you are struggling. That being said, it is expos. She's a tough grader and makes your work hard, but you'll never find anyone else who knows as much about Jane Austen!
Of all the Expos options, this one seems like the best.
Only take this course if you really like close analysis of literature.
This course will be a significant investment in terms of time. I was not expecting to do so much reading and little exercises that build up to the three essays. If you do like Austen and decide to take the course, just make sure you invest a lot of time in writing the essays, because otherwise the "non-essay" assignments of the course will kind of have gone to waste. But be sure that you really like Jane Austen and literary writing.
Take this class only if you're interested in learning about writing about literature--the skills you learn here will of course be applicable in general, but the particular assignments are very different from what you would get in a science-based course.  That being said, I think most of the students in the class were science-oriented people, so you can definitely enjoy it without wanting to be a literature concentrator.
This is a hard class, but Tess is a great teacher.  If you put in the effort,  you will learn a lot.  She is really accessible outside of class, and if you are having a problem, be honest and she will try to help.  Remember, this class is supposed to teach you how to write.  Do not look at it as a class on Jane Austen.  Although you will get to lean a lot about Jane Austen, the purpose of this course is writing.  Focus on writing, not on content.
If you like Jane Austen, this is a good course for you, but also make sure you're comfortable with close reading analyses and literature-based research papers. Compared to every other expos class, it's probably in the middle of the spectrum. It's not terrible, but it's not mind-blowingly amazing. Tess is really nice, helpful, and smart, so use her as a resource (something I didn't do enough of!).
