Emily is absolutely wonderful. She puts an amazing amount of effort into class discussions and even more notably into her paper comments (both drafts and pre-drafts as well as final papers) that provoke your thinking and cause your analysis to reach new levels of insight. Expos is often considered to be a drag, and while occasionally at the end of a paper, I did feel a desire to just turn the several week-long project in, Emily and the material (Poe stories in particular) powered me through. There's a fairly literary/Englishy focus in this course, so that's something to consider, but seriously, take it, because Emily is fantastic.
This class is fantastic. I am a math person through and through, so writing essays is a pain for me regardless. However, Emily Shelton is THE BOMB. This course topic is really interesting and she really cares about all of her students. If you reach out to her for help she will gladly meet with you. Sometimes she will ask/offer to meet with students if she has some really good extra feedback, or she will email you if you want. TAKE TALES OF MURDER.
As far as expos goes, this is a good class to take.  The topic is interesting and the teacher is awesome.  It's not the easiest class, but it is definitely one of the good ones.
Very interesting but challenging
Tales of Murder made the Expository Writing requirement fun, engaging, and really helpful. This is the perfect medium to learn how to write an essay effectively and it made a class that I thought I was going to dread my favorite.
Take this class if you like literary analysis. If you do, it will be a great class for you. If not, avoid it.
This class is great if you are actually looking to improve your writing ability. If you put the time in and do the things Emily says you're grades will reflect your work.
Professor Emily Shelton is an amazing teacher who truly inspired me with her enthusiasm for this subject. She is always ready and willing to help anyone who goes to her for help, and it is very easy to schedule conferences with her to talk about your drafts, the writing process, and even the random ideas in your head that you don't know how to put to paper. The readings are interesting and you'll be very pleased with how much your writing abilities have improved by the end of the course.
Very English/Psychology-based writing course; Preceptor is helpful, accessible. Readings aren't too much (last essay is about movies), but if you don't enjoy reading about murder every week...
Emily gives amazing feedback on writing and the content of the course is fairly interesting; all in all, it's a really good Expos section to take.  Expos is going to be rough either way, but I think I enjoyed myself in this course than I would've in others.  And Emily is just great, you have to love her.
This class is really interesting. However, some of the readings or videos are kind of disturbing if you are not into scary things. The nature of the sources and coursework lends to really interesting essay topics that were not difficult to write.
I still don't have the answer to the core question of the class which is the only thing I cared about...
This class was really enjoyable! Emily is a wonderful professor and I think she is the main reason this  class was so fun. The subject matter was interesting, although not what I initially thought it would be. Of all the expos courses, I think this one is probably the most applicable to all disciplines that require writing and research essays (although probably not science, mainly because science does not typically demand persuasive writing). Emily gives incredibly thorough comments on all your response papers, essays, drafts, etc. and really works on stimulating intellectual conversations in class. I would highly recommend this class to anyone looking into it for expos.
I would say that Dr. Shelton is very intelligent and is a very good teacher that will help a great deal in developing your skills as a writer.
Tales of Murder is a really really fun course (though it can get morbid so be forewarned). Emily is a really great preceptor-she's engaged and fun and gives very good feedback. The class is varied and there are different media of primary texts (murder ballads, short stories, and-really good-movies). Overall I really suggest taking this course, especially because it is more general and can be applicable to many types of writing (history, english, etc.). This class was one of my favorite and I highly suggest taking it; Emily is also very understanding about deadlines, people's schedules, etc. and is very approachable.
Be ready to work
It was truly and intriguing class.
Take it! I have heard so many complaints about expos but I love Tales of Murder so much!!
This course was very helpful, not only for just writing essays and research papers but also because it prepare you for other types of writing assignments having to do with science and history.  I would recommend that students take this course not only for its interesting content but also due to the fact that Professor Shelton knows what she is talking about and will help you become a better writer.
since everyone has to take expos, this is one of the most interesting ones!
This is likely one of the best Expos 20 topics available. What's important for the class is always emphasized, there is hardly any homework just for the sake of having homework.
the films are a bit creepy
The moment you walk in the door any preconceived ideas you might've had about the course fly out the window, and ever session brings something new and elightning to the table/
I'd tell future students that it is and enjoyable class and that you learn more about the way murder is perceived by society.
Great teacher, very responsive
I would highly recommend this class as opposed to another Expos class. I haven't had any reason to complain, have found the subject matter incredibly interesting and engaging, and I thought that the Preceptor was really nice and gave great feedback on the Essays.
Out of all the Expos classes that I've heard of from my friends, Tales of Murder is not only the most interesting, but Professor Emily is a great teacher who's very accomodating of her students' needs.
Be prepared for the class to be VERY different from any of your high school English courses! Things are VERY open-ended here!
Be ready for a lot of reading, but very interesting topics
Even though "Tales of Murder" seems like an engaging/entirely interesting topic, it's hard to find exciting topics. My friends in "Contemporary Theater" or "Darwinian Dating" get excited about their essays and discuss them regularly, something difficult to find in "Tales of Murder." BUT, I have to say, that Professor Shelton is quite amazing. I wish I had more time to talk with her!
Take this class! The work is fun and interesting and helps you better prepare for more college writing assignments.
