Expos catches a lot of flak because it's required. However, it's not that bad. Janling is really cool and fun to talk to. You won't learn a whole lot about archaeology, but I do think that my writing improved by the end of the course.
Seriously only put this down on your expos list if you really, really, really want to take it
If you want to be interested in your Expos class, this one is fairly interesting. Janling is a cool guy and we get to take field trips.
best expos!
Learned more about archaeology than about writing.
This class is pretty chill...I can honestly say that I don't hate expos. The papers we wrote were interesting and I'm sure you will love them if you are into archaeology/history. One thing I would say is that you should rethink taking this course if you don't want to talk about archaeology all the time. But Janling is very awesome. He's understanding and he will help you if you ask. Also he tries to be funny and cool at times! haha
I polled my friends about their expos classes and, given their answers, I seem to be among the happiest. Janling succeeds in makign the experience educational, but not stressful. "Field trips" to Peabody and the highest floor of Annenberg await.
Very interesting class. However, if looking at the issues that surround contested archaeology is not your thing -- do not take.
This class can be dry at times, but Janling is very enthusiastic about the class and is very willing to help with papers. He wants to see you improve as a writer.
It's a good class, but some of the second paper was weird, and the course switched pace a lot throughout the semester from slow to fast.
It's a little dry and boring at times, but overall a pretty standard way to fulfill your Expos requirement.
This is a great course that makes you think about issues that you probably wouldn't have normally encountered.
This expository writing class is probably one of the most interesting ones you could find. Janling is very knowledgable about the topic and brings in a wide range of issues. Janling facilitates wonderful discussions that allow you to explore possible paper topics in every class.
Take it if you like discussing about archeology and nationalism.
This expos was a great way to think about different issues relating to archaeology and was fascinating no matter your experience with the subject. It was a really enjoyable expos experience.
It introduced a whole different topic that I would have otherwise not experienced!
This class is very engaging and Janling is an awesome professor! I really enjoyed grappling with all of the moral issues in the course and would highly recommend it to future students. The class may not have helped so much with the technical aspect of writing, but it certainly did help a lot with the writing process and making papers engaging.
Definitely a great Expos to take!
It's really interesting material to learn about! I liked learning about the history of archaeology and the politics surrounding it; it's not something I would have reached out to learn myself. This course actually inspired me to look further into history courses at Harvard!
Light reading, and interesting discussion, but I don't think my writing improved.
I would tell future students that sometimes the readings are a bit dry, but that they are usually not very long and everything that is a required reading is beneficial for that essay. There is no busy work in the course, all of the work you do has a purpose. Janling is a great teacher and is relaxed as well as very helpful.
Just know this class is meant to be hard. Don't worry about your grade and try to learn what you can.
