great expos class
Unlike many others taking Expos, I enjoyed this class, and am not even the artsy- or writing-type. Dont be scared; few people in the class had any extensive prior art experience. The readings tended to be light and generally were not so dense as to be impossible to understand. Class discussion tended to focus on readings and visual insights about a handful of artworks. Taking notes helped with the papers a little bit, but not too much. Some readings were more relevant to your essays than others, depending on your topic.The essays are difficult to write if you dont spend enough time finding a topic that interests you and has a lot to talk about, because youll be focusing on what insights can be gained from an artwork (or two.) If you want to do well, pick artworks that speak to you, and learn to enjoy the material. Its a lot of visual interpretation and provides a nice break from strictly lecture-based courses. Also, as with any writing assignments, START EARLY on your essays.
Unless you have an intrinsic interest in art, stay away. It's hard to write essays about art in my opinion.
Hard but makes your writing better
This class is great if you want to explore an interest in artistic analysis or if you are already experienced. It's very enjoyable to learn and Professor De Young is great!
This class is a fantastic way to fulfill the expository writing requirement. It turned out to be my favorite class this semester because I found that I enjoyed writing about art history so much.
It is a great way to learn about a subject you will most likely never come in contact with!
hard work, but if you pick a good class it can be enjoyable
This is a great course and Professor De Young is a great preceptor! Definitely one of the best and most interesting expos classes around.
It takes a great interest in history to enjoy it
Definitely a good class for Expos. Not too much reading which is nice. Justine is great.
Avoid it at all costs. This course does more harm than good to those who take it. You are forced to choose between assimilation into a crude writing standard or paying for resistance with your grade.With regards to this course specifically, the material is a siren's song. As an artist and connoisseur - I was pulled towards the possibility of exploring, analyzing, and writing about fine artwork, as well as the line between idealism and realism in the context of nude art. However, this course exposes students to fine artwork, then replaces the opportunity to explore or analyze with Harvard's deficient expository writing course model; from what I've gathered, this expos course plays into the aforementioned tragedy notably more than others.Unbelievably, these expos writing courses are required of all freshman, so choose the one with the highest Q-score and bite the bullet; for the good of Harvard and your future classmates, please take the time to do so as loudly as possible.
Only take this class if you have an extreme interest in Art History. If that sounds like you, take it. It will provide an excellent background and preparatory foundation for your future studies. However, if you just think the course sounds interesting, want to try something new, etc. No. Don't do it. Because this class is one of the harder EXPOS classes and only worth it if continuing your study in Art History.
This class was SO much work.  You are accountable for all of the readings, and there is probably 2-3 hours of work for every class.  This is not an easy expos, and if you aren't interested in art you will be miserable.
For a required course, I felt that it asked way too much of its students. The materials and discussions were often quite interesting, but I would not take this class if you are already taking a heavy writing class.
This is important for ALL expos classes, and it's something I seriously wish I'd known right from the start. Keep in mindself-proclaimed writers especiallythat expos is not so much a writing class as it is an argument class. While it is naturally important to write clearly, concisely, with proper tone, and using nice turns of phrase, do not spend your time worrying about these things before you have put serious thought into constructing an air-tight argument. Expos ultimately wants to teach you how to write an argument-driven piece of rhetoric, that is well-structured, takes relevant counterarguments into account, and uses evidence effectively. Your teacher doesn't care about your vocabulary usage if those aspects of your paper are weak.
If you do not already have some understanding of the principles of art history, you must have a tremendous interest in the subject.
Only take if you are really enthusiast about art and a study of the nude.
This class is more demanding than other Expos classes. That extra work often takes the shape of busy work that is not helpful in developing as a writer. The class like all Expos is graded against your classmates so if you care about your grade and are not an Art History person don't take this class.
This class was a lot more work than other expos classes, and I'm not sure it was worth it. It was fun, but I felt somewhat abandoned in the research portion of the class.
The Body in Art is one of the best Expository Writing experiences. I went into this class without any art or art history background. I was looking for an Expos class where I knew that I would always be learning, and this certainly was that class. Professor De Young is an amazing preceptor who gives very detailed feedback and really helps improve your writing. The readings are very interesting, but they do take up a lot of time. You will be working on Expos every day of your week; however, art history can be a lot of fun and the readings are always interesting. Professor De Young's handouts are also a handy guide for your writing at Harvard and beyond. Take this Expos class if you want to learn something new and exciting, are willing to put in a little bit of time, and actually improve your writing.
There is a lot of work but you learn how to critique art effectively. Additionally, like any expos class, it really teaches you how your writing is probably and reasonably wrong and how to improve it. It is the most eye-opening writing class I have taken.
very interesting subject matter, but difficult class
