Come to class every day prepared for the discussions.  They can be very helpful in helping you develop arguments for your papers.
It is very useful in that it helps to develop your own style of writing
Although it might seem like many other people aren't taking Expos 10, the truth is there is. Expos 10 is a great introductory course that establishes a strong or stronger writing foundation as you prepare to go into Expos 20. In my opinion, you cannot go wrong with taking this course.
Actually but yourself into the writing.
This class certainly helps to transition those who may not have such strong writing backgrounds, into the college writing atmosphere.
This is a very good course for those who are not confident about their writing skills.
It's a great foundation to do other Harvard writing
If you want to enjoy writing, take Expos 10.
This class is getting you prepared to write a general paper. It prepares you to think a certain way when reading and analyzing.
Great if your interested in improving your writing if you just want to get through expos do expos 20. Even if recommended for expos 10. It will be a waste of a class and you will hate it if you don't actively want to improve your writing.
Exactly as the other students told me before hand: "Take Expos 10. Do it."
It is very helpful. If you are unsure whether to take expos 10 or 20, go for 10. You won't regret it!
I can say this class really improved my writing in terms of structure and furthering my argument, recognizing even the slightest bit of redundancy, and analyzing. If you want to improve in these areas that are important in many forms of writing, you should definitely take the course. Also, Mr.Weitzel is a great preceptor; obviously very intelligent, gives great constructive criticism, and very skilled in forming arguments and explaining the intricate processes of mastering writing.
Do take Expos 10 if you have very little or no background in Academic writing. It really teaches one a lot!
I think this class, if recommended is an amazing opportunity because it will help you get to the level of writing that is expected of you.
the feedback is helpful
its a nit tedious but i think necessary
If you are suggested to take it, definitely go for it! It can only help in your preparation for further college writing.  William is very detailed and thoughtful in his feedback, giving great advice for further improvement in writing!
If you're unsure about taking or skipping this class before expos 20, I say take it. It is so much worth it. Teachers are really good and interesting, and really want to help their students.
you will enjoy it if you put the work into it.
Preceptor Weitzel was the most positive professor figure in my fall semester - he is extraordinarily available for all the additional meetings you'd need and is always finding ways to work around schedules to make conferences at convenient times for you in order to make them efficient for you.
Very helpfull if writing is not your strong point.
You might think that it is a waste of time, but it's a big help and a great inside into college writing.  I feel much more prepared for Expos 20 and all other writing that I will being doing over  the course of my college career.
Expos 10 is a great tool, and students should not feel weary of taking an extra semester of Expos. For people who have little or no writing background, it's an excellent ramp-up to Expos 20 as well as writing at Harvard in general.
Feel free to embrace your instructor because they can tremendously enhance your writing ability if you are willing to listen.
If you want an comprehensive and detailed transition from high school to college writing, I would recommend this course for you.
Don't hesitate to take this course just because it's Expos 10 and not Expos 20. I think it's a very good way to transition from high school to college writing, and I feel completely prepared and ready for Expos 20 because of Expos 10.
It is very helpful if you are interested in developing useful analytical writing skills.
This class engraves in a student the necessary tools required for college reading and writing. It is a great way to learn a higher caliber of writing and will aid in college writing, which is required for almost every course taken at Harvard.
A very helpful step to get you ready for expos 20.
If you have any concerns about expos 20, TAKE expos 10.
