If you're really interested in past and present issues concerning the city, this is a great class to take. You'll learn a lot and have a chance to research a specific issue in Cambridge that you want to know about. Otherwise, if you're not interested in the course material, this might not be the class for you. In any case, Lindsay is a great professor. She's really supportive and gives constructive feedback consistently.
I really enjoyed this course. At first I was disappointed with my expos assignment, but the topic is fairly interesting and applicable to many topics. Urban America uses city life as a starting point to a wide range of other topics such as history, discrimination, stereotypes, and collegiate life. Lindsay Cohen is a great teacher and makes the class atmosphere very comfortable. I am a shy person and even I participated in class discussion without being nervous. Also, the workload is manageable. Definitely take this course.
This class isn't what you think of when you hear "Urban America," but it is still relatively interesting.  Also, there is sometimes a lot of reading (welcome to college). However, you can usually get be with just skimming. Only take the class if you are a fast reader or comfortable with skimming.
This is a required course that is about writing; it is an important and interesting subject, yet the course is fundamentally about the process of writing, which is sometimes easy to forget. As far as this goes, this is a good class, and Lindsay is an excellent preceptor: her feedback is detailed and useful, and she puts a lot of effort into helping students grow.
It's a good expos class with not an overwhelming amount of work. The professor is really nice and does a lot to help make your essays the best they can be.
This is an awesome class take it!
The class is good overall. There is not much reading, and the prompts challenged me to spend more time on my writing.
It is very clear what is expected of you, and the course material is interesting. The course requires more reading than just Riis and Hansberry, however.
This is the easiest Expos class and is interesting
Very supportive preceptor. She provides ample feedback and is very helpful in organizing ideas and developing arguments for your essays.The readings are neither lengthy nor difficult to understand. The assignments are fair and nicely spaced out. The material isn't always very intriguing, but we talk about poverty and race, which are things we have all touched on before in our academic experiences.
This class is very helpful for your writing.  The preceptor gives very detailed comments on drafts and does try to help you along in the writing process.
The material is dry and the difficulty of the assignments ranges, but the teacher is excellent and cares a lot about improving your writing. Take advantage of conferences and you'll do fine.
Professor Cohen is a very good teacher and very cool. she is really approachable and the atmosphere of her classroom was comfortable, it was like she was one of us. the papers weren't terrible, some a little dry but very manageable. There are also a lot of peer editing and review opportunities before each paper which makes it hard to get a bad grade
The material is really interesting, and most importantly, Lindsay was an amazing preceptor and really made this requirement something that I looked forward to every week.
This is a fantastic expos class for what it is- which is not a class so much about urban sociology, as I thought, but about literature focusing on urban America.
If you like Urban America, go for it; if you don't and you got stuck with it, it doesn't end up being all that bad.
Respond directly to the teacher's comments even at the risk of letting go of your own original thought. You will be happier with you grade in the end. Enjoy the aspect of the peer feedback and try and write good drafts. You will get more out of the class as a whole.
This is a great expository writing class to take.  The material is interesting and the in class discussions are great.  The professor does a great job of critiquing your writing.
A great choice for the Expos requirement.  The course material is not too demanding, and Lindsay is a great preceptor for the course.  Her feedback is always extensive and she is always available for questions, advice, or help before you turn in the essays.  A very enjoyable course!
It a wholesome class that gives you a lot if you're willing to put in your time.
Decent course, not very heavy workload but there is inconsistent grading.
actually has some pretty interesting topics
Great class where you feel comfortable and excited to voice your opinion.
This course is a nice overview of various urban difficulties throughout 20th century America. You learn a lot about the suburbanization that took place in the 1950s, race issues, and tenement housing conditions that existed in 1920s america.
Unless Urban America is definitely something you're passionate about, this probably is not be the class for you.  Lindsay's a kind teacher who has a lot to share, but some of the main messages of the class seemed to have gotten lost in the more trivial-seeming details.  You'll learn a fair amount in the class, but there are some major hurdles involved as well.
The class is easy, but not very enjoyable. While we did comparably little reading, we endured a long semester of repetitive and often boring class meetings.
This class is not a lot of work, so if you are looking for an easy course load, this is a good Expos option.  Other Expos classes, however, might be more interesting.
Like most Expos. courses you learn a minimal amount on the subject of the course as most time is spent on learning the writing process and how to improve your writing.
The grading system is pretty fair. The first two papers aren't that difficult. The last paper requires that you do research on Cambridge/Harvard which can be difficult. Overall, it doesn't have much to do with "urban America," but maybe that's not a bad thing.
It is an okay class. I wasn't all that interested in the topic but some good discussions do take place. Not a bad alternative or back up expos to take.
