The course not only provided the individual attention necessary to develop as a writer, but covered an incredibly interesting topic as well. I enjoyed looking at resistance in South Africa during apartheid, resistance today in Egypt and China, and resistance at Harvard itself. Kelsey is very specific about areas where you can improve in your writing and is a master at posing questions that allow you to develop your thoughts further.
Kelsey is Great and the course is very interesting, I enjoyed class time and the assignments were interesting. The grading is tough but it is one of the best expos out there.
You really have to have a good attitude and a desire to make your writing better. Kelsey is a very nice person but her priority is making you a better writer. So be ready to work hard at your draft, listen to draft comments, and put forth a lot of time and effort into your revision, because each essay could end up being  like writing two essays. Still, she really does help you think about how to write and structure your writing, and improve.
This will teach you to write well, no joke.  You get out of it what you put in.
For anyone interested in history or the study of social movements, this class   provides you with an opportunity to explore different scholarly analyses of resistance and gives you tools to express your own opinions about dissent in the research paper for Unit 3. The research paper is definitely the most rewarding paper because you get to define the amorphous  concept of resistance in your own terms as it applies to a specific case in Harvard's history.
I loved this class! The assignments were fun, Kelsey is amazing, it's not too much work, and you really see an improvement in your writing!
This class is an excellent course dealing with resistance.  The material covered is intriguing and thought-provoking.  You definitely want to take this class if you are looking for an excellent teacher teaching a fascinating subject.
Definitely pay close attention to the feedback and advice of your preceptor  because it can make you aware of ways to improve your writing that you may not have previously known.
As far as Expos goes, this has an interesting topic for humanities (esp. history) people and provides lots of great feedback. Take it!
do the work to the best of your abilities and you will be fine
This class is great! The preceptor is amazing, and the material is engaging!
The teacher is great and all of the subject material is very interesting.  All of the sources were applicable to times today and it was a great course.  She helped my writing so much.
