Decent class. Helpful advice on writing. But seemed to turn such an interesting topic flat.
Do it
This was my best class in Freshman Spring. I really learned how to write an essay and I learned a lot about cities, globalization and social protest. I really liked that some of the readings were actually movies or TV series. The only book we had to read was very entertaining and interesting. However, Mrs. Greenspan makes this class. I really recommend this class if you want to learn something from Expos and enjoy it. The grading was not bad either.
It's a decent class but if you don't like writing you probably won't enjoy it
If you want to learn more about the roles the modern city plays in the global economy and society, this is the course for you.
Take the class that you find interesting.
The class material was interesting, especially for an expos class. Part of the assigned reading is watching season 1 of "The Wire," which was a nice change of pace.  Also, the instructor is great.
If you want an expos class on an interesting topic that will help you make significant improvements in writing, this section does so quite effectively.
I was slightly nervous at first because this was a new course. However, I can confidently say that Cities and Globalization was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. If you are like me and truly enjoy discussing urban issues, this is a fantastic course for you. Liz is incredibly well informed on the topic, and she is a wonderful person as well. At the end of the semester, I struggled with several personal and health issues, and she was very kind and receptive to my concerns during this time. One of the key highlights of the course, in my opinion, was the fantastic balance between learning about the topic (cities and globalization) and learning about how to write. I've heard from many of my friends that other Expos courses are excessively focused on writing skills, which I think makes for a boring class with little substance. After completing this course, I have not only become a much better writer and 'arguer', but also have learned a lot about how globalization has transformed the world economically and socially and how global cities function and serve the urban masses. I especially loved the case-study based unit (Unit 2). As an international development enthusiast, I am incredibly passionate about urban development in South Asia, so getting to read a book on slum life in Mumbai was incredible. Overall, this course also did a great job with connecting our readings with real-world events. We had to read and respond to various news pieces for every class, and while this added more work to my schedule, the opportunity to analyze different city-related news based on the theories and ideas we learned in class was special.
Awesome preceptor, very interesting topic, essays are actually intriguing to write, class material is understandable and includes a tv show, extremely chill
I'm a science concentrator and absolutely loved this course.  It's awesome.  The topic is fascinating - complex and relevant.  The materials are interesting and varied.  We began with two papers, then used a movie, book, and tv series, and finished with a research paper.Liz (the preceptor) is smart, accessible, engaging, articulate, and really wants to see everyone succeed.  Also, she's timely with responses, and her feedback is quite good.  I'm quite happy with my improvement in writing.  Honestly, the writing process was actually made fun, in part because I saw visible improvements at every step of the way.As with any course, I highly recommend going to office hours, even if you're not writing the paper that week.  It will seriously make your writing much, much better, and getting the skills now will help you immensely later.  What you put in is what you get out, but with Liz, the multiplier is big.
The topic was extremely interesting and Liz is a great preceptor.  The readings represent the topic well, can be applied to innumerable essay topics, and even gave me examples on how to improve my writing.  The feedback  and conferences were also invaluable.
Liz was a solid preceptor in that she made it very clear what she expected from our writing. This made the class very fair. She was also passionate and knowledgable about the topic, which made the discussions much more enjoyable.
It is very interesting and fun!
You get to watch The Wire and La Haine!
It is an interesting class but you have to be interested in the concept of globalisation and the structures of cities in general
You get out of this class what you put in. My experience with the class was bad because I was taking a heavy course load this semester, and I was much more interested in the material that the other classes had to offer than Expos. As a result, weeks where I had to write essays were basically akin to slogging through a swamp. Liz is a great preceptor though and really helpful! Judging from what friends of mine had to say about their own Expos classes, I think taking Cities and Globalization is a pretty good idea.
This is a compelling course with a great preceptor. However, don't confuse that to mean that it's not demanding. Doing the readings, whether they be films or books or articles, takes quite a bit of time either way, even though they are mostly very engaging and you will enjoy reading/watching them.I think the toughest part of this course is assimilating the three social science theories about 'global cities' that you are expected to use as the basis of your papers. Be prepared to spend a lot of time closely reading and re-reading these selections in order to figure out what they actually intend - and what you can adequately use as evidence in your papers.
Mrs. Greenspan is a great teacher.  You will learn more than just writing.
It's a solid expos class, but it's still expos. Lots of buzzwords but some interesting source material (you watch The Wire! for class!) and some cool theory that you actually might mull over a bit outside of class.
This is a great and relatively painless way to fulfill expos. Liz is a great preceptor, and you get to watch movies and TV shows in additional to short readings. If you're interested in the material, its a must take.
This course has some amazing readings--you'll watch the Wire and study some amazing urban sociologists. But Liz is not the best writing instructor. You'll get a lot of generic comments like "show, don't tell" or "have an arguable thesis," but you won't really develop too much as a writer, I'd say. Finally, she takes a very long time to return assignments, so often you'll already be two weeks in to the next assignment before you find out how you did on a previous one.
Definitely pray that you end up in this class! Unlike some Expos courses, discussions and courses materials in this class are very engaging. Readings are very interesting and not super long. Of course Liz is one of the best preceptors out there! She encourages class participation, and inspires students to learn. Liz is always available when students needs her.
This is an awesome course, the material is very relevant to our modern lives and the readings while challenging to understand at times are really interesting.
Within the context of Expos 20 courses, this one is the one to choose. The subject is extremely relevant and interesting, yet never repetitive, the professor engaged and kind, and the readings are not too bad. Plus, we get to watch tv shows and movies!
This is a great option for Expos! Much more painless than others, by the sound of it. And Liz is a fantastic preceptor.
Expos has a terrible reputation, but this class was one of my favorites all year. Take it!
Liz is the best!!!! You won't find a better preceptor!!! The assignments and material are very engaging and interesting. (For example, we watched Season 1 of The Wire!). You will definitely learn a lot about cities and globalization.
Don't think of expos as a something that you have to do. It can be really helpful if you seek out help when you need and not for just expos but for other writing assignments as well. Also this expos class in particular is very interesting so if you like learning about social issues from different mediums then this section would be good for you.
For an expos class that you have to take, this was an interesting course that gave students a good level of insight into what exactly globalization is.
To make sure to do all of the reading because there isn't that much, yet it is extremely interesting!
This class does a good job of helping you become a better writer in addition to an introduction of interesting information.  The assignments are also super interesting as you get to watch the first season of the wire and the movie La Hane.
Expos is definitely a lot of work. The grading is strict at times and you won't enjoy every moment of it. However, you definitely will learn a lot about how to write at a more professional, academic level. Based on the commentary of friends that took other Expos classes, mine was one of the better ones. The material is pretty interesting and it will be one of your better bets for an Expos class.
This is a pretty great class. If you are interested in talking about the culture and economics within global cities then take this class. We talked a bit about slums in Mumbai, gentrification, Detroit, the banlieues of Paris, etc. This class teaches the writing style for sociology but anyone with interest should take the class.
This class was great, and it seemed much better than the other Expos classes my friends were in. The response papers were really easy and Liz was always very supportive and pretty easy going.
