If how man interacts with the environment is very interesting to you, this could be a good course for you. That being said, there is a decent amount of work and sometimes it feels a bit overwhelming, although I am not sure if that is standard for expos or specific to this class. Personally, I would only recommend this class if you are pretty confident you are going to be interested in the material.
The instructor is amazing and accessible.
If you're interested in environmental writing, this is a good class for you. Or if you're afraid writing about a topic you really like will cause you to hate the subject, then this is a good backup since the novels read in class can be useful in the future.
The course preceptor, Martin Greenup is quite ineffective and has no control over the class. The course has not contributed to my writing skills in any way. The activities done during class time were very unproductive and did not tie in with the course material. There was an excessive amount of reading and requirements expected to be completed in a very short period of time. The feedback I got for the drafts of my essay were utterly vague and fruitless, which left me at a loss during the revision process.
Make an effort for your drafts so that you can get good feedback on it at the conferences.
You may not be a huge fan of the environment and the sensationalism that surrounds it, even if you agree that the environmental movement has merit, but this class is still definitely a great option. Martin is very knowledgeable and enthusiastic about what he teaches, and he always has new ideas on the table that you can make use of in your drafts and essays. Don't be daunted by the first unit on Walden, it's by far the most difficult, time consuming, and the slowest. Everything'll get much better afterward.
This class is challenging but very rewarding as you will get better as a writer if you put in the work.
Martin was an excellent Preceptor! I learned so much from him, and he is very understanding of the demands of other classes while still having high expectations for his own.
