Very interesting but complex topic matter. You can get away with doing minimal work but the paper will force you to think and you have to put the cognitive effort in or you will crash and burn.
I feel I came out the class a worse writer. I was told to deconstruct all the structure and logic that I had accumulated in highschool that garnered me good writing grades my first term at Harvard. The class is sloppy and disorganized and the professor, while charming and fun, is masterful at deluding concepts and ideas.
ONly take this course if you have an interest in philosophy! It's a fantastic introduction to philosophy of the mind through both traditional and more modern authors. The papers really require you to delve deep into these topics, and Eoin is there to help you flesh out ideas. The is a great foundational course. But always make sure to be 100% clear on what Eoin says. He is very very smart, but sometimes his message can get jumbled.
It is incredibly interesting, not too much work, and you will have great discussions in class.  Be prepared to be writing a long paper over reading period though.
while the workload may be easy, the class overall is extremely unhelpful and hard to get a good grade on. also never expect to get anything on time.
Unlike other expos classes where you write about readings given to you, in this expos you have to write about philosophy ideas and come up with your own ideas. Interesting experience, but pretty challenging.
Eoin is a great preceptor. He is really available for meetings/answering e-mails, and wants to engage students to a higher level of learning. He does grade too harshly, though.
Eoin is a fantastic preceptor! He gives great feedback, is really nice and helped me so much with my writing. I would definitely recommend this class as long as you are interested in philosophy. If you aren't a philosophy fan, (like me), the first two papers can be rough as they involve a lot of philosophical theory. Eoin is very accessible though and helpful in explaining the theories. The last paper is a lot easier as it involves practical applications.
Eoin Ryan was an amazing teacher who facilitated very interesting class discussions. This class will impact the way you think about the present and future.
Definitely not a hard expos course, but also not very interesting to someone not interested in philosophy.
