This is the one expos class were you are actually reading scientific articles and material and then writing scientific-like papers. If you are into biology, definitely take this expos course. If you are not into biology, some of the reading material might seem overwhelming, but you are not evaluated on your understanding the "sciency" material. This course isn't as morbid as it sounds. You write about diseases like malaria and TB, but you can approach them in number of different ways.
Don't take it.
Unless you are definitely interested in scientific writing, this class will be very difficult to feel enthusiastic about.
This class is great! If you want to go into the sciences you learn how to read studies effectively and write project proposals but you also learn how this writing can be applied to the outside world.
The material wasn't very engaging. Although I learned a lot about good scientific writing and do feel that my writing is stronger, given the choice between this and more interesting expos classes (something literary or movie based, or even more applicable to my everyday life), I would have chosen something else. But I did learn quite a bit.
This is a very science-based expos section; most of the readings will be research articles. I would recommend you not take this course if you are not interested in science/infectious diseases/etc. Dr. Achterberg is really helpful if you go to her office hours. The grading is pretty fair. There are a lot of outside assignments, discussion posts, etc. so be prepared to do those in addition to writing three papers.
It's quite difficult to get a good grade, so people hate it.
Take this class if you are strongly considering working in the field of research and plan on publishing scientific paper. If you are, you will become familiar with different styles in the field and how to contribute, yourself.
It is highly difficult in comparison to other expository writing courses.
The information you will learn in this class will actually be applicable to your future writing in the sciences. If you are strictly a humanities person, this course may not be the most effective use of your time.
In general, I found Expos to be unhelpful towards the kind of writing I will do in the future at Harvard. If you are definitely going into the sciences, then this would be the right Expos for you. Otherwise, pick a different one.
Don't take this unless you want a background in writing scientific papers.
The course material is extremely interesting to those who want to learn about diseases.
This course was rigorous and fantastic. Ive learned a ton about how to write more clearly and effectively, about public health issues and health policy, and about how to approach essays, literature reviews and research proposals.
The assignments and grading scheme are fair and the readings and writing are relevant to the healthcare field.
Expos 20.003 is an excellent expos to take if you enjoy science and medicine. I think it's somewhat easier than other Expos classes because you read 2-10 page research papers instead of novels and the papers you write are graded in such a way that it's very possible to get high scores because of the nature of scientific writing - as long as you hit the important points emphasized by the class you will do well. Also, Jerusha Achterberg is an excellent preceptor who is extremely fair in grading, funny, charismatic, and provides really valuable feedback on writing. The structure of the class is also really easy to follow and Jerusha promotes a supportive, constructive class environment through discussions and peer editing activities.
If you're confident in your writing you'll be fine. HOWEVER, always completely rewrite your paper because it irks preceptors to see you change a few things and then say it's good. Even though it might be.
I had thought that EXPOS would be my worst class, but it turned out being very useful, very interesting; one of the classes I looked forward to every week. The topic on infectious disease is fascinating. Throughout the course, you progressively get more leeway to explore any specific topic of your choice. By Unit 3, you are successfully able to use your own sources and come up with your own specific thesis. The class really teaches you by the end how you can apply these writing skills to future Harvard classes, skills that primarily include a focus on a concise, consistent thesis, clear structure, motive, and audience.
Take this class if you love learning about infectious diseases and if you love participating in class.
Great course without a lot of dense reading. Essay prompts are interesting and very thought-provoking in regards to world healthcare policies. The preceptor, Jerusha, is amazing, and for a course that is mandatory for all Harvard students, I couldn't have enjoyed my experience more.
If you're a science person, Human Death and Disease is for you--one of the only expos that teaches you scientific writing
Dr. Achterberg is one of the best preceptors in all of Expos. She is tough but extremely helpful in her feedback. She is consistent, organized, and very fair when it comes to grades and you always know exactly what is expected of you. There is no ambiguity. She is also VERY willing to meet with students in office hours or in other appointments which is something you will come to value! This is probably the most sciencey of the expos courses, so if you dread reading long novels, passages, etc. and analyzing literature, this may be the one for you. Typically reading are published papers on things like TB in airplanes, WHO fact sheets, etc. This is one of my favorite classes I've taken thus far!
I highly recommend this Expos class for students interested in epidemiology or medicine; Human Death & Disease is one of the few true STEM Expos sections. With a very strong background in biology and reading primary literature, I found this class to be quite enjoyable. The only caveat is that nearly all of the readings are journal articles from the primary literature. If you haven't had much experience reading and analyzing these, there might be a bit of a shock. Fortunately, Dr. Achterberg does an excellent job of walking students through the process so that they're not felt to fend for themselves.
Dr. Achterberg is a good preceptor. She will give you concrete feedback that is useful in revising your writing (and your writing strategies). This class does not require any science background, so don't be worried about that. There isn't that much required reading, and minimal writing outside of the main 3 papers.
If you want to take this class make sure you want to do a science.
The materials will be engaging if you're interested in disease; the workload is relatively low.
Take this class. Especially if you are are a science concentrator and need to satisfy the expos requirement. Dr. Achterberg really knows the material well and has organized the course very well. You'll not only learn a lot about diseases but also how to write (which you can apply to any course) and even how to write a scientific research proposal which is very useful in future courses and grants. After hearing all the horror stories about expos, this course definitely made me feel that expos can be a good learning experience.
This course was very interesting, and I know I enjoyed it a lot more than my friends enjoyed their Expos classes.
This class was very helpful for writing scientific papers
You will probably not enjoy this class because the material as well as the classroom environment is not inspiring. I know that my best writing work is done when I am passionate and excited about the material I am reading and writing; however, when you are pushed into reading statistics that just cause you to dread the class, then paper writing feels like a burden.
