This class is definitely more work than the other expos classes -- but I definitely feel like my writing has improved after taking it.
Your perceptions of the Civil Rights Movement will change, no matter how much you think you know about it going in.
It is really the luck of the draw with this course.  If you get a good section and preceptor I suppose it could be enjoyable, but too much it feels as if that isn't the case.
Ariane gives great feedback on papers and is really accessible. The class makes you think about the civil rights movement in ways you hadn't thought of it before.
Don't wait. And don't be scared of starting the assignment wrong - as long as you start it.
This is a great course to take if you are interested in the Civil Rights Movement in terms of analysis and historical writing. However, as with any Expos, don't expect to learn a lot about the movement itself since it is primarily geared toward essay writing. In other words, expect section to be much more about writing an interesting historical analysis as opposed to learning about MLK.
Considering you have to take expos, this is a fantastic course to take.  Not only are the readings interesting and the class discussions often enjoyable, but I noticed a real improvement in my writing over the course of the semester.  Ariane's feedback is particularly clear and helpful, making the revising process much easier and approachable.  She is also very friendly and accessible.
Interesting readings and topics, but difficult assignments.
I'd really only recommend this course to those interested in American history and civil rights. Nevertheless, Ariane is a great preceptor, is really dedicated to giving good feedback, and really wants to help you improve your writing. I found myself even anticipating some of her critiques because I had learned to better read my own writing. It's probably not as fun as some of the other expos classes, but you'll definitely learn a lot, both about the civil rights movement and about writing.
Do all of the readings on time. Also, read other sources on the topic so that you are familiar with them for when the final research essay comes around.
Future students should be prepared to read a lot within a short amount of time. It will be no cakewalk.
If you plan to go into History, this class would be very helpful. You have to get through Expos either way, and a history expos lends you plenty of material to write about. Ariane will teach you to see things in your writing that you would have never noticed.
I enjoyed this expos class because it was a writing class, but also a history one. It gave the writing aspect of the expos program an interesting background.
The grading and workload in this course are both difficult.
You really need to be interested in the topic to be able to write a good paper. Keep that in mind when choosing your research question for the last paper in this course.
Focus on analys and evidence difference, that's the best way to get a good grade in Expos!
It is pretty easy.
This class is fine. It's more work than some expos classes, but it's not terrible and the prof is nice.
This class is an easy expos class to take. It's structured well and the feedback you get is timely and extremely helpful. Class itself can feel dull because you have to go over a lot of basic writing things and no one seems that excited to be there but that seems to be an issue with it being expos not with this course itself.
Honestly, I loved it.
It's expos. If you want to learn about the civil rights movement, take another class that will go into that because you will not find it in this class. Although the class is well structured, I found out later in the class that it would be nothing but writing. Not much engagement with material, just writing. But I will say this, Ariane is one of the BEST preceptors in the Writing Program! Her feedback is phenomenal and it really helps you with formulating your ideas.
Expos is combat surgery for the bleeding writers of Harvard. It's needed. It sucks. But you just have to bite the bullet and get through it.
Ariane is a fair preceptor, but I have heard this Expos class is graded more harshly than others. That being said, if you're interested in History/the Civil Rights Movement this is a very good class.
This class prepares you to tackle history and sociology/social science papers. If that sounds boring, DON'T take this class! Also, don't expect to learn a lot about the Civil Rights Movement - the emphasis of the class is how to write, first and foremost. Basically, it's expos. It won't be super fun. But if you're interested in the Civil Rights Movement, and in both history and sociology, you'll get a lot out of the class.
some of the assignments can be difficult but it is worth taking
The course is great to take because you learn a lot of the Civil Rights Movement that they don't teach in high school.
The class is really useful for people preparing for social sciences. I was very interested in the subject matter and the way that we approached papers because it was often in the context of social sciences.
Its expos.
This class is really interesting, and you have the opportunity to read a lot of different, more obscure material. The information from this course is applicable to America's history, and can be related to current day civil rights movements. I was not entirely interested in the material at the beginning of the course, but I really fell in love with it by the end.
I really enjoyed the research paper, but during the first two-thirds of the class you don't actually learn that much about the civil rights movement.
Ariane is a very thorough, diligent Expos prof. She will give you serious pre-draft assignments, but they will force you to not procrastinate and to think more thoroughly about your arguments. She will also give you serious feedback, aka tangible things to improve upon, and you will be rewarded for working on those criticisms. My one caveat is that it is a lot easier to dive into this class's material and know where to go with a research topic if you have a survey knowledge or deeper about the civil rights movement. Otherwise, you might be a bit lost at first.
