Very interesting class with a great teacher, but be prepared to work extremely hard if you want to receive great grades.
Dr. Shelton is one of the best Expos preceptors I have heard about. She is really willing to spend the time to work with you on your essays! If you are willing to put in the work, Dr. Shelton will help you drastically improve your writing.
There wasn't as much murder as I expected.
Take this class. Although expository writing (as a whole) is not the most enjoyable process to go through, Tales of Murder delves into interesting material, keeps the class engaged, and the preceptor is awesome. She gives great feedback and will genuinely help improve your writing skills. As far as an expos class goes, I don't think you can get much better than this.
Tales of Murder requires little reading, and covers an interesting topic.
TAKE IT!
I really enjoyed this class. It pushed me out of my comfort zone but it forced me to become a better writer.
It's a tough one. At least for me, so be ready to work!
This is a really great class. Dr. Shelton provides incredibly intense feedback and really cares about each students' progress. This class is very interesting and she allows you to take all sorts of different angles on papers so you can always be writing about something you're interested in. Seriously good as far as expos classes go.
While it is an interesting class, don't expect all of the readings to directly address murder. Most of them are centered around the subject of murder, but most papers end up being about something else. Emily is a great teacher, but can sometimes be tough and hard to know what she is asking of you.
Do not be afraid of the murder theme, it is actually very interesting.
You have to take expos, so tales of murder is your best chance at enjoying it. Of course writing the papers was a hassle but Emily is a great preceptor and I genuinely liked her and found her to be very available and approachable. Her feedback is useful and insightful and she is excited about the topic which makes class more enjoyable. In my experience of talking to other freshmen about their expos classes, it seems that I enjoy mine more than most others which people find boring.
Taking this course will greatly improve your writing ability.  Be sure not to take this class if the idea of murder freaks you out; there are films you have to see, and watching them late at night is not an exercise for the faint of heart.
Two words: Emily Shelton. This preceptor is amazing. Sometimes I'd sit in class and marvel at the way that she thinks. She's brilliant, dedicated, and fascinating---and simultaneously incredibly approachable and friendly. The subject matter of this course is equally as interesting, especially the third unit, which involves documentaries and films based on true crime. If you're going to take this course, make sure to stay on top of the reading and participate regularly in class discussion - it pays off when it comes to writing your papers! And don't be afraid to reach out to Dr. Shelton if you need help or just want to talk; she's an exceptionally warm and amiable individual.
Emily is a fantastic preceptor and the class is very worthwhile. That said, the workload is non-negligible, and the assignments are not easy, but this is common to all expos sections.
Mrs. Shelton is one of the best, most involved teachers I have ever had.  She is willing to help you whenever you need it, and her input and analysis are unmatched.
Emily Shelton is a tough grader, but if you really want to learn how to write well, take this course.
Dr. Shelton is a rare jewel of a preceptor.  Even good or excellent writers will realize that they have a lot to gain in their writing under this preceptor.
expos isn't going to be fun so you might as well take a more interesting class with a great preceptor!
take it in the fall semester of your freshman year to get it out of the way.
It's definitely an interesting course, and the teacher is fantastic. I wouldn't have changed this class for any other expos class.
very interesting subject material and alot of topics to choose to write about
The teacher is awesome but the class is pretty tough.  The material is probably more interesting than other Expos 20 but still a little bland.  However, the teacher is probably much better than those in other classes.
If you are going into this class, which i recommend with reservations, be ready to work very hard on your essays, and make sure you read what you are assigned.
Emily makes this course extremely rewarding by pushing you to write at you best. I considered myself a strong writer coming into the class, but have seen a huge improvement in my work over the course of the semester. Emily is always willing to help when you have questions, but really makes you think and analyze for yourself, which is challenging but very beneficial. Do not take this course for an easy A...you really have to earn your grade in this course. Instead, take the class because you're genuinely interested in improving your  writing and engaging in interesting, challenging material.
This is a great course that focuses on argumentative and logical thinking, not grammar/diction/syntax, so be confident in your skills as a writer (but not necessarily a thinker) before you take this class. It's not an easy course, but it's a fair course and you'll find that by the end of the semester, your method of writing and thinking about writing will have changed drastically. Don't take this course with other essay courses+pset courses, because everything usually ends up due around the same time, and you'll definitely want time to address revisions thoroughly because Emily gives a very large amount of good, constructive feedback.
As a required Expos course, it really is not too much work and is definitely more interesting than some of the others I've heard about. It's just somewhat difficult to get really great grades.
Emily is an awesome preceptor, who is really friendly and engaging but most importantly is a great teacher. I never  I would completely recommend taking this section just to have her for a preceptor, except I would warn you to be prepared for some gruesome material. The material isn't as confronting as I've heard the material in some other expos sections is, but a section entitled "Tales of Murder" is inevitably going to freak you out a little at least once.
If you're looking for an Expos section, consider this one. Dr. Shelton is an extraordinary, insightful preceptor; she makes herself easily accessible, is always willing to help whether you want to talk about your ideas or go over a draft, and gives you more feedback than you'll know what to do with. Plus, the course matter is something you don't usually have the opportunity to study,
This class focuses on deep discussion of the material and analysis of murders which isn't as gruesome as it sounds, but fun.
Take full advantage of all the opportunities for help in this class. The teacher really makes an effort to be available for office hours and conferencing, and this is really one of the only class which provides that kind of support in essay writing.
As dreadful as it is having to take a mandatory writing class, Professor Shelton did a great job engaging everyone in class, personalizing the writing process, and giving us confidence as writers. The notion of "college-level writing" (especially after the awful writing assessment prompt) is overwhelming but this class really eased my way into my other classes and was very applicable.
Tales of Murder is a thought provoking class that allows students to reflect and discuss a wide array of interesting topics while still learning the basics of academic argument and writing a college essay.
This class is very interesting, but you need to be ready to work and speak up in class. Most of the readings are pretty intriguing, but some can become a little abstract and analytical, which is to be expected in any Expos course. But for the most part, the class is fun and extremely helpful in developing skills as a writer.
If you want to get excellent feedback that will help you substantially with your writing, definitely take "Tales of Murder". Ms. Shelton is a fantastic preceptor who is always willing to help and makes class worthwhile and enjoyable. You get to analyze a variety of works - from ballads to short stories to films - and the class provides you with lots of great materials to help you understand what makes an effective essay. Expos was my favorite class - I think in large part because this section was so good.
Take the time to prepare a good first draft to make revision more useful. Use comments and suggestions to improve your essay.
for expos, this was very good. i learned a lot about how to write, and dr shelton is always very helpful. the material is mostly interesting, but there is some literary criticism type stuff that is dry and boring. still, this seemed like an excellent way to do the expos requirement, and dr shelton is fantastic.
Do not let the writing assignments sneak up on you.  I do not think I reached my full potential when writing because I could not spend enough time on the papers.  The deadlines match up with many other deadlines for other classes.
