The preceptor is amazing, but my experience with the class itself and assignments were sub-par.
One thing I realized too late is that the work can be very helpful, even if it's not graded. Take as much as you can out of the extra assignments
Do not take this course unless you are absolutely interested in nature and environment. Otherwise, it will be boring.
Martin is frank with his advice but he really wants you to improve. However, most of the work will fall on you. It's often difficult to ask for help in writing because it's independent, so don't expect that everything is given to you.
Martin will definitely improve your writing, and he really cares about you and your writing. His feedback on response papers and essays is detailed and right on the mark. Also, the trip to Walden Pond is lovely. Some of the books (especially Walden) may be a bit dry, but they are classics of environmental literature. As with almost all Expos courses, it is by no means light on work during weeks with essays and revisions, but from talking with friends, this is definitely one of the better Expos courses.
This class is meant to challenge you but it does more than this. It causes you to grow and when you look back at yourself as a writer, even a debater, after a few months, it is hard to recognize yourself because you have grown so much.
If you like the type of material we read (i.e. if Silent Spring interests you), the class will be a ton of fun. Otherwise, prepare yourself to slog through a lot of course material that you won't enjoy at all. Martin's a very good critic of your writing but the class is often tough to sit through on weeks where you're not particularly doing anything but working through material. Many of your essay prompts will essentially be "read/watch this. write about it." If you're okay with that lack of direction, you'll love it. If that openness frustrates you, this may not be for you.
This is a basic expository course with an environmental spin. The out of classroom activities, such as the visit to Walden pond and the viewing of two documentaries were the highlights of an otherwise very basis course.
I see this class as "practice" in that you can see some places where you may need improvement in your writing, but as far as actual improvement, this class offers limited help in academic writing.
It's ok but I wouldn't put it at the top of my list. The instructor is great though, so if he does another subject I would try that.
The readings look interesting yet they are not ideal texts for analysis. The feedback is extremely limited and vague. The response papers and the in-class activities are not successful in getting students ready to write an essay.
