This class is great for an expos class if you are interested in the Civil Rights Movement. That being said, it is challenging and really requires you to spend a large chunk of time considering how your writing can be improved.
You learn a lot.
A great class about a really interesting topic--with a preceptor who is knows so much about teaching writing at this level and also about the civil rights movement.
Wonderful class
For an Expos class, the workload is manageable, and the grading is fair
This class is amazing and its the perfect Expos class to take. The work is not overwhelming, and the assignments perfectly prepare you for your essays. Additionally, Ariane is extremely nice and the subject matter of the class is very interesting.
This class combines a learning experience in writing with an applicable and important topic. We were shown a diverse style of analytical writing. At the same time, exploring the civil rights movement in greater depth, serves as an necessary lesson for all young students.
Very well taught and really helpful.
This is a uniquely helpful course. Many people complain about Expos, which is often understandable, because it's a purely writing course and feels unnecessary. However, this course didn't have much work and helped me to evaluate my writing.
It's a great class, not an unnecessary workload, and has interesting material. I recommend this strongly.
This course has many intriguing topics, but sometimes it can be a little dry. The workload is not unbearable, so it makes it fairly easy to juggle this course with other courses.
In order for you to thoroughly enjoy this class, you need to be more than a little interested in the Civil Rights Movement.
It is challenging. Lots of the readings are very similar, but if you keep up with the busy work, it is manageable.
The readings are interesting but the way the course is taught is quite dry. There is not much discussion of the topic in class, it is more centered on how to formulate a paper, which was unexpected for me.
be prepared to write a lot
If you have a particular interest in the Civil Rights Movement and you consider yourself to be an accomplished writer then this is the class for you. However, do not expect this class to be a walk in the park.
To be prepared to manage your time over a longer period of time. It is not very heavily on day to day assignments, but that working little bit on the big papers every day will be super helpful rather than marathoning it for a few days.
My only reservation is that the preceptor is extremely honest, which can improve your writing dramatically.  However, you cannot take anything personally.
You are not graded on improvement. This class is a lie. Also, Harvard is hard.
This class is great to delve into the Civil Rights Movement.  However, it is Expos and can be rather unhelpful in actually learning how to write well.  Try your best on the topics and look at the class as a pill you have to swallow while learning about an important time on United States history.
Interpreting the Civil Rights Movement is a great way to explore this episode in American history and develop persuasive and academic writing skills. Ariane really knows her stuff and her feedback is extremely helpful.
This class does have quite a bit of reading, but it is an interesting topic most students have probably never studied so extensively while helping you grow as a writer, therefore making it a worthwhile class.
This course is great!  Ariane does an awesome job at getting students involved in the discussion and working on the different components of historical writing.
Prof. Liazos runs a great course. While Expos in general maybe a dry class, she does her best to improve the course. I think my writing improved because of it.
This class is good, but if you're not generally interested in the Civil Rights Movement then it might be tough to get through the readings.
This course is great!. Part of its greatness is due to the shared interest that the students and instructor had for the Civil Rights Movement. Therefore, please only take this course if you have an interest in the course material or it will lead  to a depletion of its intensity.
Ariane is a straightforward teacher, although not exactly warm and incredibly engaging. If you're interested in the Civil Rights Movement, this would be a good class to take-- although don't expect your understanding of the movement itself to be greatly expanded. Interesting conversations around historiography, although I found the conversations in this class to be underwhelming. All in all, it's an Expos class.
As far as expos classes go, this is a wonderful option. It's definitely best if you have an interest in the Civil Rights Movement. But no matter what, Ariane is a really wonderful instructor who is patient, understanding, and gives incredible, extensive feedback. I did not fully appreciate this until I talked to some of my friends in other expos classes who were not getting the same amount of level of feedback from their preceptors. It's a lot of work though and the assignments are not easy (especially the research paper). My biggest advice is to both work hard and do a good job on your first draft AND to be very willing to dramatically change that draft for your revision. If you do the prep work, your revision comes out much better. Also, take advantage of Ariane's availability out of class. Even if it's just a quick fifteen minute check-in, it's helpful. Manage your time!!!
This class can be a lot of work at times, but it will help your writing tremendously. The readings can be a little lengthy at times, but besides that it is pretty laid back. Most of the time you spend will be in the few days leading up to your papers' due dates.
It doesn't matter if I recommend the class because you have to take it. This class will be unpleasant, and it is difficult to get the grade you want. But you will emerge will enhanced ability to critique your own writing.
Gives you a new perspective on the Civil Rights. Opens your eyes to things you may have never even heard of!
If you are interested in learning how to write specifically for the History discipline this course is very helpful! If not, they do discuss other disciplines, but just be aware that the course is very much history-oriented.
Expos taught me how to write. The topic, civil rights history, was incredibly interesting, and the readings were great. It got me way more interested in civil rights history and especially in the Black Power movement and other parts of civil rights history often neglected in the "grand narrative" of the movement. I really enjoyed doing my own research on black activism at Harvard for the final paper, something I may want to continue in the future (it's so fascinating and inspiring). I learned so much from this course, both about civil rights history, and about writing. I learned to go beyond the five-paragraph essay, how to create a strong thesis and build a progressive argument, how to do some on-point analysis rooted in evidence from the text, and how to incorporate multiple sources and arguments into a compelling conversation with each other. I produced some great work in this class, the kind of writing you're never asked to do in high school. Entering college, I was worried that my high school had not prepared me for college writing, and this class gave me the preparation and confidence I needed to take on the world of college papers. Ariane was a wonderful preceptor. She really challenged me to become a much better writer, asking me to do things I thought I couldn't do, then discovered I could. She also gives amazing, in-depth feedback that will dramatically improve your papers, both in draft conferences and in her extensive written comments. Another great thing about this course was my classmates. Because it attracts people who are interested in civil rights history, I got to meet some really cool people and we had some great discussions. Pulling apart people's papers in class really helped me with my own writing too. Since I want to study history (and specifically black history), this was the perfect Expos class for me because it taught me how to read and write about history. Definitely recommend this course to anyone interested in the humanities or in black history. Best expos class, in my opinion. It helped me discover a new passion and opened up a new world of history--Black Power--to me. It will work you, but it will make you a better writer, guaranteed.
It is a history-based course, so if you are not interested in that you may find it not as interesting as some others in the class.
very interesting subject matter, definitely a better expos to take
This class will challenge you to change your views on writing and to change your argument structuring strategy entirely, but you will leave a far better writer than when you came.
Although you are pushed by Ariane, I think that if you take her criticism positively and look at the overall experience in an optimistic light, you can really get a lot out of it.  I also thought that the subject material was extremely interesting and even enjoyed writing my research paper, even though this was not my first choice Expos class.  It was a good Expos experience.
This was a really interesting class for me as it allowed me to gain a perspective on the Civil Rights Movement while greatly improving my writing skills and teaching me how to construct an essay in an efficient and proper manner. If you have interest in history and social sciences I highly recommend taking this course as it showcases both sets of writing skills.
If you are not interested in the Civil Rights Movement, the class is not inherently interesting.
This is a great course about civil rights! I would definitely recommend that you take enroll in it if you love the civil rights movement or are interested in learning more.
This class is just OK. I would not recommend this Expos section to a student unless that student has a genuine interest in the civil rights movement. Yet, my writing DID improve, so it was not terrible.
This class takes hard work, but it teaches you a lot about academic writing.
The essay process at home is great, the in-class meetings are frankly a waste of time.
Interesting topic.  Good professor who is nice and understands when you're having troubles.  Oh, and all the readings that are assigned?  Well, except for the two the essays are on, they are needed only once, if ever.  Don't kill yourself reading them, since they won't serve you much purpose in this class.
This class is very interesting and the professor has a great deal of knowledge on the civil rights movement, and makes it very evident her passion for its study. The readings and assignments were always very interesting and engaging.
Dr. Liazos gives excellent feedback on the writing assignments but she is a tough grader. The in-class exercises are boring and often tedious. I have become a much better writer from this course, but I think that there are more interesting EXPOS classes than this one.
