This is great introduction to expos 20.
Expos 10 allowed me to be more confident in the way I write academic papers.
Expos has a reputation as the worst class you'll ever take at Harvard, especially Expos 10 because you don't even get to choose the subject you're writing about. This is completely untrue. I loved Expos 10 because, as a potential science concentrator it was my one discussion-based class and it gave me a break from pests. The small class size meant I got to know all my classmates pretty well and I got to know the preceptor. Dr. Mumme is really cool and cares a lot about making the class interesting. I learned all the writing techniques I needed to move forward writing academic things and I just learned a lot in general because the topics I was reading and writing about were so interesting.
Do it if you think you need extra feedback. Expos 10 is helpful because its students receive very detailed feedback.
I never had experience with writing in English before. I never wrote a single paper before coming to Harvard. I think they do a pretty good job in introducing you to academic writing by first giving you small tasks that with time become bigger writing assignments and finally papers. The preceptor is very supportive and understanding, and her feedback is awesome! Go to office hours! Send emails with drafts! They are here to help and they would do anything for you to get the best out of the course. Don't be scared to ask for extensions when necessary (when actually necessary)
No matter how good you think your writing is, it can always get better with Expos 10
It helps people arrange their ideas logically in their heads before putting them on paper
There may be a bit of a stigma with Expos 10, but I knew from before the writing placement exam that I wanted to take Expos 10. Even when I was recommended for 20, I opted for 10 because I still was super confident and figured that there's no way taking the course could hurt. I was right.
great class
Only take this course if you feel you're not a good writer. You don't want to have expos for a whole year if it's possible. But not a very hard course
Use the writing center and do the readings. They writing center helps provide more structure to how to initially approach writing, think about responses to prompts. The readings themselves are quite interesting. Also, feel comfortable talking to Liz about anything/e-mailing her. She can help guide you, and answer many of your questions :).
its perfect for honing in on the problems with your writing.
It is a great step into college writing skills.
Take this course, it is a ton of fun and pretty easy. I learned a lot of new things about Annenberg I did not know before.
While the course seemed to have a lot of busy work, it really did improve my writing. I feel much more prepared for expos 20 now.
This is a great class for developing your writing skills, however I would not recommend taking Expos 10 if you are already fairly confident in your analytic writing ability. I found the class to be somewhat helpful, but I believe that I would have been fine going straight to Expos 20. I did gain confidence in my writing as a result of taking this course, but I did not learn anything new and the work felt tedious at times.
