Great course on class. third paper s a research project involving interviews instead of reading several secondary sources which may be of interest to those who do not like to research as much.  Also conversations about class that you have during third paper are very interesting
Jim is an absolutely wonderful preceptor, and he makes Expos, a notoriously terrible class, not that bad at all. Additionally, the final project is really interesting and allows for creativity. However, the interviews can be a bit burdensome, and it really is so open that you need to have some general idea of what you want to do, otherwise you might struggle with writing the paper.
This course is very interesting, and you can take the material in almost any direction you find most appealing. If you want to do well, use Jim as a resource and ask him about anything you find confusing.
This course, other than just being interesting, makes you reexamine yourself and your own background.
This class was the best course I have taken so far at Harvard. It literally caused me to change my concentration; thanks to this class, I am in love with sociology! This class exceeded my expectations, especially given all I had heard about expos classes! I would absolutely recommend this course.
Make sure this class is something you are interested, and you are looking to learn about how to write for the social sciences.
This was an amazing expos, and Jim is an amazing preceptor. Take this  you won't regret it (if you're lucky enough to get your first choice, because this should be it).
Jim is the best preceptor. Engaging, friendly and really makes an effort to help you improve your writing.
This is a great course that exposes you to the range of social classes within America. After this course you will have a better understanding of why people draw class boundaries, how social class influences perspective, sources of social class stigmatization etc. You will also develop as a critical thinker and as a writer and come out of the class with a solid understanding of how to write social science papers.
Expos 20 often receives a lot of harsh criticisms because it is perceived as unnecessary, unhelpful, or useless. I highly disagree. The Expos sequence offered by the Harvard College Writing program has allowed me to develop as a writer, thinker, speaker, and presenter. Having the ability to clearly, succinctly, and effectively express your views is a blessing. I don't find myself exasperated, confused, or frustrated nearly as often when I am debating an issue with a fellow student because I feel I can more clearly convey myself. I am better at identifying the problem a question is referring to and I am more explicit in my answers. Therefore, I can't begin to express the positive difference that this class has made in my life.As far as the Experience of Class is concerned, the material is mind boggling and perspective changing. After every reading, I would reflect on the implications of what I have just learned and be shocked - excited too. Ideas of the subjective experience of class, normative control, proletarianization, constructing class boundaries (whether moral, social, or cultural), and elite class reproduction were very insightful, informative, and horizon broadening because they made me look at institutions and people differently. In this way, I have learned a lot from this course. It has in essence changed my outlook on social interactions, and the way I will approach problems regarding social stratification.If this is the type of experience you are looking for then this is the class for you.
If you got amazing peers, you will really enjoy the discussion in the class as I did. The feedback from peer students as well as from preceptor helped improve my writing a lot. Also this is sociology-related course, so if you are thinking social science concentration, you'll enjoy this course. The amount of reading is fair, and interesting.
This is a great Expos class. Jim is really caring and gives great feedback on your writing. I definitely came out of the class a better writer. Social class in America is a fascinating but often overlooked topic. You will learn so much more about it from the interesting readings and stimulating class discussions.
Jim is simply an excellent preceptor. You will always feel a great deal of support coming from him. Also, his feedback on essays is refulgent, and at the end of the semester you will realize that your arguments tend to be much more sophisticated. I had heard many concerns about Expos 20 as well, but this class is so much different from others. You will definitely have an exceptionally good "experience of class" if you happen to be a student of Jim :).
Overall, this is a good choice for an Expos class.  Jim is an excellent preceptor, and the subject material is interesting and applicable to life as Harvard students.  It seems that the workload (readings in particular) in this class was more than in other Expos classes, but it is really interesting.
The research essay at the end is a great opportunity to formulate your very own question, data, and thesis!
Professor Herron is a GREAT teacher. He makes discussions interesting and gives really helpful feedback. Also, class in America is a really interesting subject to think and write about.
Good class. Expect a lot of work, but there are no response papers which is nice.
The topic is very interesting and the class makes you look at social class in a new light. I learned a lot and it is probably one of the more interesting expos classes you could take. Also Herron is a really chill, nice guy.
Do the readings and prepare to engage in discussion in class.
if you're not interested in social sciences, this might not be for you. otherwise, it's an a very good course that has a very good preceptor
very interesting aspect of class and social structures in society
Great preceptor and decent class.
This class was my favorite class this semester. It allows you to expand on any views regarding class systems and gives the flexibility to write on mostly any topic regarding social interaction.
Jim was an awesome preceptor. One of the best things is that he manages to help improve your writing and teach while still being relatively laid back. He gave expos a relaxed atmosphere that was much better than the stressful experiences that I have heard about other classes. He is a fair grader, and gives good advice and suggestions at conferences. Furthermore, all our readings about social class were interesting and stimulated discussion. Definitely take an expos class with him in the future!
Herron is an amazing preceptor. His enthusiasm and feedback make this an enjoyable and helpful class.
This class is seriously the best expos class. Expos is painful no matter which class you take but this one is definitely the least painful. Somewhat long readings but well worth it. Jim gives really constructive comments on your essays, and he's always accessible through office hours and email if you're stuck on something (like coming up with a thesis) or anything else. You have to take it. Jim is awesome. The subject is awesome. Awesome.
Amazing class. The content is very, very relevant to life as a Harvard student, and you'll end up spending a lot of time reading papers that make a lot of sense without a lot of background. The papers aren't too bad to write, and Jim is a really great preceptor - he facilitates discussion well, gives great feedback, and is always understanding. Seriously, everyone always complains about Expos, but I loved this class. I'm a math/CS major in the making, too, so I was really worried going in, but I had a great experience.instead of novels, which Jim is a fantastic preceptor and he makes class interesting,
TAKE THIS COURSE. BY FAR MY FAVORITE CLASS OF FRESHMAN YEAR! Jim does a great job balancing out the expos part of the course with the content part of the course. I learned a lot about social class and how it different classes interact with each other. Personally, I am more of a math/science person, but after taking this class, I wouldn't be surprised if I choose to take a few sociology classes because of how interesting the content was. One thing I would point out is that most of what we talked about revolved around critiquing class structures, but mainly the upper middle class. It's more of a fyi than anything else.
Jim is amazing. He is so encouraging and passionate himself; I though I'd do government but Iam seriously contemplating pursuing anthropology now.
Dr. Herron is a great preceptor, and really cares about the students in the class.  You'll learn a lot about class structure, which I found to be incredibly interesting.  The reading is not a terrible amount, but be ready to work for the third essay-you have to collect your own data, which was a new challenge for me.
This was one of my favorite classes, if not my favorite. Thats pretty rare to say for an expos course, but I can safely say that I learned so much. Jim is an amazing preceptor whos a fair grader and gives great feedback on your paper. He is also kind and understanding. The readings are quite long, so make sure you plan ahead to get through them all because its necessary you have a deep understanding of the sources in order to do well on your papers. The material you learn in this class is so applicable to real life, and you will start to see parallels with the topics discussed and the behavior and circumstances at Harvard. Definitely take this course and put it as your number one choice if you can!
Easily the best decision I made for an expos (my first choice.) Jim makes the class amazing. He's a fair grader and is very relaxed in terms of logistical stuff (extensions, due dates, etc.) his writing conferences are super helpful! And the topic is very interesting for discussion.
This course was excellent in general, and especially great given that it was an expos course. I legitimately enjoyed our discussions and the papers we wrote. The topic was fascinating, and it really caused me to think about the world differently. Jim is a fantastic preceptor, and he really helped my writing to improve. If you get into this class, you have really lucked out!
