The course is tough, probably because it's an expos class, but it was definitely one of my favorite classes this semester just because the material was interesting. Granted, when I was writing the drafts, this class was definitely not one of my favorites, but during section and learning about how we should write our draft was interesting. If you like trying to imagine what it would be like if you were a dog, then I think this is the class for you.
difficult class and grading. Don't look at q-scores. I did but figured that most classmates are already great writers.
Dr. Hahn provides very helpful feedback quickly and works a lot with you to make sure you make the necessary improvements to your writing. Outside of the 3 essays, the other assignments  (responses, etc.) take very little time.
If you enjoy philosophy and animals and are prepared to work hard, this is a good class for you
If you are interested in ethics and philosophy, take this course. Stick it out until unit 3, that's when it gets great.
Philosophy based class, interesting material if you enjoy animals and morality of animals.
It's a hard class, and he's a hard grader. But take it! You'll love it, and you'll become a better writer.
Be prepared that this class is as much about philosophy as it is about animals.  Writing a philosophical paper was a unique experience for me, and so on top of dealing with the travails of Expos 20, I had to learn how to write a different kind of paper.  We don't spend that much time learning about the philosophical papers that we are supposed to be able to use/understand (Mill, Kant), which was difficult.
I really enjoyed the philosophical approach that this Expos brought to human understanding of animals.  Professor Hahn made Expos both an enjoyable class and one in which I felt I grew considerably as a writer.  He always provided thorough, constructive feedback so that after every conference, I felt like I had a much clearer idea of how to improve my paper and refine my argument.  Professor Hahn is clearly very dedicated to teaching and the material itself, and it reflected in the course.
Many people worry that expos is going to be a rough, tedious class, but this one was very good. Prof. Hahn is great, and the material is genuinely interesting.
This course was engaging and insightful. If you are interested in philosophy, the course covers a great deal of philosophical arguments as they relate to animal minds. It wasn't quite what I expected when I signed up for the course, but I was still happy with my decision to take this expos course.
This is a great expos! I mean, expos is expos, so be prepared to hate writing essays. But on the whole, I really enjoyed this class. The in-class discussion is actually very interesting and Professor Hahn is super cool. The essays can be tough but if you take them on in the right attitude and work hard it is totally do-able!
If you like philosophy and don't mind being told your writing isn't right, go for it. Basically if you do what he says you get an A, if you write well you get a B. Philosophy has nothing to do with the rest of your academic writing. The animal aspect is interesting and he's willing to talk about pretty much anything you want but the preceptor's ego is massive.
this was by far my favorite class as a semester. it was quirky and fun, and i developed immensely as a writer
This deals with a question that everyone can access and is applicable to every day life- morality of meat eating and animal consciousness. The name of the course is vague, but it is a great class and I am very glad I took it
great expos class
This class is not what you think it is. If you're looking for unicorns and krakens, be warned: this is a hardcore philosophy class about understanding the minds of non-human animals. That said, this will probably end up being your FAVORITE class. Dr. Hahn is not only the coolest, funniest, and most entertaining expos preceptor out there, but also a stand-out editor who will transform your writing. Get pumped to ponder the bat. You won't regret it.
It is a fun class about getting into the scientific debates on how much animals really have going on in their brains. Since Expos is required, it is a class I would recommend
Be prepared to keep an open mind about your work, and be able to shape and change your ideas.
I loved the course readings for the class.
Imagining Animals was an interesting course that exposed us to lots of new material about the study of animal consciousness while simultaneously teaching us skills in analytic essay writing. It was interesting and there was not too much reading each week. Dr. Hahn is a fun professor to work with and is excited to help you pursue the topics you're interested in.
You will become much more precise and mature (and explorative) thinkers. Remember to enjoy this, and not be bogged down by the "expos" name.
This class was probably as good as Expos can get. The readings delved into issues like animal ethics and how we can/can't understand the experiences of animals. A few readings were sort of dense, but they're not unreadable, especially if you're interested in the subject matter. Class discussions were reasonably interesting, though sometimes repetitive and inconclusive. Dr. Hahn was a nice guy and good at facilitating discussion, and I thought his grading and his comments were fair and not arbitrary. It doesn't seem easy to get an A in the class, but it's probably not unreachable.
Very good course.  The readings are very interesting, and you get good feedback on the paper assignments.
This is a challenging but rewarding course. The readings are thought-provoking, and reading them is not so much a chore as a reprieve from psetting/other classes. Dr. Hahn really inspires enthusiasm in the subject, but be warned that he's a strict grader! If you enjoy analytic writing then this is the course for you.
It is a nice class, and you will learn a lot, but it isn't an easy expos class.
Readings are cool, papers are difficult.
