In choosing an Expository Writing course, this course is one of your best options. The readings are relatively short, and the assignment topics are both interesting and relevant. I recommend this course in particular to anyone who wants to improve their writing in the sciences, or who is simply looking for a fantastic Expos preceptor (Dr. Mumme).
Dr. Mumme is great, and you end up learning a lot from her class. She is very approachable and knowledgeable. The only downside is that this is still and expos class, and if you are not one of the top three writers in your class, you will get a B or below.
Dr. Mumme is a great teacher. She makes herself really available, and cares about helping you improve as a writer and grow as a student. It's also easy to get into a conversation with her about things outside of the expos bubble--especially in her office hours. vcx
This is an amazing course with very interesting and relatable topics.
This course is very manageable. The topic is interesting and Dr. Mumme is really great. She was really helpful and friendly. There is not a ton of work. There is some reading and obviously writing but it is not overwhelming.
I really felt my writing improving throughout this course, particularly because of Dr. Mumme's feedback and willingness to help whenever I had a question or problem. I think she made the class about as pain-free and enjoyable as an Expos class can get, and I can confidently say that I have become a better writer through her assignments and writing exercises. If you like writing, but aren't necessarily a big fan of literary analysis, this Expos section is perfect because it combines interesting topics in science and psychology, particularly regarding the ethics of using human subjects in experiments.
It's a great class. Dr. Mumme is really helpful and genuinely cares about her students. A lot of people complain about expos, but I enjoyed the class immensely.
Dr. Mumme is really an incredible professor. She makes the course interesting and captivates the attention of the class the majority of the time. She keeps the course load manegable and there is very minimal reading that you actually have to complete thoroughly outside of your final research paper. Most of the readings you can skim and then get the details from the class discussion. If you are even remotely interested in psychology (yes, psychology. The course description is a bit misleading) or even neutral towards it, this is definitely the Expos class for you. It is as easy as any Expos 20 class can get, and Dr. Mumme makes it a lot of fun in the process - plus she brings in food for the class a few times throughout the semester. Huge bonus.
Compared to my friends' Expos classes, EHE had a lot less reading. Furthermore, the readings were actually very interesting so writing essays about them wasn't terrible. Obviously, I haven't interacted much with other Expos preceptors but Dr. Mumme is so sweet, funny, and sincere. I wasn't expecting my writing to really improve from this required class but Dr. Mumme's comments during revisions were extremely helpful and insightful. Another plus is that she frequently brings in food! Overall, she is a great person. Random opinion: she has a really calming/soothing voice. Tangent aside, this class was interesting and you will get what you put into the class. If you need help revising, Dr. Mumme is always super open to taking time to talk with you or e-mailing. So if the subject matter of this Expos course interests you, I really recommend checking out this course.
Dr. Mumme is a super nice person, and the course material is really interesting!
This class is great! Dr. Mumme is fantastic and the material is very interesting. Also, as someone who plans to concentrate in the sciences, I think this class has taught me valuable lessons for scientific writing. That being said, I was unaware that the class would be so science-oriented. For example, all of the readings are scientific papers or articles, with only a few exceptions.
Whenever possible, avoid writing "drafty" drafts. The more polished your first draft is, the better your final will be. Also, take advantage of office hours and emailing Dr. Mumme parts of your paper before the deadline. She is really nice and helpful. This expos class is one of the best, if not the best. The readings are not overly lengthy and the workload is manageable. Hope that you get placed into this class.
Take this class if you are interested in psychology!!! The reading was never too heavy, and the topics were always highly interesting! It never felt like a chore. Dr. Mumme is such a kindly person and engaging/knowledgable preceptor. Overall, I highly recommend :)
Class material is definitely very interesting.
This is the absolute best Expos class! I can honestly say it was one of my favorite classes all semester. Dr. Mumme is an incredibly dedicated teacher. She provides helpful feedback and suggestions on essays as well as presents interesting material and facilitates engaging discussions. Taking this course in addition to SLS20 makes for an especially enriching academic experience.
Stop reading this and sign up for this class! You'll be hard-pressed to find an Expos class better than this one! The material is really interesting (you get to learn about Milgram's obedience experiment, the Tuskegee Syphilis study, and do your own research on the ethics of human experimentation), and the lectures are very well-prepared. Dr. Mumme gives useful and thorough feedback on your essays, and she holds plenty of office hours during which you can further discuss improvements. And to top it all off, Dr. Mumme is a really nice person!
Great class where you learn a lot! Can start a bit below high school level though... Expos is much less of a challenge than you may expect.
Dr. Mumme was an amazing preceptor. The best part this course, I believe, is all the helpful feedback that Dr. Mumme gives on all assignments. She is very thorough in her comments on students' writing and gives students the opportunity to have interactive discussions with during essay draft conferences.
Dr. Mumme is a really exceptional teacher! Her conferences are extremely helpful--take her advice and you can improve your essays a great deal. Start your essays early so that you can modify your thesis if necessary.
If you do your research, you will find that Doctor Mumme's Expos class is consistently rated as one of the best expos classes. After taking the class, I can assure you that these ratings are spot on. Like most expos teachers, Doctor Mumme expects a lot from her students. But what sets her apart is that she TRULY wants to help you become a better writer, and if you are willing to put in the time, she will make it happen. She will meet with you outside of conferences and even office hours. She will answer your emails. As much effort as you put into your writing, Doctor Mumme will give back doubled.
Dr. Mumme is da bomb dot com if you get to know her. The class ain't bad either.
Dr. Mumme is an excellent teacher who gives helpful feedback. If you're interested in ethics and psychology, I'd definitely recommend this class.
The material is really interesting - I'd especially recommend this course for sciencey people who are looking to fulfill Expos without having to write about Emily Dickinson for an entire semester. It's also really good if you're looking to learn how to do papers in APA style and use research articles as sources. Dr Mumme is really great - she's a fantastic preceptor. It's not a particularly easy class... you still need to write essays, and there's a lot expected there, but no one goes into Expos realistically expecting an easy A anyway.
Compared to a lot of the Expos courses I've heard about, I definitely enjoyed my experience. Dr. Mumme is lots of fun and super helpful in improving your essays. My advice would be go to her office hours early and often to work with her on your ideas.
This expos is overall a fun and enjoyable course. Although the essay topics can be a bit challenging, the readings and things that you learn are truly interesting. I really recommend it if you are interested in science or psychology (this doesn't mean you have to concentrate in it)!
Dr. Mumme is the best. She's super clear, super helpful and super kind. She's also a very, very fair grader. Some people should prepare to chow down some humble pie, but no worries. Everyone gets a slice, no matter how small. Try writing your drafts early. You might regret not doing so. If you like psychology and cool human experiments, this is for you. Also for you if you want to write about why people do the horrible things they do.
One is expected to complain about their expos class; this one never gave me a reason to.
This expos section really focused on improving one's writing and was really helpful.
For Expos, this class is as good as it gets.  Dr. Mumme is an awesome preceptor and a fair grader.  The readings are interesting, and the workload is very manageable.
Very interesting, minimal reading, great feedback from the preceptor (who is fantastic). Recommended to anyone and everyone, even if writing in the sciences is not applicable to you or even of interest. Best expos section by far!
I kept hearing how students HATED expos, but i actually found this to be a great class, even beyond the scope of expos. I know some people would disagree, but i find social psychology and ethics very interesting, and also love writing to prove a strong point. Dr. Mumme is straightforward, but simultaneously upbeat, and she gets her job done.
It's not an ethics course! You won't discuss philosophical issues, but policy and historical examples instead. However, that doesn't make the material any less interesting...just interesting in a different way. The workload is manageable for first-semester freshmen, and Dr. Mumme is a great preceptor!
This class is great to learn more not only about writing but interesting, real-life themes!
A wonderful experience!
Start your papers early! This gives you more time to correct them to make it better.
If you are interested in psychology studies, take this class. Even if you are not, I would recommend it with enthusiasm because the preceptor is very helpful and knowledgeable.
