I thought it was a very interesting Expos class. I had no prior Gothic background but found it very interesting.
MM is a great teacher and will offer nuanced commentary that can help even a strong writer introspect. On the other hand, you may be disappointed by the literature that is read. Take this if you're interested in Romantic literature, but perhaps not if you care more about the historical contexts of the movement.
It's so much fun, with an amazing preceptor...the grading is a little difficult, but the interesting material, and the teacher makes up for it!
If you enjoy literary analysis, this class is a great way to fulfill your expos requirement.  Be prepared to wade through a mountain of research for the third essay.
This is an amazing course, especially if you are interested in the humanities.
You should take this course if you have a large background in gothic fiction. I think the students that were most successful in the course knew a fair amount about gothic fiction and weren't afraid to shove that knowledge in the face of the professor or the other students. So if that's you, then take this course.
It goes by quickly, but Professor Martinez is somewhat uptight. Don't take this class if you don't like Jane Austen...
Sadly everyone has to do Expos, which is quite frankly a wretched course and in desperate need of improvement, but you can certainly make the experience endurable by taking Gothic Fiction with Michele Martinez, clearly one of the better options provided by the department.
Gothic Fiction probably assigns more reading than some of the expos classes, but the reading is interesting and definitely worth the time.
The material is great and proctor brilliant and very attentive to students!
The reading for this course is amazing and the assignments are difficult only in that you are not given the question your essay is to answer, rather you are coming up with it yourself. But really, the books and short stories are fabulous, and likewise, the discussions are really interesting too.
If you enjoy reading and analyzing literature and appreciate Gothic fiction or related genres of literature, you will LOVE this course. Dr. Martinez is welcoming, professional and EXTREMELY knowledgeable in this field of literature. Feedback on essays is precisely tailored to addressing the areas in which your essay can improve and often provides you with suggestions for further research that will allow you to strengthen your essay overall. I would encourage you to take advantage of all of the main course readings as well as the supplementary in-class readings; you will definitely get the most out of this great course if you come to class prepared to discuss both. Also, if you ever have any during the semester, don't hesitate to email Dr. Martinez for her opinion or for clarification. She is encouraging of such correspondence and is extremely approachable in general. I am firmly convinced this class was the best Expository Writing class that I could have taken at Harvard, although this class obviously isn't for everyone. Some people said they weren't as enthused with this course because they didn't like reading Gothic fiction or analyzing literature--if you know you have such an aversion to literature, then why on earth would you list a literature course as an option on your Expos list? If you think you would enjoy reading and analyzing juicy gothic works such as "The Yellow Wallpaper," "Secret Diaries on the Goat-Girl," "The Mysteries of Udolpho," "Northanger Abbey," and many short stories by Edgar Allan Poe, then this course is definitely for you!
It's an alright course. If you love literature and have had prior experience with literature classes, this class is for you. If you liked literature in high and think you will enjoy this class, I would think again. Overall however, this course is pretty good.
A great Expos class for somebody who loved high-school English
If you like lit, this is probably the best expos to take.  The content is fantastic, and the preceptor is clearly an expert in her field.  Highly recommended.
As far as expos goes, I think this is definitely one of the better ones out there. The first and third units are pretty interesting, as you read a lot of really good, creepy short stories. The second unit requries you to read a Jane Austen novel and parts of an Anne Radcliffe one which was kind of tedius at times. Overall, I think this was pretty painless for an Expos course, and I enjoyed it a lot more than I thought I would.
If you love reading fiction and are interested in Austen and Poe, it's great! Also, its pretty straightforward and painless for an expos course
You are going to hear the same thing from 99% of freshman regarding Expos: it sucks. The class in general, I mean - there are just some inherent flaws of college expository writing comp classes that will just work themselves out over time. That being said, you have to take it - and if you ask me, you should take THIS one. Absolutely. This. One. I'm such a huge fan of fiction, especially horror/psychological stuff, so Gothic fiction is perfect. While I wasn't a huge fan of Austen (you'll have to read Northanger Abbey), the Poe unit compensates. The reading assignments (and assignments in general) never felt overwhelming and were relatively manageable. Not to mention, Michele is a fantastic preceptor and is EXTREMELY helpful during the revising process. Her feedback is always super specific and kind-hearted, and so you always feel as though the writing is improving. Overall, I loved this expos. Bottom line is, you have to take Expos, might as well be one with psychological, gothic, horror goodness.
It is Harvard's greatest tragedy, that perhaps the only class that can be indiscriminately condemned should be the only required one.  Expos 20 is what happens when a requirement eliminates a departments incentive to appeal to its highly motivated students.  That said, the gothic fiction expos class is not really about gothic fiction at all.  In fact, I do not really know what gothic fiction is at all.
you should take this class only if they enjoy reading gothic fiction or want to learn more about it
As Expos courses go, this is a pretty good one to have.  Most of the readings are interesting (although there is a unit where you read a good chunk of Austen and Ann Radcliffe, so if you're not into those, that's like a two or three-week chunk of time that you'll have to deal with), and Michelle Martinez is really nice and knowledgeable about the subject matter.  I'd say that the weakness of the course is that it's an Expos class, but you can't really get away from that.
The preceptor was wonderful. She helped me know exactly what I needed to correct or improve in my essays so that I could do well on the assignments and strengthen my writing overall. I feel like a better writer having taken this course. In addition, the novels and stories we read were enjoyable and we had good discussions.
I went into Expos thinking it was going to be excruciating. This class was not like that, or any other Expos horror stories that I have heard of. I found it to be graded very fairly, and the comments that we received on response papers and essays were extremely detailed and helpful. I honestly don't think that the workload of this class was much more difficult than any other humanities writing-based class. I would definitely recommend taking this class, as it is thought provoking and interesting without being impossible to do well in.
be ready for arbitrary grading. course starts off interesting enough but grows progressively duller
I loved this class! Dr. Martinez does a fantastic job refining writing skills, and the texts are incredibly interesting. I'm not even a fan of gothic fiction, but loved getting to write my epos papers on Poe tales instead of charts or graphs. Definitely the choice for any freshmen enjoying a good story. And Dr. Martinez really is fantastic! I had no idea what close reading or stakes of an essay were before coming into her class, and she absolutely worked wonders on my prose. Take this course!
Do the essays early and try to make your rough draft as flawless a possible, so you have less to do on the final draft.
Although this expos class was extremely difficult, I'd say it is one of the better expos classes offered. The material is really interesting if you have any interest in dark, gothic works. The Edgar Allen Poe unit is especially interesting, but kids who don't enjoy Jane Austen might not want to take this class as a third of the semester is focused on Northanger Abbey. Michele is a great preceptor and class is always engaging and fun. However, her comments during draft conferences aren't always the most helpful and for that reason it is extremely hard to get above a B+ on a final essay. However, I definitely think this expos class is above average and I recommend it to anyone who has an interest in gothic themes.
Although I found this class to be extremely difficult, the class discussions were extremely interesting and provided me insight about literature and Gothic fiction I would have never got otherwise. I'm glad I took this class.
The very nature of expos is such that you get out of it what you're willing to put in - if you want to improve your writing, be prepared to write many (radically different) drafts and spend a lot of time thinking about how to improve your writing style or argumentative approach. It's a great class - just be excited for it! Lots of people hate expos for some reason - don't fall into the trap of hating it before you even begin.
Seeing as this is an expos class that is very interesting and fun, it's definitely worth trying to get in to this one. Most people hate their expos class, but the readings and assignments were great.  Prof. Martinez is also a great preceptor, and is always friendly and helpful and encourages deep discussion in class.
It's not the most exciting class ever, but given that you have to take Expos, this is a fantastic choice. The teacher is extremely nice and helpful, the work is a bit less than other Expos classes, the discussions were tolerable, and it does not start too early in the morning. You will be the only one of your friends not complaining about Expos.
Try to get this for Expos if you can. The comments/feedback you get are very helpful. Conferences are helpful. My writing actually improved by the end of the semester. Furthermore, classes are actually fun and readings are interesting. I found class discussions about the stories to be fun. The class is not that difficult. I would highly recommend that you take Gothic Fiction for Expos. Trust me; some of the other options are not that great. This is a fun class, most lessons are enjoyable (except for the required plagiarism lecture), and the readings are reasonable. Plus, you can take a break from psets/other classes by reading stories without feeling guilty at all!
Not a bad expos class. The readings and material worked with are very interesting.
There is a lot of reading in this course, more than other expos classes.  Make sure you like gothic.
If you like reading old novels, go for it.
Take a look at the major texts before hand to make sure they seem engaging.  Otherwise it's not worth it.
Gothic fiction is fun and has relationships with lots of other kinds of literature--like 19th century realism, 20th c. modernism, etc. So if you're into English at all, this is a fun and useful class, and you'll find that the concepts you look at here spill over into many other areas. Professor Martinez is enthusiastic and kind, and will read and reread your every word. For people who like to write, expos is good and encouraging practice, and this class is a great example of that. Enjoy!
This is a wonderful class-Dr. Martinez really works closely with her students to hone writing skills and I really feel like I've become a stronger writer. Additionally, if you have any interest in looking at the intersection between history and literature, this class gives a great introduction to 19 century literature movements.
