The essays prompts are interesting, and from what I've heard, it might be one of the best Expos classes, but I did not learn how to write better because the preceptor did not teach our class how to write.
This class will indeed help you to write better and in a more fluent, aesthetic style. The teacher at times can seem narrow-minded about this "correct" style of writing, but in the end it is important to develop as a university student.
Really nice that you get to watch movies for Unit 2 but be prepared to change your paper (read: thesis and entire paper) multiple times during each unit. She really appreciates people who participate.
The course is a very good expos section. The readings are pretty light. In the first unit, you only cite the novel. In the second unit, you only have to watch three, awesome movies. The research paper related is interesting because you can explore any aspect of Harvard you want. Overall, a great course.
The close readings are interesting, but the course is challenging and anyone considering it should be prepared for a substantial workload.
I came to this course terrified of the thesis-driven paper. Dr. Becker's assignments and exercises have made me, in just a couple months, feel completely comfortable with academic writing. The material we write about is engaging and fun to read/watch, and the course progresses in difficulty at a reasonable pace. I can't imagine an expos where I would have learned more.
As far as expos courses go, this one was absolutely wonderful. All expos classes are going to require a lot of reading, writing, and in the end, researching, so why not enjoy your preceptor and your subject matter? Dr. Becker is an absolutely great preceptor; she brings great advice and writing wisdom to the table, and helps you grow as an academic writer. The subject matter is also interesting; first unit was Henry James, which was okay, but then second unit and third unit were just great. Many of my friends complained about expos because they hated their preceptors or the subject matter, but I loved both. Whatever expos you choose, the work will be a given for any course, so choose one that has interesting subject material and a wonderful preceptor!
Ask a lot of questions during individual conferences and try not to procrastinate (especially when writing your first drafts). Even though you only officially submit three papers, know that there is a lot of outside reading/drafting work assigned and try to keep up with it if you can! All in all, I definitely benefited from taking this course
Expos is the only class that is required. Unfortunately, it isn't very fun.. The only way out is through.
Dr. Becker is a demanding grader. I found her feedback vague and, at times, useless. This made the revision process painful.
Really good class, especially for the more analytically and literature inclined.  Make sure you get your work in on time though.  Love how you were able to analyze both movies and books.
