Use time to go to office hours. The preceptor will help with feedback and take her suggestions, they really are helpful.
I would likely tell them that this class does make you a better writer and that the preceptor does a good job, but the structure of expos in general is unpleasant and there's no way to avoid that.
If you are looking for a more scientific, down to earth Expos section, this is an excellent one, as most of the writing will be about infectious diseases. Jerusha has a very smart and professional style of teaching and approaching the process of writing which I found particularly engaging. Be ready to go through tens of research journal articles and, for the final paper, write your own research proposal (which turned out to be quite an interesting and rewarding experience). In the end, I am personally very happy with this particular Expos section.
Dr. Achterberg is a really great preceptor. She has weekly office hours and is very willing to help students. She is very responsive to email, and really makes an effort to help you improve your writing and guide you in the right direction with essays. She is very thorough with her comments on essays and is overall a great preceptor!!
Great if you are interested in health/life sciences, or are a "pre-med".
This class focuses on public health and the epidemiology of infectious disease. I would recommend it highly to someone interested in the sciences, and less so to a more humanities oriented person. It's a solid writing class and will help anyone to become a better writer regardless of their interests, but you will be more engaged in the class and enjoy writing the papers more if you're interested in the subject and find it relevant.
I hear a lot of complaining about Expos 20, and while I did my fair share of complaining about this class, I do feel that it helped me improve on certain aspects of my writing. In comparison to other reviews of Expos 20 I've heard, I think this section isn't a bad choice. The topic isn't extremely interesting, but I enjoyed writing my papers, especially the last one, as we chose are own topic.
Be prepared to revise!
This is definitely a painless and interesting course to take to fulfill the Expos requirement. Granted, it was a bit scientific in the readings (most of the readings were epidemiological in nature), but I did not feel that a humanities concentrator would have a difficult time in the course.
This class does somewhat improve your writing; though, any Expos class will do this. The class is filled with tons of busy work that is not really relevant to your writing and barely improves your skills as a writer. You will dread section, and the essay assignments (especially for Unit1 and Unit2) are incredibly boring. The class is essentially a science course; be prepared to read 15-20 scientific papers on the same topic for an entire month. Her feedback is very useful, however. The third paper isn't so bad. But it's not really worth suffering through the first two.
This course will definitely prepare you for the writing expected of you at Harvard. Take it with enthusiasm and put in your best effort as that effort will definitely be reciprocated by Dr. Achterberg.
Take it if you like science. Professor is really awesome and friendly.
As long as you're willing to spend time reading scientific papers, this class is fine. If you don't have that science background, you might think twice before taking this class.
This course is not a science course, in that you will not be evaluated on the validity of your scientific arguments. HOWEVER, keep in mind that this course is about DISEASE: the mechanisms of it, its effects on human health, etc. You can also write about medical ethics and other such related topics.  However, the course is NOT about how societies view mortality. It's not about death except as a medical result of disease. So you will not be writing about philosophical and psychological perspectives of death, and your ability to write about how disease affects human culture will be limited as well, since all of your primary sources will be scientific articles. For those who want practice with scientific writing, including proposals and literature reviews, this course will be extremely useful.
The class is really worth it. The assignments are really interesting and the instructor is very enthusiastic. Great feedback is given on every paper and conferences are fun, enjoyable, and helpful.
Take this class if you can bear reading scientific journals and articles.
Although it the course had low Q guide scores when I took the class, I enjoyed the class. I was glad to have been placed in that particular Expos class.
This course is not only for those interested in the sciences, as it provides many opportunities (especially in the third paper) for one to explore topics and fields that aren't necessarily rooted in cold, hard facts. If you are curious about diseases, definitely take this course!
This class is for the science oriented. Take it if you will be doing a lot of science writing. It is not very helpful for learning general essay writing techniques.
This course is not hard, but I went into expository writing expecting to better my writing and learn how to write, which did not happen.
It is a little boring, even if you like science. The class is about infectious diseases in the world, which is not that exciting so it is a little heard to write argumentative essays about this subject.
Know what the teacher wants because you put your all in an assignment
Dr. Achterberg is a wonderfully witty preceptor and an engaging lecturer.  The same could not be said of the class; if you're interested in human death and disease from a cultural perspective (disease-related cultural beliefs, humans' response to morbidity and mortality, etc.), then you shouldn't take this course.  It is very heavily based on scientific/journal articles... we were expected to analyze about 30 in all. Prompts weren't my cup of tea -- Paper 3, for example, involved crafting a research proposal... with no prior experience.
Although I am not a fan of expos in general, this course was reasonable and made the requirement bearable.  Definitely better than most of the other expos classes.
The class wasn't accurately depicted in the course description- there was much more analytical writing than most had anticipated.  Nearly every member of the class was dissatisfied with our overall experience, probably because we had all gone in expecting something completely different.  You should understand that this class is about analyzing and producing science research writing, not about contemplating human death and disease.
If you really enjoy scientific literature and you are a science-type person, this would probably be a good class. Otherwise, I do not recommend taking it.
If you have a strong interest in the sciences, then this may be the right science class for you, even if it wasn't for me. There was no syllabus up when I signed up for the course, so I had no idea that this was almost more science-oriented than writing-oriented.
At first sounds like it could be an interesting class, and the paper assignments are kind of cool, but the class itself is not very enjoyable. Not a lot of work, but even if you like science (I do) you may find the scientific viewpoint to be tedious.
Please do not take this course unless you are a masochist and enjoy pain.
If you know a lot about epidemiology, this class would be good for you. It seems like the instructor expects you to have good handle on biological concepts of disease, which most people didn't, and that could be frustrating. So if you don't know anything about the spread of disease, the spread of disease, or human research proposals (I didn't really know much about these things), be prepared to spend a lot of time trying to understand what the instructor is asking you to do. It felt like the instructor didn't realize that none of us had extensive backgrounds in epidemiology.
