Expos is actually a useful course to take during Freshman year.  Despite what you may hear about it, the course is doable and not bad.
The material was interesting, even though psychology is not my particular area of interest. Additionally, this course did an excellent job teaching me how to write academic papers.
This class does not have much work and is a good expos if you're interested in psychology or anything of the sort. It has 3 papers and class participation as part of your grade, which is pretty standard for expos. The other assignments are small and relevant to the writing process, so they are definitely manageable. If you are interested in the topic at all, take it, and even if not it's one of the better expos in my opinion! Professor Tierney is super nice and gives great feedback too.
I'm not a big fan of expos. I'm guessing most freshmen aren't. But since we all need to take a class, I am really happy I got to take this one. It was a decent class, but of all the expos classes, I suppose this is one of the best. Advice to those taking this class: start with your assignments EARLY. Just get them done with. Feels much better after that.
The readings are short and to the point, so you spend less time reading and more time thinking about what you read. Also, this makes it easier to pull things from the reading for papers.
This is a great class! The professor is very helpful and, even though I came into class not expecting to learn much, I have come away a better writer. This class really helped me to analyze and understand the importance of structure in writing.
You will learn a ton from this course, but some material can be confusing.
This class introduced me to a different style of writing that I had not done before. In addition to strengthening my writing skills, it also enhanced my understanding of psychology. Because I am interested in psychology, I loved the class and came to understand the style of papers that I will likely write in the future.
The class gets progressively better as the semester goes on - especially as you build skills. The focus is largely on scientific writing, which you might not find helpful unless you are very interested in science or want to concentrate in the sciences. That being said, you learn a great deal in this class and Prof. Tierney is very methodical and hard-working in her quest to build your writing skills. This class is graded rather harshly.
Definitely take the class if you're interested in psychology or at least the sciences. The topic is pretty difficult, especially with the readings, and so make sure you take the time to read (whether it's before class or not). Personally I think this class is what you make of it. Nevertheless, the best thing about this class is her feedback, which is probably the best I've experienced. Papers are a little difficult if you don't give yourself a proper amount of time to think it over, but they can be fairly well-written if you do so. If you're not so interested in writing, it's sort of a class you just get over with, like all the other Expos classes.
I am not a big fan of writing but this class made me appreciate good writing a lot more. Professor Tierney is great and very helpful throughout the writing process. I am not sure how this class compares to other Expos classes but the content was fascinating to me. I would recommend it to anyone who has an interest in psychology or social behaviors of people in general.
If you're not interested in decision making or risk taking then this class isn't for you. However, if you are interested in learning about these things then this class is for you and the final paper is a great way to really get into an area of cognitive neuroscience that you're interested in.
You have to take it..
Despite this class being very hard, Professor Tierney is a great teacher and will undoubtedly help improve your writing.
The topic of this class is very interesting and this makes it a good choice for an Expos section. This means that the essays will actually (usually) be interesting and enjoyable to write.
Unit 3 isn't easy. Start research and forming your thesis early.
Prepare to work very hard on your writing.
This is a great course to take if you're interested in cognitive biases and heuristics, as well as talking about style for psychology papers.Unfortunately, I didn't take advantage of all of the comments, nor did I use the class as flexibly as I could have. I imagine that this is a common issue with Expos classes though.
This is a difficult course, and requires a great amount of effort, however it is incredibly interesting. It is also graded very fairly and the writing feedback is helpful. This class may expand your writing capability in a way you never expected.
Take this course if you are interested in learning more about the way people make decisions.  If you enjoy learning about decision making and psychology, you will enjoy this course as well.  With any expos class, if you do not have an interest in the topic, you will not have a positive experience.
This section was the most awesome experience of the fall semester my freshman year. It went way way above my expectations. I promise you, if you have an open mind, you will NOT regret taking this class. Like everything else, you get out what you put into it!
One of my favorite classes this semester. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the section discussions, the interesting material, and the people in the class.
The readings are short and interesting, but discussed at length in class.  Prof. Tierney is very pleasant and is obviously very dedicated to helping her students learn about both expository writing and a topic about which she is very passionate.  I found myself considering a psychology secondary at different points of the semester.  I feel that Prof. Tierney is a semi-tough grader, but a preceptor whom will, without a doubt, help you to improve your writing ability more than you did in all of high school.  The assignments are very straightforward, although the first was a bit dull, the second two absolutely made up for it.
The class talks about ideas that are very abstract. Most of the times you will classes with confusions, and making an argument in this topic is very hard.
This class is probably one of the best expos classes you can take. I've talked to many of my classmates, and they've complained a lot about expos. I have very few complaints about this class. It has taught me a lot in both psychology and writing, and I'm sure that much of what I've learned is applicable to my actual life.
