This course really helps you learn to write in a variety of formats at the college level. Engaging subject material and a great preceptor made this a great course (not to mention the movies and trips to museums). Dr. Becker has very high standards for constructing your argument - you can't get away with a poor argument by masking it with strong prose in this class! This class definitely brought my writing to a much more sophisticated level. If you want to improve your writing while learning a bit about Boston/Cambridge, this is the course for you.
Each essay had very interesting topics. Unlike other Expository classes I have heard of, this class watches good films such as The Departed, The Town, and Mystic River. I also really enjoyed the last unit where we were told to write a research paper on anything about Harvard, which required some helpful research about the school we attend.
Really pay attention to your Preceptor's feedback-- it is very helpful in guiding you towards a stronger paper! Also, engage actively in class discussions and particularly workshopping opportunities. You'll find that you'll learn some of the most important things about your writing from the way you analyze the writing of others.
a lot of work. be prepared to spend at least 5 hours a week on revisions and prewrites
This class was perfect coming from a place of uncertainty in my academic future. I feel newly equipped to form strong arguments in writing regarding a variety of mediums, such as film, paintings, and many historical sources, that I had never explored before. Whatever I choose to pursue in the coming years I feel that I will be able to use the techniques I developed during this course to my benefit.
This class is challenging, but is excellent preparation for the rigors of college writing.
Don't take it. You may be lured by the promise of movies, but in the end it's really not worth the dross that permeates Dr. Becker's class. The entire expos program is wrong-headed, boring, pedantic, and encourages nothing but cookie-cutter writing. This class is the paragon of such institutional blandness. Expos will make you a worse person, but this class, especially, drags you into the depths of despair. The readings are nothing you'd ever want to read again, and the classroom experience will have you checking the clock more than you check the work you prepared. But, since expos as a program is a joke, there's really no excuse for you not getting an A. Also, Dr. Becker prefers people who are rougher around the edges, so definitely project that image if you need an easy way to boost your grade
there are a lot of outside readings for this course, some are interesting most are kind of boring. take this class if you have a genuine interest in learning more about Boston through literature, Dr.Becker is great outside of class.
In general, expos is going to be a difficult experience.  With that being said, this is one of the better offerings, and being able to write an essay on the Departed made this class worth it for me.
It's not the best of courses, just lower your head and push through.  Expect it to take some time.
Expos is bad in general; this class makes it tolerable.
