Even if you don't have any interest in archaeology, this is a great class to take. Broader ideas about academia, history, culture, government, etc. are effectively incorporated into the course, and with the open-ended final research paper, you can take the class into whatever direction you'd like. Janling is a great preceptor and is always there for individual support. Overall, the class has been effective in improving my writing.
Great preceptor and very interesting
This class is a legend and a half.
Very low work load and interesting content for essays.
Who Owns the Past is a course full of interesting topics-- many of which may be unfamiliar to most students, but I think that made the class more enjoyable and eye-opening. One important thing to note is that the class is not just about archaeology- it's also about justice, human rights, and other very broad and fascinating concepts. The draft workshops and revision process really allowed me to think hard about my writing and my writing alone, in a way English classes simply did not do before. I would recommend this class!
This is a great class.  The essays are fairly simple, although they involve a little bit of thinking and time.  There are no response papers, so its up to you to do the readings, which are important if you want to write a good essay.  In the end, it's not that difficult, and fun.  Janling was a great preceptor.
This is a great expos class - it is fascinating, chill, and has great discussions. Do yourself a favor and reading the readings so that you get something out of the class. Go to office hours just for the sake of chatting with Janling about his travels.
It's not that much work. Janling is a great dude. I'm not sure how much my writing improved. This is probably because I spent most of my time working on other courses.
Janling is a wonderful preceptor who provides brilliant feedback on assignments.
This class was definitely an experience with a lot of lively discussion. If you take this class, there will be many opportunities for you to develop many deep ideas with your peers in a constructive manner.
This class is a manageable Expos class, but it is by no means easy. Be prepared for long, dense readings but some interesting class discussions. You could get away with not doing the readings but that will be a serious impediment to succeeding in writing your papers.
This course has a great professor. The workload is manageable, and most of the course is fairly interesting.
This class is very fun.  Janling is one of the best preceptors out there and, compared to other expos courses, there is relatively little work.
This is not a class that forces one to be involved: it's relatively easy to participate in discussions and do well on the papers without bothering to read the material or think about the issues presented. However, the more one engages with this material, the more interesting the topic becomes.  Students that want to engage with the course will like this class; those who just do the minimum and sit near-silently and stare off into space will get a relatively easy class, but not a fun one.
This is an excellent class because the topic is relevant and engaging, and the preceptor is attentive and skilled. Just be prepared for a lot of reading and sometimes untimely returned assignments. Nonetheless, the course is fantastic - it does everything an expos class should do.
This class is a great expos class with a low reading requirement. I highly recommend this if you want an expos class that doesn't require a lot of reading. Also, I think it really improved my writing skills.
I can't speak to how this class compares with other Expos classes in terms of difficulty or how interesting it is. I think the latter most definitely depends on your level of interest in archaeology. Some kids in my class love archaeology and loved the reading we did, some kids were there because they had to be and definitely were not as interested. However, I think Janling is a great preceptor. He works carefully with students and is always willing to answer questions. Just keep in mind that Expos is pretty difficult, so don't beat yourself up if you don't get the best grade.
This class is challenging but incredibly helpful for writing skills.
The readings are great but not overwhelmingly long, the essay prompts are interesting and easy to write about, and the the preceptor is amazing!
The preceptor, Janling, is great; come to this class if you're interested in the material, and be ready to engage in the discussion and provide useful and genuine feedback to your peers; it makes the class so much better. Also, the content is very relevant to modern discussion of non-Western cultures/peoples/history.
Not only is this class really interesting for even those as far from archaeology as possible, but Professor Fu is a great preceptor, making the class really enjoyable.
The readings and discussions are interesting and cover a wide array of topics. However, the preceptor is extremely busy and will delay returning papers almost until the next one is due. In addition, the course is not organized very well and you're often left guessing which reading was assigned for a particular day.
JanLing is an amazing resource.
