Just get through it and don't expect more than a B+. Enjoy the material for what it is and do your best to ignore the red tape that pervades the realm of expos so that you can actually get something from this class. Also, go to office hours! It will help a lot more than you think in terms of clarifying your argument.
Whoever is interested in learning more about emotions, this is a great class!
Very interesting and challenging topics that sometime become philosophical; very helpful for potential science students, especially psychology students. The only problem is that sometimes I feel we spent too much time analyzing the reading materials that we don't have enough exercises on actual writing. There's one class where we analyze an academic essay and discuss how it can improved. I would like more exercises like that
Very good expos class if you're interested in neuroscience or any kind of scientific research. Demanding writing standards, but you'll learn a lot.
It's about neuroscience, not psychology as it may seem. Be prepared to read and write scientific papers. If that's up your alley, it's a very interesting class and you will gain great experience.
This course is not very heavy on the actual science of emotions, but rather, simply introduces theories of what emotions are (often in a non-scientific context).
The best part of this course is the fact that Prof. Tierney actually does cognitive neuroscience. This means that she'll be able to answer questions about the science involved as well as the writing, and it means you learn more.
This class overall provides very interesting material concerning emotion that in general seemed to interest all of the students in the class. The workload for this class is extremely reasonable and the instructor is very helpful with feedback.
This is a science course, not a writing course.
Really interesting subject matter. Really helpful and nice teacher. Very good way to improve your writing.
This course will do a great job of teaching you how to approach and implement analytical writing. The style is very specific to the the sciences, but many of the techniques are widely applicable. The preceptor gives great feedback, and the course material is very interesting.
This class made me a much better writer. There isn't too much reading, and I found the material interesting. I recommend this class.
