Eoin Ryan is a legend.  He has the knowledge to be a Doctor of Philosophy of philosophy.  Take advantage of office hours.  Try to stomp him with deep perplexing questions; you just cant.
A fantastic way to get an introduction to philosophy of mind while knocking out your writing requirement.
It's a good class if you're interested in philosophy.
This Expos class is a great choice - something I didn't know when I was making my list, and because of that, I am actually grateful for the fact that I was assigned to such a low preference.It is great for two reasons. First, philosophy of the mind asks some of those questions which never cease to inspire reflection. What does it mean to have a mind? What does it mean to be intelligent? How do the mind and the body interact? Will robots take over? And so on.Second, Eoin Ryan is a wonderful preceptor to have. He is helpful, but relaxed; knowledgeable, but funny; very intelligent, but very accessible.
If you are interested in philosophy and hypotheticals, as well as how the mind might possibly work, definitely take the class -- it's VERY interesting. However, if you like having a concrete answer after discussion, and knowing things as facts, you might want to reconsider.
You really have to have an interest in philosophy to enjoy this class. Warning: questions will not have answers!
Eoin is great. Aside from satisfying the Expos requirement, this is a great intro to philosophy.
This class is overall OK- it's expos truly no matter which one you take it probably won't be the best experience ever, but I would say this is one of the better expos classes. The reading is pretty light and easy to understand. Class goes by really fast, because the preceptor is interesting.
If you've had an interest in philosophy but never had the chance to try it, this course is a great way to be introduced to the field. Eoin is really nice, and very knowledgeable, and also pretty laid back. If philosophy interests you, the classes will be interesting and fun. There's also very little reading compared to other Expos courses, so if you don't want a big workload, this course is great.
Take this course if you want to spend hours dwelling on ultimately unprovable questions and don't mind the abstract nature of philosophy. Also note the distinction between considering these abstract notions and being forced to write papers taking sides between them.
extremely difficult expos class but a good experience
i'd recommend this class in that it seems to have been one of the more painless expos classes, which it seems is all one can hope for. there's not much work and Eoin is a pretty cool guy. on the other hand it is still expos, which makes it largely a waste of time.
