You should only take this class if you can handle very depressing and repetitive reading materials. It is an easy class, but the prompts are not engaging. The preceptor is very nice, however, he does notgive constructive feedback in a timely fashion. At first, I thought it was a science-related Expos class, but it turned out to be based in very obscure and disturbing literature.
This is a very fun and interesting course.
This class is an excellent introduction into the first decade to the HIV/AIDS crisis in the United States and Latin America. The course material is interesting and applicable to students interested in gender and sexuality, government responses to social issues, the sexual culture in North America, Mexico, and Brazil, art and the AIDS crisis, and public protest.
This expos has less work than others, I think. The preceptor is a little disorganized but gives awesome feedback: I really felt my writing improving. The material focuses on Latin America almost exclusively, which is not what I expected.
Despite it's title, it's not science-based at all. I personally did not find a problem with this, for the readings are fascinating, different, and relatively engaging. Some of the analyses are a bit of a stretch, but that's something you have to go with in any writing class. It's a good class, take it.
The readings are generally heavy and depressing.  The last twenty minutes of a movie we watched involved a prison massacre, so they showed us twenty minutes of people getting shot.You do learn a lot about AIDS.Dr. Terrones was very bad about answering emails.  Sometimes I would have to wait up to a week to get an email.  He was also very busy during the semester and I remember he told us one week when an essay due that he was too busy to hold office hours.  He has a rather strict policy on arriving on time.  I had a class right before expos and so would always be a few minutes late and I would always receive disapproving looks from him.
This course examines the human condition in the face of one of the most controversial pandemics that the world has ever faced.  If you can handle these issues with maturity, this is perhaps one of the best Expos courses that Harvard has to offer.
A fantastic Expository Writing course: the material is interesting and the class is well-taught.
Write from your heart, don't be afraid to expose connections in the texts that many people don't agree. Originality and being genuine tallow you to really enjoy this course!
Joaquin is an amazing preceptor and a really friendly and cool guy who made this class worthwhile. Although the essay prompts may not be too appealing to non-humanities-potential-concentrators, the class was run well and is definitely one of the best expos classes out there from what I've heard.
This class is amazing. Joaquin is very helpful and knowledgeable. Your writing will improve and the readings are great.
If you are looking for an amazing and challenging (in a good way) expos class that will make you a much better writer, CHOOSE THIS COURSE!
This course is an extremely well thought-out and immersive.  Joaquin is great!  Come to this class for great discussions about HIV and AIDS.  However, be prepared for the significant amount of reading as well as relearning everything you learned about essay writing.
This is a really great class. I feel that I have really matured in writing. The materials are all very interesting and class discussion is usually really productive. Dr. Terrones is very helpful and gives great feedback on all your work. He is also very understanding. If you can, go to the movie screenings because they are definitely worth your time. Do all the reading and take the responses seriously and you will feel very prepared when you begin your papers.
If you want Expos to be your FAVORITE class of the semester, then take this class. It is amazing in every way. The discussions and readings are so interesting (mostly about struggle of gay men during the 1980s and 1990s during the AIDS crisis), the preceptor is AMAZING. He takes out his own time to show movie screenings and offer museum trips (outside of class time). He cares so much about what he is teaching, and you will honestly learn so much. The readings are very manageable and not as overwhelming as those in other expos classes.
I am a science person but found this a very great class though it was culturally and humanities based.
This is a great way to fulfill the expos requirement. The class is interesting and eye opening, and the material is engaging. Joaquin does a great job and is so approachable outside of class with any issues, I would definitely recommend this class if you have any interest at all in the history of AIDS, AIDS activism, or just want to know more about an epidemic that changed the world.
fun course.  interesting readings.  good/flexible preceptor.
I know most people hate Expos, but this class was one of my favorite classes this semester. The readings were ALWAYS fascinating and very manageable, I learned so much about AIDS and its cultural impact in various parts of the world, and the feedback on my essays was actually very helpful and made me a better writer. Joaquin was clearly so passionate about the topic and I think that made it even more interesting. I'm really glad I took this course.
In my opinion, this is one of the best Expos classes to go for.  One thing you have to realize is that Expos is never an entirely enjoyable class just because it forces you to write three long papers, and that in itself is never fun.  But there are definitely expos classes that are the best of expos in general, and this is for sure one of them. Dr. Terrones is a WONDERFUL preceptor...one of the nicest you could have, and he really help you a ton on your essays during your conferences with him. The workload is generally pretty light (with the exception of when the essays are due) and the readings themselves are usually interesting too.  Especially from what I've heard of other expos classes, TAKE THIS ONE.  You couldn't have a better or more helpful expos class than this.
For an expos 20 class, this was a great one!
Literally anyone would enjoy this Expos. Dr Terrones gives incredible feedback and you will thrive on the brief and incredibly informative, insightful readings. TAKE. THIS. EXPOS.
extremely interesting, great preceptor
Readings are not very long and are always interesting. Preceptor was very helpful. I would definitely recommend that students choose this Expos course.
it teaches you a lot about HIV/AIDS, and it definitely pushed my boundaries as far as analytically thinking about media as wide-ranging from paintings to posters to film. Joaquin is very helpful and guides you through the entire process, which makes everything more manageable and less daunting.
Joaquin provides excellent materials and readings for the class that allow for a broad range of essay topics. unfortunately, discussion in the class is a little lackluster.
The class a strong expository writing class, and a relatively painless way to fulfill your requirement.  The preceptor is wonderful, and anyone will likely find the material at least somewhat interesting.
TAKE IT! Expos is generally known to be very painful and horrible but Joaquin made it as painless as it could be while still teaching you a lot. I've become a better writer because of this class - I would highly recommend.
This is a decent way to survive Expos, but be warned, it has a heavy emphasis on literary criticism. If you're looking for something science-y, don't be fooled by the HIV/AIDS component. There is a lot of close reading analysis of poems, art, short stories, and plays. Joaquin is a really nice guy, and has clearly put a lot of thought into this topic, but sometimes he doesn't give very prompt or detailed feedback.
its hard but awesome
This is the best EXPOS ever. Joaquin has so much passion for the subject, and he truly wants you to learn something from the class. The amount of reading for the class is just right, and you never feel overwhelmed by the essays. He's also an extremely fair grader and accessible outside of the regular office hour times. I didn't know anything about HIV/AIDS going into the class, but now I'm much more aware of the cultural issues surrounding HIV/AIDS and would love to enter in a discussion with anyone regarding this topic. I also learned to be a much, much better writer in this class.
This seems to be just about the best expos course there is. The subject matter is fascinating, and the readings, works of visual art, and films are all very much worth examining. Joaquin gives extremely helpful feedback, and the course never feels stressful or overwhelming. Most of the time, it feels more like a course about cultural works on the AIDS crisis than a writing course, which is definitely a good thing in my mind. I would highly recommend it to anyone with even a tangential interest in the subject matter.
Take a different expos! This class title is pretty misleading as we do not talk about HIV/AIDS a lot. The material almost exclusively focuses on the experience of a gay man living in New York or Brazil. A lot of the reading is not very interesting and you will not be motivated to write a good essay. Also, do not expect Joaquin to give you feedback in a timely manner or help you in any capacity outside the draft conference. I would highly recommend taking a different expos.
This is quite possibly the best Expos you could get. Joaquin is an absolutely amazing preceptor, who truly cares about you and will guide you through every step of the process of writing. It can be very helpful to go to his office hours to chat about your essays apart from the draft conferences, and if you cannot make his office hours you can make an appointment with him. The material that the course covers is amazing, the expectations are set very clearly, and there is always help available if you seek it. Although this may seem like a "science" Expos, it's not; it focuses on literature and art during the AIDS epidemic, and not the science behind the disease. Overall, I loved the class and Joaquin is awesome!
This class is a blast! Joaquin is the greatest writing teacher I've had and I can confidently say that my writing has improved because of this class. Often, people will say that EXPOS was a chore but I definitely am glad I was able to take this class for EXPOS. The readings are great and the types of papers we go through are amazingly engaging. In fact, the final research paper was something I was really proud of producing. I really recommend this EXPOS class.
The course is very interesting and engaging and provides a great history of a time period that often isn't given enough attention. However, be prepared to contact the preceptor multiple times before receiving a response and be direct with any requests for help.
This course is among the best in the Expos program. The workload is reasonable, the readings are interesting, Joaquin is a great preceptor and the draft conferences are extremely helpful.
Terrines does a good job discussing AIDS in culture and thoroughly teaches how to write in an academic context
This is a really great Expos course. Joaquin is a really awesome preceptor, and the material itself is really interesting. HOWEVER, be aware that this is not a class just about HIV and AIDS, it is HIV/AIDS IN CULTURE. So it's much less science and global health, and more examining the health issue in the context of art (both written and visual arts), particularly surrounding the emergence of HIV/AIDS in America initially as a "gay cancer." So lots of art and gender studies involved in addition to the health aspect.
Take this class! Great way to fill out the expos requirement with fair grading
This class definitely improved my writing, and there isn't too much reading (at least compared to other Expos courses, it seems). If you're even just mildly interested in the topic, I would take it - you'll not only learn so much about the cultural responses to HIV/AIDS, but also leave the class feeling like your papers actually have a good argument. Although feedback on essays were sometimes returned after I had already submitted a draft for the next paper, Joaquin makes very helpful suggestions for improvement, and draft conferences are very productive.
Keep in mind that although the course is based upon HIV/AIDS, most of the material covered in this course focuses on the cultural responses to the epidemic. If you're looking for an explicitly science-themed Expos class, this may not be the right one for you. Given that however, Joaquin was a great preceptor and gave excellent feedback and really worked with you to improve your writing. Course readings were tedious and not completely necessary to participate in discussion and grading was difficult as it seems to be with most Expos courses.
This class was really, really amazing and eye-opening, and I would highly recommend it. It was good for me because I'm not much of a humanities person, and by nature of the topic, the readings were very applicable, and not super dense or abstract.
Joaquin is an amazing preceptor. The discussion in class is really interesting, and for an expos class the work and readings are not too difficult.
Good expos in terms of material and content. You really do learn a lot. However, the preceptor is unresponsive to emails, which can be really frustrating at times. Workload is not bad. Doable expos.
Joaquin is not really responsive with e-mails and the only types of feedback you will be receiving is verbally during the draft conferences. This means that you should really go to those conferences prepared with loads of questions about your paper because there's really no other time for him to provide feedback besides after class or office hours.
Everyone says that Expository Writing is the plague of their freshman year, but with this class, you will be the exception- this is a fun and engaging Expos that is especially exciting if you have taken LS1a and studied the biological side of HIV/AIDS, and if you have an interest in the history of the disease. It is a lot of fun, Joaquin gives very constructive advice, and the class time flies by. I recommend that you put this as your first choice of Expos!
Joaquin is a very passionate instructor, and the readings are really interesting. I came away with insight into an epidemic that I had previously known very little about, and an understanding of the conflicting voices in the epidemic.
