prior knowledge of Austen is helpful
The topic of the class was very interesting and the preceptor's engagement with the material and in feedback/consultations was really excellent, but to me the course felt a bit restrictive. I want to clarify at this point that I am really talking more about Expos as a philosophy in general rather than this particular class. This probably goes with the territory of expos but there is not only one way to write academically.  I think there can also be a greateremphasis in expos as a whole on teaching style/rhetoric/grammar that comprises great writing and less on teaching a formula for thinking.
This class is a good expos choice for anyone with a genuine enthusiasm for Jane Austen and a tolerance of Expos.
Jane Austen, Then and Now is a great choice for students who are interested in the humanities. Expos 20 in general is never a freshman's favorite class, but if you pick a subject that interests you (as was the case for me here) it makes it much more bearable. It takes a while to warm up to Tess in my opinion, but by the end of the course I really liked her. This was mostly a result of talking to her more casually in conference about Jane Austen.
If you love Jane Austen, then you will definitely enjoy this class. Tess is a great preceptor, she gives lots of feedback on your drafts and revisions that help you improve in your writing over the semester. An entire unit is devoted to film analysis, which was great. Although grading is tough, you will get a lot from this course!
If you're unable to handle pretty heavy reading for the term, probably not the best choice! Otherwise, pretty interesting and preceptor is great.
This expos was a lot more work than I expected. There are significant amounts of extra assignments outside of the draft/revision cycle. That said, the preceptor will give you an enormous amount of feedback, and if you are willing to put in a lot of work your writing will improve a lot.
Tess is a wonderful professor who really cares about your ideas about Austen and want sot help you most coherently convey them in a paper. I think the units are interesting and there is a lot of freedom in choosing to write about an Austen novel and in another unit even choose any aspect of one of multiple film adaptions of Pride and Prejudice. The discussions were always interesting with Tess willing to hear all opinions and most of all her conferences are excellent for she gives extensive and practical advice on all drafts. The better draft you can give her the more amazing your final paper will be for she is highly skilled in determining how your argument may be nuanced or advising on better structure for your paper even on the sentence level to convey your ideas.
If you love Jane Austen then this is a perfect course for you. This course not only greatly improved my writing, it allowed me to learn how to write well while also reading and learning about an author that I love.
It definitely satisfied my expectations for an Austen-themed writing class. I truly loved developing my ideas for each of my theses - and it definitely increased my appreciation for Jane Austen as a writer. I heartily recommend anyone who has enjoyed Austen's novels before to approach them in this rigorous analytical context.
It's good to have some background in the material studied
Take the response papers seriously because they really help you to prepare for your actual essay. Also Tess gives really good feedback, though it may seem to be a lot at times. However, I heard that some expos preceptors give little to next to no feedback, so I know I really appreciated it.
Tess might seem strict and a bit severe, and this may be true. However, she is actually a wonderful person to interact with one-on-one, and she is extremely intelligent. As such, she gives great feedback, and simply chatting with her about Austen is lots of fun! If you are at all interested in literature, I would highly recommend this Expos.
Keep several things in mind when choosing this course. a) Tess is a really devoted preceptor. this could be a good thing or a bad thing. If you don't want to be serious about expos, then don't take this class. it is stressful and weird if your preceptor spends more time on your essay than you do. also it is a waste of resource. personally I really appreciate Tess's dedication; I learned so much from her detailed feedback. b) make sure you have some interest in literature and Jane Austen's work. I have a male friend taking this class just because there is no other options, and he doesn't enjoy Austen's works at all. That could be a very painful experience. c)In terms of grading, I can't say whether she is harsh or not by  just knowing my own grades. But you should know that most students in this class is English or literature or other humanity majors who are experienced at writing. d) in terms of workload, we read two-three novels, a coursepack, and watch 3 movies. It is manageable. If you read Austen's work(s) before (esp. Persuasion, P&P), that will tremendously reduce your workload.
This was a great expos class! If you love Jane Austen this is the perfect expos for you. Tess gives you a lot of feedback on how to improve your writing and she is always nice and helpful. The class is fun and interesting!
Studying Jane Austen is very fun.  Take advantage of the one-on-one conferences with the teacher.
If you LOVE Jane Austen, this is the class for you! Tess did a great job... but I guess it wasn't really my favorite subject.
Unless you REALLY REALLY love Jane Austen, I would advise you not to text this class. The workload is much more than any expos class, and the difficulty is much higher than most expos classes too. Assignments are tough or boring or time consuming. Feedback is generous but hard to read. It definitely helps you become more aware of your writing style and structure. I did learn important things that may help my writing. Overall however, choose an expos that is not so demanding and restricting.
Take this class being prepared to analyze film!
Love this course! Fun and enjoyable.
You really learn how to strengthen your argument in this class, but MUST be willing to put in the work!!
This course is a fair amount of work, and if you like Jane Austen, it may be right for you, but prepare to be humbled by sometimes biting commentary from the preceptor.
Tess is a difficult grader, but her feedback and conversations with her are totally worthwhile.
You have the opportunity to improve your writing, but it will not be easy or fun. If you are looking for an easy expos, do not take this class.
If you are a fan of Jane Austen, this class is for you. Tess is a very fair preceptor, and if you are thoughtful about revising your drafts and receptive to constructive criticism, then you will grow much as a writer
This class is a lot more work than other Expos assignments, with little mini-assignments that pop up when you're not expecting them to. Do not take this class unless you LOVE Jane Austen and are prepared to analyze every word of one of her novels and every minute of a movie adaptation. It is probably not a class for science concentrators because it is very field-specific and not transferrable to the kind of writing you would expect in science fields. If you want to take it, go for it. If you don't, don't even rank it because if even if it is your 8th choice, you WILL get it.
This Expos is okay, but you should definitely have a keen interest in the course materials. Even if you are a moderate fan of Jane Austen, I would caution you against the course. The lectures are rather boring and there is little to no discussions. The first few essays are a little tedious, but I found the last unit (which was far more like a synthesis and research paper) was rather enjoyable to write. As far as expos classes go, not your best bet, but pretty easy in terms of work. I
I would not recommend this class, especially to individuals that are interested in the sciences. Tess has extremely high English department-like expectations. No matter how hard you try, you still will not get the grades that you want.
Stay on top of it and you'll be fine!
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE!! Unlike you like dictators, then do not even list this class as your 8th pick, because you could end up stuck in it...Tess doesn't give you the chance to speak, and she wants you to write about how she thinks your essay should sound, not how you care for it to be.
Please only take this course if you plan to be an English major, or you will hate it.
As far as expos courses go, this class is not terrible if you're interested in Jane Austen and approach the papers with a willingness to learn and improve. Many of the readings and assignments seem pointless, but glean what you can from them and you will learn from the course while gaining an exposure to Austen studies.
I would tell future students that if you adore Jane Austen and want to focus more on your writing than getting an A, then take this class. However, if you don't care for Austen or really want to get an A I wouldn't necessarily say this is for you. the class is tough and Tess wants very high quality work. that being said it's an experience that at times is fun, at times frustrating, at times is thought provoking, and at times is relieving. it's an experience in and of itself and up to you if you decide to take the ride.
The time spent in class is not efficient. Also, every draft is almost like writing a new one. Every final essay is very different and very hard, but they do teach you how to write in the end.
If you're a Janeite and would like to study Persuasion and Pride and Prejudice, then the content of the class (literature on Jane Austen, film adaptations of Austen, a trip to the Houghton Library to look at documents concerning Austen) might make this class a worthwhile Expos experience. However, I think this course is one of the more difficult Expos options, not for the volume of reading (this was manageable), but because of the stringency of the professor and her grading rubric. This Expos teaches you to write in the style of the Expos department, as interpreted by the professor. The professor is passionate and knowledgeable, but she has a particular conception of the right way to write, and you must follow her advice. If you're not intending to study literature/English/humanities, you will gain little in this course.
The books and movies are great, and the course is great until about halfway through when it starts to get a bit tedious.
Ask for help if you feel like you have specific questions about what is working and what isn't. She is very helpful, especially if you reach out!
If you absolutely love Jane Austen then take it, but otherwise it might not be the best option for expos.
Do not take this unless you love literature!  I put it down because I like Austen, but that was not enough to make me enjoy the course.  I found that it was not applicable to me as a science concentrator.
If you don't like Jane Austen don't take this course. All of the work revolves around her so you will enjoy the class much more if you are an Austen fan.
It was much harder than other sections.  Though I learned a lot, it became extremely time consuming.
The preceptor is awesome.
Be prepared to take criticism in stride and make the effort to change your writing.
This class is really interesting and Jane Austen is great!  I would definitely recommend this class to fulfill the Expos requirement.
In the grand scheme of things, this isn't a bad choice for Expos. I took it because I thought it would be most similar to the literature classes I took before Harvard, and for the most part it was, but Tess really emphasizes moving away from more superficial high school writing, which I appreciated. In general, she provides solid feedback and guidance throughout the entire essay writing process, especially with the final essay, and I did see my writing improve during the class, so I guess it worked. That being said, I do not recommend taking this course unless you 1) have a strong interest in Jane Austen and particularly 2) have read Pride and Prejudice at a fairly deep level. The heavy emphasis on one author grows old over the course of the semester, especially if you don't especially like Austen's works. Prior knowledge of Pride and Prejudice is pretty much required for the second unit, unless you derive joy and meaning in life from having to read a 400-page novel (to be fair, it's one of the most important novels in the Western canon, but still...) in a week and understand it well enough to write a paper on it.
As long as you are fond of Jane Austen (or at least favorably open to the idea of Jane Austen), this is a great choice for Expos. Tess's feedback is always thoughtful and helpful, and I really felt my writing improved over the course of the semester. Don't take this Expos if you do not like Jane Austen or are leery of the concept; you have to like and understand her writing enough to be able to engage with it at a deep level if you want to get much out of the course. That being said, you don't need to have read her books in particular before as long as you are on good terms with the genre; knowing a bit about Pride and Prejudice might help in Unit 2, but there really are no prerequisites. Speaking of Unit 2, this is also a great choice for Expos if you like writing about film.
If you are a Janeite, you will enjoy the class -- if you are a strong writer and if you convey to Tess how enthusiastic about the material you are and that you already know a lot about Jane Austen.
This class is great for introducing people to Jane Austen or pleasing the already Jane Austen fan. This course is great for learning the structure and expectations for a college-level essay. However, it's hard to learn how to write a college-level essay when you've never written one before, which is why this class was so difficult for me. Also Tess is kind of strict/intimidating at times, so it's a little hard to approach her or take criticism from her. However, she really knows her stuff. You might get your butt kicked but it'll be worth it in the end. Don't take this if you want an easy expos.
Be ready to work, but the feedback is great, and if you want a challenge and to improve your writing, go for it.
I would strongly recommend this course to someone who really enjoys analyzing literature. If you are a more science oriented or social science person, this course is incredibly discipline specific and can potentially be very frustrating. Tess does give great feedback and explains how to improve your essays in a way that is quite constructive. She really wants you to succeed!
