This was a very enjoyable class. I wish I had spent more time on the readings because I actually enjoyed them. The professor was great- her feedback always helped me with my writing and I feel as if I am now much more conscience when I write.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. everything about it was an absolute waste of time, and i don't think i learned anything. i know expos in general is supposed to be a drag, but this class was just considerably worse than the expos classes any of my friends were taking.
This class is interesting IF you want to learn more about Orientalism and what it is in different mediums, such as art, literature and film. However, when it comes to a writing course with the objective and aim of enhancing and bettering your writing, I felt that this course was useless and unproductive.  You basically read some long, boring and repetitive stuff, and you try to emulate and imitate that, with little space for personal and independent creativity and thought in the issue
Orientalism doesn't have anything to do with the modern definition (as in Asia) which is what I thought it would be when I signed up for the course. It's about the old perception of the Middle East from like the 18th century.
One of the best expos classes - wonderful preceptor!
Be prepared, if you don't really like art but "want to take this course to appreciate it more." Don't do it!!!! I'm personally not that big a fan of art and having it crammed down my throat by a class didn't exactly help. If I never see another "Orientalist" artwork, I'll be glad. Also, the assignments can be tedious but don't forget to turn them in on time. They may not be graded, but De Young still grades your essay and you probably don't want to create animosity. All in all, it's really not any worse than other Expos classes but that doesn't mean it's not pretty terrible.
I really enjoyed the class, but I found it to be difficult and unclear at times. If you are a humanities person, and really enjoy the arts and analyzing such, I would recommend this class. If you do not like analyzing art and literature, I recommend a different class.
Make sure you really work hard on getting feedback on your thesis. The thesis is key and without a good thesis all your work will be for nothing. Take advantage of office hours and contact the professor!
Expos is a lot of time and work, be prepared to put time into long essays, but also try to read and engage with the subject (in this case, Orientalism), otherwise the writing assignments will be very difficult.
