Definitely an Expos gem. I didn't think that I would enjoy the course too much because I am not too fond of writing, but I enjoyed the topics that were discussed and I am glad to have improved as a writer. I also realized what I liked about parts of my writing and became better at spotting the parts that I didn't like and learning how to fix them. Dr. Blevins gives lots of good advice and feedback and is not a tough, nitpicky grader. The course does not have long, extensive readings (like other expos courses), and I was genuinely interested in the material, which made writing a lot less painful. Definitely take this expos course if you are at all interested in evolution or what makes humans unique in the animal kingdom (the final essay topic).
This course does not have a lot of required reading
An interesting expos class if you are into evolution and scientific writing.
This is a very good choice for an Expos class, but it is still first and foremost an Expos class, so if you are more interested in the science aspect you may be disappointed. However, Dr. Blevins is really nice and gives incredibly useful feedback on papers so your writing will definitely improve.
If you like evolutionary bio, this is the expos for you. Don't get me wrong, Expos is still Expos, but Erin Blevins is a wonderfully kind preceptor, and the topic is awesome.
I would highly recommend this course for anyone thinking of pursuing a career in science and/or research. The readings are scientific papers, not books or other literature. It's a great expos class!
If given a choice between Dr. Blevin's expos and an alternative class where you use a vegetable peeler to remove your own skin for two hours a week, I'd take that instead of Dr. Blevin's expos. It'd be less painful.
There are many problems with the Expos program as a whole.  I don't know why Harvard retains a course that prides itself on the fact that it gave T.S. Eliot a B on his first paper.  Further, why should students who have taken AP English and been placed above Expos 10 on the placement exam take Expos 20 at all?  These questions are beyond my capacity to answer, and it seems the College is not keen on getting rid of Expos soon.  So for now I can only wholeheartedly recommend Evolutionary Leaps.  The preceptor is wonderful and provides excellent feedback on writing and in conference.  The writing assignments are quite interesting, and the readings do not consume the inordinate amount of time required in some other Expos classes.  I especially recommend this course for those who enjoy science writing and/or are interested in evolutionary biology (human and other organisms).  As far as Expos goes, I am happy to have taken this section.
This is a great class and you will learn amazing stuff about human beings and other animals.
Dr. Blevins is a good teacher and she's very nice, but the expos program as a whole is kind of flawed.  Topics are interesting but not as cool or glamorous as the other classes.
My analytical writing and critical thinking definitely improved over the semester thanks to this course! I know everyone complains about Expos, but this class was actually both interesting and manageable, and I got good grades as well. Erin is such a sweet, reasonable proctor, and I personally found office hours extremely constructive. I got to learn about some fascinating evolutionary concepts fairly in-depth, and I'd say, since this is a science-based Expos, our reading selections were much shorter than those in other classes: if it wasn't draft or revision week, the workload was extremely light. Basically, I would recommend this class to any science-oriented freshmen. Don't be afraid of Expos! This specific class was actually my 8th choice, but I ended up really liking it. Go in with an open mind!
Only take this class if you really like evolutionary biology. Otherwise the subject material is really boring and dense.
Wonderful if you're interested in science especially evolutionary biology. Probably one of the easier/more relaxed EXPOS, but it really helps to be comfortable reading relatively dense scientific journal articles.
A straightforward course for those interested in any science, especially those who enjoy evolution. Activities are interesting and the assignments fair. From what I've heard, this is one of the best Expos courses
Workload it great, content is fairly interesting, sections are difficult to get through sometimes and some of the assignments feel unnecessary
This is the best expos you can take, especially if none of the other expos topics particularly stand out to you. That isn't to say that this class is a good "last choice" -- rather, barring any extreme interest in another class, this is almost definitely the best bang for your buck.
Expos is a good course for teaching the fundamentals of writing. Make sure to pick a course that is interesting to you and that you will enjoy writing essays about.
This class is about as good as an expos class can get. I've seen people get completely overwhelmed by expos, but this class is manageable. The feedback is excellent, and your writing will definitely improve. We also got a VIP tour of Harvard's natural history museum, which was extremely interesting.  While the scientific subject matter is very interesting, don't expect it to be a "science" course; it is primarily about writing. The skills you learn are good for persuasive writing across many disciplines.
Only take this class if you have a genuine interest in the subject. If you don't you will find it miserable. However, if you enjoy the evolutionary sciences you will enjoy this class.
The material in this class is very interesting and Dr. Blevins is a nice person. I feel like as far as Expos classes goes this is a solid course.
While having a background in science (or biology specifically) is not required, it definitely helps.
It's a good class, but only a few students an get A's
