Woolf and Hemingway is an excellent Expos choice. You read excellent texts, and the way you think about and write about them are not only extremely interesting, but really help you as a reader and writer.
The reading in this course is very interesting.  Dr. Becker seems to be one of the more conscientious preceptors from what I heard from other freshmen.
If you enjoy Woolf and Hemingway it's a great class. You will be focussing solely on readings and literary analysis, so if you enjoy thinking about novels it is definitely a good course. Becker is a great preceptor and is very inspiring.
Everyone complains about Expos, but this class is actually great! The readings are really enjoyable Make sure you make time to actually read the whole books over breaks or three day weekends because this class will make you want to write really strong essays. Dr. Becker is really excellent at giving feedback on your drafts.
This is as good as expos gets. You'll have more reading than your peers, but the reading is enjoyable and the class is actually rewarding. Dr. Becker is always willing to help you with anything you might need, and she is very understanding with things like extensions.
This course is obviously very literature heavy. It is well run and the students are all very involved which makes it pretty enjoyable. I know that many other expos courses had very different assignments though, ours being far more textually based. If you are interested in the books of this course, I would recommend it as a good way to learn how to analysize literature and do close readings.
Only take this class if you enjoy reading books, and especially Woolf and Hemingway. But if you fit those qualifications, the readings for this class will be enjoyable.
Probably the only expos class I've heard good things about. Interesting reading, great teacher, fun assignments. Honestly a gem. If you hate English don't take this, but if you want something familiar like you did in highschool, take it.
Since you have to take Expos, this isn't a bad option.
It's a great expos course, especially if you're interested in doing some serious analysis. The time commitment isn't small; it'll take you a lot more time that you expect. That being said if you're willing to put in the effort the class is excellent.
If you want to read a few good classics while you're getting your expos requirement out of the way, take this course: the books you read are great.
I feel that students must be enthusiastic about both Woolf and Hemingway in order to fully participate in discussions and dedicate their time to the essays and revisions.
I really enjoyed this course overall, but it was definitely a lot of work. I think it was certainly one of the hardest Expos courses with the most reading, but I got a lot out of it in the end, and I'm really glad that I took it.
if you like wolff or hemingway take it
I really enjoyed the readings and discussions in this class. However, there is a lot of close readings that are time consuming so one has to be certain that they are willing to spend time on the readings.
If you are a solid writer with respect to literary analysis, I recommend taking another Expos 20 class in a subject matter that you do not feel as comfortable. Dr. Becker is great and the material is well chosen, but it sometimes felt like a preliminary writing course (which it is). If you want an English class, take one. Don't rely on this course to fulfill your desire to fully analyze texts. If you are not as confident in your literary analysis, take this class! You will learn so much, and Dr. Becker is a wonderful teacher.
This class involves some abstract and complex thinking, but, coming from someone who is concentrating in science, everything is very do-able. The preceptor, Christina Becker, is fantastic and gives a lot of help with essays whenever you need her. To me, this was an enjoyable Expos class.
It's a significant amount of work, especially for an expos class. However, the work is interesting and the grading is very fair. Dr. Becker gives awesome feedback and really takes the time to help you better articulate your ideas. Take this expos if you either have a real passion for literature, or like me, want an awesome opportunity to explore the humanities and learn how to deeply analyze literature.
The material is excellent, and Dr. Becker is amazing. No expos class is perfect, but this one is pretty good.
Dr. Becker is very supportive and provides lots of great feedback. A great class to improve your writing!
