You should definitely take it before you take expos
Make the most of it and use it as a chance to explore writing.
This course is a great way to improve your writing in a very friendly environment. The one on one work with the preceptor was fantastic and the close of community of fellow freshman around you really allowed for a helpful workshop atmosphere.
If you feel that your writing requires structure or that you or coming into college with some reservations about your writing take the course. Do not think about what other people might think of you or whether they may judge you. It'll help you!
Expos 10 is a great way to jumpstart your college writing career.
Jonah is a great teacher and if you have any reservations about your writing, take this class! You will not only develop as a writer, but you will get to know your peers very well in this class. I feel very confident going into expos 20 in the spring.
This class is very helpful in improving your writing and I would definitely recommend it.
If you have been advised to take the course definitely take it!
It depends on what you feel you need but it is so useful to understand the fundamentals of what is expected of academic writing here.
This course is a great way to start your college writing experience if you aren't a strong writer.
This course provides an easy-to-follow introduction to argumentative writing. It accommodates for various writing backgrounds and builds a solid foundation for essay writing of all sorts. If you are unconfident about your writing skills, this course can help you gain that confidence through great feedback and practice.
Take this class if you want to fine tune the basics to writing.
I never took AP English in high school and was extremely uncomfortable with my writing abilities before taking this course. However, I now feel confident to approach expos 20 and write essays in general. This is by far my favorite class of the semester(and this is coming from a science guy who hated writing). Zachary will teach you how to write a strong arguable essay from the ground up. If you were placed in expos 10 then take the course, it will be the most beneficial class you have this semester.
If you are at all unsure whether your should take Expos 10 or Expos 20, I highly recommend Expos 10! I took AP English in high school and still think that Expos 10 helped me a lot. I feel very prepared for college writing. In Expos 10 the process is walked through slowly, which allows you to fully understand and learn how to write college papers.
Take it! This is the best writing course. And Zachary is the nicest person.
If you have doubts about your ability to write in college, this course will definitely help make you a more confident, experienced writer and prepare you for the rest of your years.
If you have any doubts at all about your writing skill ability, then take Expos 10. It really does grow you tremendously as a writer, especially if you are not familiar with analyzing works or writing long, complex papers.
It holds your hand and teaches you personally how to write better - its very helpful. Take it if you doubt your writing abilities.
If you feel that you are already a strong writer, don't hesitate to take this course. Although a good majority of what will be said might be familiar to you, the work you do really does help to make your writing ring with more clarity and prompts you to think to a greater extent about the topics you write about. Also, if you're a bit nervous about jumping right into Expos 20 and want some sort of validation that you're actually ready, this is the course for you. Be prepared to write a bit though and potentially read about things that you aren't necessarily interested in. The trade-off in terms of growth as a writer is definitely worth it--at least in my opinion!
Expos 10 is a tremendous class.  It is a great way to better understand the way to go about writing.  Helps you become a better writer.  Can use the writing techniques not only for expos but for other classes.  Only brings success to you as a writer.
Professor Sifuentes' feedback on assignments reflects his desire to encourage his students as much as teach them how to improve their writing. His constant energy and enthusiasm for each class(despite his lack of sleep due to his baby daughter) was what motivated all students to participate in discussion and to strive to become better writers.
This isn't a writing course...it is a course that teaches you to be an independent thinker, a group participant, a curious individual who knows how to ask and find the answers to the big questions out there, and a more thoughtful contributor to society.  Writing merely serves as the vehicle of expression you use to communicate everything you learn in this course.
Overall I would definitely suggest this course to students. The workload compared to expos 20 is definitely lighter and I feel like the slower pace suits me well, especially since I don't want to stress myself out during the first semester. Zachary is very funny and good at teaching. His selection of readings is also quite interesting. Overall, this course is great for students who are not confident about their writing skills. I wouldn't say I am very confident right now, but I feel more prepared when it comes to writing papers that involves critical thinking.
-If you didn't do a lot of writing in high school, this course is extremely helpful in showing you how to structure the type of papers you will be writing at a college level.  It goes at a slow pace to facilitate your transition into college writing.
This class helps you to lay a strong foundation for your future writing classes and papers.
It teaches you how to enjoy writing papers.
Zachary is a phenomenal preceptor that makes this course interesting and awesome. I would recommend this course with no reservations.
The workload is very easy but you learn a lot about writing.
Stay on top of the posts to the course website, go to each class (don't skip a day), and give yourself enough time to do the writing assignments, especially if these will be some of your first college papers.
Highly Recommend it, I now feel confident in my writing ability and am no longer afraid of essay assignments in other classes.
if you put in the work and do all the assignments accordingly, Expository Writing 10 is a great class. It's really what you make of it.
It is a great way to improve writing skills and phase into college writing. When Expos 20 students are struggling because of the sudden change, Expos 10 allows for a better transition and later, better performance in Expos 20. Since writing is such a big part of college and life, taking this course with the individual focus can only help.
Expos 10 provides a necessary and strong basis for writing essays in future classes throughout your entire time at Harvard.
Take if you aren't confident in your writing.
Everyone else hated Expos but me because I was fortunate to be in this class!
