I highly recommend this class! Karen is a wonderful preceptor who gives really thoughtful feedback and who is always willing to meet with you to discuss your paper, the texts, your goals, etc. She facilitates very interesting discussions about extremely intriguing texts. I absolutely loved the readings and films we were assigned for this class, and all the thinking and reflection they inspiredI strongly believe that enjoying the subject matter makes writing about it easier and more enjoyable (that was certainly the case for this course). No matter what, Expos will not be your easy class, but Karen makes the class a great experience, and in the end this was perhaps my favorite class from the spring semester.
Karen is absolutely amazing and the course, for expos, is really quite enjoyable. Just be prepared to do a lot of writing pretty much continually throughout the semester.
This is a great class that is a good mix of psychology and literature. You don't need to be overly scientific nor do you need a love of literature. The class discussion is always interesting and the preceptor allows everyone to speak. While she gives direction, she does not impede anyone from stating and sharing their ideas.
This section of expos was very interesting.  Both the books and movies were intriguing.  Karen provides very helpful comments and facilitates wonderful discussions.
Expos is not the most fun course, but this was not that bad. The section was quite interesting, and Karen is a fantastic preceptor. I would definitely choose this Expos again if I had to.
It is the best expository writing class that I have heard of, and I wholeheartedly recommend it.
Karen was a great inspiration on me and an excellent person to have guiding you through expos 20... material was very interesting as well
This was my favorite class this semester. I loved Karen's teaching. She facilitates discussion very effectively and manages to make every class fascinating. She is very logical, clear, and fair in her feedback and her approach to the writing process. You will become a much stronger and more persuasive writer over the course of three essays. The material is fascinating as well, and will pique anyone's interest in abnormal psychology. Rank this expos class first and I guarantee you won't regret it.
It was an incredibly interesting topic and I found the combination of both written and visual materials great.
Karen is such a great teacher and the course is really interesting and fun!
It was easier than other expos classes and the teacher is great.
There is a lot of work for the class (or at least I felt there was), but the material is fascinating. You really get to understand the mind and do a lot of deep thinking. At times, understanding the material was more difficult than actually writing the essay. Karen is also very good at providing feedback and always works with you. Overall, it's a solid class that will make you a better writer.
Even though the idea of expos is terrifying, Karen makes the class fun and interesting.  She's always so willing to help out and gives the best feedback on essays and during conferences.
Karen is great and the materials are really interesting
Karen is the best preceptor!! She genuinely cares about improving our writing and offers very helpful feedback. The class itself was interesting. I don't consider myself a good writer by any means, but this was my favorite course of the semester.
This is a really great expos class. Karen is so helpful and always willing to meet if you need to talk over your ideas. You write the final paper on a film (for my class it was either Silence of the Lambs, Donnie Darko, or The Hours) and I personally thought it was a lot of fun to write academically about films I'd just watched for pleasure in the past.
Fantastic class.  Portraits of Madness was an extremely interesting class and taught very well.
This is a fantastic expos class. It's incredibly interesting and fun.
It is really very interesting. I don't know if it's the easiest expos class, but I actually enjoyed it. Expos has the potential to be painful, but this class was actually fun.
The preceptor makes all the difference
Take this class! It is a really interesting Expos class to take because the material you read and watch is though-provoking, and the ideas that come from each medium make you think about different and rather mind-puzzling situations. Karen is a wonderful preceptor and really teaches you how to write a paper, starting from the very basics. She is always there to help if you have any questions and really helps you become a better writer. Yes, it is Expos, so the grading is a bit harder than you are going to be used to, but this is Harvard, and the grading is harder in general. If you put effort into your papers and actually do revisions, you will have a fun and rewarding time in this class.
Take if you're interested in the readings/films! A relatively painless way to get out of the expos requirement, and Karen is great and extremely helpful in conference!
The course is great! Karen is a wonderful preceptor, and the feedback you'll get back will help a lot to develop your writing.
Karen is really nice but really tough. If you do all of the work and actually put thought into it, you'll get something out of this course. Also, for people dealing with mental illness, I wouldn't recommend this class because some of the readings and themes can hit close to home and interrupt your ability to engage with the material objectively.
Instructor is really engaging! Karen's fab.
Karen is the best.
Portraits of Madness was one of the best writing classes I've taken in my school career. The texts and films are very interesting, and the writing prompts allow you to delve deeper into subjects and ideas that intrigue you.
This course is spectacular. I had a high expectations, because, coming into college, I really wanted to figure out how to write. But I was worried about expos, because a lot of people say how it's the worst class you'll ever take, it's grueling and boring, and you don't actually learn that much. The class fulfilled all of my expectations and more. My writing improved A TON. I learned so much in this course, and had a blast doing it. Karen is amazing. She'll get you on track with wherever you want to go with your writing. The course materials are all great, albeit at times a bit creepy, as to be expected when considering the course title. There is a steady amount of work, but you'll find that it's all useful and has a purpose. Almost every assignment is directly discussed in class, or you're given feedback by Karen on it. I would highly recommend this course to anyone, particularly if you're interested in writing for English courses, or psychology.
Karen is an amazing and a delightful preceptor. Books and movies are fascinating. Everyone in the class was super into it. We would go to lunch afterwards and talk about the books. Trust me, this is the expos everybody deserves.
AMAZING PRECEPTOR AND AMAZING SECTION THEME!
