People often moan about expos, but this was probably my favourite class this semester. If you have any interest at all in the material, then you will find the class very engaging and the discussions insightful. The readings are not bad AT ALL and Professor Allen is the nicest guy ever, who is also the best 'writing coach' imaginable. I honestly feel much better prepared for college level writing than I did before taking this class.
This class is a great class if you want to learn about buddhism and hinduism, but be prepared to do a lot of reading like any other expos 20 class.
Yes. It provides an interesting, new way of looking at the world, while simultaneously improving our writing skills.
This course is certainly not an easy one, but it is perhaps more rewarding for that. Dr. Allen is a fantastic preceptor, and offers excellent feedback on drafts in the draft conferences. If you get placed into this course, don't get too attached to your draft before your first conference, because it will get picked apart. Be aware that this is not personal, and that Dr. Allen only does this because he truly cares about doing everything in his power to make you a better writer. DO THE READINGS!! If you don't, you'll be missing out on what was probably my favorite part of the course: the in-class discussions. The in-class discussions got into some intricate discussions of self, and what our conception of self truly is. This class will completely change your views on the nature of the self, so be open-minded and think critically about the readings, particularly in the second unit when you start to cover philosophical argument. Ultimately, I wish this had been a discussion-based seminar rather than an Expos class, because we spent more time on writing and less time on the philophical argument than I would have liked. With that said, I can't really think of another Expos that I would rather have taken, after having heard (granted, this is hearsay) from some friends about some of the other Expos. If you are considering making this one of your 8 preferences for Expos, do it! This class will change your life, making you a better writer at the same time.
If you are even minutely interested in philosophy, take this class! Michael is a great preceptor and is extremely extremely helpful with any doubts you might have. He replies to emails in a timely fashion and his replies are always comprehensive. He is extremely patient and takes a lot of interest in each one of his students. However if the only thing you care about are grades, beware, Michael is a tough grader.
This expos class, while a little different, is definitely one of the better ones. I looked forward to attending class and Professor Allen is great. If you're at all interested in philosophy, definitely look into taking this class.
awesome
Requires work, teacher is great.
Very deep readings. This is not a class where you can scan the readings and get away which it. We had a lot class discussions where it's hard to bs it.
This class is awesome if you're interested in South Asia or religions. Although it is an expos course (blah!), the readings can be great for extending what you learned, especially the research paper.
Best Expos class I've heard of!
The material is extremely interesting to read about and discover. The texts are always full of metaphors and poetry and make them some of the most satisfying I have ever read. However some of the assigned papers ask you to do too much - it is quite difficult to write about a topic to which you are very new.
Dr. Allen was incredible, and this was an incredible Expos topic! Too bad he'll be leaving next year, as he definitely made this class special with all the time and thought he put in.
Dr.Allen is amazing and so is the subject material. His enthusiasm for the subject is contagious.
Dr. Allen is very knowledgeable, and the material couldn't be more interesting. But Indian philosophy is hard--really hard. They essays were always a struggle for me, and Dr. Allen is very exacting when he reviews and grades. Nonetheless, I'm glad I took this expos because Indian philosophy was so new to me.
Do exactly what Dr. Allen tells you to do and all will be well.
This class is very interesting, but some of the texts are difficult and require some deep analysis. The grading rubric is a little tough.
Don't fall behind on the readings and start your papers early. This class was my favorite so far. Although difficult, I feel my writing improved a lot and it was definitely worth it.
Take this class if you want to learn a lot of extremely interesting things, but keep in mind that writing essays for this class is extremely challenging and the grading is tough.
Definitely do the readings as they are interesting and helpful to develop a sense of the logic behind Indian philosophy. Ask many questions, and challenge what you read, especially if it goes against your world views.
This class has very interesting subject material, but is a lot of work because the subject material is difficult to understand.
Awesome class! You learn so much and Dr. Allen is incredible.
I don't know why so many people complain about Expos. This was my favorite class of the semester. The readings are extremely interesting, Dr. Allen is amazing, and my section was very engaged. The writing part was painful, but I did learn how to write better. Dr. Allen provides very helpful feedback and is always willing to help you work through ideas.
