This is a pretty solid expos. The material was interesting, and the preceptor was very helpful.
n/a
An excellent way to explore historical writing and learn more about the civil rights movement.
It was a good course, but if you do not enjoy historical writing or have not had practice, this might be difficult or boring for you. Try to focus your essays on something you find especially interesting.
Take it if you are genuinely interested in learning about the civil rights movement. This class encourages you to think critically about the civil rights movement, especially Dr. King and she gives good feedback. Grading could be a little harsh but not too bad.
Go into this class expecting it to be a class about writing, not about the civil rights movement.  Apart from the paper topics, there isn't too much history involved.  The class did accomplish what it set out to do, in my opinion--I do feel like I have developed my writing skills.
This class is only interesting and manageable if you are a history aficionado with a specific interest in the civil rights movement. Only take this class if you have experience with writing history papers.
I enjoyed reading about the civil rights movement.
This is a really interesting and fun way to fulfill your Expos requirement. The preceptor is always willing to help and accessible in some way. It may be challenging at times, but she gave great feedback that helped me to grow tremendously as a writer and as a critical thinker. I also learned so much about the Civil Rights Movement and found the course really engaging.
My improvements as a writer were rarely reflected in improvements in my grade
I found this course very helpful and very rewarding. I feel that my writing improved over the semester, and I became much more confident in constructing an academic argument. Ariane is great, super helpful, and very committed to helping you become a better writer.
If what the average individual ranting about "Expos" is considered true, then this class is far better than most Expos classes. There was very little busy work and the reading was trivial except for what needed to be done for the research essay.
Make sure you put time into your drafts. That is where you are helped the most.
N/A
TAKE THIS CLASS! It's a lot of work and will require a lot of time but it will be worth it. Dr. Liazos gives clear, specific feedback. The readings are interesting and manageable. You'll leave the class as a much more confident writer.
In comparison to other Expos classes, this class was extremely work intensive and rigorous, but the subject material was very interesting.
I know everyone hates on expos, but this was truly my favorite class this semester. I really enjoyed working with Dr. Liazos on my essays, and I feel as though I have improved as a writer because we discussed more specific aspects of writing than I had discussed in my high school. I also enjoyed learning about the Civil Rights Movement, without the historical component overshadowing the writing component.
Students with an interest in history, but without a strong background in the civil rights movement, will find this course enjoyable. The readings on the civil rights movement were thoroughly interesting and thought-provoking. While the class culture was disengaged, a product of the expos structure, the class is very effective at improving your writing. Dr. Liazos is a thoughtful reader, prompt and helpful.
The subject matter is very interesting, especially if you like history. However, I think other leaders are more lenient with grades. If you're looking for an easy expos course this is not the one to take. Not that any will be easy, but some require less work than others, and you will probably get a better grade in the easy ones.
It is not as bad as you expect it to be but it is not the most interesting course you can take (it is a requirement though!).
This class is a great option if you are a future history/humanities concentrator. Dr. Liazos does a good job and has set up a course that is productive and engaging.
Take this class if you want to learn about race relations in America today. Learning about the roots of the problem is key to understanding them.
For an expos class, this was pretty good. I am happy to say that I feel like I actually learned a lot about writing. It felt like writing class, not a class about the civil rights movement, which I found frustrating, since I would have liked to have talked about the movement a bit more and the writing a bit less. However, Ariane is very easy to contact outside of class and is really helpful and kind. I'd recommend it for anyone going into History or the humanities in general.
It is important to do the readings and put time into your work, otherwise it is difficult to do well.
If you are willing to work hard, you will learn so much in this class. The material is interesting - most of the reading goes by very fast because you will actually enjoy what you are reading. Pay attention in class and work hard, and you will become a better writer.
From what my friends have said about their Expos experiences, this is one of the better ones (mainly due to Dr. Liazos- she is very committed to her students, and provides extremely useful and timely feedback on your assignments).
Just make sure to keep up with the reading.  The reading comes in spurts and is very heavy so just spread it out evenly to make it easier for yourself.
Lot of work, really great class to take if you're into civil rights at all.
You will not learn very much about the civil rights movement in this class, which was disappointing. You will not discuss civil rights issues or different civil rights scholarship. What you will do, is practice writing. I took Expos 10 the semester before taking this class and in Expos 10 I learned a ton about how to write. I did not feel like I learned anything new about writing in Expos 20, all it did was give me practice writing. This is good I suppose, but the styles of writing we practiced in this class are styles I am unlikely to use again in my academic career, or use very rarely. I was often frustrated by the preceptor's comments because she contradicted herself and didn't tell me things until the revision, even when they had been present in the draft, which she also reviewed. Overall, the class is not terrible, but it is not great either.
I loved this expos! It's set up in the same way as any other expos, but if you are interested in the Civil Rights movt. at all you will have a good semester. Put effort into your drafts not jsut your final and your grade will reflect this.
It helped my writing more than I ever thought was possible. Tough course but definitely worthwhile, fun, and exceptionally useful.
The material could be dry to some but works well for what we're trying to learn here.
If you are taking this course because you are interested in the Civil Rights Movement from a historical perspective, you may be better suited by finding a history elective with the same subject. Because this is an Expos course there is a great deal of energy put towards the rigid structure of writing and creating an argumentative paper.
This class improves your writing tremendously
if you are interested in history, especially black history I'm sure you will enjoy this course.
I think that if you're looking for a pretty painless expos experience this one is a good one to take. All expos classes have a similar workload; this one is no less or more than most. I think the subject of the class is interesting and provides a good amount of substance for our papers. I think Ariane is a really good preceptor. She's really helpful with your papers and puts in a lot of time. If civil rights interests you at all, this is a good expos to take.
As far as Expos goes, this class is just fine. The material itself is pretty interesting, even if you don't know much about the Civil Rights movement. It's a good introduction to historical writing. Ariane is a good preceptor and is very helpful about feedback.
Some of the reading can be long and dry at times. Ariane really wants to help you, she does an excellent job. You will improve your writing if you take this class.
This course is hard, but it will make you a better writer.
This is a great class if you're interested in history or historical writing, but don't expect the content to be anything super original.
Ariane's great, the course material is fairly interesting, and it's about as good an expos as you can get I guess.
It is an interesting class. I learned a lot about significant historical events. The class is time consuming because there are several more required assignments other than the 3 papers. The sections are extremely uninteresting and demanding.
