Highly recommend this class if you want a different perspective on Colonialism and the Encuentro. Lectures are engaging and professors do a great job of connecting themes in the course to daily experiences.
extremely easy, very uninformative
Probably take this as a non-history concentrator, otherwise it might not be rigorous enough.
A great class to take! The professors and TFs are very passionate about the material they teach and are willing to accommodate the students with additional office hours for questions about both the class and the culture of the Mexican-American and Mexican people. Visual aids, lively lectures, guest speakers, and intriguing readings!
Profe Carrasco and Professor Fash are truly amazing professors who teach an incredibly interesting topic. I learned so much this semester not only about Mexico but just about the world and how it works in general. Definitely take this course!
This class is not an easy walk: you need to do the readings and attend lecture.  However if you do the subject matter is interesting and enjoyable.
Take this class! I loved it so much, it was my favourite class of the whole semester. Every lecture my poor friends would have to hear all about it over lunch. It was a class you just couldn't help but talk and think about.
Get to know the professors!
This is a really fun class. The Professors are really chill and really smart, passionate about what they teach. Readings can pile up on you if you do not catch up, but later in the semester you find a strategy towards the readings. Section was cool - lots of artsy stuff and artifacts. Overall, awesome and chill class.
This class is a fun and interesting way to fulfill a gen ed requirement. Professors Fash and Carrasco do a great job of connecting the history to current events.
Jesus, this class is literally the easiest thing ever. Enjoy your A.
Carrasco and Fash are amazingly knowledgable and really enthusiastic about the field and also very accessible, so to get the most out of the class you should take advantage of them.  This class can get boring if you do not supplement the lectures with reading so it is really what you make it, but overall all the teaching staff is great and it is a great tool to study the "Encuentro" of two seemingly different cultures by studying their religions first.  The take-home exams are very lengthy and detailed but fair, and also section consists of visits to the Peabody Museum as well.  Take this class if you have genuine interest in the subject and you will have a great time.
This class is an interesting approach to Mesoamerican history and covers topics that I had never encountered before.
Attend lectures
The exams are take-home and enable you to learn an entire half semester of material in 2 nights.
This course will fill a void in your understanding of US-Mexico relations, the border, and people with Mexican heritage. If you are looking to understand great civilizations other than the Greeks and the Romans, take this course. The course is very manageable: only two take home examinations (with 7 and 10 days to do it, respectively), a video project, and very interesting readings.
This class is pretty easy. The only assessments are take home midterm and final. The readings are unnecessary to do, if you attend lecture. The class material is also pretty interesting, especially in the first half of the year when you learn about the Aztec religions and human sacrifice. Prof. Fash and Prof Carrasco are also two of the world's leading scholars in the field, and are incredibly knowledgeable about Mexican history.
This course is very manageable and introduces you to the Maya and Aztec world all the way to modern day Mexico. The professors are top in their fields and have done numerous primary research on the subject matter. Lectures are very engaging and visiting collections from the Harvard museums is amazing. I should say, if you have no interest in mesoamerica, this course may not be for you.
It's not hard, it takes care of a gen-ed, and maybe you'll learn something.
Make sure to go through all of the course material incredibly in deathly before taking any of the exams.
To do well in this class you have to do the readings, it'll make preparing for the midterm and final much easier. Lectures are interesting, especially when Carrasco is the lecturer. Sections are also fun. Overall it's a great class, it helps if you find the subject interesting. I don't recommend taking this class just because you heard it was easy.
Interesting coursework
It's an easy but painful class. Not worth the work unless you actually are interested.
not that hard, very interesting, and you learn a lot on a country that has a deep cultural history
The course in general is great and Carrasco is a very impassioned lecturer. The Fash lectures seem a bit out of place though. The sections also were very jumbled and did not get much from them. Grading is also very subjective between TFs.
This is a great course, but if you're the most interested in Mesoamerica, it may not be particularly fun for you.
This class was interesting, although it focused more on religion and race than it did on 'societies of the world.' The lectures were interesting, although Carrasco often said things that he didn't justify or explain why he thought what he thought.
This class has a lot of reading materials and requires a lot of time to sift through it all. These readings are crucial to the exam portion of this course.
Easy if you stay on top of the work.
Good if you've never taken a course on Mesoamerican culture, but it will be repetitive if you're already familiar with the field.
The subject matter is fascinating, but the professors assign a lot of reading, some of which is never addressed in class as well as a comprehensive group project creating a wikipedia page. It is a lot of work for a Gen Ed, and although you can get by without doing the readings for the most part, they are absolutely necessary for the take home final and midterm. I am not a person who minds work (as a history concentrator, I'm no stranger to a lot of reading and writing) but the expectations for this course don't seem to fit for a Gen Ed or really any course that is taken as just one of four courses taken in a semester. This being said, the lectures are really interesting and the TFs are great, plus during section you get to examine artifacts in the Peabody museum. All in all, it's a really interesting course, but if you take it, be warned that you will be expected to put a lot of work into it.
I took this course for a concentration requirement; had there been another option I would have taken it. Lectures were badly organized and a waste of time, although section was good.
This was probably the most disappointing class I have taken at Harvard. The lectures were boring, and the readings pretty inaccessible. Only take this class if you really want to learn about the softer anthropology of Mexican culture. There was not a lot of history involved, as I had hoped there would be.
Prior knowledge would be incredibly helpful to be successful.
Difficulty: 3/5. Great class to take as a Gen Ed. Keep up with readings.
a gem, but also not really. no weekly work (except reading which you don't need to do), but the take-home exams are hard, and pretty excessive for this course.
You really learn to look at the world you live in in a different way. This class helped me gain a better understanding of how Mexico came to be the way it is today.
This course has a plethora of reading, but can be managed by reading a few of the excerpts each week. If you do the work, you will do well if there is adequate effort put in.
This is a great class that traces the history of Mexico including discussions on ancient infrastructure and cosmovision, colonialism and racial categorization, and contemporary perceptions of Mexico and its development. There is a good amount of reading but no matter what, always read Carrasco's Religions of Mesoamerica. Midterm and final exams take time so start them as soon as they are released. Manageable and interesting esp. if you are interested in colonialism. Make sure you get Noa as your TF--he's great!
Do the readings
great class to take for SOC gen ed
It's hard to enjoy the class if you don't have any interest in the materials.  TFs make this class much more enjoyable.  Unfortunately a lot of your grade depends on very few assignments so be sure to stay on top of the material so that those don't catch you off guard.
Not as easy as they said it would be.
Carrasco's a wonderful lecturer despite emphasizing religion a bit too much in the course.  If you get Noa, it'll help balance it out and you should have a solid understanding of Mexico's colonial and pre-colonial religious history.
people say it's easy because there's a minimal work load, but when you do have assignments you have to spend a lot of time on them and they grade harshly
Great course to satisfy Gen Ed requirements. It is especially interesting to those who are interested in learning about the real history of the Americas. The course materials greatly applies to current events and issues, as racism, gender inequality, poverty, and other social/cultural issues that are covered in the class are still present. The course also does a great job at introducing anthropological theory and topics in archeology. Also, Prof. Carrasco is THE MAN. Incredible lecturer!
The content of the second half is more CB than SW. You are subjecting yourself to a TF lottery, where some grade insanely and arbitrarily hard and others are more lenient, which is endlessly frustrating.
This class is a fairly interesting and engaging gen-ed, but the assignments can be a bit unclear and what exactly they want us to know can also be unclear.
This class is pretty interesting and not too painful. The take home exams are fairly long, and there is a lot of reading, but the professors and TFs are all really passionate and want us to enjoy it. It is fun, just try to stay on top of it as much as possible!
I think the material in the course is very interesting and I was glad to have been able to learn about different themes and time periods in Mesoamerican history. You get out of the class what you put into it.
Not a mountain of work but it is a very poorly taught class and the lectures are very difficult to follow along with, particularly Fash. His lectures are terribly monotonous and dry. Carrasco is a great lecturer but it's difficult to know what he thinks is important for the course and what he is just throwing out as interesting facts.
This class is excellent! If you have any interest at all in weird cultural and religious traditions or Mexico then take this class! The assignments are few and graded easily and section is a breeze. Carrasco is a passionate, awesome lecturer but to be honest going to lecture is not really necessary, as all the info for the take-home exams is in the books, not the lectures. However, you should still go just for Carrasco's awesome lectures! I learned so much about Mexican history and culture that was absolutely fascinating-Take this class, its a gem!
DO THE READINGSSSSSS.You will be happier for it. You NEED them for the midterm and final. Go to lecture if you feel like it but make sure to do the readings and go to section. Prof. Carrasco is worth going to lecture for...Fash is less engaging unfortunately. You'll learn a lot and you'll enjoy the class more if you put some work in
I found the lectures confusing and unsatisfactory and one of the professors was unfortunately quite monotone and un-engaging.
The class is very poorly structured. There is far too much reading, most of which is irrelevant. Also, the exams are incredibly difficult, and count for an obscene portion of the grade.
Ridiculously easy. If you are Hist and Lit, this is not an engaging choice to fill the dreaded pre-colonial lit requirement. If you are taking it for any reason besides wanting to take a ridiculously easy Gen Ed, I do not recommend it. I actually wanted to learn the material and was very frustrated by the lack of engagement / the material / lecture.
it's not as easy as people say... I would only take it if you are genuinely interested in the subject
This is definitely a course with a really light workload (only a take home midterm, take home final, and a Wikipedia section project). That being said, the lectures were poorly organized and slides were not helpful. Be sure to vaguely keep up with the readings or it'll be really difficult to catch up for the take homes.
This class is really interesting if you're looking for a introduction to Mesoamerica. I wouldn't take it if you're genuinely not interested in the subject matter because lectures and especially the exams will be tortuous. I loved the lectures Professor Carrasco did, but be prepared to hear points of view that are very different from what you've heard or are used to. I'd say it helps situate some modern struggles that latino communities face today, and contextualizes Mexico's colonial past in a clear way. I wish we had thought about the Encuentro a little more from the Spanish perspective. I would recommend highly

This is a great course that changed my views on colonization and euro-centric cultures. It really showed me how conditioned in this society we are to think in terms of european ideals. It was interesting to look at the ancient mesoamerican world in a historical and archaeological light, while spending time considering questions of transference of native culture to modern Mexico, Guatemala and Honduras.
Fun gen-ed.  Being an Ec concentrator, it was a class that wasn't my typical class, and was out of my comfort zone, but I enjoyed it and had fun with it.
Probably the easiest course I have ever taken at Harvard. Like most Gen-Eds, skimming the readings occasionally will suffice, and there is only a take home final and midterm, so very little work involved at all. There is also a group project that took a couple hours max. I was genuinely somewhat interested in the topic, so that made the class pretty fun, but I can see how some people would find it incredibly boring if they had no interest.
This class is no work until you hate yourself for about 24 hours on the midterm, 24 hours on the wikiproject (which is maybe the worst assignment and clearly had zero planning put into it).  Doing this before the final but I imagine I'll hate myself for about 48 hours during that.  Just do something else.
Easy class, but you'll learn a lot about Mexico, both Pre-Columbian and in modern society. Lectures are sometimes disorganized and seemingly incongruent, and Profe Carrasco's lecturing style is more similar to preaching at times, so just be aware of that. Some tender subjects will be addressed at times, and while it may be uncomfortable its an attempt to foster dialogue. However the class comes with a lot of perks - extra events or lectures with really good Mexican food.
The reading was a lot but it was interesting in some regards. Some of the lectures were confusing but it was worth it.
This course, although relatively low in workload, is a bit difficult to follow. Lectures are a little too chaotic and assignments are grades very rigorously, making it hard to be successful.
Gives a whole new perspective to indigenous culture
This course helped to reform most ideas about the Great Encounter between the Old and New world and is very eye-opening. As an anthropology concentrator, I was pleased to learn a great deal anthropology. Professor Carrasco is a passionate, engaging lecture and sections are filled of great discussions and trips to the Peabody Museum.
This course requires very little work and you will pick up interesting information along the way
While the content of this course in great, and the professors are engaging in lecture, the experiences for the course overall can be heavily dependent on which Teaching Fellow you end up with.
DO NOT take this class if you think it is going to be fairly easy and interesting. Oftentimes it's rather dry, and the grading is pretty brutal. I would not recommend the class. That being said, the TF's are all very nice.
i would not recommend this class, honestly. they graded MUCH more strictly this year (i.e. a B+ was above the median grade on the midterm), and so other gen-eds are better if you are looking not to wreck your gpa.
It is not a gem class anymore and the topic isn't very interesting
The lectures from Professor Carrasco are exciting and informative. Fash is a little more subdued, but still great in his way. The reading list is extreme.
Take home finals are not worth the class fulfilling the requirement.
This is a fantastic course. I learned a great deal about Mesoamerica and came to question nearly every conception of this region I had ever formed. The workload is manageable and Profe Carrasco is the most entertaining lecturer I have ever witnessed.
Interesting material with only a few take home assignments.
Interesting material -- try to get a hold of the main themes in the class and it'll be a rewarding experience.
The midterm and final are pretty lengthy but those are the only substantial assignments. There is a good amount of readings and some can be quite dense. However, all in all I found the class to be quite interesting and thought-provoking.
It's a solid Societies of the World course, and the professors give great and interesting lectures
Poorly organized class with subpar teaching on an interesting topic.
I would really recommend this class but it is one of those courses where you only takeaway whatever you put in. The readings consist of a lot of thrilling primary resources and the assignments, especially the final presentation, really allows you to engage with materials not presented in class but it is one of those classes that is easy to let slip through the cracks, especially if your courseload is busy.
Such a great class! I loved professor Carrasco, and Professor Fash was so passionate about the course. The take home midterm and final are both very doable (you get a week), and they teach the core concepts fairly well. I loved the class, but it tends to attract some slackers.
Professors Carrasco and Fash are great and complement one another. They have a true passion for their subject and it shows. While the class was slightly unorganized, I learned a lot and feel more connected to my culture. Don't feel like you have to do all of the readings, some are mentioned repeatedly in class- just make sure to read those.
Don't have to go to lectures or read because the take homes are a joke
This is an awesome, relaxed, and entertaining class!
Make sure you do your readings, attend lecture, and start your take home exams early. When you do your readings, take notes on them and note certain quotes that you find particularly important.
Unorganized but interesting. Both professors absolutely love what they do.
This class is absolutely incredible. Gives a wonderful perspective on how the Spanish conquest shaped the countries of Latin America today. Sections were particularly fun when we examined real Aztec and Maya artifacts from the Peabody Museum's collections. 10/10 in my book. I would say this is the best course to take to fulfill your Societies of the World requirement. Viva Profesores Carrasco y Fash!
It is impossible to learn in this class. The readings are too long and the lectures are unorganized, and if your TF is bad then you will not stand a chance.
A great gen-ed. Not too much work and the the reading is not too necessary.
I think it's a good idea to take the time to review important figures and concepts from lectures each week, because there is a lot of material to cover and your TF/Lecturers won't officially review all the important material in section/in lecture slides.
It is a great class. Both professors are awesome and really teach the material from the heart. They are very well known in their professions and are great teachers.
Professor Carrasco and Philip are wonderful
Course had little work and the tests were doable.  Overall, the course covered a lot of history but didn't seem to have a focus.  Lectures were interesting sometimes. Harmless way to get S of W gen ed
Prof. Carrasco is very enthusiastic about the subject matter, which makes for awesome lectures. The exams are pretty vague though, and you'll find yourself wondering what is expected of you. Overall decent course though and it's a great learning experience
This class is a reasonable way to fulfill Societies of the World but, like all SW Gen Eds, there is a deeply troubling air of cultural tourism and exotification which is made worse by the shallowness of the focus / the lack of attention students give to the material. It's certainly an easy class, and Profe Carrasco is a brilliantly dynamic lecturer. But the coverage of race and gender issues has many problems and overall there are so many important discussions which simply aren't had, out of a combination of misplaced teaching focus and lack of student energy/engagement (myself totally included).
This class is interesting and fun if you have a good tf. Definitely attend lecture or you will be lost. The coursepack is probably not necessary to buy, but make sure to have the course books. All in all, a good class where you get what you put into in, and a great and painless way to fulfill a gen ed.
You can do well without going to class.
I took this course to fill the SOW req. Honestly I am not very interested in Mexican anthropology so the course was a poor choice for me. While I enjoy history, this class focuses almost entirely on cultural themes and religion. If you are interested in that the history of culture of Mesoamerica then take this course. Otherwise you will not find this course interesting.
Take it, take it. This is an amazing class! Even if you have never studied latin america, it will teach you a great deal and teach you to love mesoamerica. I wanted to travel and visit Aztec and Mayan sites after taking the course because you get so excited about their cultures. The professors are excellent and make the class really exciting. They are unparalleled in their field and balance each other well with their different but overlapping fields. This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard (and definitely the best gen ed) and I would recommend it to anyone who either wants to learn more about mesoamerica or learn something completely new in a very fun way! Readings are a lot but highly interesting and the midterm and final aren't too bad. Take the time to stay on top of the class because you will regret it if you don't. It is so fun if you understand what's going on and can follow what the professors say.
The course is very thorough. What is not covered in the class is covered on the final exam! In theory, I enjoyed the course. In practice, I did not. Lectures were very preachy. Sometimes they were interesting but most could not hold my attention and it seemed like a wasted hour. HOWEVER going to lecture is essential and so is taking good notes! Most of the lecture slides are only pictures so you need to attend and be attentive so you can do well on the take home midterm and final exams which were more difficult than I imagined! Beware: B+s ahead.
Really great class and topic.  Finally one class on Chicano history!!
This class is great if you're interested in Mesoamerican history or if you want to take a societies of the world course without doing any work. Lecture and readings were fairly unnecessary since all you had to do were two take-home tests, but section was a lot of fun.
It can be interesting if you really pay attention, but it's not as inherently captivating a subject as I expected. Not too stressful-good for requirements/schedule balance
it is an enjoyable class
Very interesting class. Not a ton of work.
make sure you keep up with the readings; relatively low workload during the semester, but the takehome midterm and final can get you if you haven't kept up with the readings
There are probably easier geneds that are more rewarding.  interesting material, but i learned mostly from wikipedia, as the readings are too hefty/unapproachable, and most of the lectures were unhelpful, especially carrascos.  Lectures are posted online before the midterm, but it is very helpful to go to class, as the lectures are pretty minimal.  Don't underestimate the midterms (which are take-home, but still need effort and time).
great gen ed for Societies of the World. Very interesting and relevant to our world today.
Moctezuma's Mexico is most interesting in the approach that it takes. Although I wish I had learned more facts than I did, I still thought that it was very interesting to look at Mesoamerica's history as continuous ("then and now"). Both the professors are great.
A gem gen ed.  I needed something to fulfill Soc. of the World gen ed and reviews of this class from years past were filled with nothing but "it's so easy" comments.  In that respect, the class isn't that difficult at all.  There is quite a bit of readings assigned each week, but I don't think I'm the only one that slacked on those.  However, a lot of people never came to lecture and as a result, people got C's on the take home midterm.  Just coming to lecture and jotting down some notes when the professors cover important terms, definitions, and ideas is enough to do well in this class.
An interesting course that is easy if the proper work is done.
Felt like the section leaders knew less than the kids at times. Lectures were good, but not the best. Too much reading. Graded exams unfairly, based on how much they liked you. You could talk about important points from the reading and the TFs would mark you down because they were not knoweldgable on them
This class is that lost city of gold of courses.
This class is a great way to learn about cultures that are often forgotten or misrepresented in high school curriculums.
I would not take this class unless you already have quite a bit of knowledge concerning Mesoamerican and Mexican history and simply want to learn more about religious/racial/gender themes. I went into this class with basically no background in the history of the region and spent a majority of my time very confused because the lectures/readings do a poor job of giving one a basic idea of what happened and are more focused on themes, which is fine, except that this is a Gen Ed so I'm assuming most people in the class did not come into it with a deep knowledge of the history already. I also did not feel like the lectures were organized in a way that made sense and it was often hard to determine what the main ideas of any given lecture were.
This class was wonderful! I have no complaints about this course and must say that I was very impressed with the teaching staff and the way they conducted the course. Every component of the course - from the readings, to the "Da de los muertos" event, to the section presentations and precious object examinations at the museum" - was incredibly fascinating and enabled me to have a better understanding of the Mesoamerica of the past and modern-day Mexico. The course was both interesting and fun, as it allowed students to engage with the material through discussion as well as through examining real objects from archeological sites in Mexico. Every part of this course felt worthwhile - and I can say that I feel very fortunate to have had the opportunity to take such a fascinating, engaging course on Mesoamerica that simultaneously fulfilled the Societies of the World requirement.
This course is a great option for societies of the world gen-ed. The work load is very light and the material is fairly interesting. Professor Carrasco is an incredible lecturer and he could make any topic interesting with his level of enthusiasm.
This course was interesting and not too time consuming, but it will make you feel like you did nothing at the end. You will leave essentially knowing enough about Mesoamerican culture to pass at a cocktail party. It is a painless way to fulfill the societies of the world requirement; however, it is a typical giant lecture course at Harvard: impersonal, mass produced, and not very meaningful. This is not education.
Do all the readings! It will make your life so much easier once the take home midterm and final come around.
If you are not interested in the material then this course may be slightly painful to sit through. The course load is not at all intense, but it may be if you are just not interested... Be careful!
Easy work, hard to do well.
If you want a low amount of work with a great deal of reward, take this class.
Make sure to thoroughly take notes in lecture.
To be quite honest, this class doesn't require a great deal of effort from anyone. As long as you attend class and pay attention, you will succeed. The midterm and final exams are take home, and you have a week to complete each of them. I cannot emphasize the relative easiness of this course in comparison to other courses at Harvard. On that note, the easiness does not imply that it is boring. This course does  not fail to keep you entertained while relaxed.
Keep up with the readings and go to lecture because it will make the midterm and final less stressful
Midterm and final (though take home) is actually hard...
Great course. I'd never taken a course on any people(s) living below the U.S. and so this was just a whole new world (Aladdin style) for me and I loved every second of it. Get Ari as your tf if you can!
super interesting material! try to get Ari as your section TF; she's really organized and can put some structure on what otherwise can be seemingly scattered archeological pictures
The professors were leaders on the topic, but the exams were tough depending on who was grading them because they weren't really clear as to how to get full points.
Excellent professors who are very engaging and clearly care about their students. Very interesting content. Not too demanding, since the only assignments are the take home midterm, a five-minute section presentation, and the take home final.
This class was awesome.  Carrasco is a fantastic lecturer and the material is interesting and might make you think differently about the world.
This is a good gen-ed course! The teachers are dedicated and enthusiastic and approachable. Section is a blast. I wish I had known in the beginning of the course that it is NOT necessary to do all of the readings. That said, you should order the course pack (IN PAPER, NOT DIGITAL. THE DIGITAL COPY IS VERY POOR QUALITY), and keep up with the readings by skimming, and if you have time, reading closely (as they are interesting). Be prepared for a lengthy take-home exam. Start early on it and you'll be fine.
This is a really interesting way to fulfill the SW Gen-Ed. The lectures are really interesting and engaging and the material is great. The only downside is that there is a lot of work. There are a lot of readings, and while its not necessary to do all of them, the midterm can be difficult if you haven't done some of the important ones.
the material is super interesting. I suggest acquiring the the primary books for this class and reading them on your own if interested
If you have little interest in Mayan and Aztec history, do not take it.  It is not worth the easy grade because it is painful to get through...
Easy class but take-home midterm and final are annoying and lectures are incredibly disorganized.
If you like abstract ideas about human society, you'll like this, but if not, it will feel hard to understand what's going on in the class.
Take it!!!!
Take it!  It was such an interesting class not just because of fascinating course material, but also awesome lectures.  There was barely any work and the readings, for the most part, are easy to get through.
A great course if you are interested in Mayan/Aztec stuff at all. The dual format of lectures is awesome - Professor Carrasco and Professor Fash's styles are very different, but they complement each other very nicely. I genuinely enjoyed this course!
Keeping up with some readings definitely makes the exams easier. Overall, an interesting and easy gen ed with really cool professors
This class does an adequate job of exposing one to the origins of modern Mesoamerican culture. If you are looking for an easy Gen Ed, I would only take if you are very interested in the subject material. Also, if you are looking for a more historical approach to Mesoamerica, then you might be disappointed. This class is definitely more anthropological in nature.
This is a pretty easy and painless gen-ed and about as interesting as you expect (based on your interest in anthropology and in Mesoamerica or lack thereof.)
This class is a great way to fulfill the Societies of the World or Culture and Belief requirement.  The Aztec and Maya empires are very interesting, and there are extremely few assignments apart from the midterm and take home final.
Loved it.  Fash is a nice guy and Profesor Carrasco is simply the man.  The material, if you are into learning about Mesoamerican civilizations, is great, and so are the connections to modern Mexico.  It wasn't hard either, so a perfect SoW gen ed.
Attend lectures and try to do the readings!
Counts as either Soc-World or Culture & Belief credit and definitely one of the better gen-eds out there. Not too difficult a work load (take-home midterm and final, light reading and section every week). Carrasco is pretty enthusiastic and his jokes make his lecturers pretty fun to listen to.
Take it
This is a huge lecture course and a pretty interesting, easy way to fulfill your SW gen ed. You can get by without doing most of the readings until the midterm and final come along, which are both pretty straightforward take home exams. A few sections were held in the exhibits of the Peabody Museum, which was a great way to utilize Harvard's vast resources in direct connection to what we were learning about in class. Overall a pretty low workload, but that sometimes depends on what section you're in.
professor carrasco really cares, and it's great to have a professor so invested in the course. the material is interesting; you get as much out as you put in, and it really is worth it, so spend the time. the take home exams can sneak up on you, so don't underestimate them.
It was a great Gen Ed because it opened me up to new information while still keeping it relevant to other fields of study. It was way more interesting than I expected!
If you just do the work, the readings and attend lecture, you'll do great. The teaching staff is really good about providing teaching material and experiences that facilitate learning.
If you need a SW or CB class, take this course. Actually, take it even if you don't. I took it for a Gen Ed, and it turned out to be a really rewarding, always interesting, and not demanding course. Prof. Carrasco and the teaching team are really passionate about the subject, and it really translates to the material and to the students. The readings and exams are fair and manageable and fun.
Professor Carrasco is one of the best lecturers on campus. He has a commitment not only to his subject matter but also to his students and their learning experience. Be prepared to be blown away!
Use your TFs and Professor Carrasco as resources - they are extremely helpful.
The course is an interesting way to learn different perspectives on the great encuentro.
This course has a lot of readings, but it is not necessary to read all the articles. Work centers around the take home midterm, project and final. At most it takes only a few days to complete each assignment
Not all of the readings are necessary, especially if you go to lecture regularly. Very interesting subject matter (the first half especially).
Keep an open mind and stay attentive. You will learn a lot.
This is a wonderful class with an awesome professor. This is a great way to fill the societies of the world requirement.
Lectures and the reading material are interesting, but the structure of the class is a bit disorganized. They don't put the lecture slides online, so make sure to take good notes!
This course is very enjoyable. Professor Carrasco is an amazing lecturer and the teaching staff is all very friendly. There is a lot of reading for the course but you can get by without doing much of it since most of the topic are covered in lecture. As long as you make sure you pay attention during lecture and take copious notes you should be able to have enough information to write the midterm and final essays. The material we learned is very interesting. I had never before thought how deeply implicated the Spanish conquest had been on current Latin America.
The course with Professor Carrasco focused heavily on the religious mindset of the Aztec and other Mesoamerican peoples, which is a great thing because Professor Carrasco is a professor at the Divinity School and he really knows his stuff.  In this case, I like to call this class more of a religions of Mesoamerica class because the lectures emphasize how the Aztec religion permeated all aspects of Aztec life. If you are interested in Aztec religion how it affects Mexico today, you should take this class.
I really enjoyed the material of this class, especially at the second half of the semester when we discussed mestizaje and the role of women in Mesoamerica. The take-home midterm and final and section assignments were not difficult as long as you completed (enough of) the readings and attended lectures. It's great to approach the study of Moctezuma's Mexico through archaeology, written documents, by studying present-day customs and other literary mediums. I had a lot of fun in this course and the teaching staff was really great and enthusiastic about the topics in the course!
I would tell students to get prepared for some amazing readings! It is a lot of reading, but it's all amazing and worthwhile! Get prepared to get amazed by how colonization is still present in the US and Mesoamerica. It also revolutionized how I think about indigenous culture.
Prof. Carrasco is an incredible lecturer. He imbues a remarkable sense of personal connection the the topics which is contagious. He allows you to understand the true meaning of the Encuentro and how it pertains to the rest of the world, not just Mesoamerica.
This was a VERY interesting course
Even though the world did not end, you should still take this class.
Take it for what it is: an easy Culture and Belief gen ed. It's very friendly to hard schedules.
This class involves almost entirely take-home assignments, which allows students to work thoroughly on well thought responses to the given prompts.
This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard! This class was more that just a history course on Moctezuma's Mexico. Instead, we explored many different aspects of culture, gender, sexuality, race, and more and asked really deep and important questions relevant from the Encuentro through today. Professor Carrasco is an amazing professor who really engages students and is very accessible and nice. I can truly say that I have learned things in this course that will stick with me.
Interesting topics! Not too much work, great way to fulfill gen ed requirement
This class was extremely interesting. I'm probably biased because I am Hispanic but the material was fascinating and Professor Carrasco is an amazing lecturer. Plus, during section we would often go to the Peabody and look at artifacts. Great class, great professor, great section. There is no reason to not take this class.
This class is super easy.  Hardly any assignments, the midterm and final were pretty straightforward and easy, and if you do the reading, the lectures (except the guest lectures) are sort of unnecessary.
Won't change the way you see the world, but a relatively painless way to fulfill SW if you have any interest in the Aztecs.
Easy class, with pretty interesting readings and history.  Carrasco a fun lecturer, though you may get frustrated with the disorganization of assignments/section objectives.  Often times discussion would seem disconnected with ideas communicated in lecture.
It's a good gen ed course, and not too demanding. You get a basic understanding of Aztec culture that can be useful if you want to delve into a Mesoamerican discipline. I do not feel I learned as much toward the end of the course as I did at the beginning.
A great class, interesting and not overwhelming as far as work is concerned. It does a good job of bringing new perspectives on Mexican culture who have learned about it, and nice overview for those who haven't.
Take this! Prof. Carrasco is an excellent lecturer.
Easy gen ed. Didn't learn very much
it's a good way to knock out the SW gen ed and learn something interesting at the same time in a really laid back environment.
Professor Carrasco is engaging - lectures are worthwhile. The course is pretty painless, so take it if you need to fulfill a Societies of the World requirement.
This course is very abstract.  While they try to explain Moctezuma's Mexico then and now, they do not teach it very well.  Also, there are almost no resources to review the material.  If you do not understand what was covered in section, you have no way to understand it as there are hardly any resources provided and the reading are irrelevant for the most part.
This course, between the lectures and sections, is a very enjoyable class, and you will be able to see and touch artifacts at the Peabody Museum, which is very exciting! I did also feel sometimes that the question of what we were learning was a little blurry, or that ideas from lecture would only become clear a week after lecture.
If you like classes with engaging lectures and independent assignments, this is a pretty great Gen Ed.  Most of the readings don't necessarily correlate to the exams or sections, but it's not necessary to complete all of the reading throughout the course.  Most of the work for the course is clustered around the midterm and final exam, but it's pretty manageable.  A great class to take with friends.
the syllabus said that the midterm would be 8-10 pages when in reality mine was 22 pages.
Great class, very painless
Just do the readings, and you'll do fine.
The course is super interesting, I loved learning about indigenous Mesoamerican peoples, from the Aztecs to Mayas. The professors and TFs all knew their stuff and were super friendly and enthusiastic. Lectures however were kinda all over the place. Even if you do all the readings (which you should even though there are waaaaay too many of them) you may not know what they're talking about all the time. It helps if you know something about Mexican history. The sections are fun and easy even if the weekly assignments are a bother. The takehome midterm was unbelievably long but not hard if you go to lecture and do the readings. There are a lot of good SW classes but this one gives you a better appreciation of Mexican culture and history.
This class is an engaging class that teaches you about Mexican history and culture.  Although it doesn't require much throughout the semester (readings, section assignments, and one presentation), the midterm and final paper definitely make up for that.  To further explain, you have to spend A LOT of time on the midterm and final paper if you'd like to succeed.  However once you can plan accordingly, I guess it should be manageable since both the midterm and final paper are take-home exams.
If you're of Mexican or Latin American descent, then this is an important class to take in order to learn more about ancestral history. It's not too hard, and it's pretty fun.
Interesting course and a pretty painless Gen Ed. I really liked that the course worked to tie back concepts from the past to things we see today. It was interesting to look at Mexico in a historical context previous to the Spanish Conquest.
This class is easy, fun, and informative
Take this class! Easy (little to no work required), interesting material.
This course has a very interesting topic and engaging lectures, but there is also a ton of reading and you will most likely get lost in the middle of the course in terms of what they're talking about.
I think that it is a great class; I would just have some reservations about recommending it because it was at times fairly confusing for me.
It's an interesting class taught by great professors.  The take home tests were longer than advertised on the syllabus, though.
Do not take it.
The course is interesting but not as easy as it seems. The weekly section assignments take a decent amount of time. The take home midterm and final are not the length that is posted on the syllabus. The syllabus said the midterm would be 8-10 pages but then they assigned 10 decently long ids and two 5-7 page essays. Mine turned out to be about 20 pages and several other people I knew in the class had longer ones.
This class will help you to examine foreign cultures in a new way. It will provide a unique learning experience about a region that is so little understood by most Americans.
A great course! Both Profe Fash and Profe Carrasco are superb lecturers, and they (along with the TFs) have vast first-hand experience in the course material. (They quite literally wrote the book--actually, many books.) You won't want to miss lectures- they're as entertaining as they are fascinating. Plus, the course can fulfill either the societies of the world or culture and belief gen ed. A highly recommended course.
Watch out for the ID component of the midterm! They expect a lot from the IDs and some TFs don't make that clear.
Pay attention in lecture and make note of the readings as it will be very important in succeeding in the exams and the succeeding in the course.  A lot of the readings will be pretty boring.  Section, because it doesn't go over course content, readings, etc., will not be helpful.
There is a lot of reading in this class. While you might not think it's important, reading and taking notes on the readings is super helpful when the midterm and final comes around. Make sure to take notes in lecutres helps a lot when righting essays and doing the identifications because the lecture slides aren't that detailed when it comes to content. Besides the readings, the workload isn't too bad. The class is awesome though, Carrasco is a passionate teacher, and Fash has some interesting stories to tell.
Its harder than it was made out to be but theres not that much work until the midterm which is very long and difficult even though it is take home.
If you're interested in the material take it. It's painless. However, realize that it is very easy to get bored with it and blow the class off.
The lectures are interesting and engaging. Definitely a class for everyone, including those trying to get in touch with their roots. If you don't like history, or want an easy interesting, fun class, take this one. Carrasco and Fash are both passionate and knowledgable about their material and the TFs are really nice and accessible.
This class is entirely unfocused. It lacks themes or direction. It is pitifully disorganized, even though the teaching staff is totally competent and passionate about the material. In some ways this class epitomizes the lazy-student's Gen Ed: it demands little from you, and is filled with people who really don't care that much for it. In the same breath, it won't inspire or enlighten you, and you have to be extremely careful to satisfy the unstated expectations on the few things that count.
The lectures are not always relevant or interesting, but the readings always are.
Carrasco is a rock star. Try to get Roberto as your TF. This class isn't just about Mesoamerica, then and now. It's about all meetings of cultures and how to look at all history.
This course has great potential but does a poor job of teaching what should be very interesting material. The course lacks coherence, context, and narrative. Lectures are often disjoint with readings and sections and even each other. If you are looking for a Gen Ed course that provides you a broad overview of a topic, this is not it.
do more on the take home exam than you'd expect.
The class is great. The workload is fair and very manageable, and lectures are great. The teaching staff is also very enthusiastic about the subject.
This was my favorite class this semester.  The coursework was pretty relaxed, consisting of a straightforward section assignment and weekly reading. The reading is actually really engaging so make sure to pace yourself with it to really enjoy it.  The lectures, especially those by Carrasco are really thought-provoking and are an experience in themselves. Carrasco and Fash are both great professors and very approachable outside of class.
Depending on your interests, the material may not be exactly exhillarating, but it's a decent way to knock off a Gen Ed. There are weekly section assignments that are not difficult at all that are meant to solidify concepts. The take-home midterm and final were the labor-intensive parts.
This class requires you to do a lot of reading, which may be difficult depending on your course load.
It's a fun course that covers a wide range of topics relating to Mexico, from the history pre- and post-conquest, the cultures of ancient Mesoamerica, and its influence in present-day Mexico. The readings are very interesting and the sections are both informative and fun.
1st half of the class was great. 2nd half was less organized and not as interesting. nawa is an awesome section leader! the lecture slides could have been more organized/ had more info, so that you knew what the point was when reviewing them later
Be sure you have a genuine interest in the material before you take this class, otherwise you will likely not enjoy it.
The course is very broad.  It is interesting, but not rigorous.
The lectures are very interesting, and the section work and presentations are not difficult; however, be prepared for a very difficult midterm and final that are graded on a much more difficult scale than the rest of the coursework would indicate.
Professor Carrasco takes seriously different kinds of knowledge, ie academic, spiritual, gendered, bodily, experiential, etc.  It is extremely nice to have a male professor who is openly emotional in class and who talks about gender and sexuality.  It is also SO nice to have a Latino professor!  He is super smart and accessible, kind and caring and challenging.  Carrasco's lectures are really worthwhile, but the section component of the class is annoying.  For a gen ed, this class is enjoyable and interesting, and the content that Carrasco lectures about is really cool.  It's really nice to have a mainstream class that talks about gender seriously.  Thank you for making football bros think about gender in a respectful way!  You are doing the campus a huge service.  :)
The course work might be enticing but it is a delusion. I spent a lot of time when the midterm and find were given out doing outside research in order to complete the assignment.
Fascinating subject matter only slightly marred by a overwhelming amount of reading and a disconnected section.
this class has minimal work but is extremely unorganized.
The course is a bit reading intensive, but most of the materials are very interesting.
The exams are lengthy, but the instructors are kind because the exams are very manageable. This is perfect example of a course where you get what you put into it, unlike other courses where you work hard but don't see the results. A must take at Harvard.
Great course very fun.
Undoubtedly one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Readings were interesting, midterm/final were take-home, TFs were helpful, and Carrasco and Fash made connections between the subject matter and topics of race, gender, sexuality, etc. so it was very interesting. Also, the review session had a live band, tamales, &delicious Mexican sweet bread!
some people seemed to really like this course, but i hated it. the most that can be said for it is that you get to look at some pretty pictures and objects and, besides the midterm and final, the course is really easy. readings are never discussed in section so they're pretty much optional. the midterm and final are both take-home, but are very long and super annoying. don't take unless you have to (which you don't).
While in other classes these two professors have been wonderful in the past, they did not do well together in this class. Their lectures did not seem flow well together. I would happily recommend the professors, but sadly not this class in particular.
It was an informative course, but it was a lot of reading.
The professors are great and know the subject thoroughly.
Too many cultures in today's world never bridge the gap into popular knowledge.  The amazing history and accounts of what happened during the Conquest of Mexico are too fascinating to be left by the wayside; the effect of the inter-mixture of Spanish and indigenous Mexican culture on Mexican and Mexican-American culture today are too important to be left misunderstood.  I cannot recommend this class more highly, to both those with a knowledge of the culture and those without.
Keep up with the readings and go to class!!! It's an easy course if you at least attend lectures.
This class is fantastic
its fun
Professor Carrasco's lectures are electrifying and the material was amazing. Readings were a little heavy but not entirely necessary. Very light work throughout the semester, but there are two weeks of intensity for the take home midterm and final.
This is a really good gen ed course. Extremely lenient work load. There will be a lot of reading and you'll probably try and do it until you get caught up in the midterm rush. Then you'll never get caught back up with the readings. Don't worry, this won't necessarily adversely affect your grade.
Although the few assignments may take some time/effort and the class is slightly disorganized, overall it is a laid back and interesting way to fulfill your Societies of the World requirement.  The teaching staff is enthusiastic about the material and responsive to student input.
Avoid.
TAKE THIS COURSE!!!!! FIVE STARS ALL THE WAY!!!!! It is taught by two of the most brilliant professors at Harvard. You actually learn A LOT in this course and you will be more intelligent, informed, and culturally aware by the end of the semester. The teaching staff blows the doors off any other course at Harvard and the material is FASCINATING. Regardless of your ethnic/cultural/racial identity, this course has something to offer EVERYONE. I wish I had taken it my freshman year - It would have definitely changed my concentration choice. If you are reading this, go register for the course right now! A side note: If you are lazy, not willing to do readings or attend lecture, or not intellectually curious, do not enroll in this course. You get out of it what you put into it.
It's really intersting, and the professors are great.  But the readings are not physically possible to complete on time and should be taken in stride.
The whole teaching staff + friends (guest lecturers) are very engaging speakers with intense love for their topics which they communicate by making this class a forum for discussion.  The interpretive tools you're given for understanding Moctezuma's Mexico are solid introductions to a few social theorist.  Take this class if you need a break from Western Philosophy.
Super interesting class dealing with issues you won't find elsewhere at the college.  Sections are in the Peabody Museum (awesome) and a lot of really important scholars in the field come to speak.
This is an excellent way to fulfill a GenEd. Everyone that is involved with teaching the course is well versed in the material and genuinely passionate about the course. There are a lot of readings so I would be wary of calling this an easy class.
Great class with interesting lectures. Make sure you stay on top of the readings or else it will all catch up to you!
This course is not only fun, but it really teaches you something.  Don't miss out.
Come learn about the cosmovision!
Speak up if you want to hear more about something or think something could be improved--everyone is always willing to listen.
It is a very fun class, the Professors are amazing, and section is in the Peabody Museum.
This class is definitely a great way to fulfill your societies of the world requirement. The workload is not too heavy (unless you do ALL of the reading, which I don't think anybody does), but the take-home midterm and final do require a good amount of time to complete. Other than that, the class is ridiculously interesting, not too demanding, and Carrasco and Fash are excellent lecturers (Carrasco being my favorite at Harvard so far). If you are considering taking this class, do yourself a favor and stop considering; JUST TAKE IT.
The class was pretty disorganized. Be careful! The exams were tough, even though the seemed like they should be manageable based on lecture and section material. The material was interesting (I really enjoyed discussions on sex and sacrifice), but the actual class is VERY different than it appears from the course description.
Do not take.
The course is pretty chill, with the exception of the final and midterm. At the time of writing the midterm and the final, you may Hate the course and regret writing over a dozen pages on random topics, but at the end of it all, you Will appreciate everything you've learned and being given the opportunity to prove you've learned in your own ways. The exams are pretty open to your own creativity and cover a range of topics- you aren't writing 15 pages on a single subject, and you don't have to do outside research. That being said, keep on track with readings during the semester so you don't get killed during the exam.
Really interesting and great class. It may seem like a lot of reading but it's worth it. Carrasco and Fash are awesome! Carrasco speaks as if the Earth is trembling.
This class is AWESOME.  Carrasco, Fash, Maria Cristina and Chris were all phenomenal and I definitely learned a LOT about Mexican history and culture.
Do not take this class.  It was poorly taught and the material was completely scattered.  The first half of the class is extremely better than the second half, so don't let shopping week fool you. There's a lot of WGS and revisionist style interpretation, so if that's not your thing then this class is not for you.
Professors Fash and Carrasco are amazing!!! Great speakers and great professors. Overall a great class which does not require too much work.
The readings are very important although they are not thoroughly discussed in lecture.
Very Interesting class. Definitely worth it if you can fit it in your schedule.
The syllabus does not describe the actual work required. The syllabus stated a take home midterm essay 8-10 pages but was actually two 5-7 page essay and 10 additional terms to define. The final exam was also similar.  The syllabus mentioned a "short in terpretive final paper" that is 5-7 pages, but in reality this was a research paper. The syllabus was deceiving.
This class has a lot of reading, and sometimes the topics covered in lecture are broad and non-specific, but it teaches you to really open up your mind when considering ancient civilizations and covers some fascinating material about the Aztec and Maya.
Basically no work throughout the semester, a lot of writing though during the final/reading period.  But that's it.  Semi-easy core
The class is definitely interesting and the subject material is fun. Professor Fash is awesome, and while Professor Carrasco is certainly entertaining, he never passes on an opportunity to speak of his own accolades and awards. There is also a lot of reading in this class for a core, and you need to do all of it in order to complete the response papers each week. This wouldn't be such a pain, but it is a core--and it was A LOT of reading for a core. They didn't really understand that most others had courses that would take precedence over this. Also, the take-home midterm, which I was originally excited about having, was LONG. Two five to seven page papers, 10 paragraph identifications and one week to complete it in the middle of other midterms. Grading was also harsh, especially on the IDs, just because it was take-home. Again, understanding that this is a CORE and not what most people are going to study wasn't really there.
Not much work... a lot of reading but interesting material.
lectures were disorganized and hard to follow, but the material is very interesting
Moctezuma's Mexico: Then and Now is the most informative and most well-conceived course I have taken at Harvard so far. If you are interested in Latin America or Mexico already, you will love it even more. First, Carrasco and Fash are truly a dynamic duo and a great teaching team. Second, you will get to see real artifacts in section and visit the mind-blowing Peabody Museum annex. Lastly, and most importantly, you will see that the history of Mesoamerica is not that of a dead culture but one that lives on today in the culture and lived experiences of millions of people living in the world today. I can't recommend this course enough.
This course provides an insight into a culture that has progressed through the centuries and has great impact on society today.
An interesting way to fulfill a core. A good class for those who really enjoy dedicated and enthusiastic teaching.
There was a lot of work, but in the end, it was all worth it.  The class was awesome, and the professors, AWESOME!
As with any Core, if the subject material isn't something you're interested in, it can be a pain. But you have to fulfill the requirement somehow, right? And this class was for me a remarkably painless way to do it.
Great course.  Incredible professors and facilities; the type of class you can only experience/enjoy at Harvard and no where else.
The Professors are so friendly and open to their students. They want you to truly gain an appreciation for the material, not just learn it for a test. You don't just simply learn about the culture, you engage in it.
great class taught by passionate professors
This is one of the best classes I have taken,  Carrasco and Fash are great and work well together.  Whether for a CORE or Concentration, take this class.
If you are interested in the material, you should definitely take this class.  The professors are the best in the field, most of our course materials were written by them!  Also, its an incredible opportunity to get hands-on at the Peabody Museum!  And, the coursework isn't crippling, so you can actually enjoy it.
Great class with a lot of work, but it was all very interesting
the class was engaging, and it was interesting to study an ancient society, especially when we handled artifacts
Maria Cristina is the coolest TF ever.
This class was really interesting and the professor's enthusiasm and genuine interest in their students was really refreshing.
THIS IS POSSIBLY THE BEST CLASS OFFERED AT HARVARD. TAKE IT.
This course changed the way I look at ancient civilizations. Learning about mesoamerican civilizations before and after European contact was eye-opening and so enriching.
These Professors were great lectures and really likable.  The section was interesting and very different than other classes I've taken.
Keep up to date on the reading despite the large amount. It's not absolutely necessary but its helpful and ultimately rewarding. You'll learn more and get a lot more out of lectures.
this class is pretty easy to coast in, but would be better if it were less redundant and thereby more engaging
Get ready for some reading, enthusiasm, and an array of events that this class supports that will truly change your perspective on not just the Mexican culture, but on the perception of any other culture in the world
eh
Interesting!
Be prepared to make your own way through the material.  The take-home assignments allow a grace period for you to try to make sense of it all, but the lack of organization makes the course very difficult to follow, especially if you have no experience in the topic or disciplines.
What other class can you tour Archives with the real Indian Jones and take lectures with one of the best lecturers at Harvard?
This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard
If you like seeing actual artifacts, you will enjoy section, although there isn't that much focus on them.  The professors are extremely knowledgeable and enthusiastic.
This class is AWESOME and the professors are fantastic and passionate. Also, if you are Mexican/Latino, you learn A LOT about your culture and ancestors.
This is the best class I have ever taken. The professors and TFs put so much enthusiasm and energy into the course that it's a huge amount of fun. The readings aren't hard and there's not too much of it, but its all fascinating. Lectures are great. I got to build a Day of the Dead altar and you go on tours of the Peabody. I cried during the last lecture. Just take it.
I would tell them that the class is really interesting and gives you a new perspective on history. I would also tell them that this course is really cool because you get to work with the actual artifacts at the Peabody museum.
Take this class! Its awesome!
