This course is so important and has to be taught at Harvard every semester. The material is essential learning for all people. The teaching of the course was complex, nuanced, and very well thought out. Sarah Balakrishnan was the best TF and one of the best teachers I've ever had (leading section, teaching, feedback, discussion, caring about students).
This is an excellent class. If you are at all interested in Africa, or not, take it!. It teaches you modern African history through a Marxist framework, leaving you with a much better understanding of the continent. Marxist economic analysis is woven into the history. Professor Elkins is a really great teacher, kind and approacheable. This is not an easy GenEd though. It's certainly not a very had class, but has long readings and has a high standard of assessment as Gen Eds go.
I absolutely loved this class-- it was probably the best one I've taken at Harvard. Professor Elkins is engaging, clear, and obviously passionate. The material is so important and so interesting, and it deals with topics that are often not sufficiently covered in the typical history canon. Generated so many interesting discussions-- it was one of those classes I found myself talking about all the time with family and friends outside of class. If you have the chance to take this class, absolutely do!!!
Only GenEd on Africa and its amazing. The material is incredible and Prof wants to see you do well both in and outside of her class. With that (I'm sure everyone will say this) but the reading could be excessive at times. You will have to read entire books per week. You really just need to develop a system and definitely be willing to talk with friends (or make new ones!) about the material to solidify your understanding. You will come out knowing so much and really having a handle on what you want to explore more of. This is the only Gen Ed course on Africa so if you're interested in the continent take the class!!!
Prof Elkins is amazing, my TF Sarah is amazing. I would highly recommend this course if you want to decolonize your thoughts on Africa.
Class can be difficult, lot of reading, section can be annoying with a very particular a TF may want to guide conversation
It's a LOT more than I bargained for.
I absolutely loved this course. it was my favorite this semester by far. let's start with Professor Elkins. Her lectures are very engaging, and although there is a lot to cover, she covers it all nicely and thoroughly with excellent historical analysis. the subject matter of the lectures is interesting, and this is buttressed by her good sense of humor. Also, she is actually a total expert on the subject matter (not to mention her Pulitzer Prize for a book about British war crimes committed in colonial Kenya, which spawned a landmark international legal case against Britain which she served as a key witness.) A lot of people, including me, hadn't really studied African history before this and this was an amazing introductory course for it. Sarah was my TF and I loved her. Absolutely phenomenal. She is so knowledgeable about the subject matter, is very approachable and keeps sections interesting. She just knows so much about this stuff and her enthusiasm is contagious. Also, her feedback on assignments rocks. For the course, there was one 7-ish page paper and then around 10 weekly response papers of one page, single-spaced (which actually wasn't that hard as the subject matter was interesting). And in each of these assignments, she practically gave line-by-line feedback, which was so incredibly helpful. Because of her feedback, I think I actually improved as a writer. She facilitates the discussions so well and is a genuine delight to be around.TAKE THIS COURSE! I was honestly surprised why the class wasn't packed with students. Everyone should know about what was discussed; it makes you think more about the world, about colonialism, and most importantly, about the actual self-agency and input of Africans (which is often left out amongst the discussion of how bad imperialism was, which it still was). TAKE THIS COURSE!
Africa and Africans has been objectively the most transformative and well-designed class I have taken at Harvard. Professor Elkins is simply the best of the best, and she is extremely approachable and personable to all the students in the class, despite it being a lecture. This class does have a fair amount of work, but it is all very rewarding and if you do it, you won't need to do much extra to prepare for the exams. Assignments do not seem frivolous, no busy work at any point, and grading is very fair. Amazing TFs. You simply must take this course, even if it's the only class you'll ever take that covers Africa. Life-changing for anyone.
I can't recommend this class more highly. Harvard has disappointingly few opportunities to learn about African history, but Professor Elkins is an amazing lecturer and cares deeply about the subject. She's also very transparent in discussing historical methodology and the change in accepted historical narratives over time, another fascinating thread in the class.
Fantastic class. Professor Elkins is a wonderful lecturer and a joy to be taught by. The TFs are consistent and incredibly hard-working. The material is interesting and ever-more relevant. Take it, even if you have the Gen Ed already. I'm pursuing a secondary in African Studies as a result of this class!
Its going to be a lot of work - like a ton of work. Took the class P?F and I don't regret it because it was a lot of work and if you have other difficult classes then it would be almost impossible to breathe. However, the material is also phenomenal and idealistically if you could do all the readings etc then you will leave this course with so much knowledge.
You will learn so much about Africa. However, be prepared for a lot of week-to-week work because of the weekly response papers. But, i would definitely recommend taking the class! The readings are interesting as is the professor!
There is a lot of reading.
