This course is awesome - the readings are super intersting, Ted Bestor is the man and gives clear, engaging, and hilarious lectures.  The TFs are great - Non was my TF and I learned so much about how to write a credible anthropology assignment thanks to him.  He also made section experience stress-free and intellectually-stimulating.  The professor puts a lot of effort into this course - you would be foolish to pass it up.
Great course!  The assignments were completely manageable and had much freedom for exploration within your topic.  I also loved section and had a great TF, the other TFs seemed just as great as well.  The books were very interesting and you were able to select which ones you wanted to read which was great.  I also loved the films and additional reading material.  Very manageable class, but only take if you are truly interested in Tokyo.  But with a city so fascinating, who isn't?
This is a great class that helps to inform us about a vibrant and interesting society and people.
Seriously a really easy class - very little workload, lectures were interesting. Highly recommended
i really recommend this class to anyone who is interested in Japan! Professor Bestor really knows a lot about Tokyo and Japan and is just generally a really cool professor. the class can seem a bit disorganized at times but overall its really enjoyable, not too difficult at all, and taught by someone who is dedicated to the material
I have mixed feelings about this course. While the workload was light, I felt that this meant the course lacked direction. The course's lectures felt superfluous: they were broad historical overviews rather than detailed analyses. The course's readings were good, but all we had to do was pick 4 books of 8 to read. This made for a light workload, but didn't really teach me that much. In the end, this course piqued my interest, but didn't really satisfy it.
The class is very diffuse, but it is a good general introduction to Tokyo.
This is a great way to fulfill your SW requirement.  It's a really chill class - this year we only had three paper assignments and there is no weekly assigned reading.  You only have to read four books throughout the course and you can choose which you want to read.  As this was the first time this class was offered, it was a bit disorganized, so there may be more assignments in future years.  Section is a little strange because most people in the class know a lot about Tokyo so discussions often revolve around prior knowledge of the culture.
The quality of a given lecture, reading, section, or film screening varies wildly over the course of the class. It's interesting stuff, but sometimes it can get bogged down in anthropological terminology that's not really interesting or useful to someone just taking the class as a gen-ed.
Painless way to fulfill Societies of the World
A good Gen Ed. Fun lectures. Fair assignments.
This class is very little work over the semester, and you have a lot of freedom in choosing what to read, what to write your response paper about, and what to do a final project on. There was no exam, which was really nice, since you could (or could not) go to class and not worry about memorizing everything.
Be sure to take the readings seriously. The books are dry and long, and you are required to use them in papers. We had the final exam canceled on us, but in the future, the course will probably require both the final exam and final paper/project, so be forewarned about those.
Really relaxed Gen-Ed with only 2 response papers and a final project (on whatever you wanted as long as it was loosely related to Japan). Sections were extremely interesting and a whole lot of fun. The lack of any midterms and final exams really allowed me to focus on the readings as purely something out of leisure and in doing so, I was that much more able to learn volumes on the history of Tokyo. Definitely Take it!
4/5. This course was really fun and you learn a ton about Tokyo and Japan in general throughout the semester, but it was very poorly-organized. Just as an example, we were actually supposed to have a final exam, but our professor didn't register in time, so our final grade was just based on participation, two short papers, and a final project. Still, if you're interested in learning more about Tokyo and Japan from a variety of different perspectives, take this class! Although it may be disorganized, Professor Bestor knows EVERYTHING about Japan, and you'll have a fun time if you choose to take this Gen-ed
wonderfully engaging class! really enjoyed being immersed in the culture of japan and engaging with it in different ways. professor bestor often recounted his own experiences conducting research in japan and told some great stories. my tf, non, was also very entertaining and took after professor bestor in being tongue-in-cheek in his presentations. he also helped us put together a 4 d puzzle at the beginning of the semester and brought us japanese candy and coffee and tea every week. with that said, all of the teaching staff was very knowledgeable, and i learned a lot about japan this semester. this class really piqued my interest in exploring the country more in the future. great gen ed!
The section leaders do not understand this is a gen ed. There is no reason to give C's for decent work in a gen ed.
If you enjoy learning about Japan, its a great Gen Ed.
If you genuinely have an interest in Japan and its history, definitely take this course for a gen-ed. There is minimal work. But if you're just trying to complete a gen-ed, I would not recommend this course, since we focus a lot more on the history of Japan, as opposed to its modernity.
Beware of the disorganization that will take place in the first month, not even week.
Take this class if you are interested at all in Japan. I didn't know nearly as much about Japan as most of my peers in the class and all I really knew about Japan was sushi, anime and samurai. But as long as you have some interest -- and are open minded and love learning about new cultures, this class is for you!
Take advantage of the TF and Professor office hours! Make sure that you pick books that you find interesting and have fun with the final project! The professor and teaching staff really try to make sure that you can explore a topic that interests you in a way that interests you so you can have a blast with it.
Get to know the staff!
Take this class. Bestor is the man, Non is the man, Tokyo is a fun city.
This class was really disorganized - a required book got added to the syllabus after the class had started and every assignment was pushed back from the original due date.  It was also very disjointed in that the lectures were completely unrelated to the readings and both were completely unrelated to the final paper.  While I initially thought this was really cool and academic, I soon realized that it lacked much reinforcement of material or focus of subject matter.  If you want to learn about Tokyo for the sake of learning in a relatively low-pressure setting, this is a good class for you.  If you care about organization or classroom logistics or are only somewhat interested in Tokyo, I would recommend a different class.
There is very little work, but it was very unorganized.  It was also confusing at the beginning trying to figure out how to pick the books you were supposed to read.
For anyone interested in Tokyo, Japan, Japanese, or Japanese culture and history, this course is an amazing one. It gives you background on Edo (Tokyo pre-1868) and Tokyo, the cultural transformation of the city, and the globalization of the area. It provides information on many aspects of Japanese life inside and outside of Tokyo, and it is a wonderful opportunity to learn about an amazing place.
You should really pay attention in this class. It may seem haphazard or disorganized but you really learn alot about Japan and the certain things that make it how it is. It was a great class and I honestly wish it was longer so I could learn more.
You get what you put into this class. Yes, you can get by with barely reading the assigned books, coming to class, writing the midterm paper, and final paper (our year didn't have a final), but you'll get more out of it if you spend time on the course website exploring the articles and resources offered. At its minimum, it's a fun course with an enthusiastic teacher (bestor). Yrmv if you don't put in any effort into the class.
Take this course! Stress-free but you learn so much at the same time. Excellent GenEd course!
You should be genuinely interested in Tokyo. If not, the course will just end up feeling like a huge waste of time. Bestor is a good lecturer and a really interesting person to talk to. Required readings are pretty good.On the whole, the course was just really badly organized and therefore extremely frustrating.
This class is a fantastic way to look at the history of Japan from the Meiji Restoration to present day, through the lens of focus on Tokyo as the centrality of progression through time. If you have any interest at all in Japan, Japanese culture or language, or even just sushi, this is the class to take a look at. Professor Bestor runs a great course, and is so great to listen to in lectures. He really knows his stuff, is hilarious, and truly cares about each and every student in the course.
Interesting enough curriculum with some of the lowest expectations I've ever seen at Harvard. I couldn't imagine an easier way to kill a gen ed requirement.
This class is not demanding yet very rewarding! The reading materials are surely interesting and informative. Take this class if you're interested in Japan
Interesting and easy, but the course itself is quite scattered; if interested in Tokyo, there are probably better options.
I didn't feel like a learned a ton from lectures, but the books were interesting and sections were fun.
One of the best Gen Ed classes I've taken at Harvard. The workload is manageable, the material is compelling, and you'll actually have fun writing your papers!
Fascinating Introduction to Japan.
Even though the course is entitled "Tokyo," I think I learned as much about Japan in general as I did about Tokyo itself.  That is just one example of how, in my opinion, the course was a little disorganized.  It was hard to find anything on the course website and as a whole, the lectures did not seem to develop a clear direction.  That said, the course did teach a lot of interesting odds and ends about Tokyo and Japan through a wide range of disciplinary perspectives like architecture, film, literature, anthropology, sociology, and visual arts.  We also had some highly enthusiastic TFs who were always alerting us about extra opportunities to experience Japanese culture like screenings of Japanese films, Japanese art displays in the Boston area.  Since the course had no tests (the final was dropped, though the course syllabus still has it listed, I believe), the disorganization was not such a bad thing, and I could focus on the information and extra activities that most interested me, reflect on those interests in my response papers and final project, and not feel pressured to remember every random detail thrown at me, which would have been an absolute nightmare if there was an exam.  In fact, knowing what I know now, I would think twice about taking this course if it has an exam listed next time it is offered.
Nice class if you are interested in Japan.
As someone who has a background in Japanese studies already, this was a very good class for me to expand research into the area. The prompts for the papers were vague enough so that you could basically write about what in Japan interested you the most, while the class and section gave you a survey of a lot of different things that you could write about regarding Japan if you didn't have a specific interest already. Though the class was definitely easier due to my previous background, it seems that it would also be a fun one to take for those who know nothing at all about Japan.
Nothing.
Good class. Not much work.
The course material is interesting and frames Tokyo nicely within a larger anthropological context. I was personally kind of bummed and thrown off by how much the class ended up deviating from the syllabus - it really seemed a bit too ambitious at first and needed to scale back. Professor Bestor seldom taught on Fridays and we didn't have any of the movie screenings as planned. One of the essays was cancelled, and section time was too short to really engage on a deeper level with the material - which, for the latter half of the class, were mostly 200+ page books. I think the class needs to narrow its scope a little or at least feel better organized in order to teach the material effectively. It's quite demanding in the latter half of the course, especially with both a final paper/project and a final exam.
This class allows you to look at cities in a way that you have probably never looked at them before. If you are interested in Japan, or Tokyo, or history of cities, then this class is the one for you.
This is a great course if you're interested in learning more about the history and culture of Japan. It's not too work intensive, and Ted Bestor is a great guy to learn from.
Interesting course, but a fair amount of work (more than other gen-ed's). 2 papers, and a final project and final. Otherwise, lectures were interesting, and sections were good too (Ryan was great).
This class doesn't require a lot of work and covers rather interesting material. That said, it can be tempting to forget about this class because so little work is required, until a paper becomes due at which point it becomes a scramble to remember anything applicable.
If you are interested in Japan, this is THE class to take!
I enjoyed this course much more than others in my GenEd curriculum in college thus far, and found the material very interesting. I particularly enjoyed learning about broader anthropological concepts that would apply outside of this course, in the context of the real world.
What you put into the course is what you get out of it. This course isn't that hard, you could never go to lecture and still pull off a high grade. But then what would be the point? This class was awesome because you could immerse yourself in the culture within the literature and research.
If you need to fulfill your SW or CB gened and want a class that is super easy, you don't have to go to lecture, and also you do not have to work hard to learn that much, this the class. Lectures are dry and hard to pay attention to but you do not need to go to do well in the class. The teaching staff was very understanding that people are in the class and it is not their first priority.
This class is pretty cool and very low-stress.  There are only 2 papers, a final project, and final exam, all of which are pretty easy.  Professor Bestor is quirky and interesting, but lectures are a little disorganized sometimes.  The readings are cool, though, and both TFs are great.  The teaching staff is also totally willing to adjust the material depending on what topics he class is interested in.
It is disorganized, often uninteresting, and can end up being a burden, as you will likely read over 1,000 pages over the course of the semester.
Easy, easy course (barring the final project/final exam combo, which ended up being quite a bit of work), but as a result it didn't delve as deeply into the culture as I would have liked. Would have especially liked to see greater discussion of contemporary Japan especially given the influence of Japanese pop culture in rest of East Asia and even the West these days.
Take this class, but check the syllabus about the assignments. The topics are very interesting, and you can write your essays on anything you want! The sections are great, and you should definitely go to those.
A fun Gen Ed that makes good use of outside materials (maps, videos, art, novels) to help students understand the historical periods and trajectories of Tokyo. The concentration of assignments near the end of the semester was a little heavy, but otherwise the course and staff are pretty easygoing, and you'll come out with a great holistic understanding of Tokyo.
Cool class with cool teacher and cool TF's, learn a breadth of things about japan while keeping your sleep schedule
Hate to add another "painless way to get [blank] gen ed requirement fulfilled" but tis the truth. You learn about Japanese history from 1600 to present day, well, the highlights anyways. From novels, to art, to pop culture, this class has a little bit of everything. The big themes are urban subjectivity and the city as an imagined place, which are really interesting ideas that I'm still trying to wrap my head around. We also talked a lot about social types. All in all, I would probably still take the class if I got to do it all over again. Bestor is an interesting lecturer and I learned a lot about Japan that I didn't know before. If you have background in Japan, you would be bored or happy that you don't even have to go to class.
Condition on you being VERY interested in Japan, the class is absolutely excellent. Prof. Bestor is the authority of Japanese studies in the US, and thus extremely knowledgeable on all things Japanese. Interesting content presented in a low-stress environment. Assignments heavily back-loaded. Final paper is open-ended, which means you can talk about ANYTHING about Japan, which is a fantastic opportunity to look into something about Japan you're interested in yourself. Only thing is that they never showed us the movies the mentioned in lecture 1. Excellent class, would take again.
The material is interesting, but there were WAY too many assignments for a Gen Ed, with two midterm papers and a final project and final exam due on the same day. Professor Bestor is a great guy and knows a lot, but he can be a little too relaxed, which led to a lot of disorganization in the course and a general scattered feeling that it wasn't leading anywhere. Lecture was cool, but a bit lacking in energy. I would be cautious about taking the course unless they've fixed some of these issues. Still, you'll learn a lot about Japan's history, think about cities, and read some pretty interesting books.
Solid SW/CB. If you have any knowledge about Tokyo/Japan or interest in any japanese stuff, this class is for you. Teaching staff is friendly, and Bestor is really invested in the class. we didn't really follow the stuff outlined in the syllabus. so take this class based on your first impression during the shopping period if this class is right for you.
You come away with a general sense of Tokyo, but the class is a little disorganized.
This was a pretty painless fulfillment of the SW requirement. There's a lot of effort on the teaching staff's part to keep things interesting and make the class accessible to everyone. Elements of Japanese pop culture taught throughout the class are engaging, and the assignments are evaluated fairly. Overall a pretty good course!
This is a fantastic class
This class offers incredibly valuable insights into the society and its social structure. This was my first anthropology class, but it made me wish that I studied anthropology in college (I'm an applied math major). The lectures are incredibly fun to attend because Professor Bestor is an amazing lecturer who also likes to have a lot of fun during lectures. If you need SOW fulfilled, I strongly urge you to take this course. Also, the reading materials are incredibly interesting and insightful, making you reevaluate everything you thought about until that point.
Great general ed, interesting, more about Japan history than Tokyo, but a cursory history.
I'm a huge fan of anime and manga so I thought this would be an interesting class, and it was! I learned a LOT about Japanese history and culture, and was able to learn about Japanese art through my final project. However this course was a heavy workload, at least for me as a Science person. I read a whole lot of books, and the essasy were pretty difficult/stressful because I am not used to writing a lot for a class. I would recommend making your final project about something YOU enjoy! I decided to do an art project instead of an essay and even though it was a TON of work, at least I enjoyed what I was learning! If you can make your essays relevant to your final project you will be thanking yourself.
