This is a good class for a broad overview on World War I and World War II, but it focuses more on the economic and cultural aspects of the wars than any other area. At times, it can feel too broad and like information about the wars/battles in the wars is missing. The amount of reading each week varies, but generally totals over 200 pages per week (and at times closer to 400). Some of the readings feel very repetitive and dry; the best readings are the novels and excerpts of novels in the class. Professor Maier  lecture almost directly off the handout posted online after every class, so lectures tend to be dry and unengaging. SW42 is not a bad Gen-Ed, but there are better classes to fulfill a Societies of the World requirement (or a concentration requirement, which is why I took the course).
Would be helpful to know the basics of WWI & WWII before the class. Office hours & section are very enjoyable - take advantage of both!
Keep up on readings and you'll do great.
There is a lot of assigned work but more about developing ideas not memorizing facts.  Also lots of writing.
Great class, but not super easy. Be prepared to do some work, and definitely only take it if you're interested in the material.
This class is very interesting and will teach you a lot.
It is the most interesting class at Harvard, especially if you have some previous background in WWI/WWII.
Lectures were poorly organized, if you could hear the professor speak, at all. The lecture content was catered to supplement the knowledge of a small, highly specialized group of students who were already highly familiar with the history of WWI and WWII. It was alienating to the population who enrolled in this class as a GenEd.
If you are passionate about history and would like to learn more about WWI and WWII take the class. If not, you can scroll down the courses.cs50 list.
There are some really interesting readings for this course, and a couple of good lectures on the social impacts of the wars. However, lectures were generally very dry and somewhat difficult to follow. Also, there were sometimes upwards of 400 pages of reading assigned, which meant that we couldn't go into depth into any one of them during section.
This is an interesting course if you want to develop a better understanding of the World Wars and their relation to each other and other world events and trends.
Definitely take it if you're interested in the topic, and if you're on the fence it's a great class all around.
The material is fascinating, but the lectures are dry.  Sections were great.
Sometimes the professor mixes up places and names during lecture. The correct information is all on the sheets they hand out in the beginning, though, so scanning through that first helps. Sometimes he would tell an interesting fact or story without specifying who he was talking about, and then I would remember it and fill in the missing name or place later on my own.
Professor Maier is full of unbelievable anecdotes and tidbits. It's a great opportunity to learn about the world wars from one of the authorities on the subject.
This course is awesome for fulfilling the Gen Ed requirement. You learn a lot about the World Wars and not just Europe; the class also had a lot of interesting information about the events of the World Wars in Asia. If you have any interest in history this is a great class. There is a substantial amount of reading each week but it is generally very interesting material so it isn't unpleasant reading.
This course was great.  Really everything you could ask for in a gen. ed.  The materials is great, even if professor Maier's lectures can be a bit slow at times.  Jamie was fantastic and extremely helpful when writing papers.  The work load is very manageable, and you can get away with doing less than half the reading as long as you make sure you go to section.  Among the better courses I've taken so far here.
I loved this course. Professor Maier gave incredibly interesting lectures and I always enjoyed going to section. The World Wars are already fascinating, but the course did a great job of presenting them in a well-rounded and very nuanced way. We covered so much material that there was something for everyone in this course. Take it!
It is a lot of reading, but you learn quite a bit.
Prof. Maier is wonderful - he may be a bit old-fashioned, but his insight is valuable and his lectures are engaging.
There is an absurd amount of reading required -- aggressive skimming is crucial. Very large amounts of course material and lectures are difficult to follow. That said, you will learn a lot.
This class is an excellent historical analysis of WWI and WWII, and the effects they had on contemporary society. Lecture are 1.5 hrs, and can seem a bit hard to get through sometimes, but Professor Mair has a great sense of humor and enthusiasm for the course. Can seem difficult at times with alot of reading due to the massive amount of course content, but the Tf's are great and you take away alot from the course. Definitely worth it, especially if you are a history concentrator
This is a great history class.  The readings are fabulous and the lecture content is interesting, although it can drag at times.  The workload is light and will sharpen your history writing skills.
Interesting course, if long and occasionally rambling. Provides a greater understanding of the causes and effects of WW's I&II than is generally garnered from previous education.
For a class entirely on World War I and World War II, only two lectures were given to the actual events of the wars.  Too much time was spent on prewar diplomacy and postwar settlements.
If you want an easy history class, this isn't it.  I felt exhausted by the end of each class, because we had covered so much and I had lost most of it just trying to keep up with Prof. Maier's train of thought.  He is super nice and brilliant and clearly loves what he's teaching, but this class is not for the faint of heart.  You don't cover 40 years of world history for every country remotely connected with the war and feel like you retained all the important information.  The outlines are not made in any way that actually makes them "outlines" - a little closer to a collection of key terms and unfinished sentences that don't really help you take notes unless you want to spell something correctly.  I learned a lot about the World Wars from this class - but there's a whole lot I perhaps should have learned and just lost in the confusion that was this class most days.
This class covers so many events that have consequences still today it is a little overwhelming, but I liked that. The World Wars were so important in world history, and continue to affect us today. Lecture was at times boring and the lecture notes are incredibly confusing and lacking bullet points, but most of the time lecture was very interesting. The readings are very interesting as well. A ton of reading. You will have to prioritize.
It's a good course but a lot of work for a core.
This course will give you a very comprehensive view of World War I and World War II and the time in between. And while the sections are amazing, there is a lot of material and information you'll be required to know.
The readings are very good, but the lectures tend to be slow and boring.  Dinyar is a very nice guy and a good TF.
I would avoid this class unless you are really prepared to put in a lot of time and effort.  The course readings are interesting but are often author's interpretations of the events rather than factual descriptions of the events, so you will have to learn all the basic dates, people, battles, and other events on your own.  Lectures would probably help you learn the basics if Professor Maier stuck to his outline, but he speaks so quickly and so quietly anyway that it is very easy to get lost.
It's a great class with really interesting material. There's a lot of material to know, but it's incredibly rewarding.
If someone is really really excited to learn about the two world wars, they will get a lot out of this class. If you're not really excited about the topic, then you'll either blow it off and get nothing out of it, or struggle through it and really not enjoy it.
DON'T TAKE IT. EVER.
