The topics in the class are pretty cool. It's an interesting way to view the world - I certainly hadn't thought about disease epidemics or other global health issues as being rooted in societal problems. Workload is fine too, and you can choose how much time you want to put into the class with all the reading materials. However, I will say don't believe the hype... People were like "THIS CLASS IS LIFE CHANGING!" but it's not really life changing; it's a good, interesting class to take.
While this course won't be offered next fall, I highly encourage you to enroll should it be offered again in the future. The teaching staff, including the teaching fellows, are excellent and truly want to get to know students. Make sure you complete some of the reading in order to gain a greater appreciation during lecture and be prepared for section. However, don't feel like you have to read it all (it's way too much). This class is a great GenEd course, especially for freshmen.
This class is a great way to understand the interdisciplinary field of global health. We discussed topics ranging from historical examples to anthropological analysis of health issues.
Overall, this is a great course. Especially if you have an interest in global health or medicine, this course is great at providing real-world examples and giving a sense of what an extended study or career in global health might be like. The syllabus requires a lot of reading, dauntingly so, but in practice the course is very manageable as much of the reading is directly re-stated in lecture so not all of the reading is truly required. Especially after the midterm, this course becomes very easy and self-driven.
This class is very informative about current social and economic problems in the real world and how to take a biosocial approach to come to more effective interventions.
The section component for this class is great (get Chris Petrella he is INCREDIBLE), but the lectures are lacking.  Most people don't show up and there is an impossible amount of reading--just completely unmanageable and so most students don't end up doing the readings.  I'd heard such great things about this course and I took it because the teaching staff showed videos saying it was "life changing" (and because it was a gen ed) but I didn't get much out of the lectures and got way more out of the section, which I think was only because my section leader was such an amazing person that it was him and not the class.
This class will change your life. The faculty is amazing, and the course material is so engaging. Do not be afraid to introduce yourself to the professors; they want to get to know the students and help out with whatever they can.
A great course! A wide variety of interesting material is covered, starting with social theory and then moving on to case studies of global health problems and interventions in a variety of settings and times. The four professors are all amazing - incredibly experienced experts, doctors, and anthropologists - and it's great to be able to hear from many different people. You definitely do not need a background in health or medicine or science to find this course fascinating and meaningful. I would definitely recommend it.
Course provides you with a framework to analyse problems in almost any policy-oriented context. I would highly recommend for the skills gained and the ability to interact with some of the greatest minds in global health.
Rated this moderate with like 4 hours of work outside the class because i did 0 readings. Would bump the time spent up by a lot but not really the difficulty.
The teaching staff was excellent and cared a lot about the materiel and your learning.
It's a lot of reading, so you need to be selective with what you read carefully/skim. Take advantage of the professors--they are really valuable resources and always willing to help.
It's a pretty good class. I didn't go to any of the lectures (went to all the sections, since they're mandatory), wrote the papers, did pretty well in the course. Not too much work, interesting enough to be worthwhile.
Very boring class. Some people seemed to be into it but it was generally repetitive and not related to public health
Very interesting material is taught and the sections have very great discussions. Compared to other classes you are a little more independent when it comes to completing the work and if you don't have experience writing the types of essay that are assigned, you might encounter some initial difficulties. But practice makes perfect!
Taking this course will build your intellectual capacity
I would tell future students to take this class because it really is life-changing and probably different any other they are likely to encounter in their college education.
Great class! The material is fascinating and relevant. The skills you develop in this class will change the way you look at suffering around the world and encourage you to get involved.
you've probably heard the hype about this class, but the course lives up to most of the hype! it won't be offered next year, but when they do offer it again, please take it! talk to these professors too, because they are caring and inspirational people who care about students. Prof Anne Becker and Prof Arthur Kleinman are especially approachable, in my experience. even if you are not going into global health, I'd recommend you take this class because it teaches you how to think critically about the world, about ourselves, and about how to live a fulfilling and moral life.
An enlightening course that I wholeheartedly recommend for anyone interested in global health
This course is unfortunately not being taught again, but if it comes back I would recommend you take it! Although some of the lectures are dry and there is lots of history/ social theory involved, the case studies presented and the personal stories told by the professors are super interesting! These people are INCREDIBLE and have done and seen incredible things in their lives. It's an honor to be abel to hear them tell their stories and share their knowledge.
Wonderful class! The professors are wonderful people, in their work and in their commitment to teaching. This is one of those classes that will make you step back and realize what an honor going to Harvard really is.One critique of the class is that the guest-lecture-based style makes some information and themes repeated ad nauseam. The people they brought in, and the professors' experiences themselves, also heavily biased the class to think one specific way about global health.Take everything that is said with a grain of salt. After a certain point in SW25, it becomes clear that this class could have been taught to emphasize completely different events or consequences, and your own perspective on global health could be completely different for it. However, it is always nice to see amazing examples of people who are committed to doing the right thing for the world.
a course that teaches morality over facts (instead uses facts that logically support morality). can make anyone interested in global health. but needs more professor/teacher-student interactions.
Truly a life-changing course. Illuminates so many different issues that are incredibly relevant to anyone's life (premed or not). Highly recommend. One of the best classes I've taken here.
If you're at all interested in Global Health AND want to fulfill an easy gen-ed. I'd recommend this course. DO NOT TAKE IT FOR THE PROFESSORS. They are really awesome, but engagement with them is pretty limited, they aren't the best at lecturing, and half the time many of them aren't even there.
This is a really great class to take on for all different concentrations. The class is not too hard but the material is legitimately interesting. Lived up completely to my expectations.
This course is interesting and informative. Before I took it, it was really hyped as a class that would "change your life," etc. While it does in fact allow for inspiration (the teaching staff are incredibly accomplished) and force you to take on new perspectives, don't expect your world to be flipped upside down. There's always danger in overestimating a course. Nevertheless, this was a very solid and interesting class, and though there are a lot of readings, the workload is manageable.
It's definitely a treat to hear star lecturers like Paul Farmer and Arthur Kleinman. All the course heads are in great demand, so it's kind of stunning to be able to see them a few times a week, sitting in class. But expect to do most of your learning in section. The professors usually explain their own projects and rehash some things mentioned in the readings. Section discussions tie the important topics altogether.
This course is a fantastic introduction to medical issues using a social science lens. Cases are interesting, and readings are really cool (it's especially exciting to be reading books by the professors, and have renowned guest lecturers). There is a lot of passion as the inspiration for this course. TFs have interesting real-world experience.
This class is slightly overhyped, but this would likely not be the case of you are incredibly passionate about global health. Even if you aren't, though it's still a good class and looks at really interesting issues. Take it if you like working with amazingly accomplished professors and studying interdisciplinary concepts.
This is a revolutionary course in the field of global health. I could not imagine taking any other class to refine my understanding of the field. The professors are experts in their field and it is an invaluable opportunity to be able to speak with them and hear about their experiences globally. Some of the information shared in this class is information I believe should be shared with every student, not just those pursuing careers in the health sector. Discussions of how neoliberalism, poverty, and colonialism have effected crises such as the Ebola outbreak are eye-opening and will really make you reconsider the ideas you have on health.
I think you get out of this course what you put in. Meet the professors, do the readings, go to lecture, talk about the material with friends after class. If you do all of this, this course will broaden your horizons and give you a whole new global perspective.
This is a great class that definitely makes you think about the power dynamics present in global health and mistakes in global health trends that we are noticing now. Unintended Consequences of Purposive Action is one of the most importune theory you will learn. Remember it.
Every lecture left me with the sense that there is something for me to do in this world in caring for its people, our community. You'll come to appreciate how widely applicable the class' biosocial analytical framework is, no matter what field of study you are pursuing.
With four leaders of global health teaching this class, an opportunity to take it should not be passed up if you have any interest at all in the subject matter. The professors do a great job of leading the class through different case studies and expressing their ideas on how we can continue to make healthcare better and better all over the world.
Take this course because you will be exposed to some of the greatest minds in global health and anthropology. Do the readings, come to lectures. Don't expect anything from section.
This class was a disappointment after how much it was hyped up. It did not change my life like everyone said it would. That might have to do with the fact that I have taken global health courses before so these concepts were not new and mind-blowing for me. The assignments were kind of a pain and the class was frustrating at times. There were a lot of readings and it is not necessary to do all of them, but for the short papers they will ask you to use specific books or readings so if you don't do the readings it will catch up to you. Also, you have to use sources from the class readings for your final paper so it is best to try and stay caught up on the readings. You don't have to necessarily do all of them, but spend time doing as many as you can. If you are really interested in global health then this might be worth it to take but if you are just looking to fulfill the SW gened, pick another one. There are so many other SW geneds that seem so much better.
Definitely take this course! The TFs are wonderful, as are the professors, and everyone really creates a great environment to ask questions and understand the topics through a new lens. It's a class that will make you learn a lot as an introductory course, and it also creates drive as well as advocacy. There's tons of readings, but they are all SO good, so even if you feel that you can't finish the readings -- try!!! And go to lectures. Every single lecture is so amazing.
It is extremely enlightening but it is a ton of work
This class was an amazing experience. It opened my eyes to many of the current health disparities that exist in the world. There was a lot of reading, although you don't have to read all of it. The papers are interesting and really make you think about the readings critically and many of the topics discussed in lecture. The best part about this class was the professors. They have done such amazing work and had so much to talk about.
This class will change the way you see the world.
Societies of the World 25 is a great window into global health with incredibly knowledgable professors who have been at the forefront of their respective topics. It's a gem of a class that any student would benefit from taking because it allows students to deeply understand the global health issues of today.
Good course in exposure to socially pertinent ideas, if you already know a bit about these topics the course may come off as superficial and not nearly detailed enough.
This was an amazing class that taught me so much!! You really get out of this course as much as you put in, and I really recommend putting in all you got, because it is worth it! However, you can still skate by this course doing the minimum and still get an A probably.
This class will change your perspective on the world if you let it. There are a lot of readings, and doing them all is fairly uncommon. But a lot of the readings and all the lectures are really amazing. They make you think about the world, about people living in different contexts, and they make you care. This is the kind of effect I wanted classes to have on me going into college, and I am so glad that I took this class.
This course was great overall! I wouldn't say it was life-changing, and the focus was very heavy on theory, but the workload was reasonable.
This class is way too hyped up. It was interesting but is definitely not as life changing as other people say it is.
I took this class because I had received so many glowing recommendations about it and honestly, I was let down. While it was interesting to learn how social trends affect health, once you had learned the social theories, lecture presentations became less interesting. They just became one demonstration after another of unintended consequences, social construction of reality, social suffering, etc. So many people stopped going to lecture because lecture stopped providing new information. You could get by without doing the readings and without showing up which was kind of discouraging. I was one of the people that showed up to lecture every class but a lot of the time I was questioning why I did. This class has so much potential; all of the lecturers do incredible work around the world and the things they teach have far reaching implications. Despite this, I did not come out of the class a changed person like many of my friends said I would.
This class is so worth it.
I'm sure everyone's responses to say similar things, but this course is a gem .Extremely thought provoking with fantastic readings (please do them for the sake of humanity! I mean that literally) and fair assignments.
I LOVED this course. The lecturers are amazing people and it really made me think and spurred me to challenge and advocate for injustices in the world!
While much of the material is very interesting, the course is very indoctrinating, and the ways in which we grappled with many of the ideas were not very intellectual. When talking about neo-liberalism, for example, we were not once treated to a fair account of that school of thought. Rather, it was presented as a "sum of all evils," a force which intentionally aims to increase inequality and social injustice, etc etc.If at all interested in Global Health or in applying social theory to real-world problems, this is a good intro course.Still, another aspect which made me uncomfortable was the cult of personality some of the staff seemed to foster. There is a lot to be learned from the Professors' rich personal experiences, but when there is not one presentation without one of them hugging an African baby or a slide with a touching quote that they wrote themselves, it gets a bit weird and uncomfortable.
This course is introductory. Therefore, it provides a background of topics and spends a lot of time establishing only a few central ideas. It may move slowly for some students and might seem repetitive--especially if you have already spend a lot of time thinking about such issues.
Invest in doing the readings and diving into this material. It is very rewarding to commit yourself to a subject like this: you will feel extremely accomplished in your growth, and this topic is extremely interesting, and easy to become passionate about.
There aren't enough classes in this world that are just there for you to learn in, without any of the extra testing stuff- this is one of those, and it's amazing.
I came in hearing very good things about this course and was not disappointed. I have learned to think about global health through a new perspective and am much more informed about the world than I was before.
I absolutely loved this course. It encouraged me to think differently and acknowledge the social inequity that is present in this world.
You will sort of get out what you put into this class. Make sure you keep up with the readings and pay attention in lecture, it's a big class and easy to allow yourself to get lost, but if you stay focused, you can really learn a lot.
You learn some key biosocial theories in this course and then are presented with some interesting and current case studies. However, after a while the case studies don't offer much new, simply the same theories applied again, which can make the course a bit repetitive. The lectures range widely from very engaging to quite boring.
I can't say that it "changed my life" but I can say that it might change yours! At the very least you gain a fascinating new understanding of the issues of public health. You also come away with the analytical tools to truly understand these issues.
The readings are awesome
This class is a great way to get into public health.  Beyond that, it gives you a structure to understand world problems.
I would tell future students to only take this class if they like to read because there is a lot of reading to be done. Of course, you can opt to not do the readings (like most people do) but in the long run, especially when it comes to the short papers assigned and especially the final paper, it would help greatly to do the reading. In addition, only take this class if you like being independent and are a good writer, because there is no help in the latter and nobody is really telling you what to do or what to study for. Unless you have interesting peers in your section, the section will probably be a bit boring and in my experience, the students did most of the talking so sometimes the conversations were not as great as they could be if the discussion had been facilitated. If you can survive all of this, SOME of the topics discussed were pretty interesting and open your eyes to problems related to global health that you may have not even been aware of otherwise.
Very manageable workload, with interesting content and assignments.  A very painless way to fulfill SW.  Even the 15 page paper at the end was not nearly as bad as I thought it was going to be.  It won't be offered next year, but if it's offered after that I'd highly recommend it if you need SW or are just interested in learning about the field of global health.
I loved being in the presence of great thinkers who were so remarkably humble. I have so much respect for the field of medical anthropology now, and my horizon has been broadened so far beyond purely clinical medicine. I am now determined to spend my life helping others.
This class is incredible, whether you have an interest in global health equity or are just looking to fulfill a Gen Ed. These leaders in global health impart their wisdom to you, which is a valuable experience most people don't get. Highly recommend!!
This is the greatest class ever!
This course is taught by four very inspiring and accomplished professors as well as a diverse group of guest lectures. All of them provide very compelling and fascinating firsthand connections to various global health problems and solutions that they have worked with in their careers. The course teaches you a new way of thinking about global health and health as a human right, and it definitely fueled my own interest in medicine and health policy.
Incredible class. Inspiring professors. Relatively little work.
It was fairly easy but a lot of readings that aren't necessary if you go to lecture. It was also very interesting and one of the best gen eds I have taken at Harvard this far.
the readings took me to an unknown world.
If you are interested in learning more about global health, this is a great intro! You are learning from the best professors in the field complemented by thoughtful readings. The course is not too stressful, but you do learn a solid foundation about health care delivery in challenging settings.
SW25 was a great course that opened my eyes to more deeply analyzing pressing global health issues using past examples.  I came in expecting it would totally blow me away and completely "change my life," as the intro video said, and while I had a great experience, it didn't match my expectations.  Lectures were interesting, but basically a rehashing of the readings.  The professors are at the top of their respective fields, but oftentimes are difficult to access outside of class (understandably).  Overall, I would definitely recommend the class if you'd like to gain more knowledge and background on how to use the mistakes and lessons of past global health initiatives to inform present efforts.
Life changing course.  Every faculty member is committed to you and your learning.
If you have never explored issues of colonialism, global health, development and aid work, or neo-liberalism, this course offered a great beginning.
great class
I think this is a good candidate for anyone to take to fulfill their gened requirement, especially if you don't know much about global health already. However, if you have studied some global health in the past, prepare to go over some of that material again, albeit from more of a sociological perspective rather than a biological perspective.
Do the readings.
Great class! Don't get too overwhelmed by readings (it's okay to not do some, although they are great resources and very interesting) and definitely try to go to class and listen.
This class is what you make of it.  It is possible to get by just attending lecture or by just doing the readings, but doing both is the best way to learn from the course and take away the key concepts.  Overall, it is a very educational course which can apply to a variety of different situations and disciplines beyond just Global Health.
This class is definitely worth it! There are a ton of readings that you technically don't have to do. Many of them are fascinating so you should do them anyway!
This is a wonderfully comprehensive course if you interested in global health and is one of the best ways to fulfill the societies of the world GenEd or the secondary in global health requirement.
It requires a lot of work and if you're not very interested in the subject matter you may find yourself feeling a bit bored.
This class was hyped too much, in my opinion. If you actually do the readings (which I did; highly recommend skimming because they're mostly redundant) and don't just depend on the lectures, you'll get a lot more from the class. I don't recommend the class to freshmen because I feel like it can be a little more challenging to engage with the material as a freshman. There are some super strict TFs and some really laid-back TFs -- flip a coin, good luck.
While I expected a lot from the class due to past reviews, I was unfortunately disappointed. Most of what we learned in the class (with respect to social theory) appeared to be common sense, and the lectures did not really offer much insight into real global health problems. After a while I stopped doing the readings and going to lecture and didn't appear to miss much substantial content from the class.
This is one of the best classes Harvard has to offer. The professors are very engaging and interesting to hear about because they have all been through the experience of what they are talking about, being on the forefront of it all. The workload is very manageable though the class is what you make of it but I highly recommend that students optimize this chance to learn from and talk to these professors and engage in this class.
If it's being offered again definitely consider it! The work isn't hard but there is a fair amount of readings assigned. Yes you could skip most of it and do OK but the topics are interesting enough and lectures well done enough that it really is worth investing the time in the course work. While TFs won't make or break this class getting a good one will make that hour feel worthwhile rather than sort of sophomoric.
People say this class will change your life, and of course you scoff, but really, it makes you think differently. If you're even thinking about taking this class, and you must be because you're reading this, just take it.
This class is taught by amazing people and the material is really interesting. No need to do all the readings, but read some for the papers and for section.
This course is awesome! The professors are great and it's really interesting to hear about their field work. All the lectures are so interesting because of the different global health issues that we learned about throughout the world. It's amazing to see how different health issues are tackled and it's done by the people teaching the course! I learned so much! It made me so much more interesting in global health!
This class is marketed as transformative, and maybe it is to others- just definitely not to me. I think it didn't help that my section TF didn't do the readings and was usually confused, but I found it difficult to find the motivation to attend lectures and such. The material is definitely important, but I don't leave the course feeling equipped to tackle global health issues.
Inspiring class. What you put in is what you get out.
SW25 is a good course for a broad overview of concepts discussed in global health. The case studies are interesting, and you'll have the chance to meet people who work in the field. Having said that, I don't think it necessarily deserves all the rave it's given. It needed to have more student-based discussion, more differing opinions, and less oversimplification of global health issues. If you're taking this class, I would focus your energy on the final paper in where you get to really focus on an issue that matters to you.
This is a fascinating class that isn't too difficult and is overall very enjoyable to take!
To be honest, I have never been so split about a course. On one hand, the content that is taught is absolutely 10/10. So incredibly relevant to the real world, and, yes, it did significantly impact how I see the real world and has made me seriously reconsider what I want to end up doing. I have learned more relevant information about the real world in this class than in any of my previous Gen Eds combined. That said, I would give the course itself around a 2/10... if not 1/10. The material is all taught in the context of incredibly annoying jargon, the lectures ranged from sort of nice to unbearably boring... Sure, the lecturers are all famous and accomplished people, and I respect them wholeheartedly, but they showed up to class unprepared (or uncaring) way too many times for me to enjoy their teaching. Not sure what else to say about this...
Great class to learn about global health from a line of Harvard's great leaders in the field! Also, the Head TF, Jason Silverstein, is one of my favorite teachers in my time at Harvard!
If you are at all interested in global health you need to take this course! The professors are not only incredibly inspiring, but also extremely enthusiastic about teaching the course and getting to know students.
Take this class! I wish I got more out of it, but I didn't do the readings :) In any case, you will learn a lot and be greatly inspired even if you just go to the lectures.
it's very interesting and moving at times
This course may change your relationship with the world around you. I have seen many classmates change concentrations, readily changing their life course, simply because they were inspired by this course. Each professor provided their own flavor and inspirational insights throughout the course and getting to know them is truly a special experience.
Amazing introduction to global health, and taught by some of the people actually on the ground doing the work.
No matter what you are planning to major in or do after you graduate, whatever the filed is, there is a way it will contribute to global health and equity, therefore use this class to see how. You will have great staff for this, so please create relationships with them, because they are an extraordinary team. Enjoy!
A Harvard gem. Take it, especially if you think global health not applicable to your studies or your career. I wish this were a mandatory course for all undergraduates.
you must take this if you would like to change the world in any capacity
This is a great course and an unbelievable opportunity.
This course had way too many readings, almost all of which were written at least in part by one or more of the professors, and as such, they were very redundant and didn't add anything to the class (I actually stopped doing any of the readings after the midterm). The readings/class also presented a very one-sided view of global health, portraying Partners in Health as the solution to everything, and everything before PIH as utter garbage. While there may be some truth in this, I would've liked the opportunity to think about it for myself. The lectures were often dry, and they didn't seem to have any sort of progression over the course of the semester; rather they jumped around at random to different case studies. All in all, I kind of feel like this class was a waste of my time. That being said, the assignments weren't too difficult or time-consuming, and I got gen-ed credit for it, which made me not hate the class.
Getting to listen to Anne Becker is a treat!
This class was nothing short of fantastic. The professors are excellent lecturers, and more importantly, inspiring people with rich and important experiences to share. This class motivates students to become more involved in global and public health efforts, and more generally, empathize and strive to help those around them. The exploration of social theories was also very interesting. I can't recommend this class highly enough!
This class is great no matter what concentration or direction a student is headed in. The professors are all amazing role models and what they do on a daily basis is simply, inspiring. The core of this class is understanding the multi-disciplinary approach for developing interventions and solving problems- which does not only apply to global health problems. While there is a lot of readings, most of them are worth taking the time to read (but most of the time the readings are not particularly necessary if you attend lecture). Overall, the class is what you make of it and if you make the right choices, it can be a completely revolutionizing course for your college experience.
This class has fascinating topics and provides a great introduction to global health with some really well-known professors.  However, if you want a lot of faculty interaction, don't expect it with this class.  Knowing how to read through a lot of material quickly and efficiently is key to getting homework done in this class.
It's a great class with stellar professors that often give really inspiring lectures. There are way too many readings, but you can do well in the class even without reading them. The quality of your section depends on your TF.
Don't be overwhelmed by the readings.
Great class - you will regard global health in a completely different light after you've taken it. A great deal of the things we think are true aren't, and solving the problems of global health turns out to be a matter of figuring out the solutions to long-standing, systemic problems.
This is a good course if you're looking to learn more about global health. It's an awesome way to get to know leaders in the field and hear about their work. Materials can be dry at times
This class really opens your eyes to the problems in global health. The media distorts health crises so much, like the Ebola scare and costs of TB treatment, but this class shows you the reality of the situation. It made for a really interesting history class, even for someone who has neither background nor a particular interest in history, and it was really useful for seeing how our generation should handle healthcare in the future. The fact that each of the professors and TFs spoke from personal experience, it made each of the stories and cases very powerful. Everyone teaching the class really is an expert in the field, and it was great getting to learn from them.
The course not only opens up a world of knowledge but also teaches how to (a) acquire knowledge, and (b) apply that in one's life.
It's a super fun and interesting class. You should do the reading if you want to really engage with the material, but the lecture covers a lot of material well too.
Good class, but not as stimulating as everyone claimed it is.
SW25 is an extremely interesting course and will change the way you view healthcare/ global health if this is a new field for you to explore (as it was for me). I think it's a great gen ed to take that requires you to engage with the course materials but isn't too time consuming. Be warned that the course does get pretty repetitive in terms of analysis and assignments by the end of this course.
Not the lightest workload of a GenEd, but definitely a very rewarding and informative class.
The course is taking a break next fall, but I thought it was a very good introduction to the field of global health in general, and there are some amazing professors in the course.
This class definitely covers interesting material, but I don't feel like I was able to connect with the professors or TF's. Expectations were not always clear, and section was honestly a waste of time every single week. Readings were very hit or miss, and it is 100% possible to get through the class without doing them. This is not a hard class, but you get out what you put in. If you put in nothing, you can still do well, but will not enjoy it as much and will not learn much either.
This course is life changing. It makes you think about morals and responsibility and how to be a better citizen. You cannot find better professors; they are all so passionate about their work, and the TFs are also amazing. Really highly recommend.
You come face to face with superheroes.
This class is engaging but not particularly demanding.
Inspiring professors, but the class itself is not very organized or cohesive. Read Mountains Beyond Mountains before you take it and you'll know half the material already.
great way to do a gen ed, easy (minus work for final paper of 15 pages)
Lectures were pretty interesting and enjoyable. I think it all depends on the TF you get as well. Papers were a bit challenging to write, but if you communicate with your TF and find out what they're looking for they're pretty straightforward.
Very interesting and dynamic course....assignments can be tedious, and social theory applications rigid
This class helps you think critically on how to address global health issues from around the world. It brings a sociologic and ethnographic approaches and helps you to go deeper to understand the local factors that you should take into account in your program implementation, which is crucial to be efficient.
Sorry folks you're not gonna take it, not offered any more.
SW 25 was a really great course. The faculty are all experts in the field of global health and do an incredible job sharing their passion for the material. Although the material is not presented in the form of case studies as might be expected, the readings and lectures presented are very insightful and formative if engaged with closely. This course is all about how much you put into it. If you devote yourself to the material and social theories, it can be a really valuable experience.
Take this course, but be wary of reading!
This course wasn't structured very well. Lectures were generally really boring and I really didn't enjoy most of the readings, which there are A TON, I repeat, A TON OF READINGS, but unfortunately most people are perfectly capable getting by doing absolutely minimal work. You don't have to do much to succeed in this course, but if you want to, you can get really into it. I think global health is really important and even though I had no previous exposure to it and I think everyone should learn about health disparities in other countries/have a historical understanding for why those issues exist and/or persist, I don't think this course is a great way to gain that exposure.
I honestly expected more after everything I've heard about this course. The lectures were often really boring and it was impossible to keep up with the readings.
This is an awesome course that exposes you to the field of global health in an engaging way. The readings are a lot but not all are necessary for the assignments.
This is an enriching class in which you will gain knowledge about some important global health events, as well as how to approach a research paper..
i.	This is a good class and a solid GenEd. However, dont be misled to think that this class is going to be the best thing you ever do in your four years at Harvard. This is a good, even great, class but you might be disappointed if you believe all the hype that this class is the best thing since sliced bread. The assignments sometimes feel a little like busy work/high-school-ish, but the lectures are so interesting that it is worth it. As most people state, you dont have to do the readings, but you should do as many as you get a chance to, because they arent that tedious and are pretty engaging/very interesting. You will come away from this class with a big picture framework and thinking about things in context, as opposed to classic science classes, which are all about the details. That perspective is valuable, and worth taking the class for in itself. On the short papers, follow the prompts very closely; the class cares more about ability to follow instructions than ability to make intelligent arguments.
This class is what you make it. You don't have to do all of the readings, or even really any of them, but you will get more out of it if you do. The professors really care about their students and the subject matter and you can get so much out of this class.
This course was amazing! While I can't say that it drastically changed my world view (I've always been a critic of social hierarchy), it did give me a vocabulary so I can articulate myself and that makes me incredibly grateful.
SW25 is an amazing course. The variety of lecturers and all of the material is so interesting and it's pretty fast-paced so that if there's a subject that is less interesting to you it will usually change in one or two lectures. Definitely take this course!
Really depends on your TF. My TF was super chill so it was great, but a few friends got wrecked.
I thought it was a very interesting, but slow and easy class that could be better. The professors were super kind and helpful too, which was really great to have, especially in a gen-ed class.
It is a lot of reading but if you work smart, there is a lot to get out of the class. It is the type of class that inspires students to change their career path so they can get involved in global health.
excellent course, the lectures are always interesting and the staff is unparalleled in experience.
You get out what you put into it. There are lots of readings but you don't have to do all of them. The content is fascinating if you have the time to invest in the readings. Lectures are mostly great, especially if Salman or Anne is lecturing. Kleinman does a great job setting up the biosocial framework. I found it really hard to understand or follow Farmer's lectures - they are often disorganized. It is however, amazing and inspiring to learn from people who have done fascinating and pioneering work in their fields.
A fantastic course, but not the best course in the world. I thought this course was over-hyped by many other reviews.
This class is an awesome opportunity to learn from professors who helped to establish and continue to improve the field of Global Health. It was a unique experience and I am so glad I got to take SW25.
Favorite class this semester.
This is a terrific course with very interesting content and great professors. You will learn a lot in the course, but the grading is a little messed up and you might feel like you're not receiving feedback on your ideas.
I took this class because they showed an intro video with like twenty students saying how life-changing the course was. It wasn't life-changing for me, probably because I didn't do all the readings, but also because I feel like global health is a pretty difficult subject to completely relate to when you're sitting in a cozy lecture hall thousands of miles away from the disasters you read about. I also wanted to take it to become better at "caring" and understanding people to be a better doctor in the future, but I also feel like that can only be learned through non-academic experience. Still though, it was enlightening to learn about all the crises that have happened and how we can better deal with them.
This course will make you think and reconsider your place in the world.
This class will open your eyes to what is happening in the world with regard to global health and will give you the tools necessary to read something in the news about global health and understand why a solution was fashioned that way, why a certain behavior is happening, what could be done better, etc. This course will show you how so much more than just the biology matters when it comes to fashioning solutions to global health problems.
This class is really great for changing the lens through which you view the world. The essays assignments are not too bad, and the reading is interesting (though there is a lot).
Take this class. It's a fairly painless way to knock down the Societies of the World Gen Ed requirement. Be warned, however: it doesn't live up to the hype, and it's full of premeds. When I entered the course, I was expecting an interdisciplinary group of people interested/unfamiliar with global health. I was also expecting to have my mind opened by the readings and lectures of the course. In reality, pretty much everyone in the course is a life sciences major, with a couple anthropology/folk and myth concentrators. And most of the "revelations" in the course are pretty self-explanatory (poverty causes bad health, unexpected consequences happen when people don't know everything, etc).
Some students in my section found this class extremely interesting and actually changed their secondaries to public health because of this class. However, I myself had a completely different reaction to this class. It gave me a better understanding of the difficulties creating public health policy, but beyond this fact, I found the overall class to be disappointing.
This course is so interesting and also really easy. The assignments are manageable, readings light, and sections aren't strenuous. The teaching staff is incredible and the professors are at the top of this particular area of study as well as medical practice. Global health is a really important issue for everyone, not just medical professionals, to understand, so if you're looking for an easy class to fulfill a gen ed and not something boring, take this class.
This is the quintessential example of a life-changing Harvard class. I truly learned so much about how the world works and what practical steps the activist can take to cut though the hype and get to the core of the problem. I loved questioning everything, and this attitude is an invaluable part of my education.
There is a lot of reading, and it is not consistent.  Some weeks, there is relatively little, and other weeks, the reading is overwhelming.
It's an okay course, but not worth all the hype. I personally didn't find it "life changing", but to each his own. At times it seemed like an dvertisement for Partners in Health, which is fair enough. Global health is incredibly important, and I don't mean to sound jaded because we're so lucky to take a course like it with such experienced professors. That being said, I just didn't get a lot out of it and wound up spending money on books that were rarely assigned.
This is an incredible way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement. It's even encouraged me to pursue global health in the future. I loved the biosocial lens that was used in analyzing case studies because it forces you to consider health as dependent on broader pressures.
take this class. This course is a great gen ed in regards to workload but lectures can be redundant and VERY BORING. This class definitely opens up your mind to a new way of thinking but I would not call it "life changing" like many other students. DO NOT BUY THE COURSEPACK. It is unnecessary to do well in the class and many of the readings can be found online. Doing all of the readings are not necessary since many of them are never used directly in the course.This class is a low commitment gen ed and you really learn about global health.
Despite all the readings and essays, this course is a must. The lecturers are well published and renowned. Very interesting course
Cliche as it is, this really opens your eyes to a realm of problems and serious concerns you probably never experience in America. You walk away with a sense of impatience and desire to DO SOMETHING to solve these problems - and isn't that what college should be all about?
Take this class if offered again. If you put in the time, you will do great.
SW 25 is not only intellectually enriching, but also life-changing.
The lectures are great but the class needs some reworking to allow the students to engage with the material.
Great overview and introduction to global health. You get what you put in.
It's not as life-changing as it's hyped up to be.
I think SW25 is a good background course on global health, but it does not have too much content. It is easy to take as a fifth class or extra "gen ed," but I was hoping to learn more from it and come away with more concrete knowledge. This being said, SW25 does offer a good overview on using biosocial approaches and teaches some fundamental biosocial theories.
This class is life-changing and the lectures are amazing
Do the readings!! They are great and I am reading the rest of them for fun because they are so great. Meet the professors in office hours they are passionate about their professions. Utilize section well, the TFs are great and help consolidate the material.
Please do not put this course off. If it is offered in a given semester, please do take it because it's an invaluable experience with people who have effected insurmountable change in places governments and NGOs said change was impossible.
If you like the subject matter, go for it. How often do you get so many rockstars lecturing in the same class? The case studies they cover are important to consider or at least be aware of. I grew a lot as a person because of this class.
I had no interest in global health until I took this class on a whim and I found it absolutely fascinating! Definitely take it if they offer it again.
You will love it whether you come from the sciences or the humanities!
This class is a great introduction of public global health and all that entails. The course offers an in-depth perspective on global health by evaluating many various aspects and influences for the present-day state of health care in countries across the world. I am so glad I took this class and would definitely recommend it!
This is a very interesting class but still a Gen Ed. Some kids gave this class their all and some kids never went to lecture. You get in what you put in. I really enjoyed it though and it gave me a lot of revelations about life.
I would warn students that this course is not necessarily as amazing as its reviews make it sound, but it was still pretty interesting, and for those who are interested in global health, it can be transformative.
It is an awesome class, if you have any interest in global health and cultural diversities I would strongly recommend this course. The professors are incredible and the overall course is just really interesting.
The readings are necessary, but at times redundant. At the very least, make sure to read from the core textbook and and the works of the lecturers. You get what you put in for this class. Grades are not so much of an indication of how much work or effort you put in and so actually learning the material is ascribed more to passion and enjoyment than the need to get a good grade.
This class will introduce you to different ways of thinking about issues around the world, not just health issues.
It's a lot of reading, but a lot of it is interesting and/or relevant to the class. I feel a lot smarter after taking it, and it's the sort of class where the grading doesn't feel so important and you're able to focus on the material, which is interesting, rather than the stress of completing a million assignments.
SW 25 is easily one of the most meaningful classes you're ever going to take in Harvard. Whether you're interested in global health or not, the class really challenges how you think about the world and in particular how to deal with health issues around the world.
Amazing class - inspiring and honest lectures, thought-provoking topics, professors who are the leaders in this still-developing field, TFs that are actually concerned with helping you understand the material and not about doling out grades. This class is what I imagined Harvard would be like. It's unreal - if you don't take this class, you're missing out. I loved it!
Really, really interesting course-- highly recommend.
Incredible and eye opening course if you want to go into global health
Take it because of Paul Farmer and Arthur Klineman.
Overall, great course! All professors are superstars in the field of global health. Course load is a bit on the heavy side( for a gen ed) for the first month or so (there are weekly papers due for a total of four papers.) However, after the first four papers and the midterm, you don't have to go to any of the lectures if you have a busy semester. Final paper at the end was kind of long, but not too bad. I can honestly say that I've learned a lot of useful concepts in this course! if you're interested in global health at all, definitely take it!
It's easy but seriously an amazing intro to public health. Just google the professors! You'll see that their work is really the future of the field.
Make sure you make time to talk to the professors and your TF and get feedback.  In a class this size and given their somewhat high profile jobs, the professors won't get to know you unless you reach out.
great class, amazing instructors 
don't worry about all of the readings 
even if you just read the main textbook you should be fine 
workload really drops off after the midterm
Take this class! It changed the way I think about the entire world and my position in it.
The course is more work-intensive than other Gen Eds may be, but it pushes you in a really healthy way-you'll leave the course knowing a lot more about a whole variety of public health issues that contribute to a better understanding of how the world works.
This was my favorite class at Harvard. First, the teaching staff is SO supportive, accessible, and incredible. Second, the professors are all amazing, incredibly genuine, and openly adamant about their commitment to the field. All the lectures are accompanied by an open Q&A discussion that reveals more about the course. During the beginning of the course, there are a lot of mini essays that have to be written, but they're actually blessings in disguise because you learn so much and solidify knowledge about the social theories that can be applied in global health. The new textbook of the coursebook is honestly a keeper beyond the course because it has incredibly revolutionary ideas beyond the ideas one is exposed to in global health. The class tailors to any individual of ANY background, which is what makes it awesome and even more eye-opening. Lastly, I would really recommend doing the readings for the course, which on paper looks daunting, but are actually very illuminating especially in addition to lecture and section. The only con is that it's easy to tune out of the course after the midterm, and I wish I had paid more attention and attended more lectures post-lecture.
I loved this course, it's not terribly difficult but you gain such a useful skillset that not only can be used in implementing something global health related but can also be used in understanding humans on any level.
This class is very interesting and very easy to succeed in. You will get so much more out of it if you do the readings and go to lecture.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. And no, you don't need to do all (really any) of the readings to get something out of it.
This has been one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. It has taught me to think about global health problems from a biosocial perspective, and has sparked my interest in the field of global health. It has taught me that health does not come from only biological sources, but social ones as well.
Great class that will expose you to many important injustices and problems int the world. Definitely worth taking.
This course is important - I would highly recommend the class. The teaching staff is quite good, and the material is engaging.
Go to all the lectures. The work is very manageable and this is one of those courses you can get a lot out of without having to slave over it.
Take it! It is a very interesting course, and will open your mind to a rigorous understanding of global health.
Take it if you really want to be exposed to global health.
most inspiering class i have taken in 3.5 years of studying.
This is a good introductory global health class. The TFs have diverse backgrounds and the professors are top in their fields. If you are interested in working in development or global health, I would take this.
This was a great class, and the four professors each bring such different, amazing experiences to the course. Also, it was so nice to be in a class that addresses the human aspects of medicine.
This is not a very "personal" feeling course, and yet it really does provide you with tools and the frameworks to analyze reality in a depth previously impossible - which influences your personal life.
The class was great.  the material is fantastic and engaging.  The reading is heavy and since there is no check on the material, its very easy not to do it.  thats one of my biggest regrets with this class
This is a great General Education class, but aside from requirements it is also a good course to take just to be more informed about the world.  It was eye-opening to realize how many aspects of nonprofits and health care were socially constructed or influenced by primarily political motives.  If you are interested in the Global Health and Health Policy secondary field, take this course to see whether or not your are interested in exploring the topics further.
Good course that really covers a lot of topics within global health. All of the lectures are interesting, but unecessary to attend after the midterm which was noticeable in the emptiness of the lecture halls. Essays weren't too terrible although the word count limits made no sense. Take if interested in sociology or global health! However, a lot of the viewpoints in the course may not jive well with all students as they present a particular mode of thinking and viewpoints while not really exploring other perspectives.
If you are interested in a health profession, I recommend this course! It puts a lot of things in perspective and was my first introduction into the world of social theories.
This is one of the most incredible and inspiring classes I have ever taken.  I found myself reading the textbook for fun when I didn't have other work to do, because the way that these amazing professors view the world and the issues of global health is beyond enlightening, and provides an optimism for and faith in the future that is unparalleled.
Take it! It's great. You learn a lot, you have fabulous professors, and its fun. 
It doesn't feel like a lecture class- it feels like we're all in it together: the professors, the students, the TFs. It's like we're all trying to learn how to make the world better together. 
I'm so glad I took this class!
This course is a great opportunity to learn from the most prominent experts in the field of global health and will change the way that you view policies toward health worldwide and in the US. There are a lot of interesting readings- read them if you can, as they are great food for thought. Other than the readings, the course is very manageable in workload and difficulty. The lectures are very relevant to current affairs. Make sure to ask questions of the professors during and after lecture- they can seem intimidating but are very nice and want to interact with undergraduates.
This class will give you a broad overview of global health and social theories. In fact, it may be more social theory than one might expect, but as someone who has no experience with this sort of mindset, it was really eye-opening. This class does do case-studies on global health issues, and it will push you to explore issues you might not be comfortable with. The TFs and the professors are great! The one drawback is that there's a lot of reading.
This class is an awesome introduction to global health and medical anthropology, definitely take it if you're at all interested in entering public health or medicine! Minimal workload and fairly easy grading.
There's a lot of reading
There is a ton of reading for this course but I definitely learned a lot
This course gives a great grounding in global health. It will affect the way you look at health and medicine and give you an idea of what you may want to do in the field if you are interested; and a good and important understanding of the field otherwise. The professors have spent their lives doing the work that they present in class and and invested in creating a space in which students who are interested in global health can start to pursue that interest. Definitely recommended.
This is a great course. The work is manageable, the lectures are awesome and really relevant once you get to some of the case studies. I even found the social theories to be really interesting. Pray for Jason as your TF, he's the best. Honestly, the class is such a reasonable gen ed, such good knowledge to have, and I times I even found it impossible NOT to pay attention.
Take this course! The lectures are great and the subject matter is incredibly important. This class made me cry in and outside of lecture (super awk right?) but it was worth it. I am not premed like many of the people in the class (or at least the people they seem to be catering the class to), but this is still important stuff to understand.
TAKE THIS COURSE. This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. All the lecturers and every lecture is amazing. Section is wonderful. I really loved learning from the other students in the course as well. This course changed my life trajectory. I want to only work at mission-driven organizations now and am considering careers in public/global health. It was that inspiring.
This course is much relevant to those who intend to pursue a career in the field of medical anthropology or global health.
Take this class, especially if you love global health! The atmosphere, the content, and the teaching team are amazing and I learned a lot - I even enjoyed writing the final paper. It was by far my favourite class freshman fall semester.
This course changes your perspective on world issues. Maybe not in the extravagant way they advertise during shopping week but I definitely came out with a better understanding of international dynamics when it comes to global health. Out of all the topics covered, you're bound to find one that really resonates with you.
This class taught me so much about the world and my potential to contribute to it. I responded a ton to the biosocial framework employed--there's something for everyone, from anthropologists to economists to aspiring epidemiologists to historians and philosophers. The work load is manageable, and the class is designed to empower and inspire, not to trick you.
This class doesn't require much effort and is pretty interesting, so you still take something away from it.
Great overview of public health issues. Pretty simple writing assignments. Lectures are interesting
This class wasn't as cool as I hoped it would be (the "case studies" refers to about three examples that are repeated for several lectures each), but it's a pretty solid SW gen-ed. There's a huge emphasis on social theories, which was annoying, but the assignments are short, the midterm is straightforward, and there's literally nothing after the midterm except a 13 page research paper on a topic of your choice, so you can basically check out halfway through the semester.
Take this course if you are truly interested in the world social condition. It is not good for purely medical-minded students, nor is it good for those without deep interest in sociological factors of international civilizations. If your interest in this specific topic is not strong enough, you may find the class to get quite dry early on in the semester. The final paper is a great way to expand on what you have learned during the semester and apply it to a unique area of interest for yourself.
Although possibly overhyped a little, this class does possess an enormous potential to change the way you think about the world. Most GenEds claim this, but SW25 really succeeded in my case. Very interesting range of material covered, manageable workload, pretty good teaching staff, etc. Mainly though, just the message that medicine and health are tied to social dynamics is enough to make this course very important (and rewarding).
Take this class if you want an easy gen ed.
I would say that this course is truly life-changing. It allows a deeper understanding for why certain health issues are present in different parts of the world, and teaches using a holistic understanding of human well-being.
There is literally no reason to go to class after the midterm (and very little before that)
Although SW25 was not a bad class, it is way overhyped.  Probably if I hadn't been told that it would change my life, I would have been less disappointed.  I found the lectures often less interesting than I would hope, and that the professors were not so accessible.  The class itself is like an advertisement for Partners in Health, which I mean is a nice organization doing good things, but the approach was a bit one-sided.  I was thinking about a global health secondary, and pretty enthusiastic about global health, but now I'm not really sure.
This class changes the way you think about the health of countries far away from you and even the way you think about our health care system in the US!
This class really revolutionized the way I viewed healthcare and the role of social factors in its global allocation. The panelists/lecturers are all super distinguished and professional, and know what they are talking about. Merely being in their presence was a huge honor.
It's an incredible course that is about so much more than global health. Take it because you will learn so much more than you thought you ever could in one term, and become a much more informed global citizen. Favorite course I took this term.
This is one of the most enlightening and important classes you can take. It provides an excellent introduction into the study of global health. More than that, it forces you to rethink the way global health problems are popularly understood and often dealt with. This class demonstrates how health problems are so much more than just biological problems. Exceptionally well-taught, fascinating, and eye-opening.
Take it! It will force you to reconsider your views on poverty, healthcare, equality, and institutionalized discrimination. More likely than not, it'll influence your career plans too. The deification of Paul Farmer is a bit unnecessary, but the course is absolutely loaded with firsthand experience, including the TFs. There's no need to buy any textbooks except for the sourcebook and Reimagining Global Health (which is a dick move on the part of the course heads, having us by their own books and never using them). You can go down the rabbit hole of readings and dedicate hours on end to the course, or you can skate on by with just a few hours a week if you so desire. Great SW gen ed!
While not going too in depth into any particular disease, nation, or time period, this class is a great survey course for students interested even tangentially in global health.  The readings are voluminous, but not always necessary to prepare for lecture and succeed in the class.
This class got me to think about global health from a different perspective than my normal bio, pre-med classes. That being said the lectures are very long although you don't need to attend all of them after the midterm because they are taped.
This class is great if anyone and especially if you may be  interested in global health, medicine, or anthropology. These are some of the best professors at Harvard. This class really makes you think differently and may change your path at Harvard. You must take it.
One of the most profound educational experiences of my life.
SW 25 is a great class! You definitely learn new ways to think about global health, and the wide variety of lecturers is great. Be warned that at first, the class seems like a LOT of work - you have four short papers followed by a midterm in the first two months. But after the midterm, the only remaining assignment is the final paper, which is actually nice because SW 25 becomes a low-key class as the rest of your classes really pick up in the second half of the semester.
This is a wonderful course with truly engaging lectures, professors who not only know but experienced the cases about which they speak, and readings that catch your attention after just a few sentences.
SW25, depending on how you approach it, has the potential to be the best sort of course: the type that changes not just the things you know, but the way you think. SW25 imparts central lessons that is applicable far beyond the realm of global health - to consider a problem from the perspective of as many disciplines as possible, and to be wary of any answer that seems overly simple.
If you are thinking about going into global health I would definitely take this course. It is inspirational to hear from leaders in the field, great for networking, and the final paper lets you write about any topic that interests you.
This is a wonderful course that will train you to think analytical about the social forces influencing global health.  You will not only gain a strong understanding of the fundamental theories shaping the field, but will also learn to apply your knowledge in a variety of historical and international contexts.
This wasn't life-changing, but it was definitely a solid Gen Ed that provided an enlightening survey of the field of medical anthropology. I'd call it a gateway course--take it to see if you like global health/public policy, and go from there. Some of the lectures were dry, but you come out with a toolbox of social theories that can easily be applied to your other pursuits.
A great course to take if you are interested in global health but do not have much background
This class is SUPER amazing and if you're looking for an engaging and profound way to fulfill Societies of the World, I'd definitely recommend taking this class. The readings are all so interesting (and definitely challenges your perceptions of health and foreign aid measures), and the lectures are really great! The professors are some of the best in the field and they've done so much work in other countries, that they not only teach interesting things but they bring a very personal perspective to the topics they cover. I love this class and I wish I had found the time to put more effort into it because it has been very fulfilling.
This course did not change my view on global health and I did not get the same feeling all of those who took this class before (and wrote it in the Q guide) got. Some weaknesses: the course lectures are too disjointed, too many guest lecturers, professors not always present at lectures

strengths: professors themselves are great and if you reach out, you will probably enjoy the class a lot more.
You don't have to do all the readings--but do as many as you can because they are really interesting and help you with writing papers.
This class is very interesting but is very much an introductory class into global health. You study theories that can be applied to case studies, but there's little pressure to solve real world problems. It's a very front-heavy class, since there are 4 short papers and an in-class midterm in the first month and a half. The second half is very easy--other than a final paper, there are no evaluations after that. There's a lot of reading but (after the midterm) there's little motivation to do it. Try to read them, though, because they're very interesting.
Don't be freaked out by the essays at the beginning. There are only 4 and then you really don't have to do like any work besides the midterm and the final paper.
This is a fantastic class! You get to learn from 4 of the top scholars in the field of global health, all who offer really unique and interesting perspectives and stories from the work they've done. It really is an amazing experience, especially if you take advantage of office hours. The assignments are helpful and the final paper lets you study a question in global health that interests you. All in all, I think it's a great course. However, I will say that if you have taken a course on sociodeterminants of health, like Sociology 190 with Christakis, a lot of the themes are the same, so you might not find it as mind blowing as other people do. However, it's still a great class and definitely worth taking!
Amazing class, would highly recommend it for anyone who wants to have an understanding of the importance and issues facing global health and healthcare disparities around the world.
This class is AWESOME! The professors (and all of the guest lecturers) really know what they're talking about- I felt so fortunate to be learning about a lot of really important happenings in global health by the people actually addressing them. There's a lot of reading but you really don't have to do it to get by. If you're interested, I would highly encourage this course.
This class is an exemplar of what all gen eds should be like.  They material is engaging.  The class is very well organized.  The Professors are big shots in their fields yet genuinely care about the undergraduate experience.  I certainly learned a lot of fulfilling material.  The course expects a commitment that seems about right for a gen ed.  It's not a walk in the park, but its' definitely not difficulty in any way if you do half of the readings and pay attention in class in section.  There is no need to do all the readings! Definitely do all the readings from the main textbook.
This class is the best Gen Ed course I have taken at Harvard. I think that it does a great job of exposing you to many different areas of global health without trying to become your most important or time consuming class, which is really refreshing considering a lot of Gen Eds try to do that because they're mad that people take them because they're easy. With that said, its stress-free environment, it made the material much more enjoyable and I actually learned a lot more than what I thought I would.
Great class! It was very cool (and unfortunate) to be taking the class during the Ebola epidemic. However, due to this year's circumstances, the class became a little disorganized.
This a great class taught by leaders in the field of public/global health. If one is at all interested in the field, then they should consider taking it. That being said, the you get out of the class what you put into it. It is certainly possible to take the course and simply turn in the papers and go to section, skipping all of the lectures. However, the lectures are possibly the most valuable resource in the class, and give the most insight into the actual issues.
Make the most out of this fantastic course.
The lectures and lecturers are fascinating: each is really at the top of their field, and all have done amazing work and are there to share it with you. That experience is pretty unparalleled. The class is really structured so that you get out of it what you put in - it's not super challenging but it can be difficult and it does challenge you to think super deeply. All the work is relevant and requires a lot of thought - there's very little busy work.
AMAZING. You will come out of it a better, more wordily person.
I really enjoyed this class! I feel that what I learned will be useful to me as I pursue a career in medicine and global health, and the professors/teaching staff are great! After the midterm there aren't many assignments besides the Final Paper, but keep going to lecture! It will make your final paper that much better and the lectures are really interesting.
This course allows to analyze many important problems in Global Health today through the lens of social theories. This course gives an enlightening and refreshing view on the world.
There is a lot of work but much of it is unnecessary, which feels somewhat frustrating. Lectures are often really interesting, but definitely run the gamut.
This course is so necessary for learning about how to apply social theories to catastrophic situations around the world today and how to structure public health interventions.
This class is honestly moving. You become exposed to atrocities that affect people all over the world, as well as to your own biases.
Take itttttt. You learn so much. So very engaging.
Great class! The case-studies are engaging, and the professors do a good job of cultivating new ways to think about global health. It is quite a bit of reading, but overall manageable, and you come out of the class with a new sense of where global health stands in a modern context. Pretty profound class.
This class is the most amazing, eye opening class I've taken at Harvard! That is all.
this class is SO entertaining, interesting, and definitely not too hard!
This is an incredibly well designed and well executed course. The lecturers are incredibly influential and it is an honor to just hear them speak. The course also covers a broad range of topics so you are guaranteed to find inspiration in at least a few of the lectures and readings.
Whatever they hear about the course from other students is all true! This course is amazing!
Take this class if you wish to explore the field of global health. No prior background experience is required. The readings are plentiful, but worth it. You will be confident on a number of different global health topics after having taken this class.
If you have the slightest interest in global health case studies--as long as it's genuine--you will want to explore it in THIS class.
fun class with a large workload in terms of reading but very rewarding
There are a ton of readings. If you're pressed for time, make sure you at least do the readings for Farmer's lectures, because he specifically references/asks about them.
This was a great class that will give you great exposure to global health and the field of medical anthropology.  The teaching staff is great, and it's one of the most inspiring courses I've taken at Harvard.  These are professors who are deeply invested in both their research/fieldwork and teaching, which is hard to come by.
This is a great course and everybody should take it! amazing teaching team, great assignments and not too difficult!
This course was very interesting, and gave a comprehensive and broad overview of global health issues and interventions. Definitely recommended, as it wasn't insanely difficult, but I still learned quite a bit.
This is an amazing class that really challenges the way you view health institutions
Very informative but must be willing to put in the work
really interesting class addressing real problems in the world that are going on outside the walls of Harvard. These professors are really amazing and accomplished people and are really inspirational. You learn a lot of cool things and theory - just take it! It really forced me to look at the world and disparities between developed and developing countries differently, and I would not be surprised if this course is responsible for having some influence on my future career path.
This class is the best class to take if you have an interest in global health or just want a different perspective on the world. It will change the way you think about global health and healthcare in general, and will leave you feeling empowered to make a difference in the world. The workload is very manageable, and the lectures are incredible, with the lecturers being leaders in the field.
An incredible course from the first lecture to the very last. The several professors that ran lectures were incredible people with vast experiences in the field of global health. This course leaves you with a better understanding of the world around you and what can and what must be done to improve it.
This course was a great way to better understand how the west has affected the rest of the world over time and what that means for global health.  I think it was great!
The class combines anthropology and medicine to approach health and society in a way that was completely novel to me. Exploring the interactions of culture, government, biology and society, the course prompted me to consider health and health systems in a more comprehensive analysis accompanied by the potential for productive action. I enjoyed the variety studied, including health in the US, Africa, Central and South America and Russia ("health" here includes mental health, epidemics, primary health care and more).
Very eye-opening ! loaded course; do the readings
TAKE IT!!! It's probably my favorite class I've taken at harvard. so interesting!!!!
Students do not receive individualized attention from faculty. The lecture schedule seemed disjointed and unorganized. Too many guest lecturers. Not enough of a focus on alternative health paradigms. Very biased.
It's definitely a good class if you're interested in global health because it could be very interesting and you could become very involved with global health issues on and off campus. However, if you aren't interested in global health, the class could be confusing or boring.
Cool subject matter. Haphazard course administration.
Take this course!
While I did come into this class knowing that I was interested in/passionate about global health, I would still go so far as to say that this was one of the top 2 classes I've taken at Harvard in 3 semesters. The teaching staff--all four professors and the TFs--are remarkable. They consistently make themselves accessible for questions, conversations, and even provide guidance on a future in medicine/global health. The class provides an array of perspectives on global health that will cover anthro-social theory, human rights, history, economics, and a case study method that utilizes thought-provoking analyses of a cultural context to get to the bottom of health problems. There is no other class like, as a function of the material you learn; the tools you learn with it; and the infectious passion of the teaching staff. Engage with them, do the readings, and just be PRESENT as much as you can in this class because it will change your life.
You will get so much out of this course because you cannot learn any better than learning from the doctors themselves who worked on such important cases as this teaching team did. Even the readings are generally interesting, and the coursework is very fair. The TF team is the best overall team I have ever seen; every single one of them is dedicated and passionate about global health and open to discussing their specific interests with you.
This course is a great way to fulfill Societies of the World. It is very interesting without requiring a great deal of work. The syllabus assigns a lot of reading, but it is not necessary to do very much of it unless you want to, although it is great, so you probably will want to do at least some of it! All of the professors bring a wealth of real-world experience and stores of wisdom to their lectures, and the guest speakers and wide range of topics ensure that the course never becomes monotonous. You will be introduced to many of the most pressing topics in global health, but it will also make you think differently and critically about American and world history, politics, the role of the government, nonprofits, public service, poverty, education, medicine, and your place in the world. It provides a really great way of thinking about things that is often lacking in Harvard courses. The workload is very manageable and interesting, and you can really get a lot out of the class even if you don't make the work your priority. Section is great, you will cover a variety of topics and relate course themes to contemporary concerns, making everything very personal and relatable.
The course made me feel empathy for different people (the people who are victims of poverty and lack of agency). The reading materials and lectures added to this. Few courses at Harvard have helped me accomplish this. Some may find this course not as intellectually challenging as they'd like.
When registering for this course, I was swayed by the dozens of positive Q ratings that proclaimed Professors Farmer and Kleinman as near-deities and termed this course as "life-changing" or "one of the best" at Harvard. I was disappointed to find this is not the case. This course was one of the most disjointed I've taken at any institution. TFs and professors do not communicate, and section only makes things more confusing. The workload is manageable and you are graded solely on your ability to regurgitate terms that Paul Farmer and Arthur Kleinman have trademarked in their publications.
Take this class if you are truly interested in global health. This is a class that you get out of it what you put into it. If you go to lecture and do all the readings, you will learn a lot and probably care a lot about the different problems going on in the world. It is also possible to do well in this class without going to lecture or doing the readings.
You get out of it what you put into it.
Great class! You should definitely take it!
This is hands down the best course I have taken at Harvard.  Not only do you learn a whole lot about a field that most students have previously had no exposure to, but you also have the opportunity to learn from some of the biggest celebrities in the field.  The teachers are AMAZING.  The panel discussions they have after teaching us case studies in lecture are so worthwhile.  They also brought in amazing outside speakers, such as professors from the business school etc.  The TFs for the course are even amazing and accomplished, which is truly something rare at Harvard.  Everyone should take this class before they graduate.  I now want to pursue something global health related, and I wouldn't have known that before!
This class is a very interesting way to fulfill the societies of the world gen ed requirement. It is not the easiest one but it will change how you think about some issues.
Don't take it.
I took this course after doing a global health program abroad, and it helped solidify all that I learnt about health disparities in developing countries. Furthermore, it highlighted some of the best practices that can be done to begin to alleviate those disparities. If you have any interest in global health, or just want to explore this field, definitely take this class!
SW25 is a great course for anyone interested in learning about global health.  However, after learning the toolkit, it seems that each lecture and reading tells the same story with just a different set of players.  Beware that you are not signing up for a course taught solely by the major faculty listed on the syllabus.
Take this class if you want a solid survey of global health! Topics range from HIV/AIDS, TB, to mental health and the role of different global health players. I learned a ton, as this was my first global health class. The course starts out a little heavy on the papers (4 short papers in 6 or so weeks), but then the workload became much more manageable, as there was just one midterm and a final paper after that. The short papers were really helpful, in the end, and made sure we were on track for the rest of the course. The midterm was really reasonable, and the final paper really allowed us to explore a global health topic we enjoyed.
absolutely brilliant course
Take it! Take it! It is one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard! Considering I am a senior that is saying something.
Take it! It's not as much work as people think it is. Trust me.
A great overview of the history of global health, however, the course is a little bit centered on the work of the professors when talking about current global health interventions.
Take it! This course has the potential to change your career choices and your life. But make sure that you have time to do the readings and go to lecture. You don't actually have to do all of the readings but try to do as much as you can.
I took this class because of its professors and not necessarily because I was interested in the material. That proved to be a big mistake. I was not interested by most of the material and didn't get as much out of the course as others did. So, when shopping the course you should start some of the readings as well. If you honestly think that you will be interested, take the course. You don't need to do the vast majority of the readings. Just get a general idea of what's going on in the class and read a few readings closely every week (skim the rest) for the weekly papers. Nothing that you learn in the class is tested after the midterm. Definitely make time to meet the professors, they are all amazing, especially Kleinman and Farmer. Dr. Farmer is such an incredibly kind man and really excited to meet and interact with his students. There will likely be a crowd around him after class, but he will make the time to speak with everyone individually about what they are interested in. He truly is an inspirational human being.
Easy, interesting intro class
Fantastic class! Great review on global health from some of the world's best leaders in the field.
Without a doubt, this course will be one of the most life changing experiences you can ever have. I think it behooves you to give yourself the opportunity to take this course.
This class is not life-changing, do not believe the hype. The social theory taught in the class was very interesting and engaging -- but after that, I simply lost interest in the class. Maybe because there's not that many reinforcements for actually doing the reading, so it's so easy to blow off this class. For me, it was a complete waste of time and money. I wish the class was more structured. I would fall asleep in lecture all the time because I did not find the material that engaging or well presented. It was the same issues rehashed a million times, without any concrete examples of what could actually be done by us students in the future. I took this class because it was sold to me as "life-changing" -- well, it sincerely changed my life in that I will NOT be pursing the field of global health. If you are really interested in the field, however, then by all means take it, but at least shop for the first few lectures and really see if you life the structure because it's awful having to sit through 20 more of them ( or just skipping them entirely).
Great class. Makes you think innovatively. You learn how to be more creative and how not to allow issues such as "scarce resources" prevent aid. The course emphasizes how it is more important to see what you do have than what you don't have. Additionally, this course teaches you how to see the flaws in structures, rather than in people.Be prepared for a lot of readings, though.
SW25 is an incredible class- it's engaging, interesting, and an absolute must-take if you are considering going into the medical field. The teaching staff is very passionate about their work, and they are easily accessible if you want to get involved in research. However, this course may be a little daunting at first. There is a lot of reading involved at the beginning of the semester, and the short papers involve a great deal of time as well. However, the second half of the semester is very lenient, and there is no work except for the final paper. The course also takes a while before it starts to investigate the individual case studies, so be aware that you will be learning social theory for the first month or so. Overall, take this class if you would like to be a better doctor (and person)- it's well worth it.
SW25 was amazing! However, there are a fair number of guest lectures, so if your only reason for taking this course is Paul Farmer, you may be disappointed. The readings, in general, aren't necessary and you can get a lot out of the course without them (though some of them are fascinating, so i recommend at least skimming them)
This is an incredible class! It made me rethink and reevaluate all natural inclinations I have had about how to solve global health problems, which is necessary for creating sustainable solutions to today's global health problems.
Don't freak out when you see the syllabus. I know it's long. Just make sure you have room in your schedule, and take it week by week. It's not as scary as it seems, and in the end the output from the class makes all the effort worth it when you do the work.
This is a very good course, very inspiring.  There is a lot of reading and doing it really enhances your experience in the course.
This course has some of the most intelligent and influential people in this field at its helm, and the course material is extremely interesting. Frankly, doing well in this class is not super hard either, so you get to learn a lot without much busywork.
This course provides the foundations for analyzing the world in a way I think everyone should learn. You don't have to learn it through this course though.
SW 25 was a great course that pushed me to think differently about subjects in global health.  Especially after the midterm, you can get by without doing any of the reading, but I'd recommend trying to do as much of it as you can, because if you have future career interests in global health, that knowledge could be really useful.  Although generally I agreed with the professors takes, oftentimes it seemed like they were giving a one-sided perspective on issues.  If you have no experience with global health, a class like SW 24 first could be very useful to give you some general background in the field.
If you are interested in global health, definitely take this course. You'll learn from the brightest and most accomplished people in the field and come away with a better understanding of what it means to create a successful intervention in global health and perhaps even the confidence to move from passive observer to active participant in the field. It is not especially challenging, but you can certainly choose to be more involved (i.e. do the optional readings and talk with the professors after class). If you're on the fence, take it!
This was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. I really learned to look at the world through a different lens, and the professors were both knowledgeable and prestigious in their fields which made the information all the more lively.
This is a great class, and I highly recommend taking it if you are interested in learning about global health from different perspectives! Paul Farmer doesn't lecture very much, but overall it's a great class where you get to hear from very impressive people about the work they do.
SW25 is an interesting, thought-provoking course taught by four well respected professors.  Although I cannot say that it is the life-changing course that it presents itself to be at the beginning of the term (perhaps this was just my personal experience), many of the lectures and readings are quite interesting and provide incisive analysis of current and historical challenges in global public health.  There are many (perhaps too many) guest lectures, but a few of them were some of the best of the course (particularly those of Nava Ahsraf and Allen Brandt).  Lectures that utilized the case study method were very engaging and probably the most interesting classes of the semester.  Professor Becker's lectures (which are too few in number) are particularly fascinating.  The focus on Partners in Health seemed at times to be a little excessive, and there is no shortage of praise for the organization or its co-founder.  Professor Kleinman's lectures on social theory were quite interesting, especially for anyone who enjoys social studies.  Professor Keshavjee's vehement opposition to neoliberalism may frustrate you at times, but his lectures will certainly drive you to question whether market-based solutions are appropriate for public health challenges.The workload for the course is quite manageable, despite the long reading list.  The final paper is probably longer than it should be, but TF's provide useful guidance for writing it. Overall, this is an interesting and informative course.
This is a really interesting course, and I personally enjoyed it a lot. There is a lot of reading, and while you could get by without doing it, I think you should as you will enjoy and be able to engage in the lectures much more if you have done the readings beforehand. You should also make sure that you go to lecture! It is videotaped so a lot of people just watch the lectures later, but going to lecture allows you to interact with the professors and ask them questions afterward. It's also just the respectful thing to do.
Great faculty to discover global health with! Everyone from Kleinman to Keshavjee give interesting and most of the time engaging lectures about the challenges and procedures in global health.
Amazing class. Easily my favorite class I've taken at Harvard so far. Great professors, great lectures. Such real life topics that really open up your eyes to so many different world health issues. Introduces new methods to solving these issues and makes you think about them in a different way. Heavier work load towards the beginning of the semester but the weekly papers really make you think critically about the topics for each week and are super helpful for the midterm and the final paper.
Best lectures, go to them! Best section ever, always left in a good mood feeling like the topics were real and useful.
This course definitely goes for breadth rather than depth. You cover a lot of material very quickly and it can be challenging to keep up (even in a single lecture). There are a lot of guest lectures, which is interesting because you get to see so many different perspectives, but challenging because it can be hard to adjust to so many different lecture styles. This is a class where you can get A LOT out of you put in the time and effort but you can still get by if you don't fully engage with the material (but you won't learn very much).
This is hands down one of the greatest classes I've taken at Harvard. As cliche as this may be, this class really did change my life. The lectures are very eye-opening, inspiring and engaging, and sections are very relaxed but informative.  You really do come out of this class with a concrete understanding of the complexities of global health, as the professors do a great job of providing you with a holistic introduction to global health. The class is doable! Don't shy away from the class because of the amount of reading it requires. Sure, there is a lot assigned for some weeks, but you can still learn a lot from and do well in the course without doing all the readings(skimming is recommended). I would highly recommend this class to anyone interested in global health/international development/international medicine.
It's a good class and not too hard or time consuming but many of the lectures were really boring which is disappointing given that the subject material is so interesting and the teaching staff is amazing (in terms of credentials).
It was wonderful hearing directly from leading scholars about global health issues.
If you are considering the global health field and would like a great introduction to it with a rock-star staff, this course is the right one for you.
Don't get intimidated by the huge reading list, they prioritize them! The class is worth it.
This course really is incredible. It is distinctly human.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It will revolutionize what you think you know about health and will change your life. By far the best class I have ever taken, and I am a graduating senior.
It's a great course if you want to learn what global health is about, from the basis concepts including the social theories to stories from the field and success cases.
The class is wonderful! The more time you can commit to the readings, the more you will get out of it. But at the same time it is impossible to do all the reading and do the 3957 other things Harvard students do, so be prepared to pick and choose, to cram, and to study for the midterm in a creative manner!
This is an amazing class that anyone with an interest in medicine, sociology, psychology, history, economics, politics, health, or people in general should take before graduating from Harvard! It teaches you to approach global health issues with a biosocial perspective and to look at all of the factors that may influence health status in a particular region. The speakers and the professors are all well-known in their field and offer a unique perspective to the course based on their experience and research in the field. Definitely one of the best classes that you can take a Harvard!
This course is well worth your time.  Focus on the material presented in lecture and the course book and don't get bogged down in all of the other readings unless you have a lot of time on your hands.  I learned more about global health and became more interested in it than I ever expected.
Great class! Though don't think of this as the "Paul Farmer Class". He gives a few lectures but not many (though the other professors are excellent!)
the course brings out real global health problems
I found this course somewhat interesting, but I didn't get very engaged in it. I probably would have gotten more out of it if I had put more into it. That said, it's really easy to get by without doing very much work at all.
This was the best class I took this semester. I enjoyed learning about different treatment approaches in global health. However, the readings and global health jargon were a bit overwhelming, especially in the beginning of the class. Overall, I am very glad I took this course, and am now considering having a secondary in global health.
Only take this course if you are specifically interested in health policies. Do not take it just to fill a gen ed.
Amazing class, great material, freedom to study what you want at the end, awesome TFs, but professors can be terrifying to talk to
I thought the course was very relevant and I learned a lot. I felt that the biosocial theories we discussed at the beginning of the course are extremely useful tools for understanding many health scenarios and crises in the world today; from that perspective alone it's a good course. However, I would offer a few words of caution: the course is definitely one of those that has a lot of "show" and repetition. A number of guest speakers come at the expense of continuous face time with the actual professors of the course. And I wish there had been more integration of the case studies in the second half of the course with the theory we learn in the first half; much of the coherence I was expecting in the course was actually lost.
TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT THE COURSE WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE
This course brought together anthropological themes, ethical arguments for address health disparities, and the implementation science of introducing programs to improve health where it had before been ignored. The lecturers were phenomenal, particularly the faculty of the course, and the panel after each lecture and the availability to chat after lecture were phenomenal springboards to continue this conversation beyond the lecture hall, to take action, and embody the moral imperative.
This class is super interesting and the teaching staff are great. Since these are real and current issues, you don't have to look far to see how what we discuss in class can be applied to global health issues. There is a lot of reading involved, but it's mostly so you have enough background knowledge. You don't need to read every word of every source, but make sure you know what it talks about.
This class will make you a more aware global citizen and will remind you that youre here to make the world better and to be involved
An awesome course with awesome professors truly an All-Star team. They're all very famous, but also incredibly approachable. Really want the best for their students. This course also teaches you that global health starts right here at home. For instance I am part of HealthPALs, a student health group on campus, and this course was very applicable.
The readings aren't necessary and going to lecture after the midterm isn't necessary. But it is all interesting!
There is a lot of work to do in the beginning and end part of the semester. Do the readings to get a good grade on the midterm. Overall great class, but there is a fluctuation of workload throughout the semester than other classes.
Try to do some of the reading or at least focus on the ones that your section TF gives you. Ask questions in class. Though the course can seem to take many directions, embrace the diversity and the multi perspectives. Go to the professors' office hours!
I can honestly say that I have never felt so moved by a subject matter - this course intersects all of my interests as an aspirant advocate of social justice in global health. This class is - irrefutably - a game changer. Every student - university-wide - should enroll in SW25. To say this course is Illuminating and Horizon-broadening may just be an understatement.
This course is very interesting and a great introduction to the field of Global Health.
Attend lecture and stay on top of your assignments. Especially with the final paper. I recommend starting early and being in contact with your TF for any help.
If you're at all interested in global health, please take this course.  The workload of what you have to do to get a good grade is not the same as what is assigned, but if you do all of the readings and go to lecture, you really will get more out of the course!  Many of the themes that I learned in SW25 are applicable to so many other fields as well.
This class is interesting, but not as great as I had expected. The first professor listed for the class is Paul Farmer, however he only teaches two lectures, so don't go into the class actually expecting to hear a lot from him. Overall I think this class provides a good background for global health issues, but it is a little repetitive.
The topics shed to light important issues that are in global health. If you are interested, take the class. There is a lot of reading but if you don't read before lecture, do not feel bad because the lecture parallels the reading so you won't be behind.
take this class! a great way to fulfill societies of the world, with fantastic faculty and great guest lecturers. it opens your eyes to a whole new field, and presents interesting and relevant cases.
This class is incredibly easy and you will learn to think about global health in a new way.
This class reminded me why I decided to come to Harvard in the first place.  The professors are wonderful and really influential within their fields, which manifests itself in many extremely important guest lecturers coming to class.  A lot of the reading isn't necessary to understand the key concepts taught in this class, so don't shy away from this class if the readings list seems long.  You could get away with only buying the coursebook.
If you're not interested in global health, this class isn't for you and you probably won't take much away from it. However, I am really interested in this topic and I really enjoyed this class. If you don't read you won't maximize all that you could learn but you can get away with doing at least part of the reading assignments. This class fluctuates in work level and the final paper is lengthy. This is not an easy gen ed but it is worth taking, again, if you're interested.
Society of the World 25 is the best course one could ever take. It has the most amazing professors and the best part is that you get them all together at the same time.They love what they do and it shows because they really take their time to sit after the lecture and interact with the students to answer any questions or doubts one may have. I very highly recommend this course.
Take it if you like global health
Take this class; you won't regret it. The professors are all all-stars and amazing teachers. Lectures are fantastic, the work load is meaningful, manageable, and fair. You will learn a ton and quite possibly change or seriously consider what you want to do with your life.
Take the class- it's an easy way to fulfill either gened or GHHP requirement, all of the teaching staff are impressive in their fields and there's a lot to learn. However, what you get is what you put in - doing the reading isn't necessary, but you'll get a much fuller experience if you do. Also be careful not to be brainwashed by the overwhelming Partners in Health mantra they try to indoctrinate students with. There are other perspectives and this class can sometimes be very biased toward their own.
Readings are more than necessary to complete the assignments and understand the material in the class. Lecturers are all pretty good - guest speakers are experts in their field, and the professors provide good discussion, particularly with a 30 minute panel at the end of every lecture.
It is a good introduction to global health. But most of the lectures are given by guest lecturers which I felt detracted from the overall cohesiveness of the course.
This class offers a great overview to the big ideas and themes of global health. However, It can feel a bit disjointed at times, as there are a lot of visiting lecturers and independent topics.
Easy, but meh
Take this course in order to evaluate global health in a different light. The course heads are so knowledgable and engaging and the teaching staff provide an incredible support system.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!! It is absolutely phenomenal. The faculty are THE BEST; super-knowledgeable and super-dedicated to teaching. The class itself is not that difficult, but you learn SO much (the perfect combination). This was easily the best class I've taken so far at Harvard. TAKE IT, YOU'LL LOVE IT!!!!!!!!!!!!
Please try to get to know the teachers. They seem pretty awesome even outside of the context of their accomplishments.
It is really one of those courses I wish I'd taken earlier. Everyone says so, but I will repeat it. Don't hesitate! It's a great chance to learn some very cool things, learn a little about what you like/care about and have a chance to get to know some incredible people.
I'm not sure what exactly I was expecting, but I feel like the advertising for this course advertised a lot and was short on delivering. It didn't "change my life," and I'm actually questioning any interest I might have had in global health. Be wary.
Learning about the biosocial theories from the leaders in the field is very exciting. This class also helps develop analytical skills that you can use in other classes.
This is such an amazing course. It will change the way you look at the world. With such a star studded line of professors, it would be absurd to not take the class. Paul Farmer is incredible!!!
There is a lot of reading, but it's such an interesting class!
Contrary to the hype, not really a life-changing class; just your typical, mediocre, large lecture hall gen-ed. If you are at all interested in global health I would recommend it, especially if you enjoy social theory. Assignments and tests are actually fun. You are better off skipping lecture (too long and disorganized) and just doing all the readings if you want to learn a lot and find a genuine interest in the material.
It changes your perspective about global health care and really pushes you to seek change in the system today.
Only take this class if you have no background in global health. While the class is fantastic, students with prior knowledge will feel bored. The best resources in this class are the professors and guests, who you should try your best to speak to about your interests.
Take the time to come to lecture and know your professors!!!
This class was my favorite because of the amazing lectures, low-stress assignments, and interesting material
If you are interested in doing global health work you should not miss this course.
Put simply: great class! Manageable amount of work (keep in mind, though, that there four short papers during the first five weeks, so it's a bit front loaded). Lectures are long, but fascinating. There's a >lot< of reading, but you don't have to do all of it (or most of it, even) to do well, which you could argue is one of the course's greatest strengths >or< weaknesses. Sections are great for asking questions you are too nervous to discuss after lectures and to get a solid grasp of the theoretical concepts. The final paper is not difficult at all!
Although it sounds extremely cheesy, this class was life-changing. I learned about so many different things, and I also learned about possible ways to enter the medical field in a non-clinical way. Lectures were great, and section was wonderful.
If you're interested in global health you should take it.
It is not necessary to go to lecture since they are published online BUT you definitely should still go simply because the people in the room and the guest lecturers are doing amazing things and are taking the time to tell you about it and you can ask them any questions in a low key environment!
There is more writing than you would expect and the professors are pretty full of themselves
Great class to get you thinking about the problems and challenges of global health
Awesome class. Awesome awesome awesome.  The material is super interesting, the lectures are well done, the reading-caution, there is a lot-is very interesting, but you really only have to do the reading that pertains to your papers, which exist only to reinforce readings.  I would take this class if you are looking to get your SW gen ed out of the way, and also those who are interested in the secondary field of Global Health.
This is a class that may challenge your conception of global health problems and policy. Be sure to utilize the amazing teaching staff in the course. They work hard to make themselves available to the students. Be sure to appreciate this.
Lots of reading.
This class is taught by four passionate professors that are big players in the Global Health world! There are lots of readings but most are very interesting. One of my favorite classes at Harvard. The section component gave great context for the concepts we were learning in class.
Be ready for lots of writing right off the bat, but it will ease up.
A lot of reading, it's impossible to do it all.
Quite possibly the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. The course is organized perfectly, where you start off with response papers to the earlier social theory part of the course and then start applying them to different case studies around the world. Readings were very interesting, as were each and every class. The professors were all an absolute joy to learn from and were all really down to earth and willing to get to know students. As a Government concentrator, I wish more classes in my own department could be organized like this. Super relevant. Super fascinating. Super eye-opening.
This is a basic global health class, and if you have background in the subject matter, you will not learn much from it unless you commit yourself to the readings and the extra things you can do. But this is hard to do as the basic material is somewhat boring/redundant. It would have been a great class to take before getting into global health.
A lot of reading, but it all opens your mind in a way that will prove useful in the future
Great course - necessary for those hoping to go into medicine, and even for those who are not planning on being pre-med at all (I'm not pre-med)! The class is very realistic, gives you new perspective on important global issues, and doesn't try to provide concrete answers.
That you should take your time with the assignments and look over your work.
if you are thinking about global health, this course is foundational.
This course is exciting in the sense that it covers a lot of material, and that it really develops in its students an empathetic rather than an academic attitude toward education. I do not want to study global health, but after taking this course I feel as though I should devote some part of my education to studying something that will better other people, and because of that, I would recommend this course. Beware, however, that the syllabus is often disjointed, and that, despite fulfilling a gen-ed, this course is not easy. It is an enormous help to come into the class with some prior knowledge of global health and/or social theory. It is possible to take the course with no prior experience in either of these areas, but you should expect to devote a decent amount of time (certainly much more than your peers with this experience) to making sense of the course material. It has certainly been a valuable experience, but you should be aware that the a non-cohesive course structure is definitely a hurdle to getting the most out of this class, especially for new-comers.
This course is amazing. If the syllabus and/or the professors intrigue you, TAKE IT! You will gain a healthy skepticism with the current system of global health, and you leave this course with a broader understanding of  relevant issues.Most students who take this course are premed or science-based, but fear not, humanities concentrators! Your reading and writing skills will come in handy.
It's a very good class! Not perfect, but definitely an opportunity not to be missed. The professors are super stars in their field. Do some research on their work before the class starts, it'll make you appreciate it even more (read Mountains Beyond Mountains - it's a quick and fun read). Don't be overwhelmed by the amount of reading, you don't really have to do all of it, but try to do some. Take advantage of the final paper to learn about something you're interested in, it doesn't have to be too painful :).
This is not a class where you simply learn about the AIDS epidemic or TB. It's really focused on the social theories, which is a good but can be slightly less interesting. However, section is absolutely incredible and you will have discussions that leave you feeling like you can change the world (or that everything's hopeless.)
This course requires a great deal of work, but it stays interesting throughout the semester, and if you're ready to really put your head in the books, this is a great course to take.
This is a great course! The material is absolutely fascinating. I love global health, it is something I want to do in the future, and the lectures really allowed me to get a different perspective on many aspects of global health. There is a lot of reading though!
This class gives you access to world class professors and people emerged in the field of global health. They all want you to succeed, too, if global health is the path you want to take. I realized after taking this class that I did not want to pursue a secondary in global health.
This could very well be the best class you will ever take. I have never taken another class that had such an impact on the way you view the world, in this case through health systems and global aid. The class touches on a wide range of topics, all of which are very interesting, and the case studies are all fantastics. Take this class.
Outstanding course!! Great introduction to global health. Changed my mindset.
This class is great, TAKE IT!
Honestly, this is the best class I've taken here. A word of warning: Don't take it if you aren't interested in the subject matter. A lot of people take it as a Gen-Ed (which it is), but it requires a lot more work than most. There are a ton of readings (all interesting, but can be cumbersome), and you write 4 (albeit shorter) papers before the midterm. If you like global health, by all means take it! You will love it!!!!! But if you aren't interested in the material, you will probably just end up being one of the students skipping lectures at the end of the term and complaining about the workload.
TAKE THIS COURSE!!!!!!!!!!!! YOU WOULD BE CRAZY NOT TO TAKE THIS COURSE!!! I have only had one semester at Harvard, but I find it very hard to believe that I will take a better course than this one. I got so much out of the course. The lecturers and lectures are fascinating! The lectures are given by world global health experts in infectious disease, psychiatry, and economics and are very well done. The section component is great too! My section leader Neal Akatsuka was awesome and I've heard the same about other TFs. DEFINITELY TAKE THIS COURSE! Even if you have only  remote interest in global health or medicine - it opens your eyes. There can be a lot of reading, but lecture covers the reading material so if you have work in other classes then you can just pay attention in lecture. This course is not a big time commitment and is easy if one pays attention during lecture. Coming to college I was looking forward to waking up and being excited about class for the day - I was for this class. Basically everyone associated with the class is a BAMF! DEFINITELY TAKE THIS CLASS! AMAZING!
The class is interesting in that it gives you perspective on issues and international interactions which you do not get elsewhere. However the scope of the lectures is limited, and they get extremely repetitive.
This class is a great introduction to Global Health. The faculty is AMAZING and you can really see their passions come to life in their lectures. The reading load seems like a lot in the beginning but after the midterm there are no more written assignments or exams with the exception of your final paper, so you can be a bit more lenient on completing all of those.
You get to listen to awesome people talk about interesting topics they are passionate about- take it.
Definitely take advantage of office hours.  The lectures credited with the class and the guest lecturers alike are incredibly knowledgeable and want to hear and learn from the students.
The format of this course is its biggest strength, in my opinion. Having four superstar professors lecture regularly with other superstar guest lecturers interspersed made this course highly engaging. The best part, is that the core professors try to reserve 15 minutes at the end of each class for question and answer with the whole teaching staff, no matter who is lecturing. Each professor and guest lecturer brings in a new perspective on global health in a way that makes you really ask yourself, among other illuminating questions, what does it mean to live a moral life? There is so much to get out of this class, I HIGHLY recommend it.
You will get much more out of the class if you do the readings, especially because each lecture is followed by a discussion period in which you can talk to the professors directly. You don't have to do all of the readings, though, to pass (even though they are quite interesting). The midterm is not as bad as it sounds, and it really gives you a more holistic perspective of what it means to work in 'healthcare.'
This course is an amazing opportunity to learn something that extends so far beyond the classroom.
Take this class.  It's one of the best classes I've taken here at Harvard.  The material is incredibly engaging.  It's a very 'real' class.  The thinking you learn about it applicable far beyond global or public health. You won't be able to finish the readings, which kind of sucks as they're all really interesting. Study groups and skimming. Go to all of the lectures.  The professors are great and the guest lecturers are amazing as well.
This is by FAR the best course I have taken at Harvard! The professors are the most human and caring people that you will ever meet, striving to improve the human experience from every angle possible. The teaching staff is also a great support system and a great group of people. The lecturers that they bring in are very interesting, though the readings do tend to bog down the course. The readings are not necessarily crucial to understanding the course, but those that aren't scientific articles are very intriguing.
This class was awesome. To hear Paul Farmer and Professor Keshavjee talk about their personal experiences in the field was so cool. All of the professors and most of the guest lecturers are interesting. Lectures are taped which was really helpful. Doing the readings makes the course SO much more interesting, and you'll really get a lot out of it by doing all of them. However, you can get away with doing the bare minimum required readings and still do well, you just won't like the class as much. Overall, this class was awesome and I loved it. DEFINITELY take it if you are GH secondary or interested in non-profits, global health, or medicine at all.
Don't just take this course if you've read Mountains Beyond Mountains and you're in love with Dr. Farmer's work...seriously, he only lectures about 4 times. HOWEVER, take this course if you have any interest in global health! I think one of the great things about it is that it engages with so many of the areas surrounding global health--epidemiology, the media, biology, anthropology, morality, social theory (heavily emphasized in the first part of the class), case studies, the role of NGOs, history, etc. It really is fascinating and enjoyable. The syllabus is intimidating with all the readings, but they're really not necessary, and I don't think you really are at any sort of loss by not reading them. That said, do the readings and go to class. This class is worth it. The teaching staff (especially the professors) are absolutely incredible and revolutionaries in their fields.
This class is very front-loaded so don't get overwhelmed by the amount of work you have in the beginning. If you are good at writing papers, take this class and it'll be a breeze for you.
This course is very Important , and I invite all students to come and take this course
Take this class if you have any interest in global health!
As a graduate student at the Kennedy School, I would recommend this course for many grad students interested in health inequality.
This class is taught by world class faculty and is highly applicable for anyone interested in pursuing health careers!
Amazing class IF you are interested in global health. Yes, there are lots of readings, but nearly all of them are fantastic reads. The essays are short and really serve to reinforce material.
Many students take this class as an introduction to public health. While it serves this role effectively, before you take the class read "Mountains Beyond Mountains" and watch some inspiring documentaries about public health if you're not sure if its what you want to study. I say this because the material can make the challenges faced in public health seem almost insurmountable, and the faculty are more about analyzing and solving the problems than inspiring you to put in the years of effort required to overcome the vast obstacles faced.
This class was interesting as an introduction to global health and I learned a lot, but I was also astounded at how liberal the professors and lecturers were and how little it appears that some of them do for their causes. There's a lot of advocacy and very little concrete action taken.
I wouldn't say it's a life changing course, but it is interesting to be exposed to some of the ideas in global health. I think it's a little overrated but not a bad course.
SW25 is a great class, with fantastic professors and a dedicated teaching staff. It is not too much work, but I still found it a rewarding experience. The lectures are very interesting, and are from very intelligent people, but I usually felt like we were hearing a lot of stories from people who thought the same way about healthcare. Despite all the talk about maintaining self-critical dialogues and the sincere statements by professors that they welcomed debate about their views, not many people really advocated any ideologies that didn't fit the "SW25 paradigm". I guess I didn't find this a huge issue, because I agree in a policy sense with most of what was advocated, but the class could have probably been significantly more interesting if it attempted to emphasize conflicting viewpoints. All together, though, I found the class really enjoyable.
A fantastic opportunity to learn from some of the best doctors/professors in the world.
It entirely depends on what you put into the class how much you get out of it, but one consistent criticism of the course is that one does not really learn tangible skills but it's quite a good course for inspiring people and introducing them to the field of global health. The class is not hard and not doing the readings is honestly not that detrimental, which can be a good or bad thing. The lecturers are amazing and I terribly regret not going to enough office hours.
This class is a good exposure to the field of global health, but the reading list is impossibly long, and the writing assignments aren't very meaningful. That being said, the teaching staff is incredibly. It might be worth taking the class just to be able to go to office hours with Paul Farmer.
It's a great course. Really opens your eyes to a lot of things going on in the world that you otherwise might not ever think about. Lectures are wonderful, I truly wish I went to more of them. I think the assignments are great as well.
I really enjoyed this course and felt it had a very engaging format. The changing lecturers kept it exciting and maintained my interest after the midterm (when you don't really need to take notes anymore and can just enjoy the lectures). I strongly recommend attending office hours as it was amazing to talk with Dr. Farmer, Becker, and Kleinman in the small groups. I also met with each of those three one on one which was incredible. It is a very engaging course and wonderful introduction to global health.
Very good class for those who have at least a little bit of experience in global health. I feel like it's not as good as it's hyped up to be, though.
This is a great class, though it did not quite meet my extremely high expectations.  Paul Farmer and the other professors are all amazing, inspiring people, and interacting with them is an incredible opportunity.  The class itself, however, is a little disorganized and if you don't put a lot in and do the reading and go to office hours, its easy to not get a lot out of it.
If you are interested in health at all this class will be interesting for you. Just be prepared for a ridiculous amount of reading, find a study group immediately, it is not worth reading all of the reading on your own (I would not recommend buying any of the books that they want you to buy, just find them at the library or split the costs between a study group). The assignments are easy and straight forward, a great way to start your path towards Global Health. Also, read Mountains Beyond Mountains, can make some of the lectures more interesting.
An amazing class with really brilliant lecturers and guest lecturers. Despite being a large lecture, the class encourages dialogue through the last section of each class where professors open up as a panel to student input and questions. The readings and case studies are all very interesting.
Be prepared for a ton of assigned readings... however, the course itself and the course material are very interesting, so some of the readings are very enjoyable (even though there are still a ton of required readings).
TAKE THIS COURSE. I predict that nearly all the other pieces of feedback will say the same thing. I am absolutely serious. Make this a priority. This has been the best course I have taken in my life. It is life-changing (and I never thought I could possibly say that about a course).I can't say enough good things about this course. The lectures are hands-down amazing. So many of the lectures, I would walk out affected, unsettled, questioning things. There aren't many courses that will do that to you again and again during the semester. The professors are the most compassionate people I have ever met. They are so HUMAN. They care so much about people, about their work, about the course, about the students, about each other. It is just so amazing just to see them as people. The TFs are all incredible as well -- they all bring so much dedication, energy, and experience to the course. They all invest a lot into the course and do everything to support the students. The readings are also excellent -- everyone I talked to in the course absolutely loved the readings.You may have heard that the readings are a lot -- personally, I didn't feel like the readings took a lot of time. You just have to be smart: (1) know how to skim; and these readings are highly skimmable, unlike philosophy or political theory; (2) know that you don't have to read everything: methods section in a paper is not as important; skip parts of the paper that get too much into the details (unless they happen to be important). Usually when professors assign a reading, they want you to get something out of it, but not everything that the reading has to say. Know what you're supposed to get out of the reading, and don't waste your time on other parts of the reading. I personally didn't think this class had any more reading than most classes, and the reading was pretty easy too. (and enjoyable! as my classmates attested to as well).I'll attempt to briefly express what I felt I got out of this course. This course made me realize that, around the world, millions of people have a fundamental human right violated: access to quality healthcare. And there is no reason that it must be this way. The technologies exist (vaccines, antibiotics, treatments, etc.); the money exists (for the most part; it's just being poorly used); and the political will and desire seems to be significant as well. So why aren't we there yet? Well, global health is a very difficult problem to tackle. And it's easy to become pessimistic about what can be done in global health. But I personally walked out of the course with a sense of optimism -- that, even though perhaps the majority of efforts in global health are going to be ineffective and wasteful, there are thousands of *very* smart and caring people (e.g., our professors), who are doing their best to solve one of the most critical problems of today. I believe that there are effective solutions out there that have been proven, and that the resources exist to implement interventions. All that is needed is just more smart and driven people to go out there and catalyze change.I loved this course because I was intellectually simulated by the material, as it drew upon social theory, economics, sociology, history, anthropology, and more. But furthermore I was spiritually stimulated, in that I felt like any contribution I could add to the field would be deeply meaningful, and that it would be something I could look upon happily on my deathbed. At the very least, this course provides a good perspective to what the rest of the world is like, and putting in concrete terms what it means to live in poverty, to die from infectious diseases, and to be without access to healthcare.
This class is great! It's low stress and really interesting. Put a good effort into the assignments and you will do very well.
This course has the potential to change your life. Each lecture is worthy of a course of it's own and you feel as if you are witnessing the forefront of thinking on issues of Global Health. This is simply a must-take course at Harvard for undergraduates.
This is a fantastic course.  It takes a super interdisciplinary approach to medicine that will inspire you if you're thinking of any kind of health-related career.  The faculty are superb, and it is a privilege to learn from these professors and to get to know them.  There is a TON of reading, so much that I found it impossible to do it all, which is actually fine, but was kind of stressful.  I feel like this course, more than a lot of others, really gave me ideas about how to make a difference in the world, and helped me grapple with tough questions while introducing me to knowledge that would be super practical and useful in my life.  I am so lucky to have gotten to take this class!
Absolutely take this class if you are interested in Global Health.  However, if you are looking for a Societies of the World requirement or an interesting filler class, make sure to check the syllabus and be realistic about how much work you are willing to put into it, because you won't get out of it what you should if you are not interested in the material.
TAKE THIS COURSE. There is absolutely no way you will regret it. There are a lot of readings, I know, but you don't have to do all of them to get the main points--most important messages are hammered home in the lecture. Every health case is fascinatingly and frustratingly complicated, but you'll love every moment of discussing it, especially in terms of social theory (which in and of itself is pretty cool!).
Great course, really helps focus on things which actually matter and making a difference in the world. The speakers all had amazing experience and were leaders. Also, it super convenient that it's videotaped because its much nicer to watch in bed than trek over to Northwest labs. Lastly, Neal is a great section leader if you have any say over who you get.
Not too much work. Midterm graded on harder side. Other than that very good course.
Pay attention to the first four lecturesthat pretty much sums up everything you need to take away from the class. It's a decent gen ed. The reading list is ridiculously long. Put work into the essays (meet your TF before the first one). Not too difficult and you do learn 'tools' that will be helpful in other classes as well.
Take this class. Only warning is to start you final paper early or it can be brutal.
I had a very different idea of what this class was going to be before taking it.  Some of the lectures were case studies but most of them weren't.  It was a fine class, but it was just a lot different than what I expected.
A lot fo readings but if you havea  good TF you don't need to do them all
Societies of World 25 is aptly named because 25% is the amount of time I saw Paul Farmer or most of the professors doing something useful like lecturing. Most of this class is guest lectures, which isn't bad per se because most of the guest lecturers are awesome. However, do not let your friends fool you into thinking this is a class where you get the opportunity to talk one on one to professors and leaders of public health and will dramatically change your worldview and instantly transform you into a public health crusader doing good for the world, because that's just hype. This class is decent with great topics, standard teaching (meaning famous Harvard professors who more or less care about teaching, but would rather be doing other things, thereby leaving the majority of the work to teaching fellows and course preceptors), and excellent sectional TFs. I would recommend it, just don't buy into the hype or feelings of self satisfaction that many of the people who take this class exude on completion.In addition, I have major 1ST WORLD PROBLEMS with this class because if you take it, expect a rather large hole in your pocketbook. This class requires a course book, a source book, books (as in PLURAL) written by Paul Farmer and Arthur Kleinman, and an enormous amount of articles to read. While you may try to get by and not buy all of these materials, the way the class is structured makes this extremely difficult (at least for me). They might (please DO!) change it, but please keep this in mind. I admit I was rather bitter throughout this class due to the costs of reading (other than my time) and I wouldn't want that to happen to you.
Great material, very interesting,  but frontloaded workload
This course covers fascinating material and there is much that you learn. Nonetheless, it is a bit disjointed in terms of the lectures which can be frustrating.
This class is part of what makes Harvard amazing - world class professors that care and respect the students, and engaging material that pulls at our very core and values, Every student at Harvard should take this class because it provides an analytical framework to understand complex processes and disparities in health in our collective world.
Very interesting, eye-openingNew way to look at the world/global healthTopic gets sort of old by the end
I think everyone should take this course, regardless of concentration. It makes you think critically about the world and the current health system in a way that becomes relevant in so many different aspects of life.
This class is life-changing. It will change your perspective on the world. The material is taught straight from the horse's mouth. The professors are amazing and the TFs really care. There's a lot of reading, but if you get in a study group, it's manageable. There's a decent amount of writing for a gen ed, but it's absolutely worth it. It's very rewarding, and it'll completely change the way you think.
This course really teaches you to think differently about global health.  It is in a way very much centered around the work that these instructors do, but the theories they teach you, the mentality they have in teaching you, and the topics you will encounter really have made a difference in how I view medicine and global health today.  There is a ton of reading to do, but if you form a study group, it's definitely manageable.  This is a course I'd definitely recommend taking, or at least auditing, before you leave Harvard!
I definitely wish that I had known about this course my Freshman fall! It's a wonderful course that is great for everyone whether you are pre-health or pre-I have no idea. SW25 is perhaps my favorite course that I have taken here because the professors and TFs are absolutely amazing, the material is interesting and inspiring, and you'll leave with the vocabulary and the frameworks to look at health with a whole different outlook.
SW25 is a great opportunity to learn from and be inspired by renowned professors who are actively engaged in global health work. The professors and guest lecturers all have incredibly rich experiences to share, and you will come away from the course cognizant of the challenges that face the field of global health but ultimately excited about the ways in which you can make an impact.
Take this class!! Best class I have taken at Harvard.  The material is so engaging and it is so rare to find professors (who are the top in their fields) who genuinely care about the success of all students in their class.
This is a great class to wet your appetite for global health! Excellent professors, great reading material and engaging lectures that stay that are interesting for the material and the wide variety of speakers that are brought into the class.
Take this course even if you're afraid about the amount of reading. You don't need to do all of it (or even most of it) to do well. Also the professors are all amazing and this is an amazing intro to global health, so you don't want to miss out just because of the amount of reading involved.
BAD CLASS.1) Paul Farmer never lectures, and his lectures really aren't the best...so if you're taking it for him just save yourself the trouble and go to his office hours on your own some time.2) If you're pre-med hoping to go into global health, this is the wrong course for you. This is a very policy based/theory based type of course. If you're hoping to learn about AIDS and Ebola and Malaria and possibly the science behind them or how they're cured, this is not the course for you. Take sw24 or something else. 3) Look at the syllabus. Way too much reading, and its disorganized. 4) Lectures do not connect.5) 15 page paper at the end.6) Class becomes slightly pointless post-midterm.Don't take it!!!!!
I think SW25 is a good course, and worth-taking, but do so only mainly if you're interested in global health.  I took it because of the rave reviews it has consistently received, but I don't think I got as much out of the class as my peers, because I have no global health experience, and am not sure I'll get any.  I think the professors and lecturers try really hard to convey some sense of the content being extremely rewarding, but just know that it's not for everyone.  My experiences may have been different if I had kept up with the reading and tried to meet the professors, which I did not do well, so I would recommend that.
This class is a great introduction to global health. If you have any interest at all in the field, I would definitely take it!
do the readings!  the profs really want you to do them and you'll get a lot out of them if you do!  i know the list seems a little insurmountable but just start knocking them out (most of them aren't too long)! learned way more about social theory and economics and some of the problems facing global health today...challenged some of my ideas about the role of doctors and medicine in health
This course has made me a better citizen of the world. I know so much more about the human condition across the globe, and I'm also so much more aware of the limitations of that knowledge. I'm compelled to act, to help, yet wary of making things worse. This class has basically inspired some seriously deep thoughts about how I can, or ought to be, contributing to global wellness.
One of my best academic experiences! Second only to a slightly smaller course formerly offered as part of the old Core curriculum featuring the same course faculty. Can't say enough wonderful things about the class. But, bare in mind this is *not* a survey course. While introductory, it is not the intension of course staff to give a balanced introduction to all things global health. Rather, they are sharing a unique often underrepresented perspective in development/global health: that which can be illuminated by qualitative social science and the intersection between such scholarship and actual praxis. Their perspectives as practitioner-scholars, especially as anthropology scholars, is unique and they are self aware about the particular bend/values embedded in their teaching approach. The only people who I've spoken to that have been disappointed are those who expected an impassioned survey course which this certainly is not. Instead you hear from practitioners about many of their own successes and failures which contrasts the approach to similar subject matter across the university. There are pros and cons to this approach as there is to any approach but I *thoroughly enjoyed* this particular perspective.
The first half of this course hits you like a storm... There seems to be a paper due every week...with A LOT of reading - however, the papers were graded easily, the midterm was straightforward, and the 2nd half of the class is a breeze - lecture attendance not even necessary.
My favorite class of the semester. Four all-star professors that give thoughtful, engaging, passionate lectures on work that they themselves did -- that, to me, is why people come to Harvard. This course will make you sad, angry, moved to act. Phenomenal.
This is an inspiring course that shows you can make a difference in global health and in the world in general in a way that matches your unique interests.
I would tell future students that this class is very engaging and worthwhile, even if they may not see it as such in the beginning. For me, I came to love the class increasingly as time went on and I was able to apply more abstract ideas learned in the beginning of the course to concrete examples later on. I think this is one of those wonderful opportunities, particularly for undergraduates, to experience a higher level of learning in terms of the wonderful faculty and the learning of topics that are relevant to our world today. I always recommend this course when people ask!
This class is truly amazing. Hearing each lecture is humbling and after this class you will be able to view the world with new analytic tools. It's fascinating when you read some front page newspaper articles and realize that what you are learning in class is evident in major world issues today.
This class was awesome. Lots of readings, but make sure you form a study group as soon as you can. Most readings are repetitive, so make sure you know what you can skip (aka skim through a lot). Section was the best part of class for me, since Corrina was literally the best TF I've had at college. The people who take it are all really into global/public health and the entire teaching staff has a lot to add to this course. Highly highly recommend.
The social theories are surprisingly helpful in LIFE
This is a self selecting class. If you find the material interesting and the lecturers to be engaging then take the class. There is a lot of reading but it isn't necessary to do it all, rather it is better to have some type of study group to divide the readings up. There are a variety of lecturers and some were better than others, but the four main lecturers are phenomenal.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard -- definitely the best General Education course. I took it as a math major needing a Societies of the World course, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
This class will reshape how you think about your place in the world and will inspire you to contribute in many new avenues; but will press you to think carefully about how you do it. This class is about thinking critically about ALL of the forces that go into creating health problems around the world, and what we can to do solve them. All of the professors are excellent, and each provides their own spin on every topic. Don't worry about the high reading load-by midway through the course you will be able to know which readings are important to do before lecture and which should be reserved for a later time.
This is such a fascinating and fulfilling course. They really strive to open up your view of global health.
This is a fantastic class!  A lot of reading, but the readings are all interesting and the lectures are very interesting.
Everyone at Harvard should take this class before  they graduate!
Take only if you are invested in this matter. Otherwise, this course is a lot of boring work and you will suffer. But if you are interested it is worthwhile and eye-opening.
Good course to make you think about health outside of the United States
Although this course is primarily geared toward underclassmen, I still think it is a rewarding and very manageable Gen Ed or elective course for upperclassmen.
It is a "must "to better shape their understanding of the  global social political phenomenon and factors  linking diseases and poverty, or putting people at high risk.
Definitely one of the most special classes you can take at Harvard, but it is a lot of work, so a deep interest in the subject matter is a must. The teaching staff is incredible.
This class is relatively easy. Kirstin, my TF, was honestly my favorite part of the class. She made the theories easy to understand. Also, clearly, you can't go wrong with Paul Farmer, Arthur Kleinman, Salmaan Keshavjee, and Anne Becker, as well as many other amazing intellects as lecturers. Some of the lectures were not very interesting (I'm look at you Salman--neoliberalism was a bore and a strange departure from other lectures), but the majority of them were very engaging. After the midterm, I didn't even really take notes (there's no final exam, just a final paper) and just soaked it all up. Make sure to attend all the lectures and really understand the social theories, they'll be useful for your response papers, the midterm, and your final paper. The midterm is not too bad, but they're ambiguous graders--points off without any explanation, etc. Some readings are interesting for the sake of them, but most are unnecessary (I didn't read from the sourcebook after the first two weeks...). Make sure to read the case studies though; they're not too long and they're interesting, especially if you're contemplating a potential future in global health.
This is a great class for people who are interested in global health in general but don't really have an idea of how to get involved in it or what the history of the field is. It is also cool that the lecturers are people who are actively doing the work they're discussing.
I would recommend the class but it is important to do the readings and keep up to date with the concepts covered in class.
This class is incredible, I highly recommend it! Paul Farmer, despite his notoriety, is a wonderful lecturer and extremely down to earth. This course does require a lot of reading, but they are all really interesting and relevant.
Do all the readings, and enjoy them because they are fantastic
If you have an interest in global health, I strongly recommend this course for you.  If you are not interested, you may not be as engaged with the course, but it still provides a great way to fulfill SoW while learning about health care systems around the world.  The professors are engaging, and are truly the leaders in their field, and truly want to interact with the students.
It's good but there is a fair amount of reading and the knowledge asked of you is very focused on the "buzz-words." The lectures are also a little long.
This class is not worth it. They overwhelm you with un undoable amount of reading, so you will probably start by doing the reading, and then three weeks into the class you will realize that the readings teach you nothing, and all you are doing is reading the biographies of the professors. At the beginning, they try to stress social theories, but the social theories are not explained well and most of them just put big words to common sense logic. Then, when you write papers, you will be given little guidance and little feedback, and you will come out of the course feeling like you could have learning the exact same thing by reading Mountains Beyond Mountains.
This is a life-changing course! The lectures are great and the lecturers are great people. Do the reading (you'll also figure out how much is necessary)and participate in discussions/section, and it will be even more meaningful.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! It has been my favorite class so far.
Definitely take this if you are at all interested in public or global health. It's a great introduction to the field and allows you to see how political decisions affect health outcomes.
This class is unlike any I've taken here at Harvard or in high school.  I love it because the instructors are charismatic about what they do and emphasize the fact that working in this type of feild requires being human, moral, and good, so to speak.
It's really good, but requires a lot of work to get a lot of out it, and the midterm was graded a little vaguely.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! It's is incredible-it will change your idea about the world. There are lots of readings but do the ones that interest you and you will be fine.
This class is a great introduction to global health. If you've already taken a global health class, it might not be for you.
Don't bother doing the readings-- when you have to write the short papers, just find three readings from that week that sound remotely interesting. It's a good course and you'll learn a lot, but really, the readings are way too much.
This class is an interesting course but not the best introduction to global health as expected. The readings are far too long so I would split it up among friends to make a study guide of sorts for them. However, the course is manageable and interesting if you put in the time. Go to office hours to get to know the staff because the class is huge and you will feel lost/unimportant otherwise.
A good class where you get to hear from a wide variety of experts in the field and gain a new perspective on the world. There is a lot of reading for a Gen Ed, but much of it is optional, so don't let that scare you away from taking the course.
This class is absolutely amazing and life-changing. You learn so much and hear from such inspiring people.
This is an amazing journey into the world of global health. The approach that the professors take may seem a little all over the place, but it brings up so many important issues. Grading isn't too hard, review for the midterm, and do your best to keep up with the reading!
A great course if you care about global health. Be ready to give it a lot of attention and enthusiasm.
This course was by far one of the best courses I've ever taken at Harvard. It has a brilliant course staff, and to be able to learn about global health from world-class experts is an absolute treat.
This course will change the way you think about the world and is a great introduction to global health.
This class is very good. You should definitely take it if you are interested in the global health. For those of you who are beginning to explore what global health is, this class may be a little too long and repetitive. For those interested in the course as an exploration tool, look into the readings before deciding if you want to proceed or not.
You have to love the subject to be able to enjoy the class.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. I wasn't interested in health-related issues going in, but now I'm obsessed. There was no part of this class I didn't enjoy!
This class isn't perfect. Sometimes the lectures aren't as detailed as you would like. But you have access to the best faculty in the world in the field of global health and they direct you to amazing readings to help you pursue your interest.
If you like global health, then you must take this course!  The professors and teaching staff were excellent and the work was very interesting.  Though, if you aren't interested in the subject you may not be interested.  I found it fascinating, and it was my favorite course of the semester.
I think you should take it because the material is compelling and important.  Sometimes the format of the class is frustrating though
This class is so great. It's a lot of work in terms of reading, but it's so worth it!!!
A lot of material is covered in this class, but do not expect yourself to read everything! Make sure to read the course text because it is the most helpful reading of the course. The faculty are incredible and host office hours every week.
There is a lot of reading for this class; read them in advance for the papers, or else you will regret it the night before the paper is due.
great class maybe best one at Harvard
So... the material of this course is interesting, and the professors are very distinguished. However, the professors are only seldom the actual lecturers, and the course relies on less than awesome guest lecturers to teach large components of the course. It was tough to get a good sense of the course overall, and lecture often felt like a bit of a chore. Also, the assignments are more annoying than they are helpful.
TAKE.THIS.CLASS.
You can get by without doing any work, but I would not advise doing that. I wish I had taken the course more seriously because the material really was interesting and the lecturers were (for the most part) excellent
If you have a vague interest in matters of global heath and even issues of inequality in the world, take this course. It is truly eye-opening and inspiring.
Don't let this class intimidate you! Yes, there is a lot of reading, but this class is one of those classes you can only take at Harvard. It is taught by an all-star line up. The assignments aren't that bad and the information is really applicable. Even if you aren't going into global health, it is a great class.
A solid introduction to global health that requires strong interest to get a lot out of it.
This is a wonderful class for anyone interested in global health, public policy, or anything of the sort! Really too good of an opportunity to pass up!
If you really just want to take a gened in a subject that interests you, this course requires more work, enthusiasm, and involvement than you may be prepared for.
This is a very good class, especially if you are interested in understanding the root causes of major social problems, and looking at the world from a multi-disciplinary perspective.  The professors are  all quite accomplished and inspirational, but you must take initiative in order to get to know them - I highly recommend going to office hours, which are held seminar-style.  There is quite a bit of reading, but it is not all necessary.
This course is very worthwhile and interesting. If you really want to get a good takeaway try to do as many of the readings as you can, even though there is a lot to read and the social theory can be kind of dry. I wish that I had not taken this course my first semester of freshman year because I feel that I wasn't quite prepared for the workload. If you have never taken a heavy reading course, you may want to wait on this course; however, it is worth taking at some point if you have any interest in the field of global health.
This class is a really good introduction into the real world of global health. Even though it is a gen-ed, do NOT take it lightly. It has a lot of work involved and really forces you to think!
This course is not very challenging if you know how to strategically navigate the readings. Strongly recommended if you care about humanitarian issues strongly or plan to pursue a career in them. You will also get exposure to the best minds in the field of global health. That said, the class tends to feel like professors are patting themselves on the back with no actual lesson.
If you think you are interested in global health, I can't imagine a better introduction to the subject. The professors are fantastic and so knowledgeable and passionate about what they do.
This class made me want to get a secondary in global health.
pick a research paper topic you like.
Prepare to read. But if you just know everything the course text,then that should be good enough.
If you know for a fact that you want to enter the field of global health this is an excellent course for you. However, if you are merely fulfilling a Soc-World requirement, there are much better and more exciting courses you can take.
There are few courses at Harvard that are both intellectually and morally challenging, and fewer still that go to such an effort to equip students to face those challenges. This is one of the best of them: don't let the opportunity slip you by.
This class, although amazing, promotes a very specific perspective of how global health should be approached.  The key to doing well in the course is understanding this perspective.  A study group also helps a ton for the final.
This class is good because you get out what you put in.
Overall, SW25 was an interesting class, with plenty of diverse material covered. That being said, there wasn't necessarily much in the way of making this class particularly outstanding - typical lectures, assignments, and sections all were solid but not amazing.
TAKE THIS CLASS, regardless of whether you're new to global health or not.  The faculty and guest lectures are terrific, the readings are good, it draws insights from several disciplines - anthropology, history, biology, economics, etc. You WILL walk away with a different world view. Don't miss a chance to take a class with Prof. Farmer and Prof. Kleinman.
This is an inspiring, motivating, will change your life kind of course. You have so many opportunities to discuss issues with AMAZING people and you should definitely take advantage of it.
This class really changed my outlook of the world and gave me the tools to do so and apply the things we learned in class to the real world!
Take this class if you are interested in global health. There is a lot of work in terms of papers. The reading is tedious. Do not take the class just because of the speakers' fame or you will be very bored.
IT'S GREAT! If you are looking for an introduction to global health and medical anthropology, this is the class for you. Paul Farmer and the rest of the teaching staff are not only amazing figures in the field of global health, but they also appear to make a very real investment in our success in the class and future involvement in the field. Also, the workload is not too heavy. DON'T buy all the course materials--I used maybe one of the books i bought.
In order to get as much out of this course as possible, do the readings, engage with the teaching staff, and take advantage of the extra opportunities that the staff presents to you.
If you have the opportunity to take this course, I would definitely advise in doing so. The reading is dense and a lot to handle, but the other parts of the course definitely make up for it. The lectures are always very interesting and makes you more self aware of society and global health around you. Also, the teaching staff is more than incredible and having the opportunity to even just listen to them is definitely very rewarding.
this is a solid introduction to global health. a lot of the reading is difficult and not very helpful. the case study method is a fun way to learn material and apply concepts. the lecturers are fantastic, interesting, and enthusiastic.
Take it and go to every lecture, section, and optional lecture you can. Engage with the material and think about it critically - it could actually change the way you see the world and your place in it.
The course is absolutely great! It really presented topics that are very pertinent to global health and even medicine today. This class was one of my favorite classes. The readings were a bit too long and often I feel that I did not get the most of this class because the readings were tedious; however, if you pay attention in section and truly attempt to understand the social theories and the arguments of each lecture then the class should really come together for you. I also felt that this was a class that really inspired me to learn more and beyond the classroom. The final paper that I researched was something that I truly found interesting and stimulating especially when applying theories that I learned. Finally, this class seems like one of my first classes here at Harvard in which disciplines really work together - this class had a great mixture of history, anthropology, biology, and sociology and really worked all these disciplines together to make a cohesive presentation about global health issues.
This class is wonderful in that it really teaches the meaning of Global Health. But, the teaching fellow really does make or break this class, since the teaching fellows are the ones who grade the essays. My experience was that my teaching fellow helped me a lot on improving my writing and giving supportive critique, thus helping me improve substantially. There's just a lot of reading, few small essays, and a really large essay as the final.
This class is amazing and life changing! TAKE IT!
There's a lot of reading for this class, but not all of it is necessary for the assignments.  However, the course is extremely interesting because it is taught by four professors with tons of expertise and wonderful things to teach and share.
Best class I've taken at Harvard so far. Incredible teaching staff, great readings (though lots of them), passion for people and health. I learned so much about so many different aspects of global health. If you're at all interested in global health, this class is a must.
Absolutely fantastic if you have any sort of interest in learning about global health. I came into the course with curiosity and empathy, and left it feeling equipped with the knowledge to begin making concrete contributions to global health in my future. I couldn't have asked for a more inspiring, informative course.
Prepare to be challenged to be more compassionate and resolute in addressing seemingly insurmountable obstacles in a structural way.
If you do not have a medical or global health background, you may feel lost. There are a ridiculous amount of readings for each week, but they really aren't mandatory.
Be prepared to dig through a lot of reading material, and walk all the way to Northwest labs for lecture!
This class is great, well-organized and fascinating.  With phenomenal lecturers, interesting readings, and papers that I actually felt helped me a great deal in understanding the material, this was easily one of my favorite classes.  The reading load looks like a lot on the syllabus, but it is possible to succeed without having read every last reading, which is comforting when one is in a pinch.
the readings are good and lecture is interesting; on the  whole class is not too difficult. Good for a SW requirement.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It's a lot of work but it's so worth it! One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Despite reductions in the reading list, the readings were still pretty substantial. The course contained some interesting ideas, and certain lectures were exceptionally informative and interesting. However, the framework that the social theories were supposed to impart did little to give a sense of coherence to the structure of the course as a whole.
be prepared for lots of reading, definitely form a study group.
You learn a lot about the intersection of public health, government, medicine, anthropology and sociology, get great exposure to four well-known professionals in the field and get to meet guest lecturers who have also contributed greatly to the field of public health. The material is interesting and the lectures and case studies are really enriching.
I thought this course would be a survey of global health diseases that any person interested in health should know about (i.e. tuberculosis, malaria, etc.), but it ended up being so much more. It changed the way I thought about health care, increased my appreciation for our health care professionals today and for the complexity of health care, and convinced me even more about my pre-med track. The lectures were truly inspiring- I highly recommend this course, even as an elective.
lots of reading, but its very interesting if youre interested in the subject matter! and world class professors
While this class gave you a great understanding of the theories and theorists that have shaped global health, I would caution you against taking it if you're looking for an unbiased view of this field. The course was very biased and rigid, and it seemed to revolve around praises over Partners in Health. I would have appreciated a larger view of global health. This became very frustrating very fast. Otherwise, solid intro class with a manageable workload. Amount of readings was unmanageable, but get a study group and you'll be fine.
Great class, you will never be disappointed with lectures, a lot of readings
Form study groups to get the readings done.
This is a great class that introduced me to a lot of important concepts and historical knowledge about global health and society in general. It's not a light workload, but manageable.
The first few weeks are tough because the readings on social theory can become very dense and overwhelming. It helps a lot to get together with other classmates to discus and split up the readings. The essays are an awesome chance to express what you know and the case studies will open your eyes to deeply rooted ethnographic problems in the world. Talk to your TF's they are awesome and try to go to the evening lectures/movie screenings because they are awesome. This is your chance to learn from literally the leading figures in global health today. These guys are superstars, so make use of them, go to office hours and ask questions!
This is an amazing introductory course to global health, and doesn't require any biological knowledge or previous experience in anthropology. Taking this course will really help you open your eyes to the many issues out there that are relevant and prevalent - and what's amazing is that while so many grim aspects of global health are discussed, it does it in a way that will encourage and excite you to do something, and not in a way that could make you hopeless or apathetic. Just be sure to keep up with the readings and pay attention during lectures, because while you can get by in the class without actively taking in the information being presented to you, not doing so will ultimately leave you deprived of the great information that has been pre-organized and hand-picked for you.
This was a great class! You can really see the passion of the lecturers and that they really know first-hand what they're talking about. It's a great opportunity that shouldn't be passed up. The professors and tf's are very open to suggestions and critique. Also, the class isn't super hard. There's a lot of reading, but you'll end up not really doing all of it. I enjoyed writing all the assignments and most of the tf's grade pretty easily
You probably won't need to read the assigned reading. Just go to lecture and enjoy the material covered there. Also, try and get a good section leader!
You will learn amazing things about how humans move around in the world in this class, very very interesting and enjoyable.
GO TO LECTURE! And if you can make it, office hours. Get to know the professors, they're really nice people
one of the best classes i have taken at harvard (however, i am a global health and health policy secondary concentrator). what you learn in this class applies to situations outside the context of global health, and made me think critically about other personal and academic issues.
This class was the most compassionate class I've taken at Harvard.  It looks at people / cultures / very serious global health problems from the most humane lens possible.  Incredible gem, especially as a Gen Ed class.  The class can be very depressing for your view of global health, but it is also thought with a lot of thought and reflection. Also, advice: go to Arthur Kleinman's office hours.  Incredible, incredible wisdom and compassion for the world.  Far more than Paul Farmer, really (who is already ridiculously compassionate).
Great lectures, a decent amount of reading
Don't do all the reading, just the social theories.  Great lectures, cool guests, interesting sections (most of the time). Was annoyed at first because didn't feel like I was learning anything, but it wa really eye-opening for me personally by the end.
This is a fantastic course. Go to lectures. Go to office hours. Speak with TFs. Ask questions about opportunities. Take advantage of what this course offers.
Join a study group of people you trust to do the readings and post summaries to share with one another.  That's the only way to truly do all the assigned readings in this course.  Otherwise you will end up with a shallow understanding of everything, and that leads to sloppy papers.
This class is extremely worthwhile. The lectures are fabulous, the sections are fabulous, and the material is spot-on. I loved almost every aspect of the class. The only negative about the class is the ratings, which can be dense and sometimes irrelevant. However, it does not take away from the impact of the course in the slightest, since you decide how much of the reading is necessary. I would definitely recommend reading every bit of the course text, which is fantastic. The excerpts from the professor's books are also great.
Really make an effort to attend and engage in all the lectures. The speakers and coursework is simply amazing and you want to try and get as much out of this course as you can. It's tough to do all the readings, but it's definitely worth it to at least skim them so you can get the main ideas, rather than let them go unread.
The TF does not make this class. Do not fall victim to a bad TF like I did.
This is truly a great class. It really makes you think critically about "save the world" things. Whether you really want to go into global health or don't know much about it, this class is awesome! I think everyone should take it. It's really not too much work and it is very rewarding.
Dont worry about the readings. Go to lecture.
Take advantage of getting to know the Professors.
Get ready to have your ideas shaken up. A lot. You'll be skeptical sometimes and unconvinced once in a while, but the parts that resonate are more powerful than any other course than I've experienced at Harvard. Very ethically demanding, very practical, very worth taking.
This is a great course to take if you are curious about global health challenges, but also if you have a more general interest in sociology and anthropology (even philosophy). The social theories covered are fascinating, and they are fun to examine through the lens of global health. The professors are fantastic- rarely do you get such a group of superstars to teach an undergrad class like this, so take advantage!
This course is absolutely amazing in so many respects.  The professors are incredible, and the TFs are so helpful and knowledgeable.  This course made me want to pursue global health.  Although it can be a little intimidating at first and seemingly fast-paced, the knowledge you take away from this class far outweighs any minor stresses at the beginning.
This is a very interesting course, but only if you have an interest in global health. This may sound obvious because global health is in the title of the course, but this is a reading-heavy course and you will only enjoy doing all the readings if you are passionate about this subject.
Be very wary of this course. Yes, the material is very interesting. Yes, it is important to be a knowledgeable citizen of the world. Yes, very cool, important people like Paul Farmer speak. But as a class, this is a very unenjoyable one that does not deliver what it seems to promise. The lectures are undirected, repetitive and are not nearly as effective at presenting information that could be fascinating. There is way too much reading to actual read and think about it. The assignments don't ask you to engage with the material at all in a way that challenges you to think. The class in general seems to lack an evident purpose. There is too much information which is emphasized as important, and so nothing seems to be a takeaway. It ends up being 3 hours every week of being talked at and not learning or thinking. I was highly disappointed with this class. It has so much potential, and seems so interesting, but was continually unsatisfactory. As a learning environment, it was one of the least effective I have been in at Harvard.
This was the worst class I've taken at Harvard. If you want an easy class that you can skip, watch online, not do the reading, breeze by in section, and fake, then, sure, feel free to take this class. If you want to learn something or gain ANYTHING, don't take the class. Reread "Mountains Beyond Mountains" and save yourself the trouble. It doesn't matter if you need a Gen Ed credit. If you want to learn, don't take this class. If you want to find an internship in global health or hang out with friends from the "say no to drugs" campaign, this might be for you. Paul Farmer doesn't speak every week, don't expect him to. The professors are accessible, although there won't ever be opportunities to ask questions during lecture. Since many of the TFs attend the School of Public Health or the Medical School, they also won't always be around. There isn't a good structure to the flow of the course, so there's no big picture to be learned, other than "We need to improve the way we administer global health."
Even if you put in the minimal amount of work into this course, you will STILL get so much out of it just because your peers are passionate about global health, your teaching fellows are passionate about global health, and your faculty basically ARE global health.  One of those courses why you came to Harvard.
Take this course ready to work and read. A lot can truly be taken away from this course, particularly  the administration behind global health work. The case studies are truly inspiring and motivating.
This course is one of those courses that if you invest a lot of yourself in, you come out with plenty of interest to spare.
This was my first and best global health class ever. You definitely want to take this course if you are considering a medical career (it is taught by doctors) or thinking GHHP for your secondary field.
Go to lecture!  Seriously.
This is a fantastic introduction to global health, and the faculty and guest lecturers are wonderful. It's a lot of reading, but you can get by without doing most of it.
Great class, inspirational professors, great readings and a whole new way of looking at the world.
Everything that is studied in the course is incredibly relevant and timely. What we learn in the class are problems, some without a solution, that the world faces that can be solved or at least mitigated in the future by the students sitting in the room. The course offers the great opportunity to learn from global leaders in the field and gain a basic understanding of what must be considered when approaching these issues.
This is a great class and a must-take for anyone interested in global health. The faculty give incredible lectures!
This course is a great introduction to global health, and you get to hear from many interesting lecturers, however the course is disjointed and the grading seems odd. Don't take this course just to listen to Paul Farmer (there are many amazing lecturers)
Great lectures, dry readings.
The quality of the lectures is amazing! The experience of the faculty and their innovative approaches to global health analysis come together to create an unforgettable course.
This course was a comprehensive introduction to the field of global health and the social problems that surround it. Readings were for the most part interesting and useful, and the professors and teaching staff were absolutely top-notch.
Try not to get behind on your work.  It can be difficult to catch up.  Excellent class.  Take advantage of the access to professors, the readings, etc.
Take it if you have any interest in health.  This course will open your eyes to viewing the world in a different way, a way that can make the world's problems seem much greater.  Yet it will also show you that many of these problems have solutions, and that they are possible to implement.  The course's professors are an all-star cast who have done just that.
There is a lot of reading, but do not be discouraged if it seems overwhelming - the class is worth it, and you do NOT have to do all the reading to understand the course and learn!
Take this class if you are interested in saving the world. Whether you're a global health novice or an expert, this class can be wonderful for you. Not only will you will learn about some of the complexities of global health, you will learn how some people, including the stellar professors (fab lecturers), have found successful ways to deal with such complex obstacles and make sustainable health interventions in the poorest places, using biology, anthropology, economics, and lessons from past projects. And you will develop your critical thinking skills, knowledge of important practical principles in global health and humanitarian work, and your ability to make your own contributions to global health, world peace, etc. The TFs are also wonderful, and the course has an overall feeling of possibility and informed optimism. Lastly, go to office hours! The professors are there for you, and you might feel dumb if you wait till the end like me and never get to actually meet them (but the class was totally worth it anyway).
Lots of reading that you need to understand and is helpful when writing your giant paper. Don't just take the class because it doesn't have a final, it doesn't mean it's any easier than any other class.
You should take this class if you are interested in global health, but understand that its intellectual framework is still rickety.
You have to stay on top of your work in this course - do your response papers earlier rather than later.  Learn the theory early!  And then try and apply it in section - those skills will help you on exams and your final paper.
This is an amazing class for everyone, regardless of your interest in global health.  If you are interested in global health, it is a must-take.  You will learn a tremendous amount about global health, important issues to focus on, challenges in the field, and the social theory behind doing this kind of work.
This course is absolutely amazing, easily one of the best (if not the best) course I've taken at Harvard. Get past any possible fear of talking to faculty, and take time to go to office hours; the professors are very willing to speak to students, despite their busy schedules. Not all of the reading is mandatory, and what you do do will really enhance your experience in lecture and in section. The first half of the course is heavier in readings and work than the second half, and the final paper is really an opportunity to write about something you find interesting.
Do not be scared off by the reading. you do not have do to all of the reading in order to do well in the course.
Take this course. It's a fantastic introduction to global health, which you will learn is a nebulous term. That's important, however, because you realize that you can contribute to global health in so many disparate ways. Don't be put off by the social theory component of the course. The history behind global health and the "toolkit" offered by the professors to understand global health is terrific.
The course gives you an invaluable toolkit of social theories through which to view global health problems (and other similar social problems). Furthermore, it is a privilege to be taught by some of the most eminent figures in global health, including of course Professor Paul Farmer.
This course in itself felt like an experience--the lectures were usually phenomenal, the subject-matter was very relevant, and the teaching staff (including the TFs) were all extremely dedicated. There is a lot of reading, but I would highly recommend the course.
SW25 sparked my interest in health and actually inspired me to switch to pre-med. The lecturers made me want to make a real impact in the world; but, more importantly, you learn that anyone can make a big difference in the world if they really want to. I would enthusiastically recommend this class to anyone who thinks they may have a slight interest in medicine and health.
This is one of the courses Harvard is truly lucky to have. If you have any interest at all in global ideas and/or health, you must take this course. The most meaningful class I've taken so far.
This is a very interesting class.  Do not let the amount of reading discourage you from taking it.
Take it! Best class I've taken.
As Harvard students, we are very often told that we are capable and intelligent and will be able to do pretty much whatever we want; however, it is often difficult to find classes that approach their subject matter that way. I had the sense that the entire teaching team involved in this course really expected us to be able to do something with the information that they were giving us.  Also, because the issues were something that they really cared about, they very clearly wanted us to do something with it.  Excellent combination of academia and common sense.
This course will change your life. It truly shows that global health intitiative CAN be completed.
Awesome course, a lot of reading, but the readings are interesting. If you are at all interested in health/ global health, this is a great foundational course!
This class makes you think a lot about your real purpose in life and how your skills are going to be best used in the future. It imparts a sense of urgency and purpose in one's life to help others.
Be prepared to work but its an excellent class with outstanding faculty.
The lectures are great. Go to them. Or at least try.
It is a thought-provoking and topical class. There is a ton of reading however.
You will definitely be inspired to get involved in global health, so get ready for that!
I would tell a future student that this course will expose you to a topic in the world that you have never really known about before. You get to listen to amazing lecturers who are in the top of their field in addition to having excellent professors. It's a worthwhile course whether or not you want to continue on in the field of global health. It's great exposure to an interesting field and a fun course.
Prepare for a lot of reading and a lot of people being pretentious.
This course is not organized well. Half of things on the syllabus ended up not being true. Exam dates, deadlines, readings, and studies changed all the time, which was incredibly frustrating. This is not an easy Gen Ed. This is a commitment with thousands of pages of readings you will not do.
Useful for any concentration.
Even if you are super interested in global health, this is the worst possible course you could take to explore that interest.
so long as you know how to prioritize and skim in order to get through the enormous amount of readings, you should take this course.
An amazing course, I HIGHLY recommend it! The subject matter is fascinating, and the faculty are all incredible people who are willing and eager to share their vast experience with all the students. They make the material and the many opportunities of the field itself more accessible to undergraduates than one could imagine.
lots of readings.
This class is pretty great, and the faculty is amazing. It really gets you interested in different perspectives on modern global health problems, as well as gives background into the history of the field. About the books: Partner to the Poor isn't a bad investment, but the Kleinman books are basically a waste of money. Just so you know, since they are likely to keep assigning them. Oh, also lectures are videotaped so basically after the midterm half the class doesn't show up.
Fabulous course, all undergrads should take it. The speakers are great. There is certainly a lot of reading and response papers, but all worth while. If you are interested in Global Health, this is the class to take. Lots of work, but not necessary very challenging.
Try to get the general ideas from the readings and lectures. Have examples prepared.  If you spend to much time on details you will have wasted your time.
This class is overrated. If you don't know anything about global health or aren't really interested, you probably won't like it at all. You barely ever see the figurehead professors and are instead swamped with guest lectures from all over the place, but then you never know whether to trust what they say or not. Section usually leaves you with more questions than answers, but not in a good sort of way. There's a ridiculous amount of reading, and unless you are really good it's terribly difficult to draw a coherent conclusion from them. If you are just looking for a Gen Ed, look elsewhere.
The course material is fascinating, and the lectures interesting. I just felt like at times information was just being given to me, and it could be one sided. It does make you very aware of the the health crises occuring in the world. Take this class to fufill the core requirement.
If you are interested in this topic, it is worth the work.
Too much unnecessary work and it doesn't get good until the very end of the semester.
It's great. It's a lot of work for a core/gen ed class, but definitely worth it. Challenging in the best possible ways.
This course has a lot of reading, but don't let that dissuade you from taking the course.  It is extremely interesting and inspiring and there are ways to get around the bulk of reading (reading groups, skimming, etc.)
If you're interested in learning about Public Health and want to be taught by some of the world's leading experts on global health, then this is the class for you. The material is very fascinating and presented in a way so that every student can understand.
This course is a must if you are at all interested in the global health field. The lectures were fascinating, and though the reading was excessive, the class was definitely worth it.
This class is fantastic. It should be a requirement for anyone who wants to work in medicine or public health. This is one of those opportunities at Harvard that should not be missed!
The course is well formatted and provides great insight into tackling global health programs from a variety of different perspectives.  The focus is on getting you to think more critically about health care approaches, taking into consideration the numerous barriers that are at play in care delivery.  An excellent, thought-provoking and informative class.
If you are interested remotely in global health this is the class for you! So great!! Incredible faculty. Favorite class at Harvard so far.
I was misled by all the Q guide comments where people raved about this class and said how much they loved it...This class was one of the most disorganized classes I've ever taken. I don't recommend it. It's too much reading (don't even TRY to do it all, even attempting to do half was a lot), having a final paper and final exam just for this class will make your reading period hell, and just because the professors are illustrious does not make them interesting to listen to for an hour and half. At 10am. In Northwest Labs. Which is almost guaranteed to be too far from where you live for this class to be worth going to.
If you are even just a little bit interested in anything realted to global health, poverty, developing countries or medicine, I urge you to take this class. You will get so much from it! There is a lot of reading and the assignments can be challenging, but it really teaches you a lot! The pofessors are incredible and the case studies are drawn from their own experience, so it is always stimulating to discuss these cases with them. It is a demanding class, but you will get so much from it that it will definitely be worth it!
This class changed my life; every day I find new ways to apply the social theory frameworks we learned in class. The lecturers and faculty for the course sincerely and earnestly want to educate the next generation of global health workers, and it shows in how closely they prepare the course lectures, materials, and the resources they provide for us.
AMAZING CLASS! The professors and speakers are amazing. And you feel like they appreciate the fact that you want to learn about the subject. Eye opening course. Don't worry about the amount of work, it is worth it. Some of the best reading I've had in any course.
This class is definitely worth taking, whether or not you are interested in global health. The professors are really good, and they make an effort to be at as many lectures as possible even though they are all doing many other things. There is a lot of reading--form a study group and split it up.
Highly recommend it, great teachers, great material. my favorite class thus far at Harvard.
This class seems like it will be really interesting and informative in the field of  global health, and in some ways it is, but in my mind it way under-delivered.
You must take global health before you leave Harvard.
This is a great class, and you will leave feeling enthusiastic about global health. The professors were really great, and really encouraged students to ask questions and engage with the course materials.
This class is a lot of work (between a heavy reading load, weekly assignments for section, two exams, and a final paper); however, the lectures are fantastic, so it is definitely worth it if you have an interest in global health.
this class is largely based on opinion.the lack of facts and the manipulation by the professors is annoying
Great course, but lots of reading and writing to do. Take advantage of the opportunity to interact with the amazing teaching staff!
best class i have taken at harvard. it opened my eyes to the world outside while not requiring me to do too much work. it changed the way i see the world but it did it slowly
This class is taught by amazing faculty and motivated teaching staff. I highly recommend it because you will come out with a skill set that will enable you fully understand global health history and current issues, and be able to implement reasonable solutions to them. You might have heard that this class is a lot of reading, but it really won't seem like a lot if you break them down and split them up with classmates. I think this is a quintessential Harvard course. Take it!
It involves a lot of reading, but it's interesting and the essays and tests aren't difficult.
Overall, it's a great course. I would recommend it more for underclassmen. Much of the material, including the social theory component, can get repetitive if you've spent some time delving through it more deeply. The case studies can get repetitive to the point of almost becoming moot. It can also seem a bit like the PIH/Dr. Farmer show at times. The course material is dominated by PIH-centric reading, the lectures often center around PIH's experience and how it's a great program, and Dr. Farmer tends to dominate the lectures. That all can get a little irritating. But, all in all it forms a great background course in global health. I would also advice those who are interested in the intersection of global health and LGBTQ/gender identity issues to not get frustrated. I was personally very disappointed to see so little attention given there, but through section was able to find a place for that discussion even if the lecturers weren't willing to give it.
It's an interesting course that makes you infinitely more aware of the inequalities that continue to exist throughout the world.
This class has great potential, but currently is a very frustrating experience. Please consider whether you really want to do a final exam AND a final paper. Response papers are also excessive. Readings, thankfully, only require that you read abstracts. Also, do you really want to walk to North-West Labs for a morning class?
This course requires a substantial amount of work. Granted you don't have to do all of the reading, you must still be able to connect the dots between readings and lectures and have valuable insight to offer in section. You will find that everyone who takes this course is extremely invested in the course material. If you don't feel as passionate about global health, you might feel slightly overwhelmed. That being said, most of the lectures are absolutely wonderful. Definitely shop this course!
This class opened my eyes in many ways, and helped me understand how to be a better future doctor before even going to medical school! I learned about many of the world's problems, and even more importantly, learned from the instructors of the course how to go about beginning to solve them...this class further inspired me to become a practitioner of global health, and was the best class I have ever taken!!
The first few weeks of the course make the class seem overwhelming, because the readings are denser (heavy sociology readings), but the professors do a good job breaking down theories for you. Work load is much lighter once you move from social theories into a discussion of specific cases
This is an AMAZING class. This is a speaker-series type class and Paul Farmer only lectures for a few of the classes. Don't come just for Farmer, BUT do come if you want to hear other amazing and motivating speakers. Kleinman and Kashavejee are absolutely incredible figures. You will learn more even more from them than you will from farmer. The workload is manageable but you need to keep up. This class will change the way you view medicine. I especially recommend it to freshman. I'm a senior and I regret not taking this class sooner. You learn how medicine is not practiced in the vacuum but in a socially constructed world, complicated by politics and ethics.  You will be a more well rounded person.
It's a lot of work at first but the workload definitely eases up the second half of the semester. I'm not premed, but this class was still my favorite of the semester. It made you truly analyze global health problems and changes the way you see the world. If you are even considering this class, TAKE IT! It's a great opportunity to learn about some really important issues from the best of the field.
If you are interested in global health, take this class.  The professors in the class are world-famous in the field, so don't miss this opportunity.  Take time to the do the reading though, there is a lot.
I would tell them that this course has a lot of reading, but that if you complete it, you will certainly have an amazing academic and personal experience by taking it.
It's an amazing course to learn about real-world issues facing the international community today. The staff is amazing and very approachable, and the lectures are riveting.
This is an amazing course if you are interested in global health! You will have the chance to meet inspiring and knowledgeable leaders in global health, including the course heads and all of the guest speakers. In addition to learning about the major issues in global health, you will be given a toolbox of social theories that you can use to analyze global health situations.
This is the best class that I have ever taken and I would recommend it to any one interested in health around the world.
An insightful course that connects many different perspectives/disciplines in the context of global health.
This is so good!!! you learn so much about the world, its really enlightening
I would tell future students this class is very eye opening because it teaches you to apply the social theory learned in class to solve real life problems
This class is a wonderful class for the introduction to global health. To hear from people like Paul Farmer, and many of the other speakers who have signifcant experience in global health brings a whole new perspective to the class.
I loved this class! The professors and teaching staff are absolutely amazing, supportive and learned. Through this course I felt connected to the greater global health community and an active analyst of the systemic problems health issues face.
Great class with interesting material, but lots of reading.
With this course it is very much up to you how much you work and you have to motivate yourself to do the reading as there is a lot of it.
Easy and painless.
This course will expose you to a wide array of health problems and phenomena around the world, and will equip you with the theoretical and analytical tools to approach and understand them in a well-informed and respectful fashion. There are many required readings, but the course is well worth it. You will be inspired and rejuvenated to think and act like a global citizen, and realize that my actions (or non-actions) influence the lives of others. After taking this class, I hope to pursue more academic and hands-on work in the field of global health.
great class, with great, approachable professors.
It's a really interesting introduction to the subject! I'd highly recommend it.
Great course content and the reading, although daunting, is completely manageable once you learn to skim. It may seem like a lot of work but it is not bad at all, and the content is definitely very useful knowledge! Take the class as a great core!
Just come inside, and be ready to be inspired. Sometimes the inspiration may not come instantly, when you bury your head in all the coursework; however, as you get to know all the different personae in this class, you are bound to look at their life path and think you could be there too.
This is a fantastic class for anyone interested in Global Health, Anthropology, third world development etc etc. There is a large amount of reading but it is worth it for the perspective that this class gives.
Try not to get bog down/stress over the vast amount of reading. Try to at least read one or two readings a week if you are not about to read them all for a class.
This course gives great insight into the prevailing issues of global health. The lectures are very interesting, but there is a lot of reading involved. Try to keep up with the main readings of the week, and take this course seriously even though it's a gen ed class. If you are simply looking to fulfill a gen ed requirement, this is a great class but note that there are a lot of policy-passionate people in this class who will make your essays look bad if you only put this as your low-priority course.
Anyone would be lucky to take this class. You have the opportunity to study with experts in their respective fields of global health. Also, completing this course gives you a great background to talk about global health knowledgeably and pursue further study in the area.
There is a fair amount of reading, but the material isn't that difficult, and is really interesting and relevant to the challenges anyone interested in healthcare will face.  Teaches topics in an area that everyone should be familiar with.
Good class, quite a bit of work and expectations unclear.
Put simply, this is a really cool course.  It's incredible that you get to go up after class and talk with these world renowned global health providers and policy makers.  There is A LOT of reading, but you really don't have to do all of it.  Read the seminal papers and split up the rest among a bunch of people and write up summaries.  For the exams, different from many science courses here, you really need to write well.  Even if you have all of the details down cold and construct a good argument, if you lack a strong introduction for example, points off.  Just a warning to my fellow bullet-point-loving bio-brethren.
If you can deal with the work, the course is a great introduction to the global health issues.
Don't skip the readings - not only will they help you with the assignments and midterm/final, but they are fascinating.
Requires a lot of time and effort, but is extremely worthwhile and a totally different kind of course than most offered to undergraduates.
be prepared to do a lot of reading, but read strategically, and enjoy the lectures
This class is definitely worth taking if you have any interest in global health or anthropology, but be prepared to put a lot of work into it.  There is a ton of reading, and you need to learn how to be selective and get the most out of it.  I think it is the type of class where the more effort you put in, the more you benefit.  That being said, the lectures are really wonderful - I enjoyed the lectures by Salmaan Keshavjee and Anne Becker the most.  Salmaan, especially, is very clear, very dynamic, and very passionate without being overdramatic.  You will learn an incredible amount in this course, and it is taught with the philosophy that there is no one right answer, which I really appreciated.
I would tell them that it is really lifechanging and makes you ask important questions regarding health, medicine, and policy.
This is a class everybody should take. Only at Harvard could one get to listen to such important, inspirational speakers twice a week. The reading-load is heavy, but there are ways to be successful without doing it all and they are interesting. The weekly response papers can be a drag, but the course is worth it. The TFs are great. This class not only gave me an understanding of global public health, but also taught me to think about ANY problematic or foreign relations situation more successfully.
There are a lot of readings and you're not always sure what the point of the lecture is. They don't necessarily answer the larger questions posed at the beginning
I would say that it has the potential to be a valuable class if you have a ton of time to invest in meeting with the professors and going to the extracurricular events outside of class. But since this is Harvard, it is rarely the case that students have that much time to devote to one class, so overall I was pretty disappointed with what this class offered and it really made me uninterested in global health as a discipline.
lots of reading
Very inspirational, a lot of reading but it is good reading
The faculty are terrific. They bring a breadth and depth of academic and personal experience that is really unrivaled and unique to the course. I think the course could use a more directed focus at times. Understanding that global health is a broad field, with many facets, will help to shape students' expectations for the course with respect to the scope of material covered.
Excellent course but VERY difficult and VERY work-intensive, so you gotta love global health!!
This class is overrated.  The professors are generally unprepared, the readings are repetitive, and the assignments are vague.
This class is a great introduction to the many issues in the world of global health today. While it is by no means easy, the professors are amazing and taking this class is an opportunity that should not be missed.
SW-25 is a crash course in achieving health justice. If you are at all interested in engaging issues surrounding poverty and/or health care access take this class.
This course is interesting, but there is a lot more work than expected for a gen ed.
be prepared to do a lot of reading and to learn some social theory
This is a GREAT class with awesome teachers. You will be a better thinker and thinker for taking this class.
This class is really very inspiring; it has a lot of speakers who passionately care about what they are doing. It also shows you some new ways of thinking about and approaching difficult problems.
Be ready to work hard a read a lot - but most of all, be ready to have your blinkers removed to the injustices in this world and to feel sufficiently challenged to want to make a difference!
Everybody at Harvard should absolutely take a class in global health, and I can't really imagine another one being better than this.  The professors are awesome, and they genuinely care about what they are teaching.  Be prepared for a lot of reading, but also be prepared for learning about and discussing some of the biggest problems in global health today.
Doesn't fully live up to the hype and by the end I was a little sick of all the global health rhetoric, but overall worth taking. Strongly recommended if you are passionate about the subject.
It's not about it being an all-star professor course, and Paul Farmer is not the reason to take it; rather it is taught by a range of down to earth and thoughtful professors with a lot of experience (Kleinman, Becker, Keshavjee, and numerous guest speakers), and the course is fascinating, useful, and engaging.
Though many of students began the class out of fascination with Paul Farmer, we took away more and beyond from the class at the end. AWESOME!
It's great if this is what you are interested in. If you aren't, don't take the class.
There's a lot of work, but it's extremely useful and extremely interesting. The professors are incredibly good, as are the guest professors.
If you are interested at all in global health or international development, definitely take this course! What you learn is very relevant and you get to hear from some of the most talented experts in the field
It is an amazing course, if you can keep up with the material and watch/go to all lectures. If not, the material is hard to follow.
This is a really hard general education course. Don't take it if you're looking for an easy time. Also, you will get the most out of this course by reading all the material. Don't take this as a 5th class :)
This class is very worthwhile in terms of what you learn and the inspiration you get from being taught by leaders in global health, but you should be prepared for a good amount of reading and weekly response papers.
One of the best classes I've ever taken.
If you really like global health then you'll probably enjoy this course.  Just beware that one, Paul Farmer doesn't lecture often so if you're taking it for him you'll be disappointed (and he's not a very good lecturer) and two, the course can sometimes be narrowly focused and is a big promotion for PIH.
If you are interested in global health or medicine than this is the perfect course. Not only does it provide an in depth look at current approaches towards global health but also emphasizes the ways in which you can get involved. The professors have a lot of personal experience which definitely adds to this course. Furthermore, you are provided with an abundance of resources and opportunities which allow you to become involved.
This course will teach you a ton of information about global health issues and may convince you to participate in global health activities. The course is not for everyone; there is quite a bit of reading, and if you're not interested in global health at all, you shouldn't take it.
The class is truly inspirational and educational for any student interested in global health, medical anthropology, or world politics. However, this class has a lot of weekly reading and weekly response papers.
Often the readings are pointless. Out of four readings, three say the same thing.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!  It will open your eyes to so many things about global health.  It will make you realize how lucky you are to have the good healthcare you have.  It is too easy to go through Harvard and think about yourself, about getting a good-paying job after graduation.  But I think this class is really what is important; you will not be able to ignore the global health issues after taking this class.
The instructor are awesome!
Take it if you're interested and motivate yourself to go to lecture.
This class is the best class I have taken here so far.
This is by far the best class that I have taken during my time at Harvard. It is very inspiring, even if you are not interested in going into global health.
The class is a lot of work, but if you're willing to put in the time for the readings it is worth it. Lectures are better if you do the readings first as well.
It's an amazing course with supportive, incredible professors who will astound you. The only drawback is that there is a lot of reading.
You get face-to-face time with global health superstars like Paul Farmer and Arthur Kleinman!!
This is a great class if you have a genuine interest in global health.
the material is interesting, the case studies are cool but a bit repetitive, and the teaching staff is really great and nice. the class was great but definitely overhyped, as the hype regarding the course at the beginning of the semester was a little much
This is one of the best classes at Harvard and probably a once in a life time opportunity to learn from such accomplished people. It inspired me to minor in health policy and potentially pursue a career in global health. Even if you have no interest in either of those, its still really relevant information that can change your thinking in interesting ways.
fascinating material
Open your mind and enjoy what you learn.
This class was really inspiring. There is definitely a lot of work, but it's worth it in the end. Also, the class opens up a number of opportunities including summer travel experiences and other public health career exploration opportunities. The class also brings in a lot of really neat speakers who are extremely well known in the global health field.
take this class. NOW
The class is taught by an exceptional teaching team that is enthusiastic about their profession and eager to spread their knowledge to future generations. There are ample resources in addition to the course material, for students wishing to pursue a career in the field of global health which is very helpful.
You have to be willing to put a lot of work into this course but if you do you will really learn a lot.
The readings can be time consuming, but they are all really interesting. Section discussion are also great--make sure to prepare and do the week's readings so you can fully participate
Probably unlike any other course in any other school. You will get the opportunity to interact with very inspirational and motivational individuals and will learn a great deal more about how the world functions on a global scale.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading in order to stay on top of the class.
do all the reading the week it is assigned.  don't take notes, just get the main concepts.  read it yourself, not a summary from a study group.
Yes, Arthur Kleinman and Paul Farmer are wonderful. This class is not. Sections and lectures can be very underwhelming because they're not always conducted by Professor Kleinman or Dr. Farmer. The reading load is also ridiculous. I thought that I cared enough about global health to plow through it--that didn't happen. If anything, this class can be exactly what you don't need. The message is important, but it takes a while to understand what exactly is trying to be said because everything is so disorganized!
This is one of the classes that makes you realize how lucky you are to be at Harvard - we truly have access to the above-and-away leaders in the world in health policy, AND they want to help you learn and make you into their successors.
Lots of reading, lots of writing, but it's definitely worth it!
Lots of reading but you learn more than you could ever imagine
The class is great, but be prepared to do a lot of reading!
If you are extremely interested in the material already then this could be a valuable class for you, otherwise you will be inundated with boring readingJoin a study group!!
the lecturers are top in their field; just the chance to be within hearing distance of Paul Farmer is reason enough to take it. It's global health taught by the current leaders in global health initiatives!
This was a life-changing class for me. I've known for years that I wanted to be a doctor and to help people, but my horizons have expanded considerably thanks to this course. I understand now that health is truly a global issue that must be addressed on multiple fronts, ranging from the biological to the social to the political. The professors in this class have inspired me to join the movement to bring healthcare to every corner of the world, and to not take "no" for an answer.
If you are interested in global health, becoming a doctor, or have read Mountains Beyond Mountains, you must take this course. Hearing Farmer, Kleinman, Keshavjee, Becker, and others lecture about their experiences was incredibly inspiring.
This course serves as a fantastic vehicle for anyone interested in global health and all of the factors involved in it, especially to anyone who wants to make a difference.
An interesting, inspirational, and enjoyable class!
I would say that its an incredible course for anyone who wants to learn more about the global health world and wants to be introduced to some incredible and influential people in this field.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading, but the course was definitely worth taking and we had a lot of cool guest lecturers.
It's an introductory global health class.  Don't take it as an upperclassman if you already have lots of global health experience.  It's pretty frustrating if you fall into the latter category, and there isn't much of an effort to accomodate people from all backgrounds.
This class is amazing! It's not easy by any means, but the reading is fascinating, and the professors and TFs really care about the students and that they're learning. It's great being surrounded by so many figures who are truly experts in their fields, and getting to hear their experiences straight from them.
Really great class - "superstar" lecturers such as Paul Farmer and others famous in the world of public health. It'll give you a great overview of issues in global health and challenge set ideas you might have. However, realize that there is a lot of reading and a weekly response paper. If you have other heavy classes, this might not be the best class to take.
There is a ton of reading so be prepared!
Take this class for the phenomenal professors. These people are doing big things in the world!! You will regret not taking this class after you graduate.
Every lecture is something that you would like to go hear on a saturday night if the lecturer was in town giving a guest lecture.  The class is a unique asset of Harvard.
It is a very nice introduction to global health.
Changed my life. I want to go into public health now.
It's an excellent class to satisfy the Gen Ed requirement (though not easy, you have to work at it). Highly recommend to anyone with the slightest interest in Global Health.
The class was very reading and writing intensive, so expect to spend a lot of time on this course. However, for me, the benefits of taking an interesting class that made me inspired to consider pursuing global health outweighed those costs. It's a decision that will depend on each person, depending on their interest in global health.
There are a lot of readings so one must work hard, but in the end you learn so much. Also, hearing about these great, heroic success stories around the world, it encourages one to get involved oneself.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard!  It is truly inspirational and I think is likely to change your life.
Take it - even if you are a freshman! I am not pre-med or planning specifically to go into public health, but I have a deep interest in international development; this course has provided me with exceptional tools and support to pursue my own goals.
You must take this class. Best class I've ever taken.Hands down "a must".
So this is one of the classes on why you come to Harvard for, a course which allows you to learn with professors who have done amazing things with global health. It's a class that will probably overwhelm you at first with the readings and the density of the material, but as you move onto case studies, you see the value and application of all that you learned in the beginning. It is a class which challenges you to address problems and provides avenues for you to participate in finding the solution as well. Take it, and  make sure to leave a little time to contemplate and analyze all that you learn!
If you're interested in public health, this course provides an excellent immersion into both theory and real world experience. Although Paul Farmer is listed as a lecturer, don't expect to see him much. He's more of a figurehead professor. But don't let that dissuade you! Kleinman and Keshavjee more than carry the weight of the course. Both are excellent lecturers. In addition, be prepared for weighty readings - but for the most part they're interesting.
Lots of reading, but very interesting!
Course has a lot of very valuable material to be learned if you are interested in global health. It gives theoretical, historical and contemporary background. You will also learn a lot about approaches to global health solutions.
Be prepared to come out of the class understanding how complicated health care is and how obvious some of the stuff is, even if it used to not be or seems not.
Extremely inspiring
This course, like many at Harvard, is taught by professors who lead their field.  In fact, these doctors basically invented the modern conception of global health.  While this represents an incredible opportunity to be close to greatness, it is important to remain skeptical.  Because they are active players on the international stage, the professors have very specific ideas and ways of doing things, and it this class will be a valuable experience and an interesting thought exercise only inasmuch as you can resist being inculcated with a specific agenda.  Stay strong and enjoy!
If you want to hear from some top-notch people at the forefront of global health, this is the course for you. Focus on the concepts that you find interesting, because that'll make keeping up with the workload a lot easier.
This class was one of the most amazing classes I have ever taken as a student.
Its alot of reading but its worth it in the end. You learn so much!
This class is a great class for anyone remotely interested in health, economics, human interaction, biology, sociology, human relations, politics, international diplomacy, statistics, business and charity.
Hands-down the best class I have taken at Harvard. It will change your life. Everything about this course is incredible.
Keep up with the reading.
Be ready for lots of reading/work and not a lot of organization, but the professors and vision of the course are amazing.
This class has some of the most fantastic professors and lecturers in the world, who've changed nations, addressed the UN, fixed health care systems, cured AIDS, set up clinics in Haiti, you name it. It is an opportunity not to be missed.
if you're at all interested in the subject matter, it's worth taking. you learn a lot. but it's like trying to drink out of a fire hose. there is a heck of a lot of reading, and it is not structured in such a way that is conducive to being able to organize it all in your head very well. be prepared to feel at least a little lost/dazed for most of the semester. but you will learn a lot and it will change your thinking
This course is AMAZING!  So important if you want to begin understanding health, international development or are just interested in world issues
This is a great class with some great material. Just be wary of the repetitiveness of the lecturers and readings sometimes.
It's an excellent class to appreciate and criticize the developments in Global health and it's challenges.
lots of opportunities presented in this class- grasp them.
You get a lot out of this class if you put in the work, go to office hours, contact the professors, and take advantage of the resources and opportunities in global health.
The professors are amazing - and Paul Farmer is an inspiration - but they are not directly involved enough to make the class excellent. I really enjoyed it, but I was not blown away.
Summarize readings as you go along. It takes a bit longer, but it's worth it come midterm and final time.  Also, think about readings as they apply to the weekly topic and not isolated.
It's a wonderful opportunity to hear from experts in the field and learn how you can make a difference, even if you're not aiming to be the next Paul Farmer. It's also important to keep in mind that this class isn't just about Paul Farmer, the other professors are equally (if not more) important.
This class is exclusively about HIV and TB in the 3rd world. The professors are egomaniacs (and poor lecturers), the reading list will give you a fit, and the course is structured very poorly.
If you're willing to put a lot of work into it it'll be worth it.  No matter what though, you'll learn a lot about current health situations in the world.
This course is really great! The professors are funny, engaging and present really interesting material on both past and contemporary global health. Great intro class to the field!
This class really opened my eyes to the practice of public health and all the dilemmas that are involved. It was a lot of reading, but I thought most of it was really enjoyable.
The professors are very inspiring, and anyone interested in global health should definitely consider the class! You don't need background knowledge in the topic (although it would certainly be helpful), and they cover everything from economics to the medical treatment of diseases. Be prepared for a huge workload of reading articles and writing papers about them!
Great class- inspring professors, great/informative material, a lot of outside resources/connections you can make, relatively easy assessments. Make sure you form a study group to discuss material (at least up until midterm) and use other sections' lecture/reading summaries if your section doesn't do them.
Unless you put yourself in a position to work hard in this class, you won't enjoy it.
Though this course requires a lot of reading, the material is very interesting and the lectures are especially engaging. It's not very often at Harvard that you get a class taught by not one but four prominent academics and leaders in their fields.
This was my favorite class this semester! I feel like it changed my life and helped further me in the direction of development that I hoped college would facilitate! I left this class feeling like I knew so much more about what is going on in the world and I am overwhelmingly grateful to my professors and TA's for offering this course and being so dedicated to it. This is exactly what I hoped college class life would be like!
Definitely a great course for anyone interested in medicine, global health, or medical anthropology.  The course directors were great, and the material was very meaninful.
Don't take this class just because Paul Farmer is teaching it, take it if you are interested in the material and pay attention to the other professors, who are excellent.
This class is great.  The professors and lecturers are awesome, but there is a lot of reading, and a lot of work.
You learn interesting and relevant material, if you are interested in global health.  However, there is a good amount of weekly work and a lot of work at the end of the semester (big final paper AND final exam).
I loved this course, especially the professors, because it applied much global health theory and anthropological methods to actually try to practically solve some of the biggest global health problems around the world. This class gave me wonderful contacts in the global health field throughout Harvard university and greatly inspired me to continue to study in the global health field.
Though it was a lot of work, this class is definitely worth the effort.
Excellent lecturers- do it, but know that to get a lot out, you will need to put in a fair amount
a lot of reading to manage. both a final term paper and an exam is a bit over the top. honestly, the paper demonstrates how we can synthesize what we've learned, but the exam only tests how quickly we can demonstrate what we've learned, which is completely unnecessary.
Take this class if you want to learn how to be a critical thinker, as well as learn about global health from the current leaders in the field.  Even if you're not interested in global health, it provides a look into  medical, anthropologic, historical, and economic disciplines.
This is a great class to expand your horizons and to get you thinking about important issues. It combines a number of different fields and is a good class for anyone who is planning on entering any concentration.
You'll learn to appreciate what else is out there.
Keep an open mind when you enter the course. Evaluate what you know before and after taking the course and consider how your conceptions evolved throughout the duration of the course.
The material is fantastic, and it is a great opportunity to take a class taught by two experts in the field (with visiting lecturers who are similarly well-respected and well-known).
I believe this is one of the most spectacular and worthwhile courses offered at Harvard, and I am so fortunate to have discovered it as a freshman.  I strongly believe that any undergraduate who aims to help less fortunate people in this world in their future careers should seriously consider taking this course at some point in their 4 years here; it opened my eyes to a whole new world and the passion of the students and teachers was inspiring.  For reasons you will discover in the course, I feel that it should be an experience that all Harvard undergraduates should have before they graduate.  The readings are fascinating, but don't let the large course pack scare you off; not all the readings are necessary to do well in the course.
Read Mountains Beyond Mountains and you'll learn much more than you will in this course.
If you're interested in global health, definitely take this class!
This class was probably quite amazing when Farmer, Kim, and Kleinman taught it. I get the sense from people who took it then that it was more focused, more inspiring, more informative. But this year, the class was a mess. The material is interesting at first if you've never dealt with global health before, but it quickly becomes repetitive, boring, and obscure.
you might learn a cursory knowledge about Global Health topics, but lectures are disorganized and reduntant
great
This class is amazing. Although the class is pretty biased (your one economics lecture is from Stephen Marglin, who's probably the most liberal member of the economics department), It'll change how you view the world, health, and to attack problems in global health.
I loved the course overall! It was very interesting, enjoyable, and taught you so much about different topics on global health, how to approach certain problems and questions, and completely changed my outlook on anthropology, global health issues we hear about on the news, and the way I learned about subjects in my other classes. The lectures are great; don't worry about doing all the reading, since there is too much, but be comfortable with the major theory ones in the beginning and the most important ones after that.
Everyone at Harvard should be required to take this course. Everyone.
Extremely interesting. Sheds light on a lot of pressing social issues.
For most, if not all, students, the course can serve as a great introduction to not only global health but similar large-scale social issues such as poverty, discrimination, inequalities, among others.
Having the opportunity to listen to Farmer, Kleinman & Keshavjee especially, twice a week, was invaluable and I'm so glad I was able to take this class.
