It seems great on paper but it's actually very disorganized.  Teaching staff is very dry.  Lectures and sections contribute next to nothing to learning. Felt gimmicky to be honest.
Creating your own project is a lot of fun, but come to the class with an idea in mind already.
If you're interested in case studies from developing countries and access to faculty from all the different schools, take this course! It was a great experience to interact with graduate students, as well. I would caution that this class can be a bit ambiguous, especially in regards to grading and the final project.
If you're interested in entrepreneurship for developing countries, there's probably not a better course you can take; a course that opens eyes and potentially career options
Do not take this for an elective. You can get just as much out of the course by just doing the readings and auditing lecture.
An incoherent potpourri of modules and assignments that falls far short of its stated goal of introducing students to a framework for creating solutions for developing countries.
Don't take this class as a freshman! The class is not hard to follow along and the readings are not that challenging but I feel like it would be a lot more fruitful if you have an innovative idea or idea of what you want to do.
This was perhaps one of the best courses I have taken. This course is an excellent opportunity to get exposed to so many perspectives presented by experts in their fields. The professors were obviously very knowledgeable and every class was extremely interesting and left us with so much knowledge. By the end of this course, you gain a wealth of knowledge and work on an amazing project that you are passionate about. Make sure you choose good teammates because you will be stuck with them throughout the semester. Choose a project that you are passionate about because this will be the project you will be working on throughout the course. Come to this class with a thirst for knowledge and experience and you will not regret it. It is a wonderful course and I cannot say enough good things about it. I highly recommend it.
Uneven modules
This class is very multidisciplanary and will allow you to create real solutions to concemporary development issues. The faculty is very supportive. Almost all the assignments are group projects; this may sound annoying, but it's a great way to meet people from different schools. My main team included a student from Tufts, HBS, HKS, the college and a visiting student from Switzerland. Our diverse backgrounds were perfect for creating our own solutions to development and allowed for a lot of creativity. Definitely a great way to tackle this GenEd or take a fun course that is not overly demanding.
This course was for me a great introduction to several of the issues facing the developing world and the ways to fix them, something I cared about before taking the class and something I care more about now. The set up of the class, two lectures and an undergrad section a week (in my experience) weren't heavy at all to deal with, and coupled with the just right reading quantity, makes for a manageable workload. The head professor, Tarun Khanna, is definitely the best man for the job. Albeit a little intimidating at times, he shines light on the finer points of each case study and makes the course interesting. I'm overall glad I took the course, but beware of the final project. The first few projects were assigned groups, something that may make you groan but it's preferable to not knowing how you're to work with. The final project's set up of mixers to meet potential teammates was a good idea in theory, but after marketing myself as best as I could, I had no luck in finding a group. I felt like a lot of groups were composed of friends who took the course together or weren't from as diverse backgrounds as the class intended. I ended up working on a subject that I wasn't as enthusiastic about as a result. The lesson here is if you take the course, be much more proactive in finding teammates as I was.
Very interesting course, provides an interesting framework for tackling a variety of problems.
This class is really cool and the material and professors are great, but it is a lot of work for a GenEd. Don't take this as a cool, easy GenEd; it definitely requires you to work. However, your final project is very rewarding. If you put the time into this course, you can come out with something pretty amazing.
The workload (for assignments I didn't feel were too valuable) was more than anticipated. You do learn that you wouldn't learn otherwise, though.
This class is very interesting and teaches you how to think critically to determine effective solutions to problems in developing countries.
This is a great class if you want to learn about developing countries and gives you a good framework to think about how to address those problems. However, be prepared to work more in this class than in other gen-ed classes.
You don't really have to do the reading in this class. The assignments are fair, though they were graded a bit harshly.
This class pretty much embodies what is wrong with the general education curriculum at Harvard...this class in theory sounds interesting, but in reality is frustrating and doesnf live up to the hype. Professor Khanna is impressive and knowledgable, but sometimes class discussions don't feel productive. You can get more if you put more into the class but there is too much expected of students. The grading is harsh and ambiguous, wirh very little feedback on assignments. For example, you can get a 3/5 because your idea isn't "original enough" but that feedback is vague. Section is a joke and the TFs do little...it's basically entirely student led. Working with groups for every assignment is the biggest pain and I would avoid it at all costs. If you do take this class, be selective about the people in your group for the final project. Working with grad students is recommended by the TFs but the graduate students can be wholly uncommittal.
This course provided a great overview of social entrepreneurship in general, within and beyond the developing world. I liked that it separated the course into multiple different modules to discuss the different versions and interpretations of social entrepreneurship. I loved reading and learning about all the different case studies and projects, and as someone new to the social entrepreneurship world, I felt that this course provided a strong framework on the topic. I leave this course with a great curiosity and interest in innovative and critical ways to approach intractable problems in our society. HOWEVER, this course was extremely, extremely time consuming. Each assignment was a group project and took much more time than expected - I wonder if the professors and TF's intended these to take up that much of its students' time, or if they were just blown way out of proportion. The assignments were also graded quite harshly, with inadequate guidance and feedback. For the final project, a business proposal on a solution of your choice, the professors seemed to expect an actual real-life business proposal rather than a feasible school project, which in real life takes MONTHS for people to put together while we were given a matter of few weeks to do so. I spent close to 50 hours meeting with my group in the last few weeks of school to create a project that would be remotely satisfactory to our professors, and honestly at this point I have no idea what to expect in terms of feedback and my grade. Overall, I really enjoyed this course and its content, but was really put off by the workload and assignments. Much of the things we did in lectures as well as section were awesome and really enjoyable, and I did learn a lot of new practical skills from both class and the coursework that I don't get from other classes, which I value highly. But I really wish the teaching staff would restructure the coursework and give clearer directions and feedback instead of throwing students into this mess. If I didn't come into this class with a preexisting interest and future plans in social entrepreneurship, I think I would have hated this class much more, as I expect is what happened with a lot of other people in this class.
This class is pretty cool! You'll learn about how to be an effective entrepreneur in developing economies, which is an increasingly relevant context in the world. There's definitely quite a bit of work involved (especially considering it's a gen ed), and you'll end up writing a massive paper in a group (~25 pages at least) at the end of the term. There are a lot of readings to keep up with, but they'll all super interesting, and it's fun to have different professors lead each class.I definitely recommend taking this if you need a SW. It's not a joke gen ed, but it's not crazy hard, so you definitely walk away with tangible entrepreneurship skills.
My favorite class so far at Harvard, a great roster of professors and classmates from all Harvard schools, really interesting HBS cases and Prof. Khanna is very charismatic and thought-provoking
This is probably the best way to fill your SW gen ed and is also a great class on its own. The workload is completely manageable and the topics are all fascinating. If you form a good group for the final project, that also has the potential to be a truly worthwhile and exciting experience.
The course material and the way it approaches social entrepreneurship is very interesting. However, subject matter aside the course is very poorly structured. Also, the projects will take a SIGNIFICANT amount of effort, much more than I expected.
Interesting course for those interested in international development
This class is definitely a gem that opens your eyes to problems in developing countries. All students should take this class at one point in their college career.
The readings in this class are crucial for getting as much out of the course as possible. Without reading the cases before the lecture, it is difficult to make an interesting contribution to the discussion or ask insightful questions. The cases are also very interesting for those keen to learn about entrepreneurship and business in different location around the world. The readings for 'Thinking Like an Artist' were challenging and very substantial in their amount (I doubt anyone actually read the whole of Kant's Third Critique.) It is important to be in group of driven students for the final project and to choose a topic that the group is passionate about. This provides more motivation for creating a successful business plan.
Lectures are great, make sure to actually read the case studies and contribute. If you have a passion for entrepreneurship and would like to learn how to write an actual business proposal, take this course! I'd consider this one of the few courses at Harvard that gave me tangible skills that I can apply to life. Excellent course!
You should take this course, but make sure you choose your group project partners wisely.  The lectures are usually interesting and the course will get you to think about the worlds problems from new and unexpected perspectives.
This class in theory is amazing.  It features a ton of different professors talking about very relevant issues, however, it is not the most organized.  Not everything seems to relate to one another, and there is a constant stream of work (it is not hard work, but very time consuming).  It requires weekly discussion posts and a lot of assignments that do not seem that useful.  You do, however, learn a lot about very pressing and important issues.
This class provides a chance for freshman to understand how upperclassmen and grad school students think and work. Collaborating with them helps you learn so much.
The class in theory is great, but it seemed that unless you had previously had experience in developing countries, it was difficult for you to contribute during class. Graduate students dominated discussions during class, and it seemed difficult to provide insight unless you had experienced similar situations to the cases talked about in class. Definitely opened my eyes to many different case studies around the world, and how a many fields work together to address real world problems.
Great class to take. Makes you realize how you can make a business that also solves a need in a community. I learned how to think about businesses in the government/NGO ecosystem through this class. At the same time, I was able to learn a lot about South Asia and current initiatives and needs in the area. The class maybe somewhat disorganized, though. Prof. Khanna's HBS-style lectures were my favorite because we got a chance to see how he and other students in the class look at different initiatives and say what contributed to their success or lack thereof.
This is an awesome class that you can learn a ton from if you invest time in it. Even if you don't invest that much time, you will naturally gain a lot of really interesting insight into social innovation/entrepreneurship and South Asia. Definitely take this course.
This class is really interesting, but the lectures are hit and miss.
It's a great multidisciplinary course for people interested in international development, entrepreneurship, developing countries, and the region. It might be a bit intimidating because a lot of people have an extensive background in the region, but it won't be held against you as long as you do the readings. Professor Khanna is very knowledgeable and guest speakers were interesting as well.
This is a bit different from most courses at Harvard.  While most classes tend to give you content that you then have to replicate/regurgitate on exams and other types of assignments, the point of this class is more to help you develop a skill set that you can then take with you beyond Harvard to make a difference outside the classroom.  For that reason I think the class is worth taking, since you have the opportunity to read and hear about the successes (and more importantly, failures) of predecessors in the field who have tried tackling problems in South Asia, through the guest lectures and case studies.  Professor Khanna is an incredibly smart man, and while at first it may seem hard to connect with him, if you do get the chance I would HIGHLY recommend it (he holds occasional office hours where he does 1-on-1 meetings, sign up!), since he is an incredible resource to have.  In terms of the class itself, in the short term it may seem a-okay due to issues such as disconnected guest lectures and somewhat arbitrary grading, but coming out of the class you will see that you have developed invaluable experience that will help you in the future.
Take this class, it will broaden your mind and allow you to bring your own individual academic experiences, be they in mathematics, linguistics, philosophy or computer science, to a stage where you can have meaningful impact. This class is about using your education to do something productive, and is one of the few Harvard classes that allows you to feel that kind of empowerment. One of the best classes of my four years.
Very interesting class- great way to learn about social entrepreneurship and cultural and institutional context in South Asia. Very broad modules- so come willing to explore a breadth of topics.
This class is awesome to engage with contem. SA issues and it's a very painless gen ed too. You get what you put into this course, so if you take it seriously, you'll learn a lot. Teaching staff is very engaging and the content is super interesting.
Awesome course. Being in a room with people from all across Harvard is a phenomenal experience and should certainly be taken advantage of. DEFINITELY TAKE THIS if you have even the slightest interest in South Asia. From learning about urban planning and heritage preservation, to micro-finance and social entrepeneurship strategies, this multi-faceted course is by far the greatest course I have taken ever.
TAKE THIS COURSE. What a gem, my god. Teaching staff is super into the course. Material is great. Assignments are actually interested and very manageable. 

Take this one - you will not regret taking this course!!11!!11
this is such an amazing class. it is really not that hard, but you learn so much that is so relevant to our lives. definitely go to lectures, and do the readings (theres not much). the final project is really fun, and it's great working with grad students. the syllabus and introduction to the course make it seem a bit daunting, but it is very manageable and enjoyable. definitely one of my favorite classes so far
Take this class if you are fascinated with India and seriously plan to be an entrepreneur there. Otherwise, find a different class.
This class was a great way to satisfy the Societies of the World gened. It is far from a gem, and requires much more work than certain gened courses. It is great if you have any interest in India or entrepreneurship. It is also the only class at Harvard where there is no lottery to take a class that involves HBS case studies.
great experiment of a class!
Get used to the case style format and that the class will have a lot of graduate school students. You have to make an effort to stay engaged.
This is a great interdisciplinary class about South Asia, with a strong focus on India.  Prof. Khanna is wonderful, and I loved the HBS cases that we covered.  Some of the many assignments are annoying and slightly time consuming but other than that a totally manageable gen ed!
This class is amazing! It gave me a new framework to think about social problems prevalent in South Asia, and creative ways to begin solving them.
Couldn't recommend it highly enough. We discussed real world problems that exist in the Indian subcontinent (fair warning-- majority of the course focused on India, but the style in which problems across countries in the subcontinent need to be tackled is similar, so not that big an issue), and learn to critically evaluate approaches that have been made to solve them. I knew I wanted to do something for India, but it was a vague, abstract concept; this course was my lamp that lead me out of the darkness, and made my ideas more concrete. Prof. Khanna is a wonderful resource, great to bombard with any questions. In my year, the class had <10 undergrads; and around 30 grad students. Warning: I would be careful about taking the course if I were not from the subcontinent. I recommend doing it only if a) you've spent time in the subcontinent, or b) you understand the culture and issues a little bit through personal reading/another class, or c) you're interested in developing countries and have a natural interest in issues there, and don't mind being one of the only people without specific background (doesn't necessarily affect how you write the assignments as you have time to research on them, and you'll still learn lots).
This course is an excellent interdisciplinary look into South Asian affairs and challenges. Dr. Khanna is an engaging professor, but not all other module instructors will be as prepared, or present with the same quality. This is one potential downside of the course: module professors sometimes came across as not quite prepared due to their "guest lecturer" status in the class.  Joint ownership among all professors would help to improve this class, though I know that may not be logistically possible.
The class is a great way to survey various ways in which entrepreneurs in South Asia have taken a stance in addressing the prevalent institutional voids the region faces.
Very unique course that brings together students from a variety of disciplines and schools, allows you to take a critical eye to institutional voids in South Asia and the entrepreneurs that fill them.
This class is very engaging and great overview of entrepreneurship in a very difficult environment - India.  The best way to maximize this class is to make use of all the resources available including not only Dr. Khanna and Gokul, but also your classmates.  One of the greatest strengths of this class is the eclectic selection of students around you (HLS, HBS, The School of Public Health, and more).  There is a huge range of people in this class with a wide range of skill sets from young students, to successful entrepreneurs.
Working on a project or paper is definitely fulfilling, but the class lacks a good structure of support throughout the process. The material is interesting, but feedback on work done is limited.
They assign to many readings for you to actually do all of them, the lectures are kind of dry, and you never really have a sense for how your grade is in this course.
This is a really interesting course that ends with a very engaging project. If you do the readings, I think you will get a sense of the energy of HBS classes!
Lecture is interesting and Prof. Khanna makes it discussion-based, but lecture doesn't seem entirely relevant to the deliverables. Section is a great way to talk more about the material and innovate - you get to brainstorm and debate solutions to the problems discussed.
It opens your eyes to how conceptual issues manifest themselves in the lives of Southeast Asians on a daily basis.
Interesting introduction to a topic not normally explored in classes. Also allows students an exposure to the HBS style of teaching and thinking about problems.
Lot of readings - try to skim at least the abstract, intro, conclusion, and tables of them. Really interesting lectures. I thought Professor Khanna was amazing and really liked the project aspect of the course.
The course, overall, was okay. I had a lot of high expectations from it in terms of learning about how to be an entrepreneur, executing ideas, etc. This course did not teach me that. The low coursework made me not care about the course as much as I would have liked to care about it. The professor is a bit rude, so speaking up during lecture could be intimidating. The final project for our group was total chaos, as we did not receive much help from the instructors.
This class can be a very interesting and a lot of fun if you are willing to put in work. If you just do the bare minimum you wont get much out of this class,but if you do the work it is very rewarding
Great class. One of the few that exposes students to HBS cases and professors. The students come from every school at the University. The reading assignments are multifacteted. And finally, the course is very managable.
You have to be prepared to participate. You cannot be shy in this course.
The key to this course is the final project. If you really  want to do well in the class, go into it with the mindset that you want to launch a venture in India. In this sense, the final project is much more time intensive than just a paper. Many of the groups are very keen on actually implementing their business plans, so be prepared to submit something substantive. Also, the project is not something you can put off until the last few weeks of the course. You absolutely must be working on it throughout the whole semester.
Definitely take this course if you are interested in helping the world. Khanna opened my eyes to all sorts of unconventional ways to improve lives.
Learned a lot, really fun discussion-based class. Highly recommend!
If you have the knowledge and desire to be making real social change in India today this is the course for you! If you are only looking to learn about the region perhaps look elsewhere since this course is more about practical application than mastery of new knowledge.
great exposition to different facets/problems facing a new South Asia; focused mostly on urban life
This class was one of the most interesting that I've taken at Harvard, both for subject matter and because its structure based around case studies since it's run by a Professor from HBS. It would be useful to have a background in South Asia, either to have family from there or have travelled/worked there at some point. The grad students can be a bit overwhelming to keep up with just because they have so much already under their belts.
The issues discussed in the course are really relevant and the course also provides a unique opportunity to exert creativity and ingenuity to take what is taught through case studies and lectures and solve these problems.
Overall this is a pretty good class, I learned a lot and really enjoyed doing the readings. That said, many people get by without doing most of the readings. Also, the group project is a good idea, but make sure you have a good group of people you know will work hard - there were a couple of people who didn't pull their weight in my group and it makes life really difficult, especially since it's very time-intensive and it is weighted for the bulk of your grade.
This class gives you a great opportunity to work with other individuals excited to make a positive difference in South Asia. The course gives an excellent overview of complex issues in South Asia and gives you the opportunity to interact with experts in social enterprise in South Asia. Use this course to launch a new or existing social enterprise forward!
Professor Khanna is a really great lecturer. The class is application-based and current, focusing on attempted and potential solutions for social problems. You'll get more out of the class if you're knowledgeable about South Asia, but a very good class even if you're not. If you think entrepreneurship is cool, take this class. A good Gen-Ed for engineering concentrators.
Think very carefully before taking this class. If you have an interest in South Asia, the material is fascinating, but since there's absolutely no accountability in the course I felt like most people didn't get nearly as much out of it as they could have. Also, be prepared for the lectures to be dominated by the majority of grad students who know exactly what they're talking about. Be very careful in picking your group for the final project - it will literally make or break your experience in this class. Finally, if you're the kind of person who is obsessed with grades, I would decidedly not take this class since none of us had an idea what grade we had all semester (we didn't get a single letter grade in the class, since we only formally turned in one assignment, which was returned to us with a few comments and no grade).
It was a good course with well defined intentions but since it was the first year that it was offered, the kinks weren't worked out as well as I would have liked them to be. I think it was hard to do everything the course required simply because a lot of it that involved creating a social enterprise in South Asia wasn't able to be done in a semester's worth of time. The readings and cases were really interesting though and gave a good perspective on South Asia. Sometimes lectures would get a little boring when it involved class discussion. Also, it's a lot of work for a gen ed.
Definitely take this class, but make sure you go in knowing that although you will learn a lot, you will have no idea how you are being evaluated.
This course is for you especially if you have some level of knowledge on a project or venture you want to develop.
put in the time to do the readings and participate in class. you'll get more out of it.
