The professors are really great and have invested a lot into making it an enriching experience. Otherwise, it depends on your TF.
This was a fun way to satisfy the SW gen-ed requirement.
This class is a great overview of Chinese history from the very beginnings to the modern day, emphasizing a lot of historical/cultural trends through time. It helped me understand why China's culture is like what it is today - and why the political/economic system is such a strange combination of communism and capitalism. It helps explain a lot of the Chinese mentality behind education, social networking, and other aspects of life that are very different from what we are used to in the West, and things click a lot more after learning the historical background and basis of this incredibly important country. The modules were very well done and class discussions were interesting, and I'd highly recommend this class to anyone who wants a high-level overview of Chinese history to better understand China today.
If you're interested in Chinese history and also take Chinese language courses, it's very interesting to see the interaction between the two and improve your understanding of both.
Learned a lot about chinese history. Before you take this class you should know it involves a lot of video watching on canvas. Don't take this class if you don't like that. Be prepared to participate in class. There are two essays and they aren't that hard so I think this class is overall not too much work, and you learn a lot.
I would explain the parts of this class I really didn't like but say overall it was pretty good.
This class was very enjoyable. Professors Bol and Szonyi are both highly qualified and very interesting--it's great fun to watch them interact with each other. You will learn a great deal about Chinese history, from the origin stories of Chinese civilization to the Communist revolution and modern times. Sometimes it can be difficult to see how the lectures are going to progress, making it tricky to add your meaningful comments to the discussion, but this is probably true for many courses. The online modules are not difficult and in fact are enjoyable/relaxed most of the time. They add some flexibility to your schedule. I found the papers (of which there are 2) to be a significant time commitment and high expectations, but then again I haven't yet taken Expos.
This course deals a lot with Chinese philosophy and thinkers-- at times it felt like more of a philosophy class than a history class. This isn't positive or negative, just something I didn't realize when I signed up.
If you want to learn about Chinese history and how its legacy plays out in current events, then definitely take this course. However, it's definitely not an easy gen-ed - the online modules and quizzes take up several hours a week and are more time-consuming than you would expect.
If you're interested in learning about China, this is a fantastic class. There is a decent workload though, so be prepared to do readings/modules.
This course is a great introduction into Chinese history - it provides you with a strong overview of a complicated topic as well as some of the best professors on the planet in this field. I would not describe it as light in workload, but it is definitely manageable and if you are enthusiastic about the topic it shouldn't be a problem.
Professor Bol and Professor Kirby are both fantastic and extremely knowledgable. The lecture video method used to teach this class is effective to some degree, but the amount of time you will need to put in to this class should be noted. Though this is a gen-ed, the lecture videos take a significant chunk of time to watch, and there are quizzes interspersed between these videos to make sure you're retaining the content. All that being said, I feel much more knowledgeable about modern China and China's history after taking this course.
Do the work for YOURSELF more than anyone else.  Even if discussions in class go astray, you will learn a bunch from the material itself as well!
The online quizzes don't test your understanding and the answers are very confusing.
If you are at all interested in China or want to know more about it, this course is a must take.  Alternatively, having taken many gen eds, this is in my opinion the best societies of the world class out there and should be taken by anyone looking to fulfill that requirement and add value to themselves.
It's definitely a course on China's history, from ancient until now, so if you're only interested in certain periods, probably isn't the best class for that. Also, there was a pretty heavy emphasis on business cases towards the end (i.e. modern Chinese history) since that was Prof. Kirby's half, but I think it took away from me learning about historically relevant China facts from about Mao era on.
The perfect introduction to China, a good fit whether or not you have prior experience.
This is a course that allows you to engage with professors on a very close basis, and it's discussion based as well!
This is a good class with good, interesting professors, but be willing to put in work for the modules and readings.
Don't take it just to get the SW gen ed done. Take it because you want to learn about China. If you just want to get your gen ed done, you won't appreciate this course, but if you ARE interested in China, you'll like this course quite a bit.
Excellent course.  The professors are really smart and engaging.  One of my favorite courses at Harvard.  The case studies are also fun, though they are lacking a bit in terms of mirroring a real case study.
This is a great class but be prepared to spend a lot of time on it!
Don't take this class if you're looking to learn about Chinese history without any prior knowledge. This class is strongly catered towards those who are already familiar with Chinese history.
Do not take a class that has online EdX parts.
This is a really good course. It's taught well, the TF's are engaged and want to help; as a course, it's really put together as well as it could possibly be, given what variables can and can't be controlled. That said, the students who enroll in this class are unexpectedly tedious. (Perhaps it's because of the B-School case studies, that it's this way) For some reason it brings out the proverbial "section kid" in a lot of wannabe captain of industry classmates, leading them to pontificate at length in response to questions that could easily be addressed by a sentence or two at most. It seems like a small thing, but in a discussion class such as this, all those B-School sycophants can really bring you down.
The history was interesting, but the flipped classroom model this year was terrible - DO NOT take the course with it unless you really like being forced to speak in discussion-based classes. (The flipped classroom means watching lectures beforehand and classes being all discussion.) It made the class really disorganized, and being cold-called on is never fun. There was also a lot of work, with modules AND readings AND additional exhibits on the course website. Chinese history is fascinating, and I enjoyed the scope of the class and the lectures themselves, but the format of the class just made it confusing and stressful.
This course is a VERY general introduction to Chinese history - covering 4000+ years of history in 13ish weeks doesn't leave a lot of time to spend on any one topic. It moves quickly, and it's easy to get left behind. To that end, it's also kinda imperative that you keep pace, since class is devoted to discussion and participation makes up a large percentage of your grade. This is not a class where you can skip readings, and between readings and watching online lectures, the out-of-class workload is quite substantial. There's no final, and the midterm and two papers are fairly straightforward. Take it if you want a quick intro to what you need to know about China - Professors Bol and Kirby have great stories about their travels in the country.
This is a great class if you are interested in Chinese history and how it relates to contemporary China. The course traces 5,000 years of Chinese history, focusing on the big trends and how those develop through time. The class is discussion-based, so you will need to spend time watching the online modules and analyzing the assigned reading on your own in order to come to class prepared and engage in the discussion.
This course is more time consuming than it appears. The online modules take a lot of time, and it is strongly recommended to take notes while watching. The class discussions during the first half of the course about Chinese philosophies are not always helpful as it is difficult to pinpoint what the important points of the discussion were. I found the latter half of the class discussions given by Professor Kirby to be more to the point.
Without extensive changes, it is difficult for me to recommend this course to anyone.  The combination of a lot of prep work for each lecture (discussion readings,  background readings,  online modules) and the somewhat aggressive nature of the professor's questioning in lecture did not make this class an enjoyable experience for me.  That said, this class may be one of the best ways to learn a lot about the history of China in one semester, so balance your desire to learn with your tolerance for an unpleasant class experience.
You have to like that you might be cold called, or at least it should not bother you. However, especially the part of traditional China is very interesting and thoughtful prepared with a huge array of different types of possible readings which definitly help to get an impression to the Chinese culture. Moreover, this course takes a different vantage point than lots of others. But definitly, shop the course before you decide.
No other class will give you a better overview of Chinese history in one semester.
Professor Bol is amazing and covers the material of Chinese history very well. Even though I am not a history/social science concentrator, I very much enjoyed learning from him and he facilitated great discussions in class. Professor Kirby was not nearly as impressive.
Course is very demanding if you're only taking it or a gen Ed. Loved Kirby
It's a lot of work with the flipped classroom model, but it's also has my two best professors at the college so it was all worth it. I'd recommend it.
This is a very interesting and engaging class.
This is a pretty interesting class. Chinese history is fascinating and it is really interesting to see the rise and fall of China's power over time. Professors Bol and Kirby are really great and engaging and provide an interesting contrast of styles. That being said there is a fair bit of work involved, especially if they continue with the EdX flipped classroom format where you must be prepared for class because they cold call. It is definitely manageable, but this class takes up quite a bit of time for a GenEd.
It's a lot of work because of new teaching methods and the incorporation of a lot of online coursework and material. Also, doing the readings is very necessary because many start from square-one, with no background in Chinese history, etc.
There are some parts about this course that I loved, and some parts that I really didn't. Unless you universally love all aspects and periods of Chinese history, you're likely to fall into the same boat. Some stuff (like modern business development, revolution in the 20th century, etc.) was really fascinating for me, while others (tax and treaty systems in ancient China, the philosophies of particular Chinese officials) was a bit tedious. Know that you're signing up for the whole thing, and if you want to study Chinese history comprehensively, you'll have to take the exciting with the dull.The edX component of the course was a bit annoying at times. Module questions were often very, very specific and covered minute details of the lecture videos rather than big-picture stuff. I frequently had to re-watch lecture videos two or three times to catch the exact phrasing of a sentence, which was necessary to answer the questions correctly. That being said, it was definitely preferable to answer questions like this rather than in a final exam setting, and I'm optimistic they'll work on making the edX modules better the second time around.
It's not an easy course -- you should be willing to put more time into it than you'd expect.
