A generally interesting SW option, with acceptable teaching staff and workload. The major problem in its current iteration is that Prof. Elliott's lectures often have slides that don't correspond with his current verbal descriptions: visual learners will be severely thrown by this.
.....better speak Chinese before you take this course
This class is an interesting introduction to Chinese history. As somebody who has never studied it before, I can definitely say I learned a lot. One thing that I found difficult was the fact that this course deals with a few thousand years of history, which is much more than I'm used to. I found that the strategies for learning were different given this fact. Also, professor Elliott is great. His lectures are enjoyable and relaxing.
Do not take this course if there are more than 20 people in it. It just isn't worth it. The topic is fascinating (although don't be misled by the title into thinking that this is purely, or even largely, about the Great Wall), but the teaching staff did not seem prepared to handle the increase in enrollment.
interesting course, but a bit harder than expected
Do not take this course! The lectures are boring and monotonous, the sections dull and unforgiving, and the grading harsh and unequal. There are better ways to fulfill the Soc-World and non-Western history requirements.
Loved it! Professor Elliott is a great lecturer, and the reading material complements his classes very well. Never before has traditional Chinese history been looked at in this manner, and it really allows a greater understanding of China within the world, as well as how we can deal with/ relate to China today.
Great lectures but I did not feel welcome in this class.  I felt that I was consistently looked down upon because I was not from China, did not speak Chinese, and did not have a large amount of prior knowledge in the subject.  The material is fascinating but I did not appreciate how I was treated.
Surprisingly difficult for a gened, but super interesting and rewarding. The course has vey high expectations of students; which means that if you can put the time into it you'll learn SO MUCH. Even if you can't put a ton of time in, though, you can still get a lot out of the course. Lectures are engaging and fun; readings are meaty, sometimes tedious, but really where the deep content of the course lies. Highly recommended, as a gened or just an elective.
This class was interesting and its readings generally engaging. I would recommend it to students interested in a unique perspective on Chinese history or in frontiers. However, the readings were often lengthier than was necessary or pleasant, and lectures felt less dense with material than those in other Harvard classes. It was a pretty good class overall.
While Professor Elliott is an amazing lecturer, he is the strongest part of this course. Section assignments and readings were overwhelming to the point that they discouraged learning. I felt that the intensity of this course was founded on the fact that enrollment numbers went up because the Q guide had been so great for the previous year. It seemed as though the teaching staff was responding to high enrollment by making it difficult. It felt unfair and the course wasn't at all what I was expecting.
I loved Prof. Elliott and found lectures very interested to listen to. However, beyond the lectures, I found that the course overall expected a higher level that what should be for a Gened. I thought the readings were too nuanced and assumed a very deep knowledge of Chinese history, which made much of the reading go over my head as I was unable to understand it. Similarly, in section and in the other assignments, I found that the TF had expectations that were unreasonable. Because of this, I found that the course (though was interesting in lecture) was a large source of stress and not the best experience. Furthermore, grading was incredibly harsh and demoralizing.
This course completely transformed the way that I looked at China. It provided a comprehensive, sweeping (yet detailed) history of China not only from the perspective of China but from that of its inner Asian neighbors (as it should since, as we learned from the course, both are nothing without the other). Professor Elliot's lectures were extremely engaging and I always got the feeling that I was listening to some lesser known secret about China and how it came to be what it is today during lecture. It seemed that what he had to say about Chinese history came from a nuanced and more truthful perspective, and I feel like I have left the class understanding so much more about the people and the country. At some point in the middle of the course, I decided I needed to go back to China to see it from this fresh perspective, so I booked a ticket to do it over the summer. That is how much this course meant to me.
The first half of the course is absolutely brilliant, but it sort of loses steam in the second half. The standards set by the course are also not very clear, although they are certainly extremely high.
This class is super interesting. However, there are too many readings and lectures are kinda boring. If you are really interested in the material: in Inner Asia or nomadism, take this course! Just be prepared for a mix of good and bad.
I know a ton about Chinese history and from this I have a better understanding of what modern China is today.  Don't expect this to be an easy A.  The workload looks simple, but the understanding the TF's expect the students to demonstrate requires an ability to provide detailed, robust arguments... the grades are given to the ones who most clearly and effectively lay these out.
everyone should take this
THIS CLASS IS REALLY HARD!
So much reading
I think this is a good way to meet your SW gen ed but only if you're honestly interested in the material. There's a lot of reading, and the class covers a lot of material. You can do well on papers without doing all the readings or attending all the lectures, but you'll definitely miss out on the connections between themes that will become more important for the final. Section has weekly assignments and readings (in addition to lecture readings) and though I initially resented the extra work it definitely was helpful / necessary in understanding how to tie together the class themes. You can take this class without doing a lot of work, but you won't do well.
The class as it stands now rambles and feels weighed down by the heavy reading load. The grading is harsh, and expectations for assignments are often unclear though the feedback you get makes it sound like you should have  known all along. The topic itself is interesting, and Professor Elliott tries hard, but the class needs to seriously reevaluate the way it is being conducted.
Do not.
Don't take this course if you're looking for a SW Gen Ed. Easily one of the worst decisions I've ever made. I was looking for a fun, interesting class. Initially, this class fit that perfectly, but then, once the paper and video project starts, you'll be incredibly disappointed how harsh graders the professor and the TFs are. When you realize how easy it is for them to criticize your work and effort, the class becomes incredibly annoying and stressful. I would spend a lot of time reading and working in this course, even moreso than my other non Gen Ed courses, only to realize that I've performed poorly on my essay again. Steer clear of this class. It's not worth it.
This class is poorly run, too hard and not interesting enough to make up for it. Not an easy A. Only take if you have an interest in Chinese history and Chinese relations with inner asia.
Generally a very interesting course, although a lot of material to cover. Unfortunately David Porter made the section part of the course quite unpleasant. Choose the right TF!
Take copies notes in section and lecture, they really help.
Prof. Elliott is very personable and an engaging lecturer, but the section component of the class is tedious and not extremely rewarding.
Worst class I've taken at Harvard. I'm a graduating senior and have taken many 5 corse semesters.
An interest in Chinese history is crucial to enjoy this class. Without any interest, it's hard to stay focused during lecture and be motivated to do readings. Assignments are few and far in between, but you definitely learn a lot along the way.
In retrospect, I've actually learned a great deal about China during the course from a leading scholar in the field, but the course was a bit unclear about its expectations for the assignments. The head TF, David, was great and put a lot of effort into improving the course, and he is a good person to go to if you ever need help clarifying the expectations. As long as you do the readings, take good notes during lecture, and review throughout the course, it can be a good experience.
Grading in this class is harsh
It was overall a fairly good class lectures were generally quite interesting, assignments not too burdensome. Just make sure to get a study group for the final.
This class throws a lot of reading at you and expects you to have near total mastery of ancient Chinese history at its later stages. You can definitely get by doing minimal work, in fact you can even learn something interesting along the way, but the way the lecture and section is structured will more than likely vaporize the interest you gained early on. Lecture is great since Professor Eliott is an expert and truly loves what he teaches; section throws you into the Gulag, forcing you to spout out an anecdote from the hundred pages of reading you did the night before to scramble for a participation point.
This course is only a recommendation for people who have a fairly easy schedule otherwise. I don't know how much they changed it from spring 2014, but the course was way too much work for a gen ed (or at least way too much based off of what I was expecting from past Q-scores). I thought the material was really interesting and even fascinating at times, and Professor Elliott is a really great lecturer and brilliant guy. However, don't take the course unless you're prepared to be graded fairly harshly on a large amount of reading on diverse and really intricate history.
It requires a lot of work and dedication. The readings are long and can be difficult if you do not have exposure to these ideas or history before. But if you already have an interest in this area and have exposure to these ideas then this class could be great and ideal for you. Otherwise if you have not, then it could be too overwhelming and stressful that it is not enjoyable.
Get ready for a lot of reading.  Get ready to be confused about where to find the reading.  This is not an easy class if you've had no familiarity with Chinese History.  However, if you stick through it, you'll learn a lot about China and that's wonderful in itself.
Find another Gen Ed and stay away from this course. Section was excruciating, grading was arbitrary, and it was overall a terrible experience.
Unorganized, subjective and harsh grading, and expectations well above a typical gen ed.  If you already have a deep and thorough understanding of Chinese history and would like to learn about Prof. Elliott's often biased interpretations, then this may be the course for you (provided you don't mind the ridiculous weekly assignments, harsh grading, and lack of organization).
I would tell students to never take this class.  Also, I would say avoid David Porter in general.
This class is great! It was my favorite class of the year. The subject matter was so interesting that I loved writing the papers. Professor Elliott is one of the best lecturers I know and he also has a good sense of humor! David (TF) was really nice too. He was always willing to discuss subject matter and talk through outlines for the essay.No background in Chinese history is necessary. However it would be great if you have already read something (folktale or novels) related to the country because this would make things exciting when you come across information related to your reading. Wolf Totem is a required reading for this class. I would say reading it before the semester starts is a good idea. It will get you excited on the entire course. Also, make sure you have watched star wars before you take the class...there'll be a surprising revelation waiting for you. Make sure you brush up your fast reading skills before you take the class. You'll need it.
This is an excellent class. Professor Elliott is an affable, skilled, and extremely knowledgeable lecturer, and his presentations incorporate visual materials and handouts to convey the course material as well as possible. The readings are very interesting, and you'll learn enough about the histories of both China and Central Asia to have a solid background on both. Highly recommended.
This class offers a very different and enlightening way of approaching China and its history. It really helps me to understand not only historical China but also the challenges that China is facing today.
If you have no previous experience with Chinese history, you will still be able to do well in the course, but you will feel like you are missing out on subtle details.
If you are interested in Chinese history, you should take this class. Lecture is engaging, both Prof. Elliot and Devin made an effort to get our feedback on what we wanted out of this class and section was based around this; there was also plenty of opportunity to ask questions about the course material in lecture. This course gives a basic overview of Chinese history through a lens which you don't usually get to see. It does not require much work (two short essays, a few quizzes, a video project and final) and is a great Gen Ed!
A wonderful course that will change your understanding of China.
Professor Elliott is an engaging lecturer, and does a good job relating history to the present--which is crucial when dealing with ancient history, as much of this class does. I came away from this class feeling I knew a fair amount about both the specifics and the general trends of Inner Asia's interactions with China.
Exceptionally interesting course; you will learn a lot.  If you would like to take a Gen-Ed course in which you will actually learn something substantive, take this course.
The history of China is rich and richly complicated. By using the nomadic peoples surrounding China as a lens through which to study China itself, a particular historical strain can be isolated with surprising results. The course is low-stress and genuinely interesting. I would highly recommend it as a way to satisfy Societies of the World, and/or as a way to deepen one's knowledge of China in ways that remain significant into the 21st century.
I really wanted to like this class, but I just found it difficult to engage.  I think partly it was too broad, so because it tried to cover so much I ended up not getting that much out of it.  Lecture was generally good, but the readings were just not up my alley.
Go to lectures and you won't need to study at all.
This class is superb. If you have any interest whatsoever in China or Chinese history, it is an absolute must. The material is engaging, the lectures are thoughtful and often provocative, and the whole of the course will gives a really different and useful view on China and its frontier regions.
This is a good course for anyone who is strangely obsessed with the nomads of Eastern and Central Asia.  If you can handle lots of reading and are interested in Asian nomadic peoples, go ahead and take this course.
Mark Elliott is fantastic.  Follow the readings and you'll be all set!
Great course, great professor
You will gain broad and substantive knowledge of the topic, provided you do the readings and listen attentively in class. You will enjoy Prof. Elliott's catholic knowledge and dry humor.
It is quite a challenge.  The assignments are very tricky and the expectations are not obvious.  It can certainly be an enjoyable experience but tread carefully.
As a student with no background in Chinese history, this course taught me the basics of Chinese history without ever feeling like a survey course. As a non-history concentrator, this course exposed me to what I thought were fairly substantive historical questions and gave me the opportunity to engage with them. Professor Elliott organizes his lectures well and teaches clearly.  All in all, this is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard without a doubt.
I learned so much in this class, I'm frankly shocked. "What is China?" indeed. The map assignments were bothersome because I'd keep forgetting to do them before section, but in retrospect, it's really cool to see the geography of 2000+ years of history! The video project was also fun.
One of the best gen eds I've taken at Harvard. I came in expecting to learn about history and I came out with so much more, the way i view chinese relations and the role of China in history has changed, my opinions about chinese and inner asian relations have been reshaped (particular on the issue of Tibet), and i now have a much greater geographic awareness of Inner asia (from the google earth assignment). take it!
Readings are a must for this class if you want to know what's going on during section.  Only problem is, weekly readings can range from 100-250 pages a week.  This is definitely a prototypical "history class".  Not the easiest way to fulfill the Societies of the World gen ed.
