This class was fantastic! Professor Patterson is great to listen to and the material is really interesting. It has elements of history, cultural studies, economics, and sociology in it, so if you're interested in getting a taste of any those areas, this is a good way to do that. Beyond that it's a great way to learn about a really cool part of the world!
This class is great but it is definitely back-heavy (final paper and final exam). The rest of the year, however, is pretty relaxed and the readings are informal. Definitely go to lectures and sections.
You have to be interested in learning more about the Caribbean to truly enjoy this course, but even if you don't, I still think that you will at least find the course extremely interesting.
This is an easy GenEd for anybody and a good introduction to the Caribbean for those who don't know anything about the region.  If you want an in-depth class on a certain aspect of the Caribbean, then this class is not for you.
You can tell Orlando Patterson knows so much and just comes across like a nice guy - awesome professor
Very good class that teaches a lot about the history about the Caribbean in relatively little amounts of work. Readings are not ALL necessary but useful for section. The lectures cover the sociopolitical, economic, and cultural conditions of the major islands in the Caribbean, which may be very helpful if you are planning to study abroad or do J-term somewhere in the Caribbean.
Super dope class, Prof. Patterson is the man
Very informative course with a light workload. It allowed me to learn about an area of the world of which I had no previous knowledge. Professor Patterson's enthusiasm and knowledge is amazing. Section component could be much improved.
Start working on your term paper early.
This is a fun course that is informative and not stressful.
good class, solid material, Ethan is a great TF, very straight forward... definitely not difficult
This is a pretty interesting and easy class. You'll get a lot out of it, and there aren't too many assignments, which is nice.
Professor Patterson is easy to listen to and he is very knowledgeable about the Caribbean.
Orlando Patterson is an excellent lecture and the course is interesting, awesome, and will teach you about a complex / fascinating region of the world I personally think everyone should be familiar with. I recommend with reservations because I found it to be not very challenging, but some people probably would enjoy the lack of pressure. If you're looking for a chill way to fulfill societies of the world, this is it.
Enjoyable learning, actually perspective changing and not too challenging.
Be prepared to teach yourself at times.
Take it, super interesting, awesome professor, absolute gem
This course is really fun in that it allows you to explore cultures that you wouldn't otherwise and see how histories can affect countries even today.
This course is a great gen ed: it gives a great overview of the Caribbean and its history without burying you in readings the way some other gen eds do. Overall a very manageable and enjoyable class.
If you're interested in the Caribbean, then this is definitely a great class to take! You don't need any background in the material, but if you're familiar with the Caribbean beforehand, it definitely adds another 'layer' to the class: It was enlightening to discover the 'why' behind certain cultural aspects.
Good class, work load is back loaded
I had a good time and learned a lot
I think this is a great Gen-Ed! For me (as someone interested in American studies) it was a great way for me to find a way to engage with a society, economy and culture (essentially a people) that has been so influential in the problems our nation faces today as well as the cultural influence we are exposed to.
The material is interesting and Prof. Patterson is a very engaging lecturer. The course in general is fairly easy, which can work well for scheduling a needed gen ed. However, sometimes this detracts from the ability to talk about things in depth in section, etc. Depending on what you want out of the course, it can be a very good experience. Students interested in an overview course about the Caribbean and about learning new perspectives on history should definitely take the course! It opened my eyes to many influences of history and long-lasting traditions of power that I had not been aware of prior to taking the class. Overall, I found it enjoyable and I think I learned a great deal.
It's a low time commitment until you get hit with the final paper and exam within a span of a week. I spent so much time working on the paper and spent only a little bit of time studying for the final.
This course was a great way to ease in to freshman year.  The readings were not too difficult.  The material is very interesting and fun to learn.
Class is a great way to fulfill Societies of the World. Very low work level although it is mostly back-ended. There's a simple take-home midterm, a final paper, and a final exam. Readings are optional and frankly mostly unrelated to exam topics so don't waste the time unless you're really interested. Big tips: Go to lecture and section (it's only 3 hours a week, not that bad) and pay somewhat attention. Also make sure you get into Ethan's Section (He is great, knows everything).
Definitely a great way to fulfill the SW gen-ed requirement! The Caribbean is such an interesting place to study an array of issues (political, economical, sociological).
This course is great for someone who is excited about the Caribbean and desires to learn more about its culture and the formation of its current state.
This class was a great Gen Ed course. Not too time-consuming, but definitely still learned quite a bit. Dr. Patterson is a fascinating person with hands-on experience with the Jamaican economy. Dr. Fosse was a good section leader.
Must be ACTUALLY interested in the Caribbean
This class is a fine introduction to Caribbean cultures
This is an awesome class that introduces you to a region that has a lot of history and aspects you don't know about. It's a painless way to fulfill SW, and Orlando is a great lecturer who is obviously very invested and knowledgeable on the subject.
If you want to learn about something totally different take this class.
The material is generally not very engaging or interesting. Some weeks are interesting and focus on more exciting topics. If you do not have an interest in the Caribbean's culture, I do not suggest taking it.
It's the best way to do a gened
The class is very low workload- you can get away with not doing any of the weekly readings as long as you pay attention in lecture and are prepared to make sure you know the material for the midterm and final. The only assignments for the whole semester are 1 hour essay midterm, final and 10 page term paper. It is very manageable.
Patterson is one of those Harvard professors who is actually the authority on this particular subject so it is really cool to hear him talk about first-person experience.
This is a great course. Patterson is a very fun and awesome professor. Make sure to focus on what interests you and the essay will be easy.
If you're interested in the material, I would recommend the course.  It's neat to take a class from a Professor as renowned as Patterson.  Sections are a little too read-off-the-Powerpoint in style, but the information is organized.
Professor Patterson is amazing. He has a rich history behind him and a lot of knowledge to share with students. This is one of the only classes on Caribbean studies at the college to the best of my knowledge. If you are from the Caribbean or just interested in the area it is a fun, easy and interesting introduction to many of the issues and culture surrounding the region. Section slightly useful, lectures also recorded. Overall a great course and as someone of Caribbean descent interested in economics and development was one of my favorite courses here. I am grateful I was able to find it.
It was a really good class and the information I learned really backed my prior knowledge of the course. The readings aren't extremely important but they are really interesting! Definitely recommend if you have family or there is a strong caribbean presence next to you.
This course is great! Orlando Patterson is an amazing and interesting teacher who knows almost everything about the Caribbean. The readings are simple and the homework is super chill. If you need an easy Societies of the World GenEd, then take this one!
Great, easy way to fulfill the SW Gen-Ed! I didn't do the readings and did fine, I did go to lecture bc I loved Professor Patterson but if you don't want to go, the lectures are recorded. Ethan is the best TF so try to go with him, and don't be afraid to ask questions in class!
I really enjoyed this class. If the Caribbean interests you or if you want to use it as a case study for understanding why certain societies are the way they are, I think this is the perfect class.
This class is kind of a gem throughout the year, and you're learning about cool information that is relevant to where many students come from. However, come finals, you will have a final paper AND a final exam, which really sharply contradicted its gem status throughout the year. Overall, very enjoyable and low stress.
This is a great SW class. If you are looking for an easy class that does not require that much work, take this class! Orlando is funny and gives great lectures that are easy to understand. The only problem with this class is that it is very back loaded, with a final paper and final exam worth 60% of your grade. Other than the last two weeks of the semester though the class has essentially no work (readings are not necessary if you pay attention to lectures) and section is solely discussion based. The paper can be anything you want about the Caribbean, so if you pick a topic you like, it is not that bad. The final is not overly difficult and they don't try to trick you with unnecessarily hard questions.
This course is very easy until the last two weeks. Readings are not necessary to do well on the midterm paper, and the research paper can be very focused and independent of class work. The final exam is cumulative, however, so this tends to stack up at the end.
Lectures are easy to grasp. Readings aren't truly necessary. Workload is minimal. Take this class if you want to learn something new and want to have fun doing it.
If you're looking for an easy way to satisfy Soc-World, take this class. Lectures are taped, sections recap lecture material, you can get by without really doing the readings, and the only assignments are a midterm, 10 page final paper, and final exam. If you're interested in the material, even better!
Hope your TF is Ethan; if not, he puts his section slides online. The paper deadline also comes up quicker than you think.
I LOVED this class! I learned so much about my heritage and other Caribbean countries! Definitely take this. Professor Paterson is amazing and adorable in class. I recommend it a million times over.
This class has interesting subject matter and is not difficult at all.
This course is not as much of a gem as it seems. The final paper is much more demanding than you expect, and the final is a bit more stressful. It is cool that lectures are taped and whatnot, but I cannot stress enough that this course is not really a gem. That being said, it was a great course to learn a ton about the history of the caribbean.
This is a very engaging, interesting class that presents some essential survey knowledge about the Caribbean. You definitely get out of it what you put in - you could scrape by with minimal work, but you'll find yourself fascinated by the questions.
Make sure you think about these things as a sociology course
Prepare for the final essay, and block out a lot of time for the final.  They catch up quick and hit you hard if you're not prepared.
Definitely worth taking.
This class is as hard as you make it.  I was really interested in some topics and not interested in others and I did the readings accordingly.  Final paper and final exam is annoying, but considering the only other requirement is a 1 hour midterm, it's hard to complain.  As someone from the Caribbean, I didn't necessarily agree with everything Patterson said, but all in all the course was a good survey of the history and culture of the region.
Take this class if you're genuinely interested in the region. If not, it's tough to stay engaged.
This class was amazing. Really interesting material. Professor Patterson is a really cool fellow and he keeps things interesting with videos and guest lectures. Although there are no assignments other than two short essays, a final paper, and final exam, it was a lot of writing -- more than most would want from a gened unless you're interested in the Caribbean. I wouldn't bother reading any of the reading materials assigned though unless you're interested in a particular topic; it's all really long and dense.
The class is very interesting and fun.  Orlando and Ethan do a good job at explaining different topics.  After the class is over you will have learned a whole lot about the Caribbean.
It is not necessary to do the readings as Prof. Patterson provides a comprehensive overview of the material in his in depth lectures. However, the readings are extremely interesting, especially the ones about religion and music. Take this take this take this class!
Very interesting subject matter, but you get what you put into it.
The course is actually good, and the workload is very chill throughout the semester as the readings are not really necessary for lecture, or section for the most part. Everything piles up in the end though because of the final research paper and the final exam, so having done the readings beforehand may help save some time. Overall its very informative, and also pretty fun; especially (but not only) if you are Caribbean
If you are not interested in the Caribbean or its history, you will not enjoy this course.
I found the class to be not particularly challenging because it was so interesting.  I wanted to come to class.
This course is great if you have any interest in the Caribbean or even if you are just looking to fulfill a Societies of the World requirement. Professor Patterson has unlimited knowledge in the field and Ethan is great in section.
It is a lot of work, more than it seems. I can't say it was an extremely rewarding class, but you will be exposed to different ideas and realities about a region that is truly unique in its sociopolitical and economic diversity. The second half of the course loses a bit of steam.
This class is really interesting, and accessible to all people.  Professor Patterson is awesome.  It is not the easiest A, as gen eds go, but it is worth it.
The material is interesting, but presented poorly. It is also challenging to have a final paper and exam.
I think it a highly effective survey course that begins with the history of the Caribbean region which provides the underpinnings for country case studies analyzing different paths of economic, political, and social development before exploring regional cultural parallels.
Take a close look at the syllabus before enrolling.
If you are not very interested in the Caribbean you won't enjoy the class, but if you are from the Caribbean or are a descendant of Caribbean peoples then you won't enjoy it either. The class starts off as a history class and that is very interesting, but it takes a strong sociological turn. If you want a class that just discusses the history and culture of the Caribbean, this is not the right class for you.
It is important that one learns about the Caribbean. It is a very important region. However, this class is best taken if one has no understanding at all of Caribbean history and is willing to then further study about LIFE there - not just what developed countries hope that you understand.
A lot of work, but definitely worth it; readings very interesting
