It's a lot of work. Great for concentrators, would be tough for others.
This is a wonderful class for anyone who is interested in exploring East Asia in any of its many aspects.  Or, more practically, for anyone who is interested in getting a feel for the department and scouting out the best professors.  Or, even more practically, someone who has a very short attention span and likes to study an entirely different topic from an entirely different disciplinary approach every week. :)
be prepared for very dense ancient texts that will take a lot of time to decipher
Be prepared to encounter some of the sketchiest grading you will ever see during your time in college, and don't be surprised if you wind up knowing more about some topics than the TFs, who tend to be very specialized and not very knowledgable in certain areas.
Gives you a great overview of all of East Asia in just one semester!
Unfortunately, the course is required to EAS concentrators. It really needs to be reworked.
This is an excellent introductory survey course to the field of East Asian Studies.
Make sure you participate in section and do the readings
It is a lot of work but you learn a lot.  It is good if you prefer paper writing as opposed to test taking.
Interesting topics. Do a good job on the three papers.
This course introduces you to a wide variety of topics in East Asia. While I had taken 4 courses in Chinese history and language before taking this course, I still found myself learning new things every week and stumbling upon topics that I now would like to do further research into, such as concepts of the body and health in East Asia.
If you're interested in Japan and China, this is a really great course. It covers a broad range of interesting topics, is always exciting because of the many different lecturers, has good sections, and cool readings. However, it is a time-consuming course, and should not be taken (except perhaps by an experienced humanities concentrator) as a fun/easy elective.
Although my section was excellent, the actual course, its subject and its lectures, are presented in a haphazard manner.
It's a great class, but it's still in its infancy, which showed in it's organization. It's also a LOT of reading and writing, so be ready to sacrifice huge chunks of free time to doing lots and lots of work in this epic class.
take this course if you are planning to concentrate in EAS, but it will not be worth it otherwise unless you have a huge amount of time to really make the most of the readings. if as pressed for time as the average student, probably will not fully appreciate this course
Interesting course and interesting fellow students.
This is a wonderful class, in that it really introduces the student to many different thought systems and disciplines within EAS.
I would recommend it with enthusiasm, but I am holding back this recommendation simply based on the fact that there have been proposals to increase the workload. Even if this course became more difficult, I would still recommend it because a good class is a good class. But if its a bit too difficult, then its no longer that enjoyable, right?
If you have to take it for concentration credit, then do it....it's not that bad.  but if you don't and are looking for an easy elective on east asia, look away.  there's definitely a lot of writing involved (a response paper every week).  The lectures are quite interesting though, so don't be scared.
I would like to tell future students that this course was very interesting and that one can make what he or she wants of this course.  There is one response paper due every week and there are usually readings relating to Japan, China, and Korea, so one can gear this course into a course about the country he or she is most interested in.
Only take if you need a secondary field or concentration.
This course is good, though grading isn't always standard. Spend time on the response papers, and go to lecture with questions in order to get the most out of this course and the many excellent faculty members who teach it.
It's a good survey class of East Asia. You get out of it what you put into it, so be prepared to do a lot of reading if you want to really get the most out of this class. Whether or not you like the class will depend a lot on who your TF is, but if you're taking this class, you probably have to take it as a requirement anyways, so don't worry--it's a pretty good class.
Find out what the prompts are really asking before writing them because they can be super misleading, leading to bad grades, which would obviously would not want.
Only take this if you have to.
the class is a lot of fun; you're introduced to a lot of methods and topics in the study of east asia ranging in time from pre-history to today; assignments are pretty low pressure: read some fun readings, write ~2 pgs a week, and talk in section - not bad right?
There was quite a bit of work, but with the broad range of topics, there's bound to be something to interest everyone.
There is a huge writing component. But, if you are a good writer, it shouldn't be too bad. They grade really hard at the beginning of the semester, but then it gets a lot easier by the end of the semester, so don't worry too much about your grade. Just hand everything in on time.
Don't take this unless you are willing to work hard with readings and weekly response papers.  DONT TAKE THIS CLASS JUST FOR FUN, NOT WORTH IT.
It is definitely a lot of work to take this sophomore tutorial. It is definitely a class that requires a lot of reading and writing, but the topics are engaging and the TFs and the professor are extremely helpful so you can always engage them in conversation about any topic during the course. It is a great exploration of East Asia from many different disciplines and from many different angles as well.
Great class.  Papers every week are worth it.  Professors are so diverse - a great intro to East Asia and what "East Asian Studies" is along with all the paths one can take with it.
Really interesting class. For those who like strict organization, the consistently changing professors might be hard to cope with, but it gives you a broad range of topics and perspectives. Also, your view of the class might be reflective of your TF
Do not take this class unless it is required.  It is a lot of reading and writing, the grading is ridiculously harsh, and since it is a survey class, you really do not grasp a deep understanding of any topic related to East Asia.
There's a lot of reading and writing for this course, so be prepared.
As a secondary fielder and a junior, I'm disappointed that I'm not going to be able to take tons of EAS classes.  This gave me a great sample of lots of professors and the work they're doing.  Every week was fresh and interesting.
Be prepared to work hard for small assignments every week that are not a big part of your grade. Be prepared to do a lot of readings, that may or may not be relevant to what you are learning. If you are taking this class for concentration requirement and are really interested in East Asian Studies, make sure to talk often to your TF and the teaching staff whenever you feel lost in the class - otherwise, if you just go to lecture, do the readings, and go to section, that actually may not be enough to prepare you well for the discipline ahead.
A good overview of East Asia and informative, especially if you lack much knowledge of one of the countries. Relatively painless concentration requirement, although grading can be extremely sketchy depending on the TF.
should have enthusiasm for learning about anything and everything about east asia. however, heavy emphasis on china. don't expect to learn as much about japan or korea although there will be relevant readings assigned.
There is alot of writing in this class. Learn early what a good paper is and stick to it.
The lecture and topic material for this course was very interesting. The response papers are extremely frustrating depending on your TF. Section is hit or miss. Really depends on your TF for this course. Otherwise, a good introduction.
Structure your response papers. Unlike most classes, in which response papers discuss new ideas and show engagement with the reading, these response papers are much more similar to mini-papers. This class, though, is really interesting and really will give you a great overview of East Asian art, literature, and philosophy.
Interesting since you are able to learn a bunch of different topics about East Asia
It's wonderful, and difficult but worth it.
very interesting, will learn a lot, not a huge workload.
I don't think this would be a good introduction class to the concentration -- it might be better to take a more specific class in the concentration.  It's good that you are exposed to various professors, but you don't feel that there is a coherent theme in the course.
It's a lot of work, but it's a good intro to many different topics dealing with East Asia
This class is interesting, and gives you a sneak peak into many facets of the Department. Some days were truly thought-provoking and others were very boring. It just depends on which topics you find interesting. Other than that, it's well-run though its pretty hard. As a required class, my expectations weren't that high.
-be prepared that the writing component is more than you would imagine
- If you don't have to take this course for a secondary requirement, then just jump into another EAS course. You will not have trouble, so long as you have the interest and the commitment to read/write/discuss, and it'll save you the trouble of writing a weekly response paper on overviews of very general topics/historical periods/disciplines.
Recommend only for concentrators.
This is a good comprehensive tutorial that I would only take if you had to or if you wanted a comprehensive look at East Asia in a whole.
Although there is a lot of reading, all of the topics are very interesting and the guest speaker format  makes the course very versatile.
A great introduction into the civilization of East Asia.
One of my favorite parts about this course was that every week there was a different professor lecturing on their area of expertise, so not only did the class cover a lot of topics, but it was a nice introduction to a substantial portion of the EAS department faculty. For me the majority of the material covered was new, so I really enjoyed the course. Sometimes the reading assignments just got to be too extensive, and trying to go over all of them in section didn't make those two hours that productive for me. I would have prefered if we were to focus on a specific area of every topic and really discuss it in-depth instead of trying to cover everything. Response papers were tedious, but they actually helped me understand the readings better.
be prepared for lots of reading, subject topics are very interesting and varied
This class is a decent introduction to civilizations of East Asia. It doesn't really have much focus on Vietnam at all but alot of focus on China, Japan, and Korea. It is somewhat disorganized in terms of structure and progression. Be prepared for ALOT of dense reading and sifting through alot of information for papers that are graded pretty arbitrarily. The last paper gives a good chance for you to explore your own topic and interests in comparison to the first two. If you like East Asia, it might be a good one to take as it gives you a ton of writing exposure. If you have no interest in East Asia, do not take this class.
Don't let the response papers scare you! They help you really learn the material and also help you become better at writing. The "sampler" style of this course, where there is a different lecturer every week, is quite refreshing and exciting. Also, Dr. Szonyi does an excellent job of bringing the different disciplines used in EAS together at the end.
It may be easier to take the course after taking a few EAS courses before. Sometimes, the response papers can be overwhelming if the subjects each week all seem new and foreign.
This is a great course! If you don't have some background in EAS you may need to work a little harder, but even a preliminary peruse of Wikipedia's history pages for China, Japan, and South Korea will be able to help you get the context you need to write thoughtful papers.
I would recommend this course even to students who are not taking it as a requirement for their primary or secondary concentration, if they are fine with a lot of written assignments. Those assignments consist of six 4-page papers and three long research papers. The topic changes with a new lecturer every week and the professors do not expect you to remember facts or concepts (there are no examinations). Instead,  the students choose what topics to write on. It is therefore a very interesting course with top lecturers in their field, and written assignments are mostly based on your own initiative.  Eric's section is amazing.
Well, if you're an EAS concentrator you're going to be taking this anyway, so there are no getting around some of the worst parts of this class. Chief among those are the response papers, even if they're not graded harshly - having to write 6 4-page papers in addition to the long papers is pretty rough. Those long papers command a decent amount of time, too - you'll probably be doing research for all three of them. Having said that, this class features a bunch of awesome and famous lecturers (don't take notes for once, just enjoy); it will improve your writing quite a lot; and it's cool when some of your classmates are interested in a totally different area of EAS than you.
This course is rewarding, especially if you take it sophomore year and are interested in hearing about the work of EAS's many talented professors. Be prepared to spend considerable time on the reading responses, not because they are intellectually challenging, but because you are expected to write many pages for each one. If the topic interests you, then this is a good opportunity to engage deeply with the materials. However, the feedback you get will be limited, because your TF is likely not be an expert in the field. Taken the wrong way, the reading responses could become a whole lot of unrewarding work, since they are completed individually and there's only an hour of section per week to discuss everything. Only if you are proactive about it, and take the time to go to office hours, will they be a useful exercise.
If you don't like writing, you're not going to enjoy this course.
lots of writing and feedback in this class! Eric was an AMAZING TF
You get a sample of "everything" about East Asia. For that matter, the class does seem unstructured, and the materials do seem unconnected. However, the joy of the class is precisely its unstructuredness, if you will, because you get to learn a little bit about everything. You have to take this course as a primary/secondary concentrator, and it turns out, it wasn't that bad as I thought.
This course is based on being able to write effective papers. Section will be great and the lectures will be up and down depending on how you engage with each weekly topic. Doing the response papers every week sets you up for easy success, but not doing them every week can make you fall behind. However, the long papers will always offer some room for creativity in defining your topic (except for the first long paper). Fairly moderate class with great professors to hear from every week.
If it's not your concentration, don't do it.
Many of the frustrations named with regard to this class in previous evaluations hold true: it leaps from point to point without providing a comprehensive view of any specific discipline within East Asian Studies on the whole. The lectures and readings are far too specific to accomplish that end. However, you will become a better writer, and sections are an excellent way to find that passion within the department that may elude you otherwise. I praise Xiaosu Sun for facilitating this process in our section.
It's a good taste of everything the department has to offer. While one individual week topic may not pique your interest, it's really valuable to hear what all of the scholars have to say.  Don't feel pressured to take notes too seriously - enjoy and listen.  Since there are no exams, I think I benefited from closing my laptop and really listening closely to what the lecturers were saying, and if I wanted to research something they said more closely for a paper, I would take note.  The papers are fair and flexible, and I felt my writing really improved over the semester.  Final tip - take the response papers seriously.  It will pay off and help you write your term papers better.
This course will give you a really great opportunity to explore East Asian Studies. I admit that I was often a little jolted by the quick changes between topics each week and sometimes wanted to get to know the subjects on a deeper level. The great thing about this class is that it will prepare you to take other classes where you learn more specific things. Be sure to keep track of the assignments and essays in order to reduce stress. If you stay on top of your work and try to meet with your TF, you will likely get a lot more out of the course and find it a lot easier.
Though the weekly response papers may seem like a lot, it's great practice for writing and really helped me to quickly develop an argument and prove it well, unlike other response papers for courses where it is just summarizing the readings.
Lecture has no bearing on the sections. There is a massive disconnect between each lecturer and it really is like "speed dating" where each week you have a new person talking at you. This is why the class has relatively low attendance, which you will hear laments about. Also, you better like Chinese history. Because that's almost all you get for most of the course and unless you have a timeline in the back of your head you can relate it all to, it's very disorienting jumping around these pieces of Chinese history/culture for someone who isn't well-acquainted with it, despite it being an introduction to East Asian Civilization. I feel really bad for people interested in Korean history, because that basically was not covered at all in comparison to Chinese and Japanese. Section was interesting and engaging but like I said it didn't connect with the lecture at all. Sometimes you will receive passive aggressive emails to the class and it'll be awkward. Don't worry, it just kind of happens.
Yes, there is a lot of writing. But Xiaosu was my TF, and she was so terrific and helpful.
A lot of the topics are fascinating, but you won't really get in depth unless you pursue the readings and talk with your TF yourself.
Only take this class if it is for a concentration requirement. The topics are haphazard and there really is no unifying theme to the class. Lectures are generalized and you don't learn anything specific (Wikipedia was more useful at times). That being said, don't let it discourage you from EAS; it's a great concentration with one not so great required class.
It is a good overview course, in terms of showing you the various disciplines that can be used to approach East Asian Studies.  Don't take this class though unless you plan on concentrating or getting a secondary in East Asian Studies.  You don't really learn much about any particular subject because the topic switches every week.  And it's a lot of response papers.  No exams though which is a plus.
Students, be warned, this is an awful course.  It is horribly unorganized and there are few people who are helpful, even though they want to help.  The only highlight of the course are a few interesting lecturers.  Do not take this course unless it is required.
There was a lot of reading and writing every week. You have to keep on top of all your crap, but it was also very rewarding. You will come out of the course having a deeper appreciation for East Asian Studies and get a sense for which professors you want to take courses with in the future.
Jump on the chance to learn with Xiaosu Sun -- she is a star!
A great way to get experience with all the professors from the EAS department. I liked that the course did not accumulate, but rather each week seemed like a fresh and new experience.
Only take this course if you are absolutely required to. It isn't terribly difficult, only time consuming. You won't learn much though. Lecture is pretty pointless since the paper is due before it, so you probably don't need to attend them.
This course is rewarding at times, but at other times painful. The weekly, 4 page response papers feel daunting sometimes but it really all depends on whether or not the readings speak out to you. This course is a ton of reading and writing, as is expected for a tutorial. Don't give up on East Asian Studies if the high workload of the tutorial wears you out, the lecturers they bring in highlight a number of very fascinating aspects of EAS.
i really didn't want to take this class, but it wasn't that bad.
The response papers are not that bad
The course covers very interesting topics, none of which is covered in depth. I don't feel that I learned a lot about any one topic, except for the topics I wrote papers about. The topics are, for the most part, very interesting, so you won't regret learning about them, but the breadth of the course can be frustrating.
While the course will likely take you outside of your core competencies, there is no better way to get a taste of the array of coursework that Harvard offers about East Asia. Furthermore, the course offers a highly conscious introduction to the "region"--each week, Professor Szonyi raises interesting post-modernist questions regarding the politics and implications of labeling "East Asia" as a "region." This sort of criticality is absent in most other courses that I have taken on East Asia at Harvard.
There is a lot of work involved. Don't think you won't have to do anything to get by in this course. You have to do your readings, or enough to write a decent response each week, and you have to be able to write/think the way East Asian department wants. I really enjoyed it though, and came away feeling like I learned a lot, and more importantly, know where I want to go in my East Asian studies.
fun exposure to topics, the variety keeps you on your toes
The class is a lot of work, between lecture, section, readings, the weekly responses, and the large papers.  It does do a good job of overviewing a broad range of time, topics, and disciplines within EAS, but because of that, lectures are disconnected and each week feels like a new class.  Section is really good if you have a good section leader, which is by far the most valuable part of the course.  If you do the readings, you'll be fine for the papers and the sections - it's just a lot of work.
Your TF will play a significant role in your experience for this class, since only your TF will be there for the length of the semester. The weekly response papers are tedious at first, but take them seriously. They really do help improve your writing.
You learn a lot about different topics and also different professors' teaching styles. My writing improved as well.
If you are EAS, you have to take it and it is nice to get to know other professors you may be taking courses from. If you aren't, don't take it, it will not be useful to you. Also, it really depends on your tf to make the experience great.
I assume that the vast majority of students taking this course are and will be concentrators or those pursuing a secondary in EAS, so it's a matter of little choice.  Fortunately, this course is really a great course and generally a rather enjoyable tutorial.  There is a lot of writing, however, and the course gives the same amount of time for a response paper as for a paper, so sometimes it's a bit of a crunch, but it's generally painless.
During some weeks, I liked this class. During most weeks, especially those with boring lecturers, I hated it. It is incredibly disjointed, and I only found myself paying attention when we addressed topics I was interested in, which we would never revisit. It's a good introduction to the diverse faculty within the East Asian Studies department, but it definitely leaves something to be desired.
The professor are all well-meaning and there are great moments. That said, expect this to be a bit scattered and there to be a lot of gaps. Try to just absorb things as much as you can without worrying about consolidating everything.
The lectures were really fascinating and the readings were glorious. Great class.
You learn a lot, but it's also a lot of work.
After two weeks of this EAS97, I very seriously considered switching my concentration just so I could drop the class.  This is, without a doubt, the worst class Ive taken at Harvard.  I chose EAS because of the fascinating professors, but EAS97 convinced me that its a field populated entirely by morons.  Theres no excuse for the class being conducted in its current formatit forces professors, who presumably conducted interesting research at some point in their careers, to give infantile introductory lectures.  The class also focuses excessively on premodern studies, despite the fact that almost all of the students are more interested in recent topics.  Either the syllabus should be altered to reflect the students interests, or (preferably) the class should be broken down into sections that focus on different areas, different disciplines, or different time periods.  This would allow the course to have real content that was meaningful to students larger studies.
This class covers a lot of super interesting topics! The professors are great and keep you engaged. Be prepared to do a lot of writing though!
This class is a requirement for either one, so you don't have much of a choice in taking it. Basically all this course is good for is showing you which professors in the department are the best for you, and which ones you'd want to avoid. But apart from a bunch of random tidbits, don't expect to come away with a better sense of what "East Asia" is.
The EAS Sophomore Tutorial exposes you to a number of the different methods through which to approach your studies, as well as expanding your horizons beyond the region you focus on.
In this course, you can get a good grasp of various ways to study East Asia and you also get to know most of the faculty in the departments because the professor changes every week. However, this model also makes it so that the course feels disconnected. This course is also writing-heavy, and sometimes unnecessarily so. Overall, if you're an EAS concentrator, this class largely won't be enjoyable but you'll get through it. If you're not required to take this class, however, take a more specialized EAS class instead.
This is a really interesting course. The topics you study and cover are so wife-ranging and interesting, you really can get a sense of what you will study in East Asian Studies. Some of the paper topics were "meh," and the response papers can be a pain, but if you put the time into your writing it can improve a lot.
Don't hate on the format - this is a super fun way to get a taste of many different areas and disciplines. I enjoyed getting to hear brilliant professors lecture on topics of their choice each week.  It almost felt like shopping period all semester long - but shopping for the rest of the classes that will flesh out my concentration requirements. Also as far as tutorials go, this one was WAY easier than my History and Literature tutorial. Do the response papers ASAP - it was so nice at the end of the semester to not have to worry about them any more. Don't worry about taking notes in class unless you think you might write a paper on a related topic. Try to have good questions for the end of lecture.
Only take this course if you have to for the concentration or secondary; it's not worth it otherwise. A ton of readings and written work for very little payoff. The course is far too disjointed and contradictory for me to recommend.
Take this class Junior or Senior year after some experiences taking EAS classes.
one of my favorite classes yet at Harvard
This course soars through diverse and fascinating topics relating to China, Korea and Japan. You might get a bit jetlag along the, but you'll enjoy the ride.
Take it for what it isa broad survey courseand pay particular close attention to the weeks that are specifically in your field of interest, and enough attention to the other weeks, and you'll have a fun time, engage with a lot of fun topics, and discover new interests you might never have known. But pick your TF carefully. Your experience strongly depends on who that person is.
Before taking this course, I had heard horror stories from EAS students from previous years. Much to my surprise, this actually ended up being my favorite course I took this semester! Sure, there's a lot of writing, but the topics we covered were legitimately quite interesting (though some were drier than others) and our sections were fantastic. If you have the choice of getting Sean as a TF, do it. He's a fantastic section leader, and his thorough preparation for section and feedback on your papers will really help you grow as a writer.Even if you're not an EAS concentrator, don't be worried about taking this course to complete your secondary! I actually highly recommend it. You'll learn a ton, and your writing will improve considerably.
This is a great way to introduce new concentrators to East Asian Studies, because the course covers topics as diverse as the interests you can pursue within the concentration. Professor Robson is perfect for the job of running the tutorial -- he's very accessible and a great resource. If you can, get Andrew as your TF!!!  His section is the best one I've been in across all of my classes in various disciplines in Harvard because he makes the material interesting, easy-to-understand, and relevant to your everyday life.
The rumors you hear about this course are true--it is full of mind-numbing work. Still, some of the professors are interesting. The movie 'In The Heat Of The Sun' is a highlight. Taking this class as an elective? Steer clear. Taking this class because you have to? That's just the way the cookie crumbles, try to take the good with the bad.
This class is a great overview of the department.
This course will introduce you to some East Asian Studies topics across a broad range of countries and events, but the teaching staff will seem uninterested in you and the guidance you receive will be minimal, such that you must take the reins yourself to learn and do well.
Very interesting and rewarding introduction to the study of East Asia
Go into with with an open mind, because you will find that topics you never considered before to be really interesting once you interact with the material.
The course is a great overview of East Asian Studies and will expose you to areas of study that you have never learned about before. The class is not stressful and overall enjoyable.
This is the perfect example of a course where you get as much out as you put in. With lectures jumping around every week, a smattering of readings, and a bunch of papers, you have the opportunity to really explore East Asian Studies (and everything related!) and all it has to offer. The flipside, however, is that its easy to fall back and just coast from week to week feeling disconnected.
Frontload the response papers if you can. Do the readings.
A lot of writing! Will be pretty difficult if you don't like writing or aren't willing to put effort into it and improving it. Very interesting subjects studied each week, and Professor Robson as well as my TF Andrew Campana were fantastic. Lots of freedom in writing prompts. Reading is necessary for response papers (or skim reading).
I loved EAS 97ab! Sean was a great TF, and he provides extremely detailed feedback on your writing - you'll become a much better writer at the end of the semester. That being said, you do an intense amount of writing in this class, so make sure you are prepared for that commitment.
Only take this class if you have to for your concentration/secondary requirement. You will not get much out of it, because there is a new topic every week.
It covers an exciting range of topics, most of which I found interesting. The professors change each week, which is an interesting format that I found ultimately effective. If you have a chance to take a course that hones your writing skills (beyond expos) before this one, I would recommend doing so. The course requires a sizable amount of writing, but focuses more on the readings and lectures in section discussions.
Fantastic course that is easy to handle from a logistics point of view. Of course it is required for Concentrators and Secondary Fields, but you can love this class if you invest in learning and taking in all of the wealth of knowledge and experience shared by the guest lecturers.
So fun especially if you want to learn a little bit of everything Asian-related! Easy workload, flexible because all of the readings are posted early so you can do extra readings over break if you want to get ahead, etc.
Very interesting class but some of the teachers were mediocre and didn't care much.
If you have to take it then you have to take it. It's not a terrible or difficult class - it's mostly just bothersome. I don't feel like I got much from it since topics are covered in a rather quick and shallow manner, but maybe you will.
This is required for EAS so take it if its your concentration. If you are looking to get a secondary in EAS, think very hard about whether it matters that much to you because this class is a burden.
I would not take this as an elective. I took this for a concentration requirement, but I believe there are far more interesting courses available if one is interested in the study of East Asia. Additionally, although this class was not intellectually challenging, it certainly was a time commitment.
taking as a senior, super easy, lots of response papers but manageable
It's a concentration requirement, so if you're into EAS, you have to take it. Make sure you get your response papers in check. Also, go to Office Hours! Plan ahead.
As a concentration/secondary requirement, it is a good overview of topics that the professors study. Otherwise, find a more interesting elective.
It's a good deal of work - 45 pages of writing give or take. Get started on those early.
Great class with interesting material, the response paper requirement is a bit high.
Since you have to take it for the secondary, take it. Not a useful course otherwise.
Take this class if you're interested in East Asia as a region but not quite sure which methodology you would like to use in your research! It also exposes you to a range of topics and broadens your worldview. It's also very writing-heavy so it's great for social science-y / humanities concentrators.
SOLID class. Depends heavily on your TF, though. I don't think our TF did a great job leading discussions, as many sections were just focused on one small part of the reading or lecture. If you were interested in something else from that lecture or the assigned readings, you were kind of screwed. Also, this class is quite a bit of writing. I think I wrote about 50 pages total for this course (12 pages of response papers, 8 pages for the first paper, 12 pages for the second paper, and 18 pages for the final research paper). I think once you understand what writing style your TF is looking for, it gets a little easier to knock out the assignments. Another kind of sucky thing is how little you get to spend on each week's topic. One week will be about social movements in Korea and the next will be on media culture in Japan. I think this class tries too hard in being a tasting menu (as Prof. Howell describes it) and focusing on overarching themes in East Asia. There is simply too many topics and too few minutes of class to cover everything. I enjoyed learning about things I hadn't previously known about. The readings were also enjoyable. I would recommend having some background knowledge of at least one country of East Asia (Japan, China, Korea) before taking the class.
Was pleasantly surprised by the course. Good format, interesting material and being able to choose which weeks to write response papers for made it manageable and stimulating.
EAS 97 does a great job of exposing students to a variety of different disciplines and lecturers in the EAS department and can really appeal to anyone, even if you're not particularly interested in Japanese literature or Chinese philosophy. EAS incorporates economics, history, and government as well. The readings are interesting and section is a lot of fun.
Great class! Matt is an awesome awesome TF!
This was a wonderful class. I dont think the format is for everyone but i really enjoyed the survey style of the class. I also felt like my writing ability improved.
This is a pretty awesome class, I'd recommend it any day to anybody.
I wasn't incredibly optimistic taking this course, as I had heard that the disconnectedness of each week made it hard to follow and hard to synthesize meaningful ideas week to week, but I thought that the guest lecturers were all great and I learned a ton hearing about new topics each week. I think it's the kind of course where you can get a lot out of each week if you go in trying to learn new things each week and not just focus on the topics or countries that you think you're interested in prior to the class.
In the form we took it, it's a miserable class, but it's not painful. You just sit through a very basic introduction of some field in east asia each week, and that's the course. You won't really learn anything - maybe a fun fact here or there - but it's probably a requirement for you, so just take it because what can you do.
If you truly enjoy learning about East Asia, you will like this class. Do all the readings so that you can participate in section. The class is disjointed, but the class material and professors are great!
Get the response papers done as soon as possible, and the end of the semester will go a lot smoother. There were definitely some weeks that were more interesting than others, but the more interesting topics make the class worthwhile. The TF's are incredibly knowledgeable and are a very helpful resource for background/contextual information for each week's topic.
Keep up with the readings as the annoying weekly response papers will draw heavily upon them. Writing intensive, but the changing, and excellent instructors per week kept us engaged.
This class is wonderful and the section is amazing!!! Definitely the best learning experience thus far at the college. The TFs were amazing and once again, section was the best!
It might be a great class if you are interested in China -- only 3 weeks in the entire semester were not about China. We spent so much time studying China that we could only spend 1 week studying Japan, 1 week studying Korea, and another week learning about media culture in both countries
Be aware that this course is reflective of faculty in EALC Department. As a result, this class is dominated by Chinese studies.
It's required, so take it if you want an EAS concentration/secondary. Go in to the course expecting it to be a disjointed sampling of disciplines and topics in EAS, and appreciate the ability to shop around. They made an effort this year to make the course flow and paint a larger picture of East Asia, which was appreciated. I learned a lot of assorted interesting stuff.
This class kind of sucked, especially if you were interested in Japan and Korea and not China. It was super China heavy and could never really delve into any topic too much because they kept on jumping around to different topics. I am personally fine with the haphazardness of the topic order of the class, but for me it meant that we never got to really go into something. If you're reading this you probably have to take it anyway, so I would say to just stick it out and invest where you can.
If you're already interested in East Asian Studies, you will like this class!
This class is exactly what it sounds like - a survey course of various (not all!) fields that one can pursue at EAS. However, EAS concentrators and secondaries already generally have a field of focus, which I find to make this course a little difficult. While I certainly learned a lot about things and areas and topics I would not have had the opportunity to pursue otherwise, sometimes it was because I learned it was not all that interesting to me.One big note: the reading is substantial and the essays are pretty time-consuming, particularly the last one. Take your time on them, and really give them the time they deserve so you can get the feedback you deserve.
This class is interesting and relatively low stress.
This course is required for EAS, so there's little way to get around it.But it's terribly fragmented--there is no cohesiveness in the course at all. With each week being a different lecturer, classes are hit or miss.  This course is not representative of EAS courses overall, so don't be turned off by it!
It is a very engaging class and you need to put in a good amount of time and effort to get what you want out of the course.
