This was the best class that I've taken at Harvard. It was AMAZING and I highly recommend it! I have had friends who had taken it previously describe it as life-changing and as a place where they found themselves. I wholeheartedly agree. This course not only re-introduced me to the joy of reading, but it also helped me connect different aspects of my life so that it all made sense, ranging from my academic interests to how to live a personally fulfilling and happy life. Professor Abe was the most gentle, wise, knowledgeable and caring instructor--he facilitated some extremely deep and thoughtful discussions that caused me and my classmates, on many occasions, to evaluate what modern life really is and what it should be in light of the writings of East Asian philosophy. He listened carefully to the thoughts that we articulated during our discussions and wove them all together to help ourselves arrive at the teachings of the texts. The readings themselves were well-chosen and represented a good range of modern and ancient texts.I did not expect that this course and that East Asian philosophy in general could change me beyond my academic and career interests, but it definitely taught me how to be a better person and it helped me understand the purpose of my work in a seemingly unrelated field (computer science). I am most appreciative of how it grounded the philosophies of past millennia in their application to life in the twenty-first century and in the future. I think that this alone is an importance lesson for anyone to learn, regardless of their field of study, and it greatly contributed to the value of my liberal arts degree.
An amazing and life changing class.
You can approach the course in any way you like and Professor Abe encourages you to make it your own. The workload is light, only readings, and the readings are so good that you want to do them. This class allows you to actually just stop and think, away from the busyness of Harvard. This is absolutely one of the best classes at Harvard.
This class will change the way you view eastern religion from dry texts to philosophies that come alive.
Prof. Abe is the kindest professor you will encounter at Harvard. This class was by far the greatest experience yet. There will be weeks with a couple hundred pages of reading, but the interactions with the texts make it more than worthwhile. 5/5
Life-changing. Everything that is billed to be. DO THE READINGS! If you want to have a deeper understand of East Asian Philosophy, teachings, and mentality, this is the class to take. The class also teaches you what it means to be a human being, a better citizen of the world, a leader. This is education.
When I read the Q scores from the previous year I thought it sounded great but figured people were over-exaggerating with how effusive they were about this course. However, after taking it I honestly think this course was life-changing. It got me to read and think in a completely different way, actually made me really enjoy readings that I think many people wouldn't normally love, and was the perfect complement to a busier set of other courses. This course was nothing but fun for me and  Professor Abe is probably the most interesting and caring professor I've had.
This class is truly one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Professor Abe really cares about the thoughts of his students in this smaller, discussion-based course. He is a master of the material while always curious as to how us students interpreted the material. Strongly recommended.
This course is a wonderful change of pace from usual Harvard courses. The texts you read are fascinating and may make you want to live your life differently. Professor Abe is probably the most accessible and kindest professors that I've worked with here, and he has incredible wisdom to share with the class. Take it if you have any interest in East Asian religions or you want to think critically about how you live.
This class is an absolute gem! Professor Abe crafts an intellectually rewarding experience for each of his students.
i took this class as an elective after shopping it during my freshman year, and am so grateful that i found it on the course catalog a year and a half ago. it is truly one of the most engaging, well-conceptualized, and "feel-good" classes i've ever had the privilege to take. professor abe is an incredibly brilliant teacher who is even more humble and approachable, and he truly makes an effort to get to know you through your analysis of the readings and discussion of your thoughts and personal goals. i enjoyed the intimate format of the seminar, and will look for similarly-structured courses in the future (though finding a course just as fantastic as this one will certainly be difficult, if not impossible)!
Professor Abe is amazing; this course is transformative. It'll challenge the way you think, and stimulate you to ponder about the way you live your life.
I took this class because I heard great things about it, and I was excited to discover classes that I would remember for the rest of my life. I also wanted to dedicate time during the week to relax and read books that I was interested in. This class took a few weeks for me to really settle into, but by the end, I was amazed at how thoughtful and interesting our conversations were. I am so glad to have gotten to know Professor Abe and to have learned more about Taoism, Confucianism, and Buddhism and much much more of course.
I would strongly encourage anyone with any interest in the subject matter (or hoping just to learn a little bit) to take this course. The books are presented in a way that really makes you think about their meaning through great class discussion. The small class size also leads to everyone getting to talk plenty, and you don't feel pressured to speak or not speak in the class. Professor Abe is the nicest professor, and he really cares both about his students and about what he's talking about. He's passionate, and you can't help feel passionate about the subject matter as well. Reading fiction at the end of the course was also a great change from previous courses I've took, and not having to analyze it like an English text and instead reading it for the impact it has on you personally causes you to realize that you can derive plenty of knowledge, whether academic, intellectual, or personal, when you actually enjoy a book rather than just study it. I applaud Professor Abe for helping me re-realize this.
I really hope Prof. Abe teaches this course again! I'm not a humanities person and definitely not EAS, but this course was well worth the novel-a-week reading schedule. You also learn a lot about yourself in the process, and get to reflect on that in a final project of your choosing. A high quality gem that shouldn't be missed.
best class at Harvard.
AMAZING COURSE. At times the reading felt challenging, but overall I think I learned more in this class than I have in any other (and I'm not an East Asia concentrator!).
This is an amazing class! Beyond the engaging subject material, Professor Ab is a joy to be around, and he facilitates wonderful discussions. He never imposes interpretations of the texts on you, though he is not afraid to enlighten you or bring up another element that you might have missed. Additionally, his effort to improve your own life through the reading of these texts is appreciated and successful. Take it if you like East Asia, Religion, the humanities in general, or just good discussion and good cheer!
This course is incredible. Take it if you can, but make sure that your'e able to spend the time to read and think. It's well worth it-for life, not just Harvard. The work load is completely reasonable and relatively light. Professor Abe is brilliant and also just an incredible person. Talk to him. Go to his office hours. Also, your peers will likely be amazing as well. Talk to them.
Professor Abe is great. The class felt like a book club. In a 2.5 hour discussion course like this, everyone felt a strong incentive to do all of the reading, and this attitude produced really good class discussions and a really good class dynamic.
Amazing class - Professor Abe leads great discussions and everyone is really engaged with the material. Always make sure to do the reading.
You will definitely not regret taking this class. Even though class is 2.5 hours, you feel like time flies. The discussions are meaningful and applicable to your daily life.
This course is absolute fantastic--definitely one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard by far. Professor Abe is incredible, to say the least. He is super nice and encouraging, and the course material is extremely interesting. I've discovered that while the course was extremely low-stress and not too demanding, I ended up learning much more than I have in more stressful classes, and I am positive that I will retain what I have learned forever. This course has changed the way I live my life and has actually helped me discover inner peace. Now I am a much more content person and feel like I am living my life fully. I highly recommend taking this class. I guarantee you will not regret it!
This class is amazing!!! Prof. Abe is really nice and an excellent professor who helps you understand the meaning of the East Asian religious texts you read.
The course is very relaxed, enjoyable, yet intellectually engaging.
This is a spectacular class! Of the 29 classes I've taken here at Harvard, there are probably three courses that I would say were impactful, memorable, enriching, gratifying and inspiring. Personally, I think that's a pathetic ratio, and so I was so happy to take this class, which counts high among those great classes here. This class was a true learning experience. Professor Ab is an extraordinary professor who will leave you wondering why  all classes aren't taught like this one. He is kind and genuinely wants to hear your opinion and thoughts. If you have the chance, I hope you take this class.
Incredible class. Professor Abe is an inspiration - a kind, intelligent, and devoted man who learns as much from his students as we learn from him.
This course was a great opportunity to question my life practices and take into account the invaluable experiences and accounts of great religious and moral guides and an excellent professor and human being. I recommend this course without a question. Extremely relaxing pace allows for deep engagement with material.
This is a great course to take whether you have inherent interest in East Asian religion or not. A good amount of the time it does not feel like a religion course because the discussions are so encompassing of the material and personal experiences and opinions of other students. Professor Abe is great at leading discussions and is in general a fantastic professor overall. He chooses great texts, is very personable, and is very accommodating if some sort of conflict arises for you.
This course is like a hidden gem in the Harvard course catalog! The course provides a chance to relax, read, and discuss the most profound things in life. Professor Abe is great in guiding us through interpreting and extracting spiritual meaning from East Asian literature. I learned a great deal about Daoism, Confucianism and Buddhism. This course is quite different from any course I have ever taken. To me, it was like taking a short, refreshing retreat from hectic Harvard life and learning what truly matter in life.
This was my favorite course this semester. If you have any interest in expanding your understanding of East Asian religions, you need to take this course. You will not regret it. Also, Professor Abe is basically the nicest person in the entire world.
This course is awesome.  It felt more like a chill, extracurricular book club than a course.  Take it.
A chance to learn from Professor Abe is an opportunity that you should take advantage of.
The texts were absolutely wonderful.  It could have been an absolutely wonderful class if the professor allowed us to have more interaction and discussion over the texts.  Sadly, however, he taught the class very dogmatically, informing us what is important to know and not allowing us to guide discussion at all.
The course is a great introduction to a variety of important East Asian texts, but the format makes it difficult to discuss any of the texts in great depth.
Fun class with a wonderful professor
Going to class was like going to a book club every week. The class was interesting and low-stress, and Professor Abe is possibly the nicest professor ever! However, you need to have a genuine interest in East Asian religions/philosophies to fully enjoy the class.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard, and I will apply the lessons learned to my life. Take a class with Professor Abe if possible.
Take this course!  One of the best classes I've had of all time.  Professor Abe knows that learning should be natural.  He encourages fascinating discussions in class that everybody enjoys.  I learned so much from this course and it was the highlight of my week!
The best class I took this year. Reasonable work amount and great weekly conversations around a table with tea. Professor Abe couldn't be any nicer and makes the class relaxed, enjoyable, and informative.
Two and a half hour classes are long, but Professor Abe is great and the material relevant. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
This class is the best course I've taken at Harvard. I love Professor Abe and all the discussions in class.
Im sorry to say that this class was a *major* disappointment to me.  The only possible explanation I can think of for all the high Q-report scores is that many students who take this class have had no previous exposure to East Asian philosophy and are therefore (understandably) blown away not by the class per se but by the ideas and books it covers.  The class itself felt much like a 6th grade English class and, in my opinion, was both highly contradictory to what Abe promised at its outset and (because of its dogmatic nature) to East Asian philosophy itself.  This was not a seminar class; it was Prof. Abe going through each book page-by-page (literally in order) and telling us how to interpret each scene which he felt to be important.  Every time class discussion/debate began to take off, Abe would immediately interrupt us and return to his lecture subject.  The individual presentations were a joke; one person only got through 1 of the 16 points he was planning to speak about before being interrupted and having his presentation hijacked by Prof. Abe.   Unlike what Abe said at the start of the course, there was very little attempt to relate the ideas we read about to our personal lives; I can say for a fact that many of us were extremely willing and enthusiastic to do so but were always interrupted when we tried and gradually lost all genuine interest in the course as it played out over the second half of the term.  Finally, while Prof.s Abes lectures on East Asian philosophy are satisfactory (especially if you have no prior exposure), they are nothing particularly original or creative (and the ones on Buddhism seem biased towards Mahayana); you might as well just read an introductory primer on the subject.  All in all, Prof. Abe is a nice man, but I cannot in good faith recommend him as teacher.
This is the best class you will ever take at Harvard. As a senior looking back, I wish that all of my classes could have been like this. Professor Abe is extremely knowledgeable and kind, not to mention an incredible teacher. I looked forward to every class meeting, and even though I had no exposure to East Asian religions before this class because I'm pre-med, I found the texts very manageable and the subject matter incredibly engaging. Take this class!!
Take this class if you want to read some good books.
This course involves a lot of reading, but the texts are really interesting and Professor Abe is my favorite professor that I have had here so far.
An amazing course with wonderful insights that are ACTUALLY applicable to daily life.
Take it! You'll love the professor and the setting of the class. Take the readings seriously, too, because you'll really enjoy them if you do. It's one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Definitely take this course! Professor Abe is amazing and you can learn to think on a deeper level through the class discussion and readings.
This class, and Professor Abe, will change your life and make you a happier person.
This is my favorite course out of all my classes at Harvard! Not only do you get to read great texts (Chuang Tzu, Tagore, The Guide by RK Narayan, Tao te ching), you get to discuss them over tea with Professor Abe and the awesome people in your class. This seminar is different from a lot of other classes at Harvard because while you are learning about East Asian Religions in an academic sense, with a bit of reflection on your own you learn about how to live a fulfilling, happy life. Which is not something most of us think about. Professor Abe is also the nicest guy - he's like a wise uncle who just wants to talk about books and how you are doing (he even came to my orchestra concert). The final paper can also be creative; if you want to write a short story, you can. If you are at all interested in the course material, I would definitely not miss this class!
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard, if not the best.  Allows you to contemplate important ideas in a relaxed environment.  Professor Abe is wonderful, excellent, one of the best professors I've had at Harvard.
Professor Abe is one of my favorite professors here, and the discussions are excellent and thought-provoking.
The kind of course you imagine yourself taking when you come to Harvard; a small group of individuals with varied backgrounds, an immensely erudite professor who is enthusiastic about the subject and goes out of his way to help you, and an end result that changes the way you think about the subject.
Take it! The class is founded on great discussion and fostering your own intellectual growth. Use it as an opportunity to explore your own values and opinions, and to engage in debates with your classmates. But do the reading! The class is worthless without the reading done on time.
This class changed the way I view the world. It also changed the way I live my own life, and has helped me to live each day with more love and peace in it.  Taking it during the semester was a constant reminder to enjoy life and remember what is important to me.
This class is a great excuse to read books that you've always wanted to but didn't have the time for (at least to those interested in the subject matter... For those who aren't, I probably wouldn't recommend it, as they would just drag the class down)
It's all about the texts. You must do the reading if you are going to get anything out of class.
So good. Seriously. Great reading, a great group of people (I think this course just attracts interesting people), and Professor Abe is wonderful.
Reading load is heavy, but the readings are the reason to take the class. They are some of the best in human history!
it was a life-changing experience, filled with great readings and great discussions.  professor abe was fantastic--one of the best professors i have had at harvard.
