It's a great course with easy requirements and a funny professor.  Poetry portfolios are very flexible in terms of length and topic so you can be very creative with them.  A very chill course, definitely recommend.
This is a very fun and interesting class.  It doesn't require too much work, and it is relatively easy to get a good grade.  That being said, I wouldn't say that I learned too much in the class about Asian poetry or writing it.  Take it as a fun elective course.  Don't take it if you are looking for an in depth study of Asian poetry.
Like Prof. McCann himself, this class doesn't make a huge first impression on you, but in the end, both the professor and the course are dynamite!  McCann is one of the coolest, most genuine profs at Harvard.  He completely does away with all the B.S. you get from a lot of professors and is extremely effective as a teacher as a result.  His dry wit is remarkable and always kept me on my toes and grinning.  The class was really unique too, in that I saw a side of Harvard students I'd never seen before: by the third week, it seemed as though half the class had already cried.  People really opened up and shared personal writings.  The workshop-nature of the class (reading your work aloud each week) was scary at first but very helpful and very enjoyable.  If you're obsessed with getting 4.0's and need every instruction written in stone you might not like this class, but if you're able to lighten up a bit, explore your creative potential, and not be afraid to dish a little sarcasm back at the professor, then this might be the best class you ever take at Harvard.
This class made me think about poetry in new ways.
It's a great class because it goes beyond simply reading the poetic forms; you actually get to write your own works. After learning the correct way, you also have the opportunity to experiment with the forms. It's a fun class.
If you enjoy creative writing, and would like to experiment and workshop, this class is perfect for you. It's a great, non-threatening atmosphere in which to write and improve your poetry.
fun classes if you like challenging the border of traditional poetry
Great class if you'd like to experiment with new poetic forms in a setting with a fun-loving and informative Professor along with smart classmates.
Great senior second semester course.
If you like writing poetry but haven't gotten a chance to because you don't want to submit a portfolio for a poetry workshop, take this class! Even if you have gotten a chance to write poetry at Harvard, I would still recommend this class. Great creative outlet and Professor McCann is incredible. This is by far my favorite class at Harvard.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Professor McCann is awesome and a great teacher.  Your poetry will definitely improve throughout the semester and you'll have a lot of fun
Professor McCann and Ivanna are extremely friendly and truly care about your creative development. Their feedback is always thorough and on point, so always read through their comments!
Really enjoyable way to work on writing in a low stress environment. Professor McCann is just as in to this be a fun, experimental class as most of the students. Just write a bunch of poems, that's basically the whole plan.
This class was the best choice I have ever made at Harvard. I have never taken a creative writing class before and honestly it opened my mind up to so many new ways of thinking and writing that will definitely shape how I write in other classes. Highly recommend for all students.
This is a class where you will grow as a writer and thinker
this was a WONDERFUL class. it is the perfect opportunity to express yourself creatively and to reflect on the life you are living in the moment. i thoroughly enjoyed this class and Professor McCann was great at encouraging creativity and sharing. the best part for me was that i enjoyed the class so much i wasn't even worried about doing it "right"--it was a time to relax and play with poetry, in an academic setting that provided a really good foundation for better understanding those different cultures
Great class to have a gain a relaxed understanding of Asian poetry. Professor McCann and Ivanna are a great teaching staff.
I came into this class thinking it would just be an easy course to take for my East Asian Studies Secondary Concentration but I actually enjoyed it a lot. You definitely get whatever you put in for this class. Although it's probably easy to go through it half-***ed and get an A, you (and the Ivanna and Prof. McCann) will know how much heart you put into your poetry. I strongly recommend this course is you need and East Asian Studies requirement fulfilled or if you just want a very fun and low stress elective. (Class participation is 40% of your grade. What what??)
This is a solid class. There are three main portfolios that take about 3 hours each (spent in different intervals over two weeks each) and the grading isn't too heavy either. Professor McCann is funny, personable and has a lot of great stories to tell about his journey. This course is definitely a gem!
Fun and very educational in a completely new field for me.  Challenging in a good way in that it you're encouraged to compose, compose, compose as much as possible and go deeper / learn new elements to improve week to week.  Professor McCann is absolutely delightful - he really knows his stuff and he's very welcoming to beginners such as myself.
Awesome elective type of class to branch out and not only learn but enjoy
Fantastic way to try out creative writing in the form of Asian poetry. McCann is great and really loves what he does.
Very interesting and fun course, take this as an artistic outlet and enjoy showing off your creative side
This is a great fun class to take.
Take this course! It's a wonderful way to understand Asian poetry and appreciate it at another level. Professor McCann and Ivanna are wonderful teachers. Very relaxing.
This class is a really great way for anyone interested in poetry or creative writing in general to get some exposure to an entirely new form. It's a low-stress way to get your creative juices flowing amidst other classes with high workloads, and the four folio assignments are really enjoyable to write. Professor McCann and Ivanna are both incredible, and I felt like I was learning from true masters.
This is a great class.  It's absolutely inspired.  The grading is fair.  Honestly, I put so much time into creating the poems for this class because I really cared about learning how to write and I cared about the quality of my work.  It truly is one of the best classes at Harvard.
The class is amazing and I feel is a breath of fresh air during the busy Harvard life. I believe that the transition is a bit rough in the beginning especially for those who have never written poetry before, but Professor McCann and Ivanna Yi have both provided a lot of useful critique and help along the way. I only wished that the transition was a little more smoother in the beginning, but wonderful class. Do not view this class at all based on the difficulty of it or the amount of work, but the amount of personal growth you can gain from this class.
An amazing course that you should certainly take! There are not a lot of opportunities for being able to write poetry if you've never had exposure to poetry writing before, and McCann & Ivanna are incredible. You could certainly skate through the class not saying much and just skimming the poetry, but if you go to office hours and put in significant effort in rereading things (re-re-reading too!) you can learn a lot about not only poetry, but also the history/society that produced the poetry. Could not recommend more highly.
Lovely course with great people. It's one of those intimate seminars where the people who are in the class really matter. As a poetry class, you workshop each other's work and give feedback - you want to have thoughtful people who will contribute insightful and constructive feedback on your work.
A really amazing way to test the waters of East Asian Poetry in a low-stress, welcoming and community oriented atmosphere. Texts are enjoyable, and the folios are only crippling if you wait until the very last minute, and even then they're doable.
If you can get in, you absolutely should take this course! I took it my senior spring, and it was the perfect ending to my college experience. You will read some fantastic poetry, and learn to write your own. You will also get to hear Ivanna, the TF, sing silo (traditional Korean poetry that is sung aloud)! Professor McCann gives great feedback, and is open and approachable. It's also really fun to see the poetry your classmates write (some of its surprisingly good). 100% recommend this course!
really great class but difficult grading. certainly worth it though.
