Talk to Professor Pharr outside of class! She knows everything and anything about Japan!
This class is wonderful! I enjoyed both the class component and the section component very much!One suggestion is to plan your schedule well as in when you are going to pass in the 4 short essays.(If Chika is still the TF in future years, that'll be great!!)
This class was great!  Professor Pharr is fantastic, knowledgeable, and a great professor.  The work is interesting, and the setup of the class was nice for a busy schedule.  We had one hour of lecture from Professor Pharr followed right after by a an hour of discussion.  I highly recommend it!
This a great class for anyone who is interested in comparative politics, contemporary Japan, or, like me, both. You'll learn about a number of different domestic and international challenges facing Japan now and moving forward. Professor Pharr is a great lecturer, and a wealth of knowledge on these topics. This is a fantastic class, and I highly recommend it.
Even if you are only moderately interested in East Asia or Japan, take this course, because Professor Pharr is an effective lecturer and an amazing professor get to know personally. You will definitely have fun learning so much (breadth and depth) about a single nation.
This is definitely a course for anyone who wants to learn more about Japanese issues. It's definitely a lot of reading but each one is relevant to the topic. You also connect all the readings through short papers throughout the semester. But this class will take a lot of time if you really want to do well and participate.
Professor Pharr is a fantastic teacher, and this course is an excellent overview of very current issues in the social scientific study of Japan!
If you are interested in Japan, contemplating writing a thesis on Japan, or just want to learn more about contemporary Japanese issues, definitely take this course!
Professor Pharr is amazingly knowledgeable and very approachable--her points on the various themes are very cool to listen to!  Also, she gives great advice on all sorts of things related to Japan, work, school-- beyond just material in the tutorial--which is also amazing.  

The themes covered are definitely some of the major contemporary issues that Japan faces now, from the history problem (textbooks, Yasukuni shrine, comfort women) to issues of immigrants and women in the workforce.  Lots of great topics and themes are covered, so give it a shot!
The TF will truly dictate how a student's experience will be. Prof. Pharr is a guaranteed 5
This course is run in an unusual manner: you have a lecture from Professor Pharr, an amazing individual and scholar of Japan, for an hour before transitioning to section. If it was just lecture, I would give the course a 5, or if Professor Pharr taught section it would be a 5. Unfortunately, section pulled it down a lot, though the section leader probably changes year to year, so I would still recommend the course. 

Pluses:
-fascinating range of topics and issues examined (reallyI could talk for years about all the interesting problems that Japan faces that the course introduces you to)
-Professor Pharr is incredibly knowledgeable and encouraging
-Lots of support and help while writing the research paper
-Thoughtful feedback on writing

To improve the course, I would cut out the section component and allow Professor Pharr to teach the entire course. It is a bit jarring to weekly have to switch instructors in the middle of each class meeting, especially when they have very different styles. Professor Pharr is frankly more knowledgeable about the subjects than a teaching fellow could be, and I would love to see future classes be taught entirely by her.

Section, as I said, was unfortunately a letdown. Though I felt we had some good discussions, there was little direction and I felt like we often rambled. Additionally, there was not much enthusiasm put into the section and I felt like the energy came more from the students than from the instructor.  The students were great and very interested in the material, which made it bearable most of the time.

Overall though, it's a good course, but it was frustrating that its incredible potential was brought down by section.

I learned about many of the societal, historical, and political issues that modern Japan faces. These will inform me as I continue my study of East Asia and have definitely shaped the way I approach the region. 

I also worked on my social science writing, with which I did not have much prior experience. I am grateful for the feedback I received, which was thoughtful and helpful.
Don't be fooled--this class is tough! It's tough but it was so worth it. I learned a lot, my writing skills improved so much, and both the professor and the TF know what they're talking about. This is not a class to BS your way through; you'll get caught, I promise. Do the readings or split them up amongst your classmates. That's what we did, and it was extremely helpful. Don't be scared off after getting your first response paper back; it takes time and your writing gets so much better. Why be at school if you don't challenge yourself? Take this class.
You're most likely taking this class because you need to, but it is such a great class that you'll forget it is a tutorial (considering most other tutorials for other concentrations are brutal). Professor Pharr is an incredible lecturer and while the readings are a lot, you'll never find yourself wondering why a certain reading was assigned or why the reading is relevant to the week's topic. The two hours go by very quickly -- the first hour is a lecture by Professor Pharr, and the second hour is a discussion of the readings and materials and you get a great balance of being able to take in Professor Pharr's expertise and then offering your own insight afterwards.
I'm not exaggerating when I say this is one of the most transformative classes I've taken here because aside from the knowledge that I've gained in Japanese politics, this course has immeasurably improved my confidence in political science writing, something that is making me reconsider my career trajectory.
Great small seminar course with an incredibly interesting scholar and excellent professor. I learned so much about Japan having always focused on China just in this one course, and it really gave me an interesting new perspective on Sino-Japanese relations.
Great course centered on Japanese politics and current events issues. If you are interested in Japanese studies, this is actually good intro course to a lot of 'hot' topics in the field. I was surprised that we looked at articles that were hot off the press, but I guess I am a history concentrator, so I'm not used to a lot of those approaches in political science.
This class accomplishes what it's supposed to by having in depth discussions and providing detailed information on contemporary Japan and the current issues that it deals with today. I found that learning about Japan from political and economic perspectives to be interesting because I had only learned about it from cultural and historical perspectives before. I think both Chika and Professor Pharr are great at leading discussions. I especially liked that Professor Pharr didn't just lecture every week but always did something new like play a movie clip, bring in a guest speaker, etc.
Try to take advantage of office hours and get an early start on term paper research.
This class is great for anyone interested in contemporary Japan.
Take advantage of classes like this one where you can get to know the teaching staff personally; you can't get this experience in many economics or social studies classes where enrollment is in the hundreds.
Professor Pharr is an incredible speaker, and the privilege of engaging in discussion with her in such an intimate group setting is worth the struggle involved in taking on the lengthy readings and inconvenient short paper assignments that come with this course.
Professor Pharr is the most brilliant and approachable professor I've met here.  She is extremely accessible outside of class.  She can be intimidating at first, but when you put in the effort to build a sincere relationship with her, she is a wonderful person to know.
This class takes a lot of work, from the copious amounts of reading and writing, to the final research paper.  Because of the small class size, it isn't possible to get away with not doing all of the reading or not having original thoughts to offer.  However, Professor Pharr and Nathan are amazing, and it's an interesting class.  You'll walk away with a much better understanding of modern Japanese issues.
It's not very often with the EAS department that you get to look at Japan through a social science lens, so if you're interested in doing so, you definitely need to take this class!
