Professor Robson is an amazing professor and he makes the material come alive. Definitely take this course if you have any interest in Zen and want a class that won't take up a ridiculous amount of time.
Prof. Robson knows his stuff and drops knowledge. If you have any interest at all in Zen, take this class.
This course is awesome - do yourself a favor and take it.  Professor Robson is a really down-to-earth, interesting and intelligent educator who communicates many of the issues/challenges surrounding Zen in his course.  You'll walk away with a new and better understanding of East Asian history, a strong appreciation for the paradoxical challenges within Zen, and a blurring of the lines that separate East Asian religions in general.  Totally fair, plenty of fun, really interesting, challenging but not unpleasantly so.  Take it.
If you're interested in a class that approaches Zen from many perspectives- historically, from within the religion, American view- then take this class.
James is one of the best teachers you will EVER have. he is SO AWESOME. Zen is also fascinating, and is so much more complex than you think it is. the things you learn in this class can be applied to your everyday life. you find yourself making countless connections across subjects as well. fantastic class.
Robson is great. You get what you put into the course. if you are interested in this subject, take this course.
Professor Robson is fantastic and the lectures are great. Not much work is required besides doing the readings and manageable assignments.
Take this class. Professor Robson is great person to learn from and get to know. The course material is interesting. The workload is manageable.
Only take this class if you are genuinely interested in the topic -- most people who took it because they just wanted an easy class were disappointed because they didn't put anything in, didn't do well, and didn't get much out.
If you have an interest in Buddhism, then definitely take this class. Professor Robson is awesome, and the class overall is really low-stress.
Great class. Great professor. Not much of a workload but with interesting material.
The material is very interesting and the course is structured in a such a way that you the issue of Zen Buddhism is approached from many angles, producing a very full picture by the end of the semester.
interesting class be ready to learn for weeks at a time while relaxing the other time
Phenomenal class taught by one of the most engaging and intellectually provocative teachers here.Had I not already declared my concentration I would have changed it because of this class.
Go to office hours, just to hang out.  Having a relationship with Professor Robson will make the course experience even more rewarding.
This course is one of my favorite courses that I've taken at Harvard. The professor encouraged us to engage critically and fully with the texts and the material and every lecture was wonderful. I ended the semester with a truly deepened understanding of the subject matter and am excited to learn more and continue my studies!
This class is fantastic, not only for academic interest in Zen but also a personal interest.  Professor Robson is fantastic.
This class is a very in depth introduction to Zen Buddhism from an academic and philosophical perspective and is worth pursuing if you're at all interested in the Buddhist tradition.
This course challenges many often incomplete preconceptions about Zen Buddhism. I highly recommend it to those who are interested in Buddhism.
Probably the best class I've taken at Harvard.
Professor Robson is not only a top scholar in his field, but an excellent teacher. He went above and beyond to work with and get to know every student. Everyone should make time to take a class or two with Professor Robson before leaving Harvard.
My preconceptions of Zen were completely changed and I was able to learn a lot about a topic that I had not that much knowledge about before.
An interesting, fun and easy class, but only if you're either interested in Zen, or just like discussing philosophical ideas.
Come interested. Do not feel embarrassed to ask questions since many students may have similar questions and the professor is definitely willing to share his knowledge.
This class is super engaging. Professor Robson is a great teacher, and if you have a genuine interest in the subject matter you will get a lot out of the course.
This is an amazing course taught by the most down-to-earth and accessible (not to mention interesting) professor I've met at Harvard.  It has the potential to be one of those life-changing courses you always remember.  And whether your interests are philosophical, historical, theological, anthropological, etc etc, the course can be tailored to you.  The writing assignments are very open-ended, and Prof. Robson is extremely open to working with you personally to figure out how to make the course relevant to you.  Stop by his office sometime and you'll be hooked - you won't believe how cool is he or how easily he can pique your intellectual curiosity.
Great course!
This was a great class to take senior spring while writing a thesis.  It is very laid back, the workload is light, and, frankly, there is not a lot of pressure to do the reading, or more than the readings discussed in section.  That said, I learned a ton and really enjoyed the course!  I would say, though, that because of that, the course does not feel very rigorous, and it was often hard to have substantive conversations about the readings in section and lecture because I felt that people often didn't do them.  I would say that if you want a class that is fascinating and enjoyable with really interesting and fun lectures but also quite easy (and you're interested in Zen), take this! but just as a warning: if you want a course that will challenge you to do and engage substantially with the readings and to discuss these issues at a high level, you might be disappointed.
If you want a pretty relaxed introduction to Zen, take this class. Theological debates take up a pretty good portion of the class, and discussions of what Zen means for its practitioners in a practical sense take up a comparatively smaller portion. This disappointed me, but Professor Robson was still awesome, the class was still interesting, and some people might like the class's focus. A great, not so stressful class on something most people don't know much about.
This course is really great, super interesting subject and well taught.
