This course is one of the best you will find at Harvard. The professor is amazing and inspires one to really dive into the material. The material you learn is so fun and worth the challenge. By the end of the course, you can actually read Egyptian monuments at the Museum of Fine Arts! Be patient at the beginning, because once the language clicks for you, you'll really get it and it will be even more fun.
If you are thinking about a fun elective, this is THE course for you.
This is far and away the best and most rewarding class that I've taken at Harvard. Professor Manuelian is fantastic--it's rare that you find a find a professor so highly renowned in his field take such an interest in his students. He always keeps the course relevant by bringing in real examples of hieroglyphs for the class to read, and by the end of the course you're reading real Egyptian texts and tackling Giza inscriptions at the MFA. Take this class if you have the chance!
This course is really awesome - by the end of the semester you will be able to read real inscriptions and historical texts. It is amazing to see how much you can learn in just one semester. And you'll be reading real texts from 1000s of years ago. This class actually does take effort to learn vocabulary etc. though, as it is very different from english.
This course is amazing. The professor is extremely nice and ludicrously knowledgeable about Ancient Egypt. Sometimes half the class time would be taken up by going off on tangents about various aspects of Egyptian history and culture, but these were fascinating and informative, and were a testament to how efficiently Professor der Manuelian got us through the material. Not particularly difficult either, I regret taking it pass/fail, but not an easy A: you need to stay caught up in the material and practice outside of class and homework to do well, but if you're as obsessed with Egypt as I am, then it barely feels like work.
great class. take it and you will learn a lot, being able to walk into a museum and read 5,000 year old sentences right off the wall.
This class provides the opportunity to learn from a leading professor in his field, and in a small tutorial environment. If you have any interest in learning about ancient egyptian culture- take this class! Very reasonable workload and interesting material- its kind of like solving puzzles!
excellent if you want to enjoy taking a different language and learning something you will never have another opportunity to study
This is a great class.  Really different material.
This is an incredibly fun class if you're interested in actually learning the language! Professor Der Manuelian is amazing! He is incredibly interested and knowledgeable about the material and does a good job breaking up class by going on tangents and giving a bit more of the Ancient Egyptian history and culture. This is not really a course to learn about Ancient Egypt (which is what I was looking for - try Societies in the World 38), but it was much more interesting than I had initially anticipated. Also, if you are debating between taking this P/F or for a letter grade, take it for a letter grade - Prof. Der Manuelian makes all of the material very accessible to everyone in the class from all different backgrounds. Plus he is a really lenient grader.
This is the coolest class I have taken this semester
This is a fantastic class. The professor is fun, engaging and kind, and will help you when you're struggling with the material. The asides he gives are very interesting. Take this class if you have any interest in foreign languages or Egypt.
it's a great class, particularly if you're into dead languages, but the grammar is difficult and you really need to do your homework or you're in serious trouble
If you would like to take this course without any experience and solely as an elective, you should be aware of how difficult it is in terms of the grammar and vocabulary.  It should not be taken with the thought that it will be an easy and simple elective.
