Prof. Comaroff is great, especially if you go talk to her one-on-one. During class - she's brilliant, but hard to follow sometimes, and I would have liked more discussion. Also, never thought i'd say this, but i'd prefer more graded assignments. a pass/fail midterm and 60% graded essay is too much pressure on the paper. But very interesting class topics!
This class is amazing! I learnt something new every week, and you come out of the classroom astounded at how much Prof. Comaroff knows. If you're interested in medical anthropology, or even about how medicine and society interact, definitely take this class.
This class radically re-shaped the way I thought about medicine in our society. It was engaging, a moderate work-load, and easily one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard!
I would encourage future students to take advantage of office hours in order to engage with Professor Comaroff and have a better grasp on the material.
By far one of the best classes I've ever taken. It was a crash-course in medical anthropology, and amazingly accomplished the goals of touching the far corners of the field and still remaining focused on the central issues. Be prepared to read a lot. Be prepared for fast-paced and incredibly engaging lectures. Prof. Comaroff is an accomplished teacher.
If you are interested in medical anthropology, definitely take this course.
Take this course or another class with the Comaroffs! This was one of the few courses at Harvard that I can say I really enjoyed and changed me and I didn't care at all about the grade (which was fine anyway). Professor Comaroff is brilliant and you just want to listen to her talk forever, but she is also really great at including and incorporating students into the discussion. Take it! Do it!!
This was a fantastic Anthropology class; for anyone going into the field of medicine or global health it should be a must! Dr. Comaroff is an amazing professor and is so knowledgeable about the material and clearly has taught the material many times over and knows it in and out. It is a graduate seminar, but I wouldn't be afraid as an undergraduate as Dr. Comaroff makes the material very accessible and always relates it to what we know in the contemporary world.
This is a great course.I have learnt so much from it than I have in many courses I have taken so far.The professor has mastery of the materials. He is knowledgeable and a great pedagogue. He comes to class well-prepared to teach and ready to listen to concerns students may have with the assigned readings.Outside the classroom,  she is always available to meet students in her office.  She is the perfect person to teach this course.
This class is a great survey of medical anthropology, and the teaching staff are very warm and open. That said, the two hour seminar, although always lively, can sometimes not always be pertinent to your interests--as expected for a class with people from all different backgrounds. Be ready to read and direct conversation to your areas of interest, or to take themes away without each class meeting feeling uniquely valuable.
Take full advantage of all of the readings and discussions in this phenomenal course and make sure to meet with the professor, teaching fellow, and classmates outside of class to discuss the rich material. Keep up with modern medical trends and events in the media so the course work can inform it and visa versa.
This is a great class with a phenomenal teaching staff. I thoroughly enjoyed coming to lecture every day.
Great course with a wonderful and very relevant professor
one of the best courses I've taken
This course teaches you a lot about global health and provides unique insight into many topics. The professor is also extremely knowledgeable.
This is an amazing class with amazing material. However, you will only receive the support you need by setting up office hours with the TF or the teacher.I would also recommend it to any one who is pre-med because it has really changed that way I see medicine.
Excellent survey of medical anthropology around the world. Be sure to do the readings, even though you can get by in class without doing so, and prepare early for the midterm and final, especially since they weigh so heavily on your grade
This is an extremely valuable, focused, inspiring class that is likely to defy many assumptions you have made about the world (and boundaries) of medicine. You will read widely across social sciences and humanities, tapping into a wide array of debates with which scholars and the general public engage. You will not find a more energetic and engaging and insightful professor than Jean, and if this year is any indication, the classmates will reflect those same qualities. And if you have a project you are developing beyond this class, there will be many opportunities to draw on course material for thinking about such projects. It is important to be prepared and read the assigned material so that you can think on your feet in this generally fast-paced class.
If you're interested in an anthropological study of medicine, this course will suit you.
Phenomenal class, phenomenal professor.  Great for premeds or anyone interested in health at all.  It's a lot of reading, but even with only skimming some assignments you can get so much out of this class.
A good course, but alot of reading.
A great course, get ready for a lot of reading that requires a significant amount of patience and and analysis but worry not it will be awesome!
This course is super interesting, lots of great readings and discussions. But the format of the course may be off-putting for some. If you take this course, make sure you're the kind of person who can sit through 2 hours straight of lecture in an intimate setting.
