Greatest gem of the entire course catalogue
Great way to fulfill language requirement. Minimal work load, and really enjoyable and interesting.
Great class if you want to continue your studies in zulu
This is a very interesting class which is also fun and engaging. You learn a lot about South African culture which makes you feel connected to the course.
Enjoy the language and have general enthusiasm for the culture, the teacher is amazingly talented at teaching
This is a great class to take.  The teacher is amazing, and Zulu is a great language.  Swahili is not the only African language!
Ntuli is an angel. One of the most memorable classes I've taken at Harvard
It is a great class and the instructor is very passionate about the class.
This is a moderate course that you can really enjoy taking.
This class is fun and interactive.
Really cool professor that is a pleasure to know. Sometimes class can be confusing, but between other students and just asking what she meant after class everything can be resolved.
Take this class!! Ntuli is an amazing instructor, and you'll really be surprised by how much you end up learning by the end of the semester. Great intro to Zulu.
It may seem like a small amounts of work on the surface, but before tests and quizzes it will require a lot of time for you to go over course material.
Very fun class, can be confusing at times but that can be expected with any language. highly recommend if trying to fill language requirement.
It is a great class that teaches you a lot about Zulu Culture while you learn an interesting language.
its a great environment to learn an awesome language
Ntuli is a lot of fun! You do leave with an understanding of the language. It's low stress and fun.
You will love this class!
Ntuli is a fantastic instructor. I learned a lot, and had a ton of fun doing it.
Such a good class. Nutuli is amazing and the class is very fun.
This class is awesome. Take it!
Very lively and interesting class. Provides a window into the life of the Zulu speaking people
The class is an excellent way not only to learn the Zulu language but also to understand Zulu culture in a more holistic way.
For those who are interested in South Africa, Zulu language can equip you for furthur research and fieldwork. In the meantime, it is the best way to really get to know Zulu culture.
Only take this class if you really want to learn the Zulu language.
Zulu is a great course. It is well structured and well taught.
Quick and painless way to learn a language
This is a great course that really teaches you the basics of Zulu.  There is an emphasis on speaking and reading comprehension, which is fantastic.  I feel like I learned a lot this semester.
It's a great class with minimum workload.
This is a great, laid-back class. It's very individualised, so you get whatever you put in.
An enjoyable way to learn the language, history and culture of southern Africa people
If you are interested in learning Zulu this is the class for you. Be prepared for so much laughter, an understanding of the culture and for one of the most beautiful sounding languages taught here at Harvard
The class was very informative and a lot of fun!
A perfect window to get a glimpse of South African culture.
Be prepared to have a lot of fun and the course moves at a good pace. Lots of flexibility and not much homework.
This class is awesome!!! If you want to take a fun intro language class definitely take zulu.
If you're looking for a low-stress, fun class Zulu is it. It is not much work and you do end up learning a lot of the language. Ntuli is great.
this is a great class to satisfy your language requirement and have a great time.
The class is very well taught, you will learn a lot and get to express your self in a cool click language.
Come ready to learn and also be ready and willing to put in your own input as to the structure of the course- the teacher and head of department really want you to get the most out of the course.
This is a really great class! Zolisa is engaging, funny and very personable. If you want to learn Zulu, she is the best person to do it with. I enjoy the language so much and it is great to have a teacher with a knack for explaining grammar and pronunciation.
Ntuli is a great instructor. It is a very great class that exposes you to new cultures.
Its amazing. Ntuli is a wonderful teacher and person. Very low stress but a great experience
This is my favorite class at Harvard
If you're looking for an easy class to satisfy the foreign language requirement, look no further than Zulu. It might be the greatest class I've ever taken.
Feedback was almost nonexistent for the course, and I felt expectations were unclear. Assignments were stated to be quizzes and turned out to be midterms. Ntuli is over the course and does not appreciate questions and is generally unhelpful, but Bongani is excellent and cares. The class is super easy, though.
Great class. Lots of fun
it is very interesting
This class is an excellent class!! It's perfect if you want to learn a new language and want to have fun doing so. Ntuli is the best!!
Fun class take for a language
How amazing Ntuli is and how interesting it is to learn the Zulu language.
Ntuli is a really amazing teacher! She makes learning a language that can be difficult to learn very fun!
This class is easy AF but a total waste of Harvard credits - if you need to knock out your language req and have no interest in taking anything away from the experience, this class is for you.
It's so FUN! and its cool to learn a new language that not many people know. Both TFs are awesome
It is a great class, you get to learn zulu and the culture behind the language.The language is very unique as it has clicks, its a great language to consider learning.
This is such a fun class. Ntuli is amazing and you will learn so much without even realizing it.
Zulu is a fascinating language and culture. For the past few years, interest in South Africa has risen, and anyone who wishes to travel or work there should definitely learn some Zulu.
You have to genuinely want to learn the language to really appreciate it.
This is a really fun, low stress class. You also learn a lot of Zulu surprisingly quickly and get to know more about South Africa.
Ntuli is an amazing professor!
Great class with very nice prof. Go to class and do the work and you will get the grade you want.
Ntuli is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard. She is amazing! Probably my favorite class here.
THIS CLASS IS EVERYTHING THAT HARVARD SHOULD BE: stressfree, interesting, and organized.
THIS IS BEST LANGUAGE EVER TAKE IT FOOLS.
Ntuli is a great teacher and Zulu is a fun language to learn.
