Prof. Hinton is great! She is incredibly smart and also really kind. She has a real interest and enthusiasm in the subject and classroom material, which shines through. You'll learn a lot and see the historical legacies and ramifications of many of our nation's past (and present) actions. Also, the ability to consistently engage in critical dialogue with your peers is invaluable .
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. It was a new class this year, and Professor Hinton was new as well. I am SO incredibly glad that I took the chance of taking it because Professor Hinton was one of the best Professors I've ever had. The class covers a LOT of history, a LOT of issues, and a lot of reading, too. But every minute is worth it. The peers in my class were so intelligent, thoughtful, different, and passionate - it made for an incomparable class environment that wove together not only our different levels of familiarity with African American history, but also our different personal backgrounds in really important and meaningful ways. I learned an incredible amount in this class and, while the reading is heavy, you don't have to do all of it to have a really successful experience. In addition to an incredible professor who will learn your name, your style, and genuinely wants to hear everything you want to say, and a classroom environment that is close and really enriching, the content of this class is deeply, deeply important. It will always be relevant, but especially this year, it was such a powerful experience to have this class in the context of the news stories and racism that continues to pervade America in especially vicious ways. I think this class should be required - but then again, everyone is going to want to take this class anyway because it is that incredible!
This class is fantastic! You learn a significant amount about life for African Americans immediately following the Civil War up to the present day and the workload is very manageable. Only a midterm and a final paper in addition to forum responses. There are a lot of readings, but hopefully those will be scaled back a little bit for future iterations of the course. Even so, you can still contribute to the discussion on the readings that you were able to do, so it's not a dealbreaker if you aren't able to complete the readings every class. For this year, you only met for class time, since it was small enough to have a section-like discussion, so that was very nice schedule wise. Lastly, Professor Hinton is the main highlight of the course! She is a wonderful professor who gives extremely productive feedback and is very accessible in her office hours, as well as during lecture. Definitely meet with her if you do end up taking the course, because she is a fantastic resource!
Hinton is really great. There is a good amount of reading, but you get a lot out of the class.
This is a great class. You'll learn more about eras and events you thought you knew a lot about, and you'll also uncover elements of American history that you had no idea existed. Professor Hinton is fantastic, and she offers lots of opportunities for you to explore your interests within the 150-year era covered. And if it's heavily populated with seniors, as it was this year, that's an added bonus, as the discussions were top-notch and drew on a lot of different people's unique perspectives.
You will learn a lot about African American history and have incredible discussions with your classmates!
This class gives a great survey of the more recent half of African American history and allows you to see some of the larger reoccurring themes and trends across generations. It's very heavily discussion-based, so the experience will likely have a lot to do with who else is in the class - but Professor Hinton herself is awesome and very knowledgeable, so it would be worth it to take the class just for her.
Professor Hinton is extremely helpful in helping students through the course's papers, and all one needs to do is attend her office hours. Her teaching format of lecture and discussion, which she moderates very well, will value any contributions to the class, particularly on controversial issues.
This is a fantastic course. Professor Hinton does a great job of sharing her own views on the relevant topics, while also pushing each student to come up with their own interpretation. The material is very interesting, and gives you an entirely different outlook on American History (necessarily so from my perspective). The assignments aren't too bad, and Professor Hinton gives awesome feedback. Class was very interesting. Overall, if the material interests you at all, I definitely suggest this course.
Just an incredible class. The whole thing was a really open and honest discussion about the last 150 years of African American history in the US. Kind of a perfect college class
This is a great course to discuss the main themes and questions related to contemporary African American history. Professor Hinton, the instructor, is enthusiastic, kind, and engaged with her students and class discussions are thoughtful and fluid.
This is a wonderful class - it is very discussion based in a way that allows for a lot of exchange of thought. The class environment is welcoming and encourages asking questions.
