Incredibly easy and fun course - Interesting and manageable papers, great TFs, and great material. Monson can be very dry, however.
This was a very relaxed course but it did require weekly response papers and 3 six page papers. I felt that the environment of the class really allowed to me to learn how to appreciate jazz even though I didn't have a strong background in it previously. My TF, Lizzy, was fantastic and Professor Monson is always excited about the material she's teaching.
It's a great way to familiarize oneself with the rich history of a true American art form.
A good mix of history and music.
listen to all the required hearings; they're wonderful
This is a great course if you would like to learn more about American history and music. The music is wonderful and you'll learn how to connect changes in musical style to social changes :-)
A good way to engage the history of an art form.
Take this course!! It is fantastic. The lectures are extremely interesting and include guest speakers. The sections are wonderful because you get a chance to discuss the music in more detail. Section leaders are incredibly helpful and knowledgeable and let you know in advance on how to prepare for each section. The TF's add to the overall learning experience as they help further student engagement with the course.
This was a decent class. Most of the time I felt as though I was being read to during lecture so I usually tuned out. Sometimes I found the lectures to be boring. Great class if you want an easy and semi-interesting Gen Ed
You get out of this class what you put into it.
Fun and easy introduction to jazz for the non-initiated. While jazz is still not my language, this course got me to listen to it and like it, and I will continue doing so even though the course is over.
I thought that Professor Monson did a fantastic job providing the historical and cultural background of jazz. Her lectures were detailed and informative.
This class is a great way to learn about jazz, especially those who have no prior experience in it. Even if you do have prior experience, chances are you'll learn something new or discover a new artist. The course is designed more like a history course than a jazz course, so no prior experience is necessary.
It's a very easy course and a great intro to jazz. Recommend to anyone with an interest in jazz or music in general!
excellent class with interesting information and a light work load
The course content is very interesting, and the class gives you a look at jazz from its beginnings to experimental jazz.  There are fabulous guest lecturers, and Professor Monson is very passionate about the subject matter.  Weekly section assignments were kind of tedious.
If you like racial history and jazz, this class is great, but sometimes the lectures are dull and long-winded.
Understanding how to read jazz improves your ability to listen and appreciate all forms of music.  In addition to learning about improvisation and musical virtuosity, the course covers the socio-political and cultural scope of the US in the 20th century - from Jim Crow to Black Power and the Civil Rights Movement.  The lectures are a real treat, the music wonderful and the short papers can be broad in their scope - a great elective.
I thoroughly enjoyed learning about, listening to, and interacting with the material. I also really enjoyed discussion in section that allowed me to interact with the music and the social issues. However, lecture was often boring and while the material was interesting, was often presented in a bland way.
This is an average, easy course. Nothing too exciting. If you like clear, decisive answers...it probably won't be satisfying. Definitely cool if you like jazz (or even if you think you don't).
If you need to fill a requirement, this is a fun and easy way to do it
Take this class if you are interested in jazz already. It is really fast paced because of the diversity of jazz throughout the years.
Great class.  Take it if you like music, any music.  Lectures are interesting and sections usually have really interesting discussions.
Monson's a bit dull sometimes, but better than some give her credit for. She really loves jazz and knows a lot about it, and by the end of the semester she will have undoubtedly infused you with at least a bit of that love and knowledge. She also knows a lot of great musicians who come in to visit, one of the highlights of the class.
This is a great AIU class. If you're at all interested in jazz and jazz history, it's the perfect course to take. You come out with a working knowledge of the people and albums to know. Lizzie is an AMAZING TF. It's a really nice break in your schedule, to be able to think in a creative way and to listen to music.
This course was very interesting and did not require an excessive amount of time outside of class, for a gen ed. The final project was a lot of fun because it was incredibly open ended.
It's a fun class about jazz and very little work. It beats art history!
Be prepared to grapple with the course's breadth. Otherwise sit back and enjoy the music.
Very enjoyable and compelling class
This class was great!  You learn a lot of interesting material.
It's a really fascinating musical and cultural look at an artform the relevancy of which is diminishing in our day and age. It's a great example of how art can represent social, racial, and cultural ideas, while also having distinct artistic intricacies unto itself
