Considering the current events in the United States, I would recommend this course to all students. Mass Incarceration impacts all of us as Americans and to go on in ignorance only hurts yourself.
Definitely take this course if you are interested in racial injustice, police brutality, or the "justice" system. A course like this I think really should be a requirement for any Harvard student in order to be an informed and effective citizen. Professor Hinton is very skilled at promoting thoughtful discussion about racial injustice in our justice system and is very willing to supporting students own interests in learning more about addressing racial injustice in our carceral system. I am so glad I took this course and highly recommend it!
This is an amazing and extremely important course. The teaching team is great! Everyone should take this course!
This is a great class about a really important topic, and Professor Hinton is wonderful!
This class goes backs and traces the underpinnings of mass incarceration in such an interesting way. The discussions we had in this course will remain with me forever!
take it. best class @harvard.
Professor Hinton is one of the best professors at Harvard so take a class with her regardless if it's this one or something else! This is a really important subject to be learning about right now, and looking at it from a historical perspective seems very necessary to really understand what is going on. Totally manageable workload, very participatory and student-driven, attracts a broad range of students so it'll be accessible regardless of your background. Take this class!
This class changes the way you look at the world. First of all, it changes your experience with Harvard education because it is such a different and refreshing classroom experience. Professor Hinton is just the best - so kind, so intelligent, and so impressive, but all in ways that draw you in rather than intimidate. With a topic that is so large, so important, and seemingly inescapable this class gives you the tools to talk about it, and actually do something about it. I'd have to say I learned so much from my peers. They are the ones that make the class.
This is a really great course that should be required for everyone. I learned a great deal about the American criminal justice system and was required to challenge my assumptions every class. I really recommend taking this course if you have even an inkling of curiosity about our justice system, but be warned that there is a great deal of reading. You can totally "get by" without doing it, but you will be very lost during discussions and your midterm essay grade will probably reflect this. Prof. Hinton is extremely knowledgeable and approachable, and Anna was a great addition to the teaching team!
A truly life-changing and inspiring course.  I came to class every single day excited to discuss the material and delve really deeply into the historical development of mass incarceration in the U.S.  My perspective on this topic has changed immensely over the past 4 months and altered the way I understand racism in modern society more broadly.  Professor Hinton is a superstar - such a kind, intelligent, and caring person who does an excellent job fostering discussion in the class.  I cannot recommend or gush about this class enough.  If you have even the slightest interest/care/curiosity about the prison system or social justice, TAKE THIS CLASS.
Great way to learn about what might be the most important issue in America.
This is an absolutely fantastic course, with one of the best professors I've had at Harvard, about an issue that everyone should understand well in 21st century America. The discussions are amazing and the readings diverse but all compelling. I highly recommend that anyone take this course.
Everyone needs to take a course like this before they graduate. I can't stress how important it is. Professor Hinton is amazing. The readings for the class are really interesting. The discussions in the class are so valuable and thought provoking. The work load isn't too bad at all. I would highly recommend taking this course! It really illuminates the historical legacies and the construction of not just of incarceration but more broadly inequality in this country.
Professor Hinton truly offers an engaging course and teaches students to critically evaluate and trace the foundations of systems of oppression, policing and surveillance in the United States that have produced the current era of mass incarceration.
This is a great course, and highly relevant to today's world. While the syllabus looks daunting at first, the course work is very manageable and Professor Hinton provides a number of opportunities to receive feedback (nice if you are a non-history concentrator like I was). Overall, amazing course, great professor and TF and important topic.
I think this course is really important, particularly for people interested in working in policy / government.
This is the most important class I've taken at Harvard. It was the kind of class that leaves you tossing around ideas that came up in class discussion in your head for the rest of the day and engaging your friends all week with related questions all week. The historical approach to a modern American issue meant that I learned tons of American history traditionally left out of your standard US history textbooks and I feel I am much more informed about the sorts of systems related to race and criminal justice that built the America we have today. While some of our readings were pretty difficult to stomach, I woke up every Monday and Wednesday so excited to go to class and feel I am a better member of society for having taken it.
You should take this course to be a better person and global citizen. There is so much to learn in this space. Also, take this course for Professor Hinton, she is an incredible woman and professor.
This was an incredible class! It should be required for everyone.
This class was amazing. It is the type os class where the readings are enjoyable and interesting and the class discussions are thought provoking!
Everyone should take this class. The syllabus is not only amazing but also (unlike so many classes) hyper relevant to everything happening in this country right now. Moreover, Professor Hinton is not only great at teaching this subject, she is also one of the most open-minded professors I've had here. She wants to make this class relevant to the people taking it, and is extremely flexible with both the direction of class discussion and paper topics, encouraging people to make connections between mass incarceration and other topics. The only downside is the difficulty of having a real conversation in a class of 35 people - it never quite worked. But still, the comments in class were intelligent and thought-provoking, and overall I learned a ton from the texts, the students, and Professor Hinton & Anna.
It's a class about one of the most pressing issues facing our country and its history.
If you're up to the reading, this class is amazing.
