The reading is interesting.  Do it.
I recommend this class because the materials are great and interesting to read, and not much work is required, but be prepared to sit through 3 hours of dry lectures (2 hr lecture and 1 hr section).
The teacher can seem to ramble a little bit so it can get hard to stay focused but if you come with points that you would like to discuss, the class will probably be more enjoyable
Professor BJ is hilarious.
Mad easy, chill and enjoyable. Only 2 very reasonable papers :) and brilliant teachers. Holla!
This class has very interesting subject material but we didn't really discuss it that much. Solid class!
It will be enjoyable if you do the readings and participate. Otherwise, it can be a bit boring. The work isn't terribly hard, though the grading can be.
Do the reading and participate in lecture.
This course is an excellent way to begin interacting with anti-Apartheid literature, and serves as an excellent grounding to begin discussion of the nature of race relations in two societies fraught with tension. Loved Prof BJ's lectures!
good class
interesting class
very interesting, small class. great materials, beware of harsh grading.
This class is amazing. Professor Jeyifo is hilarious but also so brilliant. You really learn a lot, but it is pretty low stress. Each week there is one required play or book. And the books are very interesting and easy to understand.
A great class. Professor Jeyifo is probably one of the most knowledgeable professors I've had at Harvard. Discussions are great and very engaging; syllabus is awesome, too.
This course was incredibly - Prof. Jeyifo is truly one of Harvard's hidden gems, and his brilliance made learning about portrayals of race and anti-racism in popular culture enjoyable and illuminating. The reading was incredibly manageable, which actually made it possible for everyone to do the readings. Then you analyze them very deeply and methodically, and you learn so much about society, race, and traditions of literature/theatre/cinema on the side. What a rare joy it is in this university to be able to give texts close attention and for a whole class to be on the same page. I feel like I will hold on to what I learned from this class for a long time.
this class is amazing, would take it again
