If you are lucky enough to get the chance, definitely take this course! Even if you are someone who knows a lot about urban inequality to begin with (like I thought I was), you will deepen your understanding in this course. I feel like I finally got to put some substance behind the words "structural and cultural forces" that are always thrown around without most people really having any idea what they're talking about. Also, you'll likely be with a really intelligent and insightful group of peers, so that is a definite benefit. Wilson is also a superstar (obviously) and Jeremy is great. One of my favorite courses at Harvard so far (and I am a senior!).
As mentioned above, be aware that there is more to the class than watching The Wire - it is a course with a fair bit of reading and a 600-word response per week. That said, the result is a deeply engaging intellectual experience, one that I thoroughly enjoyed, even though it wasn't a seminar in which I spoke all that often.
Certainly one of the greatest classes at Harvard. You are in the presence of a legend learning about urban inequality, all through a medium of a fantastic show. The assignments are consistent, but are the basis of the entire course. There is infrequent discussion towards the beginning of the class and given that your grade depends on participation, ensure that you write perfect thought papers. The class is a bit intimidating, but once you are over that sentiment, you will learn so much and truly become attached to the episodes and the material. Also, note that the readings are far more important than the television show. Despite those small shortcomings, this class has changed my perspectives and has exposed the great challenges evident in our country.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!  This has been my favorite class at Harvard.  I learned so much in one semester.  The reading list is fantastic and The Wire is great.  Having the chance to have class discussions with Professor Wilson is a true privilege.  Don't miss out!
APPLY TO THIS COURSE! It's different than any other course you've taken at Harvard and FASCINATING. However, be prepared to put in some work on a weekly basis! Generally 4-5 episodes (1 hour each) coupled by 100-200 pages of reading and a response paper
This class is amazing - best taken by my junior fall. Extremely insightful, excellent professor and teaching staff. Discussions are expansive and deep. I came up with my thesis idea during a discussion in this course.
Be prepared to work. Every week there is a lot of reading and at least 4 episodes(which is at least 4 hours since each episode is a little over an hour). One week, there was literally 7 episodes assigned, which took up a lot of time. Assignments consist of weekly memos which are supposed to synthesize the readings/episodes and are due a day before class. These memos are highly IMPORTANT. The instructors use them to form an outline of themes/topics for the class, and then call on you in class to speak on your memo. So basically, your grade depends on your memos. Overall, if you're shy/don't like participating, you won't like this class. It's literally NO LECTURE and all discussion (which means, yes, there will be "section kids"). Professor Wilson is awesome/smart/passionate, but he rarely gets to speak, which was unfortunate, in my opinion.
It's a LOT of work, but worth every bit of it. You pick up a ton of knowledge and insight from this class. An experience that I haven't had before here on campus
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard. First, I cannot understate the privilege of having Professor Wilson in a small academic setting. He is the foremost expert on urban poverty and inequality, and learning from him in such an intimate academic setting, as well as reading and critiquing his work, is truly an honor. Second, the course is exceptionally well-organized. You are held accountable for the majority of episodes and readings with weekly response papers, which means this course is not easy. In fact, it is a time intensive course (I would spend 10 hours a week on average reading, writing, and watching episodes). That being said, the class discussion is an outline of the best response papers, which means that discussion is quite organized and pointed. Third, the final assignment is quite comprehensive and the prompt is flexible -- a great capstone to your academic experience in the course. Finally, the combination of the readings and episodes is remarkable. If you haven't already seen The Wire, you must. If you are an avid fan already, this is the class you've been waiting for. This was perhaps my most enjoyable and rewarding academic experience in four years at Harvard. It is a demanding course, but it's also quite fun.
This course is enjoyable and creatively structured, but really deserves the most credit for its ability to push students to think critically about difficult issues related to inequality and the American ghetto. The readings and the episodes serve as a foundation for in-depth conversation that happens in seminar every week, and the real meat of the course is in this in-class discussion, which I found to be some of the best that I've experienced at Harvard. Teaching staff is awesome, The Wire is awesome, and the discussion really pushes the critical issues -- really can't get better than this course. Definitely take it.
I'm boxed in by the wording of this question, as I would enthusiastically recommend this class, but with some reservations. I will tell others its a unique and stimulating class with great readings and great professors, but also a surprisingly time-intensive class that is too big for informal discussion.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. The issues are fantastically covered by the readings. The episodes of The Wire are fantastic and never feel like a waste of time. It's a class I was compelled to do the work in. The group of people selected for the class are no doubt some of the smartest people at Harvard interested in urban inequality which makes discussion really thoughtful.
Be prepared to not spend time on your other classes. Be prepared to not have any idea as to how you're doing in the class throughout the whole semester.But be prepared to learn more than you have learned in any other class. You'll feel like a better global citizen.
know how to read sociology readings. this isn't a film course. don't need to deeply critique the artistry of the show. THIS CLASS WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE! if you're thinking of taking this in the future, it may help to watch the episodes ahead of taking the class. if you can't do that, carve out time to watch them each week at full. doesnt matter in my opinion if you do it ahead or after the readings. just make sure you look in detail at the readings...THEN pull out how the show relates. turn all those response papers in on time! when watching the show and writing, take notes so you can easily apply them to the responses. At the end of the course, you'll think it should be named "The Wire and Fundamental attribution error....the difference between circumstance and disposition/culture". It really teaches you how to discern phenomena with a keen eye. You won't be making hasty judgements in this class about these issues. It really teaches you how to think
Incredible course with an exhausting workload and pace; be prepared to work hard on it every week of the semester. Highly interesting, but truly exhausting. In addition, there is a high learning curve for those that are not used to sociological thinking.
Amazing show, amazing professor, amazing class. Definitely one of the best at Harvard. It will change the way you think about the major issues of the modern urban city. And you will get so much more out of the show through the readings and class discussions than you have gotten/will get from watching it on its own.
Be prepared to spend a great deal of time watching episodes; there was one week where we had 7 hours assigned, in addition to the readings.  It's a fantastic class, and I highly recommend it, but be prepared to work hard.
Take this course! Although it requires a substantial amount of hours per week (doing the readings and watching 4-5 episodes), it doesn't feel like "work," because all of the readings & episodes are so enjoyable. It probably helps to have some basic knowledge of sociological terms, but you don't have to be studying sociology or Af-Am to find this course useful and interesting. If you're interested in urban inequality and public policy, apply for this course!
This class is incredibly fun and interesting and should be your top priority this semester. This class does require a substantial time commitment, but it all pays of in class. Definitely take it, if you get lotteried into the class! You might also get to meet David Simon, as we did.
this class is awesome. do the readings so you can engage, it's definitely worth all of the time spent on them. some of the best conversations i've had in a class here.
Great class taught by great faculty. Plus, some of the smartest people I have had the opportunity to discuss with at Harvard.
This class requires a lot of time, but it is entirely worth it. Watching The Wire is, of course, amazing, but the readings are also (for the most part) fantastic. Getting used to the class format took awhile, but there were a lot of wonderful discussions. Do the readings well -- it will make your experience in the class all the richer. Go meet with Professor Wilson. He is intimidating at first, but he really cares about the students and is very helpful. Special guests occasionally come to the class (including David Simon, the creator of The Wire), and that is a wonderful treat.
Unbelievable opportunity. Class sessions are inspiring, material is relevant, and Professor Wilson has tremendous insight. A really enjoyable class that can drastically change your perspective on urban inequality.
It's a lot more focused on the reading than the syllabus and course description would have you believe
This class is a really great class. The Wire is an amazing television show and the readings and discussion brought out the sociological foundation which David Simon and Ed Burns worked so hard on. Professor Wilson is a superstar at Harvard, and he's still brilliant even though he's 70+. Fast minds don't slow down, I suppose. BUT there are some negatives, such as the class being a small SEMINAR, meaning that you can't hide and not discuss the readings/themes of the week in class. Everyone is going to have to speak up at some point. This is not good for quiet or meek students.
As a senior, I can say with confidence that this class was easily one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard -- I gained so much insight into the mechanisms underlying poverty and inequality, and got to learn it in a way that was engaging and that allowed me to explore the topic for myself without feeling like the material was force-fed to me. This was the only class at Harvard for which I've read EVERY assigned reading -- the assignments were that good!!
Definitely take this class if you have a chance! You get to watch television. For class. (And do lots of fascinating readings about urban sociology - It's actually a much more legit class than people think when they hear about it, and I definitely learned quite a bit about mechanisms of urban inequality.)
This class is a great opportunity to learn about urban inequality from one of the preeminent scholars in the field in a small-ish class setting. It's courses like these that remind you how Harvard is special. The course readings are fascinating and getting to watch TV for class was a pretty sweet deal. I felt that I learned quite a bit from this class and now pay more attention to certain things in the news that I didn't before after recognizing just how important things like housing and transportation are for inner city residents. Highly highly recommended.
This class is great. It gets you thinking about how everything within our society is interconnected, and really makes you look at everything differently. The format of the class takes come time to get used to, but if you take the time to thinking deeply about the subject matter, it is fine. I loved this class.
This class is not about the Wire, it is about Urban inequality. The readings are far more important than the Wire. Also this class has a huge amount of work.
This is a great course but understand that it requires a lot of work and Wilson doesn't teach, it is a seminar where mostly the students lead the discussion and Wilson moderates.
Fabulous subject matter and brilliantly led discussions. The only drawback is the tremendous amount of reading.
It really is one of 'those' Harvard classes.  You know, the one that challenges you while expanding the way you view that world. It was a pleasure to take it and a pleasure to have it taught by such good teachers!
I loved this course, though four (or more) episodes a week can definitely add up. The teaching staff does a great job integrating the material with the episodes and you can see how they relate. It was interesting to hear other students' perspectives because it gave me another outlook to consider.
Great class! If you are at all interested in urban inequality, you will run into Professor Wilson's name somewhere. This class definitely cares more about engaging you with real world problems and seeing them in a different way than you memorizing anything. Engaging conversations in class.
This is a great class: it is a chance to learn and talk about issues that are relevant perhaps not for you life, but for the broader future of America. The show is incredible, but the content is even more important.
Don't pass this class up if you have the opportunity to take it. It's honestly been my favorite class at Harvard thus far.
A lot of work, but worth it.
It's a lot of work and pretty intense but the material is very interesting.
Great, but too heavily weighted to the final paper.
Just take it if you can.
This class is amazing!!
TAKE. THIS. COURSE. Professor Wilson his teaching staff were wonderful, you learn so much AND you get to watch the Wire, which is an awesome show. It does take up a considerable amount of time, with at least 4 episodes (episodes are an hour each) and tons of reading per week, but it's totally worth it. The way that the discussion is set up every week is great, and this course is unlike any course I've taken here at Harvard- it is undoubtedly one of my favorites.
The Wire is the best television show to ever air. WJW is a great sociologist. The issues covered in the readings are important and vital. Why would you not want to take it?
Best experience I've had in the classroom at Harvard
It's more time-consuming than you'd expect, but absolutely worth it.
This is a great course, but watching the episodes does take some time so prepare for that. The discussions are amazing and the readings, along with the episodes, are enlightening. It was also cool to meet some of the Wire cast members!
This is the best course I took at Harvard, and I'm a senior. Lottery for this every chance you get.
This is an excellent class that really examines every layer of modern urban poverty in America, with the added perk of watching one of the greatest TV series of the past decade! Understandably, it is a lot of reading and watching, and completely discussion based. Be prepared to speak up.
Be prepared to work.
I would say manage your time throughout the week wisely. One episode of the Wire is typically an hour plus, so don't wait until the last minute.
This was a great class.
Its amazing!!!
This class is amazing. Both Professor Wilson and Anmol have wonderful insight into the issues. The show itself is interesting and makes it feel like you're not doing work. The show covers a lot of important issues so coupling it with readings that discuss research on these issues is great.
The material is phenomenal and discussion is great. The size (30 students) was a bit tough because it was too big to have an intimate discussion or debate, but too small to not participate. William Julius Wilson and Anmol are great teachers -- very enthusiastic about the material and eager to talk to students who are very interested in the topics.We also had some of the actors visit our class which was a lot of fun.
