Well worth the time to do all the readings
this course changed my life
This class covers a very relevant and important set of topics, and definitely taught me a lot about how racial inequality has persisted in the United States post-civil rights.  Professor Hinton and Anna are great instructors/humans to get to know, and genuinely care about getting to know students.  The readings were always interesting, and the grading of assignments seemed pretty fair.  The only critique I have of this class is that the discussions could sometimes be a bit unstructured and disorganized such that it was hard to leave class with a sense of the major points or themes that we covered.  But overall a solid course and one where you definitely learn a lot.
Take this class and any other class you can with Professor Hinton. This course was taught so thoughtfully that it was clear to everyone that they needed to think carefully before they spoke. The readings were amazing, the assignments thought-provoking, the professor's availability and generosity stunning. It was truly a freaking pleasure to be a part of Elizabeth Hinton should get tenure tomorrow and any other accolades that exist. I'm not joking even a little bit.
This was one of the best courses I took at Harvard- mostly because of how brilliant the other students were and the quality of the discussion.
This is a really great class that gives an overview of many racial and economic issues of the last half century and really puts the modern racial inequalities in context
Take this course. It will challenge your thinking and give you a new historical basis for understanding the US today all with a reasonable workload. Probably the best course I've taken at Harvard.
Professor Hinton and Anna were both excellent! If you want to think hard about the historical and structural roots of racism and inequality, take this course. You'll get the most out of the class by doing all the readings and actively participating in discussion.
The course doesn't give you a lot to "hold onto." Most of the time is spent in discussion, and it often feels like you're sitting in an "echo chamber," so to speak. I can't say that I learned a large amount of material from the course... I definitely feel more fluent in urban inequality and the issues at play, but I wouldn't recommend it to someone who was really interested in these issues from a public policy perspective.
If you are someone who cares about social justice issues, taking an African American Studies course is crucial in contextualizing your work in history and current social thought.
I can confidently say that this is the best class I've taken at Harvard. I loved that the class felt like a seminar, but was also big enough to include many different voices. I was excited to go to this class every week, to do the reading and to get to know the other students in the classroom. I always felt challenged to think about the material outside of class. Engaging with the material and the thoughts from other students in the class has greatly enhanced my outlook on the world and for that I am grateful.
this class is the best class I've taken at Harvard.
This class has dynamic discussions, readings that stay with you all week and essay assignments that don't feel pointless. Professor Hinton helps you understand one of the most important and seemingly intractable social issues of our time, and makes you feel hopeful about the future while remaining true to a brutal history. Another thing that's really important is that the discussions are truly non-judgmental and various viewpoints are represented; Professor Hinton isn't trying to push one idea over others. Take this class!!!
This was easily the best course I have taken at Harvard thus far. I learned so much about urban inequality and institutional racism prevalent in today's society. It opened my eyes to so many aspects of sociology and our nation's workings, which a lot of people never wake up to.
Excellent class with an excellent professor. Great readings and highly relevant material taught. Wonderful experience.
This is by far one of the most rewarding classes you will take at Harvard. Professor Hinton is brilliant, first of all. But the conversations you'll have in this class will be extremely thought provoking and will allow you to view whatever topics you're interested that are related to urban inequality through different lenses. Professor Hinton set up the class to ensure that you can explore whatever you are most passionate about, allowing you an opportunity to think critically not only about the historical processes that led to the topic you're interested in but how you/ we can begin to fix that problem. The readings were all also really great!
Amazing class but be prepared to talk. Participation is expected but the classroom environment is very welcoming. The papers are manageable and interesting to write. Professor Hinton is fantastic.
Take this class! Professor Hinton and Anna are awesome, and the material is interesting and important.
This is one of the single best and most accessible classes I've ever taken at Harvard.  Everything about it was above par (below par? I don't play golf but this class is bomb diggity). Prof Hinton herself, teaching style, content, readings, and quality of class discussion  all really amazed me. This is the kind of class that changes you on the other side of it.  On the more day-to-day perspective I was always really excited to come to class and to get to do my readings (I am not always this person). This was capped at 35 but people from a lot of different backgrounds were still chosen... Familiarity with the topic and social sciences type high-level theoretical discussion are great, but all experience (from your life, fromWork, from Lemonade) is considered legitimate. Highly recommend
