Very interesting collection of wonderful works. Knowledgeable faculty. Fairly low-key, low-stress course. Could have benefitted from less scatteredness.
Definitely take this class if you want to learn about the diaspora and watch some interesting movies. The books are great in and of themselves
You get out what you put in. It's definitely worth doing the readings and taking notes in class.
Easy and interesting. Very different than any class I have ever taken. Great class if you have an extra elective.
Light workload and the material is somewhat interesting but very repetitive.
If you are looking for an easy class, take it.
It's an easy course, but not one that you should take if you're planning to do zero reading or not show up to class. The prof knows that not a lot of students really did the work, but he also points it out very often, setting up an awkward dynamic between himself and the students. Lectures are pretty dull, and if you don't show up, you'll get an email filled with typos about attendance.
This is a really fun class where you will get to read some great books and watch really interesting movies.  You really just need to at least try to skim the books to participate in class (and Dr. B is understanding of how busy we are).  The papers are pretty free-for-all so definitely bring in your own interests!
Fairly easy and entertaining
This is a fantastic class and professor BJ is great at sustaining your interest in the topic. Lectures provide essential background in appreciating literature/film but also involve students opinions in the discussion.
Take it. Amazing books and films, light workload, and great class discussions. Try to participate in lecture even though there's no participation grade - it will make class better for everyone.
Interesting class and professor. Raised many relevant issues of race and gender in diasporic experience. Lectures were not super engaging
Yes, this class doesn't demand much. But it is more than a great elective. I took a lot away from this class personally. So this class is an complete win: enjoyable and low commitment. Just please do the reading! It makes the class so much more enjoyable.
This is a GREAT class. The books are so good and so are the movies. "Mother of George" is the most beautiful film I have seen, and I probably would never have heard of it if I hadn't taken this course. Also, the Prof is legitimately an expert in all things diaspora, so lectures are interesting. If you take this class, go to his office hours because he is great to talk to!
If you ever want to learn about "Diaspora," this IS the course to take. Very interesting material, not too much reading, and old but thought-provoking films. Professor Jeyifu is also incredibly knowledgable about not only this topic, but seemingly all things... "except physics" he says. Don't take this course for reasons other than learning, won't get much out of it..
The Prof is unavailable to meet with students and is very busy, so be prepared to reach out to classmates! Also, read the books!!! They'll help a lot for the essays.
If you are eager to know the connection between Africa and the diaspora, this is the course to take
This class is great. Professor Jeyifo is extremely knowledgeable and charismatic. You get to read amazing books by amazing authors which makes the course worthwhile. In addition, the workload is totally manageable which makes this class a gem.
This is a wonderful class. Truly a gem. Be sure to do all the reading and watch the movies. Professor BJ is so smart.
The literature and films you will be exposed to through this class are amazing. Professor Jeyifo is incredibly intelligent and just listening to him talk is an incredible educational experience. However be wary. Although this class is pretty chill with only two papers, they determine your entire grade and there are not many guidelines on how they will be evaluated.
It is a really engaging course that covers a selected history of African diaspora experiences through film and literature. The best part of the course was using some less widely known texts that offer important insights into the diasporic experience.
Great syllabus!
I enjoyed reading the novels on this course's engaging syllabus and attending the screenings of the thought-provoking films as well as discussing these works' portrayals of the diaspora.
