This a great course with a fairly easy workload. Professor Jeyifo is not a great lecturer, but his handouts are useful. Plus, you literally get to watch Scorsese and Spike Lee movies every week, which is super dope. The two essays are pretty easy as well.
Great class. Great movies.
It's an awesome class, the movies are great and the TFs do a great job of discussing them.
Very easy class, requires very little time. Movies are very interesting and papers are short and easy.
Go to class to watch the films. You don't have to but I found it easier to actually go to class and watch the films than watch them in my own time. Very low key class. One short paper for the midterm, and another slightly longer paper for the final. Do the reading because they are interesting. You don't need to though. I enjoyed the class
the films are great and it will change the way that you look at films in the future
The movies are great, but the staff is somewhat unorganized, yet they will hypocritically expect you to take the course very seriously. Regardless, not a ton of work and it provides a great excuse to watch the work of Lee and Scorsese.
Take the course! If you get Warrick as a TF be prepared to spend an hour every week just wondering where your life went wrong though this man is a time waster. Does not use section effectively in the slightest, which isn't too bad in a class like this where a lot of reflection from you is necessary (so it's not like a math course or something when if the section isn't teaching you you're done for) but it'd be nice to have meaningful discussion in section every now and then. It was too much for Warrick to handle though. He also consistently let us out late.
Courseload is extremely light. Class meets only once a week, and every 2 out of 3 classes are film screenings. The third is a lecture/discussion on the films. There are only 2 papers for the entire course. One midterm paper, and one final paper.
It's a great low-stress class that will actually teach you something.
Great course to get an inside view into two of the most prolific directors the movie industry has ever produced.
Incredibly relaxed class but frustratingly disorganized
Only take it if you're self-motivated in topics.
lectures were hard to understand. Section could be interesting sometimes, but often felt forced.
Many students take this course because they've heard it's very easy and unfortunately don't get much out of it. Don't be that student. Well at least the latter part. Of course many students do need a lighter course to balance their schedules. But don't be the student to not get anything out of this course. It really is fascinating stuff! Not just the films themselves, but what the filmmakers (Lee and Scorsese) are saying to their audience. The analytical skills I've learned in this course have not only allowed me to watch movies in a whole new light, but think about life differently. The movies in this course were unique because the directors were doing innovative things for their eras, but because even today movies are not trying to portray messages about race, gender, class and so many other issues in America. With that being said, you definitely can bullshit this course if you choose to. But you can also choose to engage with the knowledge and analytical skills being given to you and get a lot out of it.
A must take for fans of either cinema or these two filmmakers.
Excellent class. Light workload and the professor and TF's were great.
Very interesting course that forces you to sit back and think critically about two filmmakers you would think have nothing in common. That being said, you take out what you put in with this course. You can just coast, but if you actually pay attention to what Professor Jeyifo is saying, you will realize he is actually proposing a series of very articulate and very deep assertions about the films we studied. And in that light, I highly recommend this course.
Definitely take the course. It was the best film class I've taken at Harvard
Enjoy the films and really wrestle with the questions that they raise.
Great film selection; professor Jeyifo is incredibly knowledgable and you're guaranteed to learn something new each lecture; will get out what you put in.
It's a great introduction to the films of Scorsese and Lee. If you are interested in developing or even just learning about film analysis, take this course! It's painless and applicable to real life.
Take it. Great films - no work. You learn a lot by hardly doing anything.
Best course I've had on film. Hadn't seen a Spike Lee film before, and I left the class loving him. Reading is unnecessary because we never really even discuss it. If this stays a two essay class (no midterm or final) then everyone should take this. It's easy and you come away with a better understanding of two master filmmakers.
Prof BJ is the man... and so is TF Ernie! Good class. Chill watch 2 movies then have a lecture on them. The readings were really interesting although i'm not sure how many people did them. Section with Ernie was amazing.
The films are incredibly interesting and have a lot of potential for deep thought relating to issues of race, gender, and sexuality. There's not too much work involved at all, but maybe be wary of the fact that only two papers count as your entire grade.
Excellent material, great professor, and manageable workload. it doesn't get much better than this.
This is an amazing class for those who love film. If you've always wanted to watch Scorsese or Lee, this is a great opportunity to view some of their best work. Also there is very little work (only two papers) and you get to watch great movies in class. The lecture can be a bit dry but it can still be extremely helpful for your papers.
This class in super easy. It's a great class to balance with a hard schedule.
it is a fun, interesting class with few requirements
This is an extremely easy and manageable course with an almost non-existent workload every week. The course is set up so that you watch a film one week, another the next, and have lecture the 3rd week. So all you really do is watch cool films and attend section! It's honestly extremely relaxed and I really enjoyed writing the papers for this course.
I would say to make sure you do the readings and pay attention in lecture and you'll be fine.
Really enjoyed this class! I would take it if you need a fun class with low workload. The lectures could be a little boring sometimes though.
This class is great - good TFs, and a really interesting topic.  It's not too difficult or time consuming.
If you take this class seriously and put effort into it, you will readily enjoy the subject matter.
If you enjoy watching films that you most likely have not seen before then this is a good class to take. Keep in mind there are only a few graded assignments which means they count for a significant portion of the course.
The lectures are a bit spotty, though they are engaging often enough to keep you going to class. The sign-in and sign-out sheets at each lecture are a drag, but I don't see them going away. Most lectures are, start to finish, watching the movies, so it really is not too bad. If you do miss a lecture, or get there late, you might miss out on picking up the handouts (which are not put up on the website), though obviously, you can always borrow a copy from someone else.The requirements (one 5-page midterm paper and one 10-page final paper) are very doable. If you can, get Armin as a TF! I really got a lot out of his analysis of the films, and he is very responsive with helping you narrow down paper topics, with setting up meetings, etc.
Even though this class is laid back and you don't really have to do much weekly work, it felt like a waste of time. I didn't have any interest in the Scorsese movies, but there were sign in sheets at the beginning of each class, so you had to go. In addition, I never listened to the professor's lectures, but I had to painfully sit through them when my time could have been better spent doing other homework.
This course gives students the chance to watch great films, but it is rather disappointing. The lectures were ill structured and seemed more like common sense than anything else. The professor never said anything profound. It's an easy course, but you won't get much from it, which is unfortunate because the subject matter is  rich and fascinating.
It doesn't require much outside work. There are only 2 papers though which can be intimidating grade-wise.
Great class if you're interested in film analysis and you get to learn about two amazing directors.
I would tell future students that the films are interesting but that the lectures are not particularly compelling and often drag on.
Light work load and great movies. Lectures were dry at times
It is an easy class that is very interesting. The small workload allows you to really focus on and very much appreciate the different elements that go into film making.
Do not expect any legitimate film analysis. Although the course considers two of the most iconic American film auteurs, the course rarely delves into formal film analysis. In effect, little intellectual activity is necessary to make it through the highly opinionated sections discussions.
This was a cool class because of the material, but the 2.5 hr lectures were killer. Not too much work. 2 papers, no final. Section was interesting and the movies were great. We ended up having quizzes though AND had to sign into lecture because people were not attending or were leaving early in groups...
Take this if you want an easy elective. It's not the most enlightening course.
This class is more illuminating on film than I expected
should be made a little more challenging, but if you like scorsese and/or lee, consider taking it. lecture is dry because it is long, but hopefully they change the format.
The lectures are horrendous, like watching paint dry literally. They are difficult to understand most of the time and usually i end up zoning out and then reading to class texts and handouts to figure out what was discussed. If you hate sections and discussions (i happen to love them), and hate boring lectures. Take something else for the love of god!
This class is great for anyone interested in film or for anyone who simply likes watching movies.
Boring
Light workload, interesting material, laid-back overall!
if you do not mind disorganization, it was very much worth it.
The class could be interesting, but it's really not.
Glossing over films but overall pretty enjoyable.
You'll get the most out of your section experience, if you remain actively engaged in the discussion. And try to get Ernie as your TF because he's awesome!
not a difficult class. disorganized and tfs may vary in harshness of grading but great material to sink your teeth into in section and papers. beware of the quizzes
You get to watch sweet movies at the cost of horrible quizes and lectures
painless, fun, and interesting!
Attend lecture.
This class is provocative and enjoyable. The films are (obviously) impeccable, Prof BJ is extremely wise, and section is the best.
The work is concentrated in two papers but you must stay involved in section to do well.
The class is not really difficult and the coursework is not overwhelming.But how much you take from the class depends entirely on your work ethics and how good your TF is.
Take this course! The cons (mini quizes on readings and sign-in/sign-out sheets) were annoying, but the pros (great sections, great films) outweighed the cons. The TFs are all incredible and will ensure a great experience in the course, and if you've never seen any of the films before, it'll be a rewarding, intellectual experience. Nice for a reprieve from all of your other courses!
Read the books and talk in section.
I think it got harder this year than it used to be.
If you want an easy class where you won't learn anything but it's somewhat interesting material, you've found a winner
It can actually be a rewarding experience.  There are interesting and compelling themes in these films for you to explore, don't doubt it.
There aren't too many requirements, but the course is a bit tedious. Grading is tough. You do get to watch some fantastic films, but the course was changed in the beginning as a lot of people took it as a "film" course. It became a lot more stringent with extra requirements and quizzes and caused many to drop it. I do think there are many merits to the course though and is worth checking out.
Lectures can be somewhat uninteresting at times but the films are good and the section I had was awesome.
Make sure to make original arguments and odeas about the films.
You probably will have a quiz each lecture, its not too bad, but if you just skim through the readings you should be straight!
The course doesn't require a lot of work, and if you get the right section leader (Ernie!) you can have really substantial discussions that will change the way you see the world.  Having said that, the professor is abrasive and unnecessarily aggressive, which for me was a turnoff.  But I suppose a great section and not that much work offset relatively useless lectures.
Great films, great readings, fun sections, open-ended paper assignments, dull lectures.
It is a painless class. And I was introduced to Spike Lee, whom I now love.
Class lacks structure and organization
its not as simple as just watching a bunch of movies - but thoroughly interesting and stimulating class to take
Just make sure you are prepared to sit though long lectures.
Although lectures can be tough to follow sometimes, the movies are great and it seems that the course had awesome tf's (Ernie is the best!).
Easy in that there's no final or midterm, but with only 2 papers going towards your grade, kinda depends who your TF is.
The professor is arguably the worst lecturer I've ever listened to. The class requirements change on a whim depending on how the teaching staff is feeling. Lectures were mandatory because many people would leave during the first few - therefore you have to go to lecture and just zone out; nothing said in lecture is necessary for the class at all.
