Professor Olupona's lectures are very interesting and interactive. The class covers a lot of different topics. Be warned some of the topics will start heated discussion among students. There were also a lot of guest lecturers this semester and they brought with them other fascinating perspectives on some of the topics we had covered.
This class is really eye-opening and give you  a chance to discuss some really heavy topics on religion with divinity school students. Be ready to learn a lot.
This course is a must for everyone interested in African religions.
This course is a great introduction to African Religions and allows one to inquire not only into the nature of religion and culture in Africa but how the category of religion in Africa challenges common Western understandings of the term.  The professor is charismatic and challenging, and is passionate about the material making class time a very positive experience.
This is a really interesting class.
Religion is very fundamental in understanding the social-economic and political dynamics in Africa
This class is fascinating and engaging. The professor is great and provides a lot of really interesting anecdotes given his extensive experience on the continent.
Just be sure to encourage discussion, and if you have questions, ask Professor Olupona! He's an amazing resource.
Prof. Olupona has so much to teach about religion in Africa, and about the power of cross-cultural research in general. This course will open your eyes to new ways of seeing and knowing the world.
This is a wonderful class! Particularly informative for religion majors to give exposure to African religions and philosophies.
Make sure to a get a graduate section to unpack things at a deeper level !
The lectures may be tedious and winding but the information is really interesting. The readings are very manage-able
Unless you have an extensive background in African Religions, it will be very hard to be involved in class discussions and and get very much out of the class.
be prepared to have fun
