This course was the best I've taken at Harvard. I learned so much about topics and thinkers that are often glossed over in other AAAS courses. The topic was also extremely relevant to the events and conversations that have been happening and taking place both on campus and across the country. The opportunity to read these figures first hand and critically discuss them within the realm of the tradition was so valuable. The format of the class was great. The discussions were enlightening. I enjoyed being able to have discussions during lecture. Sections were a great complement to the lectures. Rather than just regurgitating what we learn in lecture, we are challenged to think critically, something we aren't often asked to do. Highly recommended course!!
This course is especially pertinent for those interested in issues of domestic and wider social justice regarding "we who are dark"
As taught by Prof. Shelby, this class is primarily centered on philosophy. Be prepared!
Fascinating subject and provocative readings. If Ernie Mitchell is still the teaching fellow for the course, you'll have one of the best sections of your college career. If you let them, these texts will change your perspective on American history and the racial challenges that continue today.
An excellent survey of black nationalist thought, if unfortunately lacking in political and historical context.
This class seems really cool in theory but it isn't the most engaging/fun course. If you really want to learn about the black nationalism tradition you'll get a really good grasp of that. The readings are varied and really great. However, it sometimes feel like you have to know world history and philosophy really well to participate or right a sound paper. Also look out for the papers because they are weighted really heavily, particularly the last one, which is 50% of your grade. Lecture is kind of boring.
Professor Shelby is brilliant and encourages student participation during lecture, which is awesome. He really takes the time to consider and respond to students' thoughts. The readings for the course are really interesting and there is not a ton of work, so students have time to do all the readings and reflect on them rather than struggling to get through hundreds of pages of reading each week. Ernie is one of the best TFs I've had, and sections were never a waste of time.
This class is great. Prof Shelby and Ernie are accessible, intelligent, and captivating, and the readings are both brief and very engaging. There are only 2 writing assignments, but they are worth a LOT (35% and 50% of the total grade, respectively), so be mindful of that.
I feel like there are limited opportunities to take classes like this on subjects like this at Harvard. You get to read a lot of amazing work by rad people and the coursework itself is fairly limited so you can just engage with the material in your own way without having to deal with lame busywork or something. I don't think Professor Shelby will be teaching the course anymore, so maybe see how it changes with a new instructor, but if the reading list is as good in the future as it was this year then still check it out!
The class is interesting, but do the readings or else you'll find it super easy, but very boring
The readings in this class is a bit excessive. So, if you are not someone who can devote time to really dig in and spend quality time with the texts, you may not enjoy the class as much as those who do spend the time reading everything. Furthermore,the lectures for this class are two hour and because of that they can be pretty dry at times--it can be hard to stay engaged.
You don't ever learn your essay grade. So you never know your final grade or your grades at all until you get your grade after exam period.
If you are a philosophy student, take this class. This is the only opportunity you will have to engage with a very underrepresented school of thought within our department.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard thus far. Prof. Shelby teaches like a wise old sage who is eager to pass on his knowledge to students and encourages them to think critically about the course materials. Readings were interesting and thought-provoking
This is a very good class that is not unreasonably difficult at all. Prof. Shelby is a really great professor and all-around awesome dude. Ernie is a great TF, who knows the material exceptionally well and leads a great section (a rarity these days...) If you're at all interested in the material, I would absolutely recommend taking this class. The only downside was the two hour lectures could sometimes get a little tough to pay attention in especially in some of the more didactic ones, but overall Prof. Shelby's lecturing abilities cured all ills. Definitely take it.
Excellent course. You will learn a lot and engage in great conversations in section.
