This was a challenging course, but the content was great. I recommend this class for anyone considering a degree or certificate related to public health or health policy.
All you are tested on is how well you can memorize all the material.  So be good at memorizing.
it's not a hard class, but it definitely requires work in terms of the midterm/final.
This is definitely one of the classes that was most influential to my Harvard career. It definitely makes you think critically about socioeconomic class in our society
It was really an eye-opener.  I thought Professor Williams was a great and engaging lecturer and that the material we learned was highly relevant and interesting.
It will open your eyes to issues that are so important but which no one really knows about. It will shock you into action. The course itself is enjoyable and you will look forward to lectures! The reading is interesting and never a core - most of it you would do in your spare time anyway if you were aware of it.
One of the most informative classes I've taken at Harvard
great professor, really important subject matter, a little bit redundant but likely to be improved since it is the first year, you will definitely learn things that you will remember.
It is a very low stress, interesting way to fulfill an elective and/or requirement.
It teaches you a lot about the ways in which race and wealth intersect in determining individuals' health in the U.S.  The assignments are fair and the readings are good.  The exams were also fair.  I really liked the structure and topic, so I would recommend it to anyone who wants to learn more and challenge themselves on this topic.
Harvard is a place where it's easy to feel like you're always keeping up with the Jonses. Besides being important and at times heartbreaking, this class was a much needed reality check for me.
It brought up really timely and important issues regarding how our nation is failing at something that it has the resources to take care of.
Out of all the classes I have taken thus far as sophomore at Harvard, this class is the most riveting, the most engaging, the most relevant, and the best.  Dr. Williams and Ms. Natalie Bea Slopen are great partners in teaching, and they do a particularly great job with delivering the passion and enthusiasm that the material of this course requires.
The readings and lectures are great. The workload isn't heavy.
This class is amazing, I feel that the material I've learned in this course has really defined my freshman experience and helped to reveal toi me what I really want to do in the future career-wise.
Everyone should take this class...and it should be MANDATORY!  Is it crucial for rising premeds, anyone interested in poverty, and those that have misconcetions about race, poverty, or health (so, everyone!)
you will learn a lot about society at large and the disparities experienced in this country
This is the best class I have taken this year and will probably be one of the best classes I will ever take at Harvard.
Interesting material, but it's entirely lecture based and there's little opportunity to engage with the material.
It's a fantastic course with little workload and a lot of interesting statistics and stories.  Professor Williams is pretty fantastic!
The course is interesting, but the points were sometimes too forcefully driven in and it can turn you off the topic.
stay caught up with the readings, it's really not that much! and it's nice to form study groups for the readings...
You can pretty much get all of this information by reading a book. It's definitely important information that everyone should know, but the lectures aren't riveting.
This class is very low work-load, but very informative. It's a great class to take as an elective or introduction to sociological inquiry and African American studies.
definitely a great class, low time commitment, necessary topics that everyone should absolutely learn about -- will change how you perceive the world and the people around you
I would tell them that the material is interesting, but that lectures did not cover the details in the reading material adequately enough to warrant some of the tougher questions on the midterm/final.
This was a great class with a lot of great readings.  Prof. Williams was a really engaging lecturer and the course materials, both written and visual, were well-chosen.
This a valuable and interesting course.
I would say that the material is interesting, the professor knows his stuff, and the TFs are responsive, but there is no discussion or assignments or exams that really make you think about the material at a higher level.  There is too much of an emphasis on regurgitating facts for the exams.
Fascinating course material, and a subject that is very relevant to today's health care debate!
The class covers highly relevant information, making you much more aware of how society and health are related, and more importantly how we must consider that relationship when developing solutions to health inequalities.  Professor Williams is an awesome lecturer, the readings are kind of heavy but not very technical, and you will learn a huge amount.
The material for this class is extremely interesting but it would be better if there were sections to engage discussions.
This class is AWESOME. It really immerses you in "real life" through the readings, lectures, and films. Definitely worth taking!
Anyone interested in health inequalities should take the course. It can be a lot of memorization, but its overall low workload and you learn a decent amount
There is no section component, so your grade is particularly based on only 3 components.  Mess up on any one of those and it can screw you over.  But the material is interesting and Prof. Williams is definitely excited about the subject.
The class has little work but there is little reward, and it is harder than it should be to do well given the workload.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. It has changed the way I view  America. Everybody should take this class.
Understand that this course is more about figures and statistics than the actual experience of racial disparities in health.
I would HIGHLY recommend this class for anyone in any field.
The material is very interesting. The tests are pretty hard, but it is worth taking the class.
the lectures are really redundant and you feel like you've read the same article five times every week because the readings are on the exact same topic
Be prepared for a lot of reading.
It is simple and the topic is interesting.
It's interesting but can get redundant. Don't be fooled by the movies: Soon the class turns into two straight hours of dense lecuture which can be pretty exhausting.
Be ready for a lot of reading and a handful of exam questions that seem to be taken from left-field. This is an interesting course that doesn't have a very daunting time commitment. Sometimes, the material can seem a little redundant, but it's all worth examining.
Only take this class if you're willing to put up with horrible organization and no access to a professor and no section.
disorganized TFs, inadequate exam preparation, too much reading.
I would recommend this class to anyone interested in health, health care or policy, minority rights and issues etc. There is a lot of eyeopening material in the class, and it's interesting to see how social policy intersects with one's chances to be a healthy person for your entire life. The course load is pretty reasonable, and its important to read each week - which isn't so bad, since there's only one class per week.
Lots of interesting material, lectures a little long but managable, assignments are fine.
There might not be that much work during the week because it only meets once, but there is a lot of reading and you WILL be tested on it even if it isnt discussed in class. The statistics and things you learn are eye opening and valuable but the structure of the course is definitely lacking in many respects (no seciton, unfair tests, regurgitation of material required instead of questioning the prof's one sided opinions
The topic is interesting and Professor Williams is a great lecturer however the class is really ambiguous, and the TF's are not helpful at all.
This is a really wonderful class that will open your eyes to so many problems of society surrounding health and the ways it is influenced by poverty and race. Undoubtedly one of the most influential courses I have taken at Harvard, and the lectures were all fascinating and filled with facts and studies I would have never otherwise learned about. The exams are difficult, require you to extensively memorize all lectures and readings and ask questions on small details, so be prepared ahead of time.
The course material is extremely valuable and eye-opening. You will learn a ton!
Do not fall behind on the readings!!
no discussions, traditionally taught
The course material is very interesting, and Professor Williams gives great lectures. However, the class is really disorganized. The assignments are frustrating, the exams are insanely specific and harshly graded, and there is no support from the teaching staff. This kind of overwhelms the greatness of the topic, which is unfortunate.
If you don't need this class as a requirement or you don't need it to show a professional or graduate program that you took it, AUDIT THIS CLASS!!! Please, please, please take my word for it.  The information is great and Professor Williams is a wonderful lecturer and very knowledgeable about the course material, but it is much better just to attend class and listen to the lectures.  You will learn so much from just listening which is great, but you won't have the stress of being graded.  There are TOO MANY READINGS! Last year's Q guide said this, and I did not take the warnings seriously.  Please, I am imploring you to take my warning seriously.  You will not have time to do the readings, and specific questions from random readings will show up on the exam. Plus, because there isn't a section, there isn't an incentive, besides the exams, to do the actual readings.  Plus the grading of the class has a huge focus on memorization which, in my opinion, is not important for learning.  Application and learning how to approach problems of poverty, race, and health are much more beneficial to our future careers.  So seriously consider auditing or taking this class pass/fail instead of for a letter grade.  I wish I had done that.
I LOVED this class. The material is beyond interesting, important and useful if you like and/or are thinking about public health. However, it's better to AUDIT this class. I didn't get anything more out of the assignments because they didn't really make me think harder about the material and the exams were pure MEMORIZATION and unfairly hard.
The course is interesting, but the teaching staff is not very involved and the exams are kind of annoying.
This is an intriguing course that will likely fire you up to do something about the inequities within the health sector. My outlook on how we should attack our health problems was fundamentally changed by this course. However, make sure to stay on top of readings and lectures prior to exams. Although you may feel like you've grasped the material, I found the first midterm to be particular challenging. Pay attention to detail and stay up to pace. It will save you sleep.
It really is a great class. You learn so much that contradicts your preconceived notions, and I feel like I can articulate my socialistic approach to healthcare with more confidence because I have trends and solid data to back me up. Dr. Williams is a bit intimidating and unapproachable, but Kau'i is super nice, if a bit aloof as well.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard!! The material is so interesting and the lectures are so insightful that it is extremely easy to learn almost everything being taught.  The class is manageable and the reading is really enjoyable.  if I could I would take the class again.  If you are really interested in health inequities as well as the continuing discussion about race relations and how it affects everyone, take this class!!
This class is one of the most interesting, eye-opening classes I've taken, and it's influenced what course I want to pursue after I graduate. However, it's not very well organized at all, but it's pretty easy (minus the midterm, which can test many details).
There are several things that need to change about this class before I would consider recommending it to anyone. First, the way information is presented in lectures- many, many statistics with a few terms/theories to learn is not productive to learning. There is no discussion of the readings in the syllabus, even though you can be tested on their findings/theories. Second the assignments were terrible. True or false on midterms where obscure facts that have been mentioned ONCE in lecture or in a movie are expected to be memorized. The book reports were also an exercise in futility. It is hard to write a paper all about one book without discussing the topic at large or having a specific prompt. I was really drawn to the material but did not like the way it was presented to me or evaluated.
I would encourage students to participate in the class and ask questions as much as possible to really engage with the material and content.
This is a good class that covers a lot of interesting topics and has great readings. But because there is no section, there is little incentive to do all the readings before the mid term comes which results in an ineffective cramming session right before. So: keep up with the readings! And study really hard for the midterm/final: some of the components of the final exam are really obscure and actually a bit unfair.
This class is incredible -- anyone considering a career in medicine or public health should take this class, as it provides an important perspective on an issue that is incredibly prevalent in medical practice today. I am SO glad I took it!!!
This is an amazing class! It provides you with a lot of information that is relevant in many political debates and just generally important knowledge about the state of health care. Professor Williams is very knowledgable and engaging in lectures.
This is a great class for anyone interested in healthcare, public health, anything health-related. Professor Williams is a really compelling lecturer. The work required isn't too intense (a lot of reading, but most of it is interesting); the Health Leads volunteer option is an awesome way to apply class concepts to the real world. I would highly recommend this class to everyone!
the material is great but the lecture is boring. The midterm was also very hard because he gives no kind of structure for studying. anything in any lecture or reading is fair game.
Everyone should take this class.
Take it!
Great course for anyone interested in medicine, public health, and/or social justice. This should be a mandatory course for all health professionals. The course is reading intensive, but find a group a friends and make a study guide to get through them, its worth it!
The course material is interesting, lectures not as much, but worth it if you're interested in health disparities
not super interesting when in class b/c he's not the best lecturer, but if the topic interests you, the readings are totally worth it
The class is phenomenal and anyone interested in pursuing a career in healthcare should take the class. However, be warned that the midterm and final feel unreasonable because they test on really obscure details in the readings and powerpoint slides which I thought was unfair and didn't test the mastery of the material.  Overall, the readings were informative, and the workload was not bad.
the subject matter is incredibly important, especially for pre-meds who should consider that sometimes it's less about your patients "not eating right" and more about "not having access to healthy food". that said, lectures can get bogged down in the minutiae, there's a lot of readings that can get repetitive, and midterms can be nitpicky (ex. true/false). consider taking this course pass/fail, or plan on studying a lot to get a good grade, or accept a less than stellar grade but an informative course. also, professor william is very interesting to talk to!
This class is really interesting, but the readings are redundant, and the tests are pretty random.
Take this class pass/fail. the reading is very intense.
It's difficult to depend on the teaching staff to help you stay on top of the material since you only meet once a week for two hours.  You have to create your own schedule for reading the material.
Be prepared for very tough exams !
This is by far THE best course I've taken at Harvard. Professor Williams is incredibly engaging, and this course will change your perspective on a lot of things.
I thought that this course gave a good overview of topics associated with poverty, race, and health; however, the format of the class is not ideal.  The exams are extremely difficult and primarily test memorization as opposed to comprehension or analysis of larger themes.
This is an excellent course, lots of valuable information and engaging lectures.
This is a must take course for anyone interested in the social determinants of health and the nature of health care in the US. The course presents the issue of health disparities in a historical, scientific, and political context. We learn about the interaction between poverty, the racial history of the US, and biology. Professor Williams is extremely knowledgable, and his ability to answer any question is remarkable. Some advice to do well in the course - attend every lecture. There's a lot of information, and to truly get the most out of the course, you should try to study your notes from lecture each week. The class only meets once a week and there's no section, so there should be time to keep up with the material. Also, form a study group to divide the readings - there's a lot of them. This is arguably one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard! Take it - you won't regret it.
This course is extremely useful and informative, regardles of whether or not you are a minority in America. I learned so many things in terms of urban health care and the social determinants of health disparities caused by the cumulative effects of poverty. I feel empowered with this knowledge to not only volunteer meaningfully, but to also pass along this information to those in my family who can use it well. Despite the fact that I have taken countless African American studies courses and many global/public health courses, I learned A LOT of new, counterintuitive material through this class. Everything was very straightforward and easy.
Dr. Williams is a phenomenal professor, lecturer, and human. The relationship between poverty, race, and health is extremely important and you will not find a better person to learn from. Dr. Williams provides students with the tools to critically analyze the problem and the solutions and does so in an extremely engaging way. You will regret not taking this class if you want to go into any health-related field.
This class was absolutely fascinating. Dr. Williams is a star and a leader in this field. He was able to discuss a wide range of topics that all contribute to health in this country and altered my perception of health care, welfare, socioeconomic status, and race and how all of those things contribute to one's health. This class manages to keep you engaged despite the fact that it is two hours long and doesn't require that much time outside of class. The book reports are on very interesting books that relate to the class material and the class overall doesn't have an overly demanding workload. Definitely take this if you are interested in injustice, would like togo into health care, or just care about people in general.
This course is very interesting with a light workload; do the readings and listen critically to Dr Willams's lectures and you'll get a fair amount out of it
Really cool class! Professor Williams was great and really funny and the material is interesting and engaging
This class was awesome! I switched in late and didn't have trouble catching up. I'm not pre med and didn't think I was interested in health so I did not think that I wanted to take it at first, but I am so glad that I have learned so much about health, specifically the disparities it involves and how health intersects with other issues and identities! The workload is low, the TFs are kind, and David Williams is a LEGEND!
Excellent class to discover more about how race, class and other factors affect health outcomes for individuals in America
This is an excellent class. The material is super interesting and I learned so much. Dr. Williams is brilliant -- I'm seriously not sure if there's anything he doesn't know. He assigns very little reading and posts easy quizzes to Canvas each week. The books he assigns are excellent and I actually enjoyed writing the reviews for them. The class was about 60 people but he decided not to cap it which was really nice. The only issue was that the TFs were super disorganized and took forever to return assignments and post slides.
This class is gem to have especially if you need to balance other harder or more time commitment classes. The information presented is actually enjoyable but the class itself is not a source of stress.
This class is a gem. Profesor Williams is so incredibly kind and an extremely engaging lecturer. Would recommend this class to anyone interested in learning about social inequality and its implications on health.
Take this class if you want to know more about health disparities but don't take if you want to be challenged
Anyone interested in medicine or healthcare should have to take this course. It gives immense insight into the disparities that exist in good health due to race and socioeconomic status. More importantly, it provides evidence of various effective interventions that, if implemented on a large scale, could produce powerful change in terms of health equity.
The material in this class is important and fascinating but make sure you make the most out of lecture because its easy to get side tracked and distracted.
This is such a fantastic course! I'm pre-med and took it as an elective, and I loved the introduction to AfAm/public health stuff that it offers. Readings are interesting and totally manageable, and books for book reviews are great supplements to the week-to-week material. Dr. Williams is awesome!
A great class to learn a lot from an awesome professor without worrying much about the workload.
It's lit
This was a very informative class and one of the best I've taken in my time here.
This is an incredible course that should really be mandatory for graduation!! You will see policy, society, and institutions in a whole new light. The readings are interesting and manageable, and weekly quizzes will ensure that you are staying on top of them. You will leave the course invigorated and ready to make change.
This class is eye-opening--highly highly recommend for anyone with an interest in health policy and health interventions.
One of those wonderful yet rare Harvard classes that are easy but super interesting and incredibly informative.
This was probably my favorite class at Harvard. The topics were interesting, modern and important. It has changed the way I see America and disparities in our society.  I enjoyed the readings, which were not lengthy, and the quizzes were easy if you did the readings. The books were great, and I was glad to have the chance to read them. Professor Williams is effective and funny, and I will actually remember many of the things he said. The format of the class with a 2-hr a week lecture and optional section was also great.  Anyone interested in poverty, race or health needs to take this class.
This class is extremely interesting and has a relatively light workload. It will open your eyes to racial health disparities in America and provide you with a framework on how to fix it.
This class was easily the best class I've taken at Harvard, and I am sad that I only found it in my senior spring. The material is so relevant and important and really made me realize I spent the last 4 years in the wrong concentration-- I wish I could go back and study sociology and take more classes with this kind of focus! You will learn about racism and how its institutionalization years back still affects a huge population now. Please do not hesitate to take this class. The workload was so lax and even if you can't fit it in, audit the class just to listen to the lectures every week. You will be bombarded with so many facts and Professor Williams weaves them together to tell a story, it's not your average lecture that drags on.
The course is a low time commitment and you will learn a lot. Professor Williams is very knowledgeable.
This course is an easy introduction to the intersection of poverty, race and health issues. It is not particularly challenging or engaging, but the underlying material is intriguing.
You learn so many important things in a very multi-disciplinary way. The class is very  inspiring
This class really opened up my eyes. Dr. WIlliams is incredibly passionate about his work and it shows in the way he lectures. He is also very renowned in his field, and to take a class from such an individual was exciting. The class is a very low workload but also works to change your view about poverty and healthcare in the united states.
This course will teach you a LOT about health disparities in the US and research-backed interventions. The format of assignments is very learning-centered, which I really liked (weekly online quizzes which were pretty easy, 3 book reviews, a final exam where you got the questions ahead of time). I came away with a strong working knowledge of the material. My only qualms were that I wished the videos had been our assignments and we'd spent more time discussing content in class, and I kind of wish section were mandatory because I often wanted more time to discuss these themes.
This course is probably one of my favorite courses that I've taken at Harvard. To be honest, I was a little bit sad that this course didn't require more work of me because I absolutely loved spending time on this course and learning about the topics that we covered in this course. The three books you read in this course are absolute must-reads and the weekly readings are manageable and fascinating. Take advantage of having Dr. Williams as your professor, he is one of the most brilliant professors I've had in all four years at Harvard (listen attentively, go to office hours, and soak it all in!). Lastly, pay attention to the interventions he describes to you--these are really important ideas that people going into the healthcare sector need to be aware of in order to create change and reduce disparities in health.
The lectures and the professor are quite good, the subject matter is deeply investigated and discussed with evidence and statistics and the workload allows ample room to complete the workload of other courses.
This class is a good combination of low workload and interesting for anyone interested in health. Very applicable material to anyone thinking about a career in health in particular. Everyone seemed to do very well in the course, so I wouldn't be surprised if they made the course more difficult in subsequent years.
Interesting content and readings but lectures are too long and not as interesting as they could be. Very low workload and time commitment but also very little interaction with the Professor, TFs, or other students.
Take this class!!! It really changed my perspective and taught me so much. If you take this, you will be engaged with the material. Also, professor Williams is a great professor with so much perspective.
lovely class! assignments were fair and you had enough time to complete them!
Amazing course! The course material is interesting by itself, and the readings are super relevant and important to know for your own sake (+enjoyable!). Prof. Williams is a very engaging lecturer. Assignments (readings, weekly open-book quizzes, book reviews) are very manageable. Highly recommend!
Take this class if it sounds at all interesting to you - you won't regret it.
This is a true gem. Honestly one of the best classes I've taken here. The course material is extremely interesting and easy to digest. The work load is definitely bearable. Add this to your shopping cart!
Take this class. The material is engaging, the assignments are reasonable AND useful (no busy-work), and the final is a direct application of what we learned in class.
This class is dope! The reading is very doable (not more than 40 pages a week) and the quizzes were very literal interpretations of the readings.
David Williams has been my favorite professor at Harvard thus far! He is engaging, knowledgeable, and is always pumped to educate his students on anything involving poverty, race, and/or health in America and around the world. His sociological lens allows him to see things broadly and I want to be able to do similar work. Take this class just to enjoy his lectures alone! Hands down my favorite class. Such a shame that it was so small, but it made the vibe much more enjoyable for me.
SUCH A GREAT CLASS. If you have any interest in the healthcare field, you need to take this class. Pushes you to think about health in so many new ways
