This class is poorly organized, grading seems arbitrary, and the teaching staff is not engaged with the class. You will be much better served taking a true liberal arts class in the AAAS department and an online course on how to write a business plan.
I enjoyed the laid back approach of the course. The readings and overall coursework was very manageable. I also found the course to be inspirational.
Take this class if you're at all interested in entrepreneurship in Africa! It provides great context and background into the landscape, but also introduces you to a lot of amazing speakers who are passionate, seasoned entrepreneurs and/or knowledgeable professors in the area. Assignments are all group projects on a start-up idea you have in mind and is different than your typical Harvard course. Since this was the first year it was taught, it was a little disorganized, but I can only imagine the course will only improve as time passes.
The class was quite disorganized, very little guidance or clarification was given for basically all assignments, grading was quite arbitrary and rubrics weren't necessarily followed. One of the only redeeming factors was the cool guest speakers, but I wouldn't recommend this unless you have a deep interesting in the topics and can work very independently without much support or structure.
The class is very well taught, i enjoyed learning about the general entrepreneur in Africa.
Take it! It will change your life!
This course is unlike any other at Harvard. Such a great opportunity
AAAS212 was a really wonderful course that allows students access to amazing entrepreneurs who are doing incredible work in Africa.  The small course size allows for great discussions with a very diverse class with students from all different schools from Harvard and MIT.
The class is an incredibly rare opportunity to discuss practical solutions to social issues on the African continent from the vantage point of various industries such as education, finance, and healthcare. The class was in its initial year, so the kinks were still being worked out. But the assignment and group component of the course were unorganized, disappointing and felt more like busy work than actual learning. Tr and find a group that is passionate about your industry or at least has experience which will make the work much easier and more enjoyable.
This class will change the way you view Africa and think about what you want to do after college.
Take this course. If it is offered, do your best to make room to take it. Best course of my undergrad career.
Great practical course that allows you to consider entrepreneurship.
It's a great class, student feedback is super important. The class is really driven by student needs and seems to get better every year. I have taken 2 classes with Olupona and I really like his teaching and his personality. Very fair, very understanding and genuinely interested in the development of his students.
This is an incredibly easy, low-stress, low time-commitment class, that is also pretty interesting if you choose to engage with the speakers and the assignments. I would say that the structure is a bit odd and at times it is weird to understand the format of the class, however, that does give students room for flexibility and creativity. This is not a traditional class where you learn about entrepreneurship in a lecture setting. I was mistaken in the beginning because I thought it would be more of a discussion on the business setting in the continent paired with readings and information on investment opportunities/MNC strategies/aid influence etc. It is more of a class where you are asked to work on a project with a group of students and try to implement a prospective business idea/project. Choose your group wisely, you will be working with them for the entire semester. The class is basically the group project.
Definitely go there and listen to the African Business leaders. Not really hard regarding the coursework, sometimes repetitive. But as already said, the talks make this course unique!
Honestly, don't take this course unless you're looking for a sleeper. You won't have to do much work  it's all group work, and just one simple assignment every week  until the end when you have an enormous business pitch to give that's worth most of your grade. You don't have a lot to gain from the speakers unless you're going to really invest in it, which is hard to do when the professor/TF don't seem to be that into it themselves. I don't necessarily regret taking the class because it didn't take much work, but I don't feel like I gained anything from it at all.
hands-on way to learn more about entrepreneurship, problem-solving, and Africa.
Take this is if you want to build an entrpreneur's mindset and learn about Africa
Gem
This course allowed me to explore social enterprise work on the continent and better understand the potential of African development.
You won't regret - light workload, teamwork, great speakers. One negative thing is, this course is highly unstructured - but you can frequently talk to professors and TF, they are very approachable!
That the speakers are awesome and inspiring and that they will get a fresh perspective on Africa
The class is a bit disorganized. Your experience will depend on your own initiative and the group you end up working with.
Class is disorganized and dysfunctional. Some interesting guest lectures but the vast majority failed to engage the class for a whole hour. Section with Nkatha depended on her mood and she threw a lot of shade. Expectations for assignments were unclear and constantly changing. Must enjoy group work because every assignment is done in groups.
Favourite course I have taken. Learnt so much about life and have a different way of thinking now.
Very fun if you have a good group and a good idea.
Group work is fun if you have an interesting project. Sometimes the class seemed a bit disconnected from week to week with different speakers on completely different topics
Very disorganized course.
Great class
Be prepared to conduct thorough research, and create a business plan
The course is really cool. It could be better organised in a way that we would learn more!
Wonderful class with a teaching staff that really cares. The guest lecturers alone would make this class worth it, I learned much about Africa and business through this class. Highly recommend.
It's a very good course!
-It's a true Harvard gem. extremely rare to find a course providing real-life expertise and advice exclusively from guest lecturers in the field. and learning concrete, technical knowledge about business development.
This class is what you make of it. You need to put time into it, to get something out of it. The class project is the main bulk of the work but it truly is very interesting to get your teeth stuck into a development project.
This class will expose you to some big up and coming names in Africa! Great source for networking if a venture in Africa is anywhere in your future.
fantastic survey course! I loved the course! super easy course load and interesting speakers. a little bit more structure is needed.
Well graded course, but a mess when it comes to useful material of BP
The guest speakers are amazing! Class is a low time commitment and super enjoyable if you're willing to engage with the guests.
It is an excellent class and one of the best courses that I ever had at Harvard. The structure of the course is great (combination of very interesting readings, faculty members, speakers and business plan). Do not take this class if you want to learn about the actual steps of how to create a company in Africa or learn "applied" entrepreneurship as this course offers rather a theoretical approach to it and it is focused more on learning about the african continent/situation/industries...The guest speakers are amazing! Workload not hard at all. Be open and eager to get involved and ask questions.
