The course is great if you are into West African studies or racialized health issues.
If you do have to take this class, be sure to be aware of just how anthropology-based it is; if it is not something that interests you, I encourage you to try the next year's sophomore tutorial.
I highly recommend this class because I think that all students need to be able to think critically about issues of universalism and particularity in regards to human difference.
Do not take this class unless you have to. Classes are tedious and boring. The reading and response paper requirements are excessive and often dense and difficult to get through. The professor also tends to cut off students with differing opinions.
This class was really spectacular, with a wonderful professor and conscientious TF. Professor Fullwiley's background, combining aspects of science, anthropology, history etc. gives a lot of depth to the discussions of race and humanity throughout colonial history to contemporary times. I learned a lot during the semester, and learned a lot about how to consider the information I see and believe in relation to science, medicine, race, identity politics etc.
I came to really like this course as the semester went on. At first, it was tough adjusting to the demands of the workload and the need to speak up in class, however as the year went on things got better. The professor and TF are great assets to the class, and the contemporary approach to the subject matter keeps things interesting.
I would only take this class as an AAAS concentrator. It can also be difficult to contribute without prior background with racial issues.
I wouldn't recommend this class to anyone.  I was actually really excited about it when I first enrolled, but was overall pretty disappointed with what was covered.  I thought the whole first part of the class especially (on humanism in French West Africa) was way too long and not at all relevant to my concentration or today's world.  It's frustrating to have an interest in the African continent and spend most of your time debating whether France's intentions were good or bad.
Please take this class!! It is one of the only challenging classes at Harvard that I have thoroughly enjoyed. Thanks to this course, I have a much better understanding of race and humanism and my writing has greatly improved. If you want to learn a lot, improve your writing, challenge yourself and have fun all at the same time, then this is the class for you!
Interesting readings and great teaching make this course very enjoyable.
Definitely be prepared to do a lot of writing. The readings can be dense so be prepared to read and re-read the assignments
It requires a lot of work.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading!
The readings are interesting, and you'll learn a lot. The class would be so much more rewarding if discussions were more lively.
Only take this course if it is a concentration requirement.
Look at the syllabus and see if the subjects spark your interest before taking it.
This class is a lot of dense reading, and it is not always going to be fun. Wilder is a real struggle, so get ready to read and re-read, to be confused, and to be frustrated. How much you like this class really depends on your opinion of the subject. If you like theory, especially from an anthropological viewpoint on race and humanism, this class may be perfect for you. However, it is not easy, and if you struggle with or do not enjoy theory, take a deep breath and push through.
I would tell future students that the readings take time to understand and are sometimes difficult. Additionally, if someone is thinking of taking this class as an elective they should know that it is very heavily focused on anthropology and is not necessarily a discussion-based course even though it is a small class.
Be prepared to read texts that are meant for graduate students and therefore incredibly difficult to understand.
It's a requirement, so whoever is taking it will most likely have to take it, so it doesn't matter if I recommend it or not - I don't recommend the course because it didn't teach me anything that had to do with my concentration although it was supposed to be a tutorial about my concentration, but I do recommend taking a class with Professor Olupona!  He's sweet and nice and very understanding.
It is a small class with lots of likely discussion initiated by both the professor and students alike.
This class isn't that much work. It isn't necessary to keep up with the readings to do well, but it is nice to learn about the different ethnicities under the broad category of black so you should read them just to be informed.
One of the few sophomore tutorials that was fun, engaging, and a good introduction to the concentration. Though it was required, I would likely have take it even it wasn't for many reasons: the assignments were novel and actually a pleasure to complete, the teaching was great as Carla was truly a knowledgeable and passionate lecturer, and the course set up was very organized and rewarding because it allowed us to study a number of cultures as well as the diversity of black experiences in the United States.
Take this class! Carla Martin and Funlayo are excellent teachers who make sure that learning, and not grades/other random evaluators, are the main focus of the class. We used a bunch of digital media that allowed for us to pick up some cool skills, and watched a bunch of movie clips and listened to a bunch of music. The best part of the class was that we got to interact with the populations that we were studying, which added a huge human factor to the class that other classes lack.
This is definitely a cool class to take. The reading can be kind of heavy, but its not necessary to do most of it to get by during class. Having an additional section for a tutorial is kind of annoying, but its mainly used to go over practical things you will need to do the assignment.
Surprisingly engaging and relevant
Carla Martin and Funlayo are EXCELLENT instructors, very encouraging and enthusiastic. The material is useful, interesting and enjoyable.
It's a fascinating and very manageable course as an elective if you're interested in the African diaspora, but it doesn't do a great job as the AAAS tutorial.
Good class overall, but could be narrowed in its scope. I think that would have made the discussion much better overall.
The course is very unorganized!
