It is a lot of work. Each week you must read a book and write a short essay about the book. Also the midterm and final are really long so try your best to keep up with the work.
I loved this course. Professor Bobo and Khytie are both amazing. I think every Harvard student should take this class. The material is the kind of stuff that you should know if you want to be an informed citizen on racial and social justice ideas. I was worried that the reading requirements might be too much work, but it was definitely manageable. Take it if you're unsure - the class will not disappoint!
You hear about a lot of the social problems that afflict the Black community in everyday conversation or the news, but this class allows you to more deeply engage with them and learn a lot about the,.
I would tell them that it's a great chance to engage in dialogue wth and learn from one of the make experts on black sociology. A chance to read some really cool texts and think critically about the past, present, and future of racism and race-based discrimination.
Readings and writing assignments require a great deal of work, but if you are willing to commit to that, it can be a great opportunity to deal with a great deal of material and scholarship on an issue of interest.
This class does an incredible job of providing historical context, conceptual underpinnings, and hard facts that help sketch a meaningful picture of the black experience in America. Take this class, take the readings seriously, and relish the response papers and discussions, and you will grow significantly.
This class will open your eyes to a lot of interesting information about the black community but will require a LOT of your time. You will read at least one book and write a short paper on it every week and you will be expected to contribute to class discussions (it is a smaller, seminar-style class). I would not recommend taking this course if you do not have a lot of time to devote to reading and writing, if you have not taken another sociology class before, or if you are taking other reading- and writing-intensive courses in a semester. While the content and course format were excellent, it certainly is a time and energy suck.
This class taught me to think and develop sociological arguments in historical and modern contexts. It led me to deeply consider the black American experience and what changes need to occur to educate the public and create solutions for the racial inequality in our country.
This was the best class I have taken at Harvard. It covered many important topics pertaining to the black community, and Professor Bobo is a great lecturer and discussion facilitator. Stay on top of reading and the midterm and final paper won't be too bad. Take this class!!
This class teaches you a lot about the black experience in America today, and I wouldn't necessarily say that there is a particular agenda that Professor Bobo has.  Come in with an open mind and don't be afraid to butt heads with your peers.  I wish I did more of that, to be honest.
This is a very interesting class. By the end you have learned a lot about the problems facing the black community today.  Take this course if you are interested in the modern day black community, you'll learn a ton!
You will learn much.
Don't be fooled by it being "22"- this class is pretty demanding. Lots of reading (a book+ each week). Response papers are graded pretty harshly. Demanding mid-term and final take-home exams (which are really just long papers). However, if you are willing to put the time in this course is totally worth it!
- Schedule out how you will do the reading. The reading in the course is really good actually but I never got to finish most of the books.
This class is really interesting and engaging.  Being able to discuss the aspects of the black community was extremely enlightening.
Didn't live up to the hype, but definitely informative if you're interested in the black-white inequity of America
Prepare to be engaged with Professor Bobo and to read a lot of material.
This is in general a great course but my only caveat would be come ready for discussion, it wasn't billed as a discussion course but it is and is driven by the discussion the group has, so if you have a great group of people you'll have an amazing course experience, if not then probably not
Take notes throughout the readings to make writing the papers easier.
It requires a serious time commitment but it rewarding to say the least
Great class and great discussion!
Take this class!!! In a small setting, you learn sociological explanations for issues of racial inequality that are central to modern society. No class has sparked more out-of-class discussions than Sociology of the Black Community--not just with classmates but also with roommates, people you're eating dinner with, and random students who ask what classes you're taking. The syllabus follows a clear structure and includes really interesting reading materials. Also Bobo's lectures pair well with the readings.
Great course, covers a lot of material. Quite a lot of work (nearly a book a week, weekly reaction papers, long take-home mid-term and final exams) but it pays off!
This class is really wonderful and the readings are extremely insightful and interesting.  This class was an eye-opnening experience and I am really glad I took it.  Make sure you pace the readings out and don't fall behind on them!
This course is awesome! I really enjoyed the environment and learned so much that is relevant to society today. Just know that the midterm and final are significant lengths (10-15 & 20 pages respectively), but doable. I loved it!
Important content, great professor. Expect to write (and read), a lot.
learned a ton from readings, Prof. Bobo, and classmates
This is an EXTREMELY interesting course especially if you are interested in the problems of the black community and the differing opinions on how those problems can be fixed. Professor Bobo is very knowledgeable and is able to create an atmosphere that produces awesome class discussions. That being said, You must do the reading. THe class depends heavily on the readings and students' reactions to the readings and it really makes the class great when you've read. Also the midterm and final are very open ended and I know personally, I did not like that about the course, but all in all, I would definitely recommend it.
While this class is challenging it is definitely worth while. It really gives you a good grasp on the many problems facing the African American community today while introducing you to a lot of the central sociological works on these topics. Finally, so many great discussions came about during this class. Fun and definitely worth it.
This course is very interesting if the topic of the black community is of interest to you. Bobo engages several main topics to be analyzed with a sociological viewpoint. Not super exciting class but still interesting.
This class is very interesting but surprisingly difficult.
This class is amazing. Probably top 3 in the Afam department and top 10 overall. Bobo is a wonderful professor. He is passionate about the work and really understands everything about it. If you want to learn about the pertinent issues facing the black community, from both a historical and contemporary lens, this is the class to take! The workload isn't overwhelming, though the weekly response papers can get tedious. If you're interested in the topic, the readings are super engaging and worthwhile. There is no busy work, so none of the assignments are a waste of time. The midterm and final are both manageablejust start early. Definitely recommend!
Excellent class. Fascinating readings that will change your beliefs about race in America and the fundamental fairness of American society. Professor Bobo is great!! Each week was a thought-provoking discussion. Don't feel intimidated if you haven't studied the subject before; take the leap!
Be aware that there is a 16 page midterm and a 20 page final and weekly response papers. This class meets only once a week, but the amount of time you will spend doing readings and writing papers almost makes it not worth it.
Great class! Raises awareness about the history and issues affecting black America, especially the role of structure versus agency. I feel like I learned a lot, from classic DuBois to detrimental health issues to even religious differences between blacks and whites.
This course was EASILY my favorite this semester.  It did a great job of making me think about sociology more critically, as well as exposing me to some of the most pinnacle and important contemporary sociological articles.  Class discussions are great--Prof. Bobo is a GREAT facilitator, and he makes every student feel welcome on the first day.  I felt pretty lucky to be in such a small class with him where I felt comfortable asking questions and just putting my thoughts out there.  There was a fair bit of reading--about a book a week, as well as substantial response papers, but it definitely all felt worth it.  In sum, if you are remotely interested in the topic (which anyone concerned with social justice issues should be) then you should take this class!!
Professor Bobo is brilliant, the work is illuminating, an the conversations are enlightening. Loved this course
This course allows you to delve deeper into certain parts of the sociological material presented in AF AM 10 and gives you the chance to explore possible solutions to problems facing the Black community.
Extremely interesting topic
