Lectures are boring and unstructured.  You're watching two professors trying to out-talk each other.  Never a good sign.  Not worth your time.
It was ridiculous. If you have a good sense of humor about never getting anything out of the teaching staff, go ahead and take it, since it wasn't that much work.
If you want to learn about Africa, you will do much better to take an African language. If you want to learn about how African Studies is done, take another departmental course, because it will be much more relevant and "on the ground" - and chances are the instructor will actually care about teaching it.
Unless the teachers change (except for Irele) then don't take it.  Lacked organization and needs a clearer focus.
It is not an intro course. Period. And it's not historical. It's a philosophical and anthropological look at sub-Saharan Africa. It spends more time discussing HOW we should study African music than actually STUDYING African music. Read the syllabus carefully before committing to this class.
This class needs a couple years to work its kinks out and the teachers need to decide how they want to teach it and which type of materials are most beneficial. Also the professors need to decide whether they should position the class in a chronological or subject matter is important.
For students who are interested in Africa
I would recommend this course ONLY because it's a requirement for the AAAS Department. Otherwise, try some other course as an introduction - maybe in the History Department.
If you are interested in African cultures, this will be interesting, but it seemed pretty disorganized and teh lecturers went on a lot of tangents. Generally, it is a good indicator of whether you'd be interested in pursuing African Studies here.
It was much more thought provoking and insightful then I first anticipated.  And although it may have been a bit confusing at first, with each week's readings, the course kept getting easier to understand and my curiosity began to increase also.  You'll definitely get a lot out of this course, that for sure.
thought the lectures were really interesting, and the sections were fun.
The professors were great, but really what made the material feel accessible and comfortable was the TF. Readings themselves were not difficult per se, but it was great to make all the connections during section.
If you are interested in knowing more about the African continent, this is the course to take!
I really enjoyed the format of this course. I liked how it was split between being a lecture course and discussion-based course. Kyrah Daniels made this course excellent. She is one of the best TFs I have had. Her enthusiasm for the course was infectious, and she gave very detailed feedback on our work.
Good class for a gen ed, Kyrah is an amazing TF, by Olupona isn't a great lecturer.
Lighter course work but less room for error
Read all the notes, attend sections and you will have an amazing time!!
Take this class if Kyrah is TFing, she is amazing!
The class is a wonderful way to start African studies. For an introductory course, it does an amazing job of covering relevant material.  The professor and teaching fellow were both amazing.
The work-load for this course is very manageable. Professor Olupona and Kyrah are a great duo. They really love what they are teaching and they really care about their students.
Lots of reading
It covers a wide range of topics and was a great way to balance my schedule. Class only met once a week, which was nice and the readings were interesting enough to get through. Lastly, we watched a documentary and visited the Peabody museum, which changed things up a bit. If you're genuinely interested in learning more about Africa, then this course is a great way to start.
If Kyrah is teaching this class, take it! She is THE best TF imaginable. If she isn't, still take it. Professor Olupona is also very approachable and has a wealth of knowledge. The variety in the reading material is great and the course gives you a solid introduction to African Studies. It is an easy class but if you put in a little effort you get a ton out.
This is  a great class but get ready to be in a class with people who are completely ludicrous and have no idea what they are talking about but come in with assumptions on Africa and then seek to defend those assumptions even if they are clearly incorrect. Can't count the amount of times as an African someone has said something in class and my shock/anger skyrocketed and what is terrible is that the way some of these people say things is in the most obscure "im not trying to be offensive but...." manner.
It is a rewarding class that does not consume large amounts of out of class time.
Only get out of it what you put in. You can get by easily without doing the readings, but then you don't learn anything because the lectures are all over the place and you don't learn much from them.
This was a great course for anyone ever remotely interested in Africa or rather, anyone who is interested in learning about a topic and culture vastly different from those that you regularly encounter. I highly recommend this class to everyone!
This is a great course for anyone looking to explore a variety of topics related to Africa. The teaching staff is great and the time commitment is minimal. Class time was spent with both lecture and discussion, which makes the two hours manageable and interesting. The assignments are minimal, but you will get out of this class what you put into it.
Take if you want a varied introduction to the continent. The readings are great.
Only take this course if you have a strong interest in African studies. The class isn't too hard, regardless, but could be extremely boring if you're not engaged in the course material and lectures.
The class is wonderful! Kyrah is an amazing TF, and the readings are interesting. There isn't a lot of oversight on whether you actually do the readings or not, but you'll get a lot more out of the class if you actually do.
Prof. Olupona is awesome, though his ideas sometimes get drowned out by students trying to voice their (oftentimes unhelpful) opinions.
This class is worth taking if you're interested in learning more about Africa overall. It tends to provide a very broad overview of subject areas (i.e. China-Africa relations, economics, health, religion), so be aware going in.
This course is an excellent introduction to African studies.  No experience or knowledge necessary.
It is a great class, you will learn a lot about the study of African societies.
The professor assumes that everyone in the class already knows a lot about Africa (history, current events, cultural practices, etc.). If you literally know nothing, as I did when I started the class, it will seem very daunting. Although I still did well in the class, I would have had a much easier time if I had entered with a strong background in African studies.
This class has a manageable amount of work, lots of different mediums with which to engage with the subject matter, there are movies every Sunday night, the films are pretty heavy so bring tissues
It's a great way to get to know Elkins and a great way to be introduced to Africa
This class is definitely worth taking if you're at all interested in Africa. The multi-disciplinary approach might be a bit disorienting at times, but it's worth it for the broadness of perspective. Professor Elkins is really engaging and likes a fair bit of back and forth with the students during lecture. The only downside is too much reading and response papers every week often with overly-theoretical prompts. Overall it's definitely worth taking, you learn a lot.
its a great way to learn about a continent that has so much potential and will see (hopefully) a lot of growth in the near future
This is definitely a must-do course as long as you are interested in African Studies.
I really knew nothing about Africa before coming into the class and I left feeling as if I could have an intelligent discussion with the leading scholar in the field  about almost any topic concerning Africa. I love how the class began to feel like (academic) family to me. Not only was Professor Elkins an engaging lecturer, she was also a really understanding and approachable person. She does an excellent job at distilling difficult concepts into their barest elements. Also, Oludamini (Dam) is an absolutely wonderful TF- he is so chill, and I learned a lot from his sections. Be prepared to be blown away/depressed/enraged by the films. Your Sunday nights will never be the same again.
it's a really fun and enjoyable class to take with fair amount of work. The teaching staff really cares about the material and engaging with the students which is a nice feeling.
Got to take a class with Elkins. She really cares and is so knowledgeable about Africa
This class is pretty straight forward. There is a lot of reading, and to get the most out of the class, you should do it. 40% of your grade is participation and response papers. There is one mid-term and a paper as a final, so it is very much a class that you get out of it as much as you put in.
This class was one of my favorite classes I've ever taken at Harvard, and I'm a junior. Professor Elkins is amazing. The material is so interesting and engaging, and there is such a wide range of topics covered that literally anyone, no matter what their specific interest or speciality, will find something to take away from this.
If you've never thought of studying Africa for the most typical reasons -- you think you know nothing about it; you think you won't find it interesting, perhaps because studying one continent is too focused for you; or the way you think about the continent currently (i.e. it's a region of the world drowning in corruption, conflict, and general chaos) is prompting you not to study Africa -- then this course will no doubt change your mind. It will show you how all the disciplines are necessary for studying Africa, and any subject of study in fact, as social studies and history majors (like me), economics and engineering concentrators, and undeclared freshmen comprise the students in this course. It will help you understand our world, both past and present, much better by way of showing how Africa has been a significant player over the course of history -- from transoceanic trade between East Africa and South Asia predating Europe's international trade to colonialism to last year's World Cup in South Africa. And the course will also introduce you to what is arguably the fastest-growing academic field at Harvard -- African and African American Studies -- and acquaint you with the abundance of resources, guidance, and expertise this field offers students of all academic backgrounds.
SUCH AN EXCELLENT COURSE! Caroline Elkins is fantastic. You will work hard, but gain a lot. A must for anyone even remotely interested in Africa. I did not miss a single 10am class, and that wasn't because I'm a morning person...
Prepare for the final paper early. I found it difficult to write a paper without much guidelines
This class is tough but will change the way you see Africa and the world. This class should be a requirement.
You should definitely take this class with Professor Elkins if you have the slightest interest in Africa.  You sit around a table talking about super interesting topic and readings on Africa.  You'll be amazed how many of your interests are relevant to the topics.  You'll work hard, but as Professor Elkins says, if you work hard, you'll do very well.  I'm now going to work in Africa in January because of the class and her!
You're missing out if you don't take this class.  Professor Elkins is phenomenal, and this is material you don't want to miss, whatever your field.
That it gives a good overview of Africa and its history.  But that you won't take away much because there are few opportunities during the semester to make the course topics your own in assignments.
Definitely an easy but interesting class. However, unless You motivate Yourself to do the readings, it is very likely that You will end up not reading that much, and therefore not learning that much..
Most of the information I learned concerning African History did not come from this professor, but from the research I did for the final paper and my conversations with my father and my uncle (both Africans). African history on its own is absolutely fascinated and more multi-faceted than I realized...unfortunately I did not take that message away from this class. This class was a disappointing intro to African history. Furthermore, in a class of only 8 people, we were seated in a large lecture room in Sever, and when the option of moving to a smaller room to encourage discussion was offered, the professor mentioned considering it, but did nothing. Lecture from that point on was nothing more than a monologue to a fairly empty room, with the professor interacting with the wall in front of her, reading her slide notes, presenting her profile to the students, and only making eye contact with her students at the very end of class. I felt more like an object in the room than a student. Granted, she is a new professor, but at this institution, I just expected a higher level of teaching than what was presented. Upperclassmen concentrators in AAAS expressed shock at how little I'd learned. This class, as much as I'd rather not say it, was a complete and utter disappointment. I would have been better served simply teaching myself the subject material.
Good introductory class to take if you're interested in the topic.
Depending on who the professor is that is teaching, the lectures can be a hit or miss. The class is very ambitious and presents a lot of information in a short period of time. Some of the readings are really dated so the language can be jarring to read at times. If you put in the work for the class it can be worthwhile.
You will get the most out of this class if you go to lecture. Take notes during lecture and section - it will help you write your midterm and final essays!
This course is an interesting, fun, and easy way to fulfill the Gen Ed requirement. It provides a good introduction into the various facets of African Studies. The course does jump around so it can be helpful to ground yourself with outside readings.
An excellent and accessible introduction to African studies.
Use section to improve your understanding of the material.
This is a fantastic course! It covers a lot of interesting topics and as someone who knew little to nothing about Africa at the beginning of the semester I felt like this course was constantly introducing me to new ideas and topics I had never encountered before.
It is a super easy way to learn a bit about a lot of things.  Mostly it is useful to change your mind and open your eyes (and all with very very little homework!)
This was an excellent way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement and gain a broad understanding of Africa from different disciplines.
Good class overall, but ambitious. Covering Africa from 10,000 B.C. to 2016 is no small feat. Very chill course overall in terms of assignments, and many of the readings are actually interesting. However, I found it problematic that much of what we read came from Europeans and other foreigners rather than from Africans.
The lectures were hit-or-miss. Some were really fascinating and exciting, while others seemed very dull.
This course is a course that will push you to question, think critically, and analyze your own life, assumptions and the foundations that our way of life is built on. It is pretty easy - just a presentation and 2 short papers (5-8 pages). Some lectures and readings can be pretty boring/dry, and there is a lot of reading (160 pages a week), but it's not necessary to do them all by any means. Section is definitely the best part of these course because you get to engage critically with the course materials and other people's opinions.
It's a fantastic introduction to the African continent!
Interesting and easy course. Too much emphasis on comparisons between Africa and the West, but as long as you're willing to say something about "breaking down the binary" or "Africa is diverse, not a monolith" you'll be fine. Readings are actually quite interesting and worth the time if you want to learn, but certainly not required to do well in the course. Lectures are boring and I gave up going, but the readings are worth it if you enjoy learning.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Take it take it take it. It's phenomenal. You learn so much, it's so easy to keep up with, and it's genuinely interesting. I would like to stress *how easy it is*. Couldn't have asked for more.
Take this class if you haven't studied Africa in any detail before and would like to do so. Do not take it otherwise
You will learn a lot in this class as well as section. It is great to be able to hear from a variety of scholars.
This course is a little chaotic and sometimes confusing in that regard, but the teaching staff makes it wonderful!
Interesting and easy course. You will see and hear and read things you have never seen before. Take it! You will not regret it.
This is a seriously great introduction to the AAAS department. All of the professors are fascination, and allow you to get a good idea of what studying AAAS would be like. The course material is also great. Wonderful way to learn a lot and pretty easily fulfill the SW requirement. Also, TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE WONDERFUL STAFF. Show interest, and attend office hours it'll def be worth it.
While this course death with some very interesting material, it was too broad for my taste. I wish we had focused on a few topics and gone more in depth. Also, I was a bit frustrated by some of our discussions, which were focused primarily on how we should talk about Africa, as opposed to real-world issues. While i think it is important to acknowledge that Western modes of thought may not fully do justice to a situation, I wish we had nonetheless spent more time talking about real problems such as, how can we improve the economic situation in African countries, what is the message in this novel we read, what are the themes in African art, etc.
The courseload was moderate. You definitely cannot get away without doing the readings. The midterm and final are two 5-8 page papers which isn't bad at all.
Definitely take this course because it is very manageable only two essays but its interesting and the TF Jessica is super helpful.
This is a great class. I learned so much about perspectives of Africa, and the professors cover so many vital areas such as African thought, literature, film, gender and sexuality. However, the amount of professors teaching the class can sometimes be overwhelming and as a result, the units can seem unorganized or disconnected. Overall though, lectures, sections, and assignments were very good; I learned a ton and would recommend.
Great class with two interesting essays that make up your whole grade
If you want to learn about Africa and need a fairly easy gen ed Soc World credit then take this course. However, if taking a Gen Ed is the only thing driving you, then this is not the course to take as the readings make the class worth it and are hard to attempt even if you have interest in the material.
This class is really fun. There are a wide range of readings which are interesting and the professor is a really engaging lecturer. I learnt a lot in class discussions and sections. The only drawback about the course is that there is not enough in-depth engagement with topics so it could seem really surface at times and I think this is because the course is trying to cover so much in so little time.
It's a great class that has some really cool and interesting lectures.  But, make sure you do all of the readings because you will be tested on them.  Besides, they are actually really interesting!
Really take time to read the assigned readings and participate in class discussions. This way you will learn a lot about the culture and history of different African nations and the continent as  a whole.
Lectures are very boring and didn't learn anything in them, but are only once a week. There is no work for this class except 2 short midterm papers and a final paper on anything in Africa.
This may not be an appropriate course for those who are not motivated enough to pursue a bit of independent study. I learned a lot in this course because I really took the time to research for my final paper. If a student is not willing to do the same, it could be very easy to come out of this course without learning a whole lot.
This class is really chill, and you learn a lot. Don't do all the readings, but if you pay attention in class, it will be a great learning experience with no stress!
Finally, a satisfying thing to take as a gen ed! If you are looking either for some basic knowledge of Africa due to having a White Guy Centric history education or are looking for a fun way to fill your Societies of the World, this is a GREAT class for you. Workload is **extremely** manageable, teaching staff is enthusiastic, and brings out great new perspectives for everyone involved in discussions. The one flaw is that if you are interested in specifics of African countries this is probably not the class for you (colonial and postcolonial history are discussed well though)
You will get the most out of the course if you do the readings
It is a great class but be wary because it seems to focus so much on west africa. so it might not give you a holistic overview of AFrica. However, the professor is passionate about the class and he is fun to listen to.
This course is a mixed bag. Cons: Lectures are often dry, hard to follow, and don't tie in enough to readings. Readings are often boring, and hard to follow. Pros: Exceptional teaching staff who care about you and about the material, are very helpful and knowledgable. Sometimes readings are very fascinating. Class is very easy because not much is required. However, if you do do the readings and pay attention in lecture you will learn much more (obviously). Deji and Kimberley (TFs) are both fantastic, and to get the most out of the class you should spend as much time with them. The reason I took the class is because the shopping week class was conducted by Deji. Professor Olupona is not bad, and clearly cares about the material, but I'm not sure if he's the best fit for an introductory class. I do appreciate how he works to make lecture more of a dialogue. I often felt lost in class because I came in with very little knowledge of African history, readings were often too theoretical, and lecture didn't always seem to relate. That being said, very little is required, good way to do C&B, and you'll get to work with amazing TFs.
The course content is pretty interesting if you have any interest in African affairs at all. The workload is also very manageable.
This is fun and relatively laid back. I highly recommend it if you're interested in learning about Africa as a whole or specific parts.
Interesting and perfect work balance
Be prepared to be opened to a whole new way of seeing Africa
This is an interesting class that fulfills a general education requirement with not that much work.
The TFs in this course are amazing and give great perspective into African studies.  I thoroughly enjoyed our discussions in sections.
Professor Olupona is incredibly fascinating when he talks about African religions or Yoruba traditions, but otherwise seemed unequipped to teach the rest of this course. Lectures were given in broad generalities, with a clear ideological bent and remarkably little factual information. If you are coming into the course with zero knowledge about Africa, then maybe consider taking it. But if you have a bit of background knowledge, I'd suggest avoiding it. The discussions in lecture are particularly excruciating - most people haven't done the readings (which are generally unexciting), and the way to 'win' those discussions is to say that we need to move beyond the western perspective, without explaining what that means. The best thing about this course is the TF Ayodeji, who was enthusiastic and incredibly knowledgeable, and often had to clarify Professor Olupona's arguments in section. There are better courses on Africa out there, and I would recommend those instead.
Very little work until midterm, final, and in class presentation.  Difficult to understand the professor, but overall interesting.  Easy gen-ed if looking for a gem class with little work.
As a whole, I did enjoy this class.  The lectures are not as structured as I would have liked, but the topics are still very interesting.  I knew very little about Africa answering the class, and I ended the semester feeling as though I understood many of the continent's complexities.  What made this class great was the teaching staff.  The two TFs were absolutely amazing.  My specific TF was Kimberly and she is the single best TF I have had at Harvard.  She made section engaging and was able to make everyone participate without section being intimidating.  She made sure we learned a lot about present-day Africa.  As a whole, the class is pretty easy, but you will learn a lot.  The papers give you a ton of freedom, and allow you to explore any topic you are interested in.
Wonder course. Come with an open mind.
Great class if you are interested and dedicate yourself. You will get what you need out of it
Very solid survey and very nice teaching staff! Reasonable workload
It is a really cool course if you want to have some introduction to Africa from a very knowledgable source.
It is very easy, but do all the readings
Prepared to have fun while you learn! And bring an open mind!
If you need to round out a difficult fall semester, take this.  Especially if you have orgo or something else that's notoriously difficult.
Its a great class. You learn a lot about Africa and African issues in general and you get a chance to have meaningful debate with people who are interested in the same topic.
If you're interested in understanding mainstream african thought, this is the class to take
A good course! Each week is  different topic relating to Africa which is interesting.  Both the final and the midterm are take home papers which works well for a lot of schedules.
I really enjoyed this class! Professor Olupona is a great lecturer and the whole subject of African studies is very interesting. Deji is the best TF!!! You'll have great discussions in section and good laughs too! He's very understanding if you need extensions on deadlines, just communicate with him. Also, if you don't have time to read everything, just learn how to skim well if you want to contribute to discussions. Seriously, take this class!!!
very easy
its solid. more interesting for those taking it for concentration and secondary requirements
Deji is amazing.
