Most of your grade is based off of participation whether it be through weekly class discussions or when you and a group become the teacher and lead the class for one week. Papers are very open ended. Great class.
Take it knowing that it is not a joke and you may get a grade lower than you were expecting.
This course re-centers the African American child and illuminates the lived experience of African American childhood in the U.S. from slavery to the late twentieth century.
This is great but Charrise is incredibly unhelpful.
Take this glass if you really are interested in childhood in African America. I had a fantastic time and Prof. Bernstein is great! You can get by in this class not doing much reading--but if you do do the reading your experience and time in class will be so so so so much more enjoyable. A great way to start a week!
If you're uncomfortable discussing race it may not be the course for you.
Harsh grading, readings seemed pretty all over the place, hard to figure out what the message of the course was. Nothing felt particularly connected. Assignments didn't match readings or skills trying to be taught, seemed to be lack of communication between professor and TF.
I strongly recommend that students interested in AAAS enroll in this course. The concept of the course (using African American childhood as a lens through which to examine African American history, culture, and literature) is really innovative, and sets this syllabus/reading list apart from a lot of the other courses being offered in this department and similar departments. Also, Prof. Bernstein is wonderful, and I highly recommend taking a course with her at some point. She is incredibly encouraging and supportive, with leads to really productive and interesting in-class discussions.
Provides an interesting lens into a population often overlooked in the eyes of history, but that is perhaps the most interesting population to study.  Dynamic, and exciting discussion.
This class had a lot of interesting course material, but it can sometimes feel like we can only talk about black children in so many different ways. Also, the class was mostly student led (i.e groups of students prepared a lecture each week). While I realize this was not the intention of the class, every week we were being taught by our peers instead of Professor Bernstein teaching a lesson, which can be a good and bad thing. Just be aware.
Such an eye-opening course!
This course caused me to think more deeply about the experience of growing up African-American in this country in general, especially in causing me to reflect on my own experiences growing up as a Black child in this country. I really liked the open discussion format of the course meetings. Discussions in this class were very lively. Also, the readings in this course were very well chosen in that they well illuminated course themes. Lastly, Professor Bernstein is a very knowledgeable professor and adeptly facilitates discussion.
This is a really fantastic, extremely well-taught, exciting and empowering course on a deeply important topic!
The class is like none other I've taken at Harvard.  I took this class because I wanted to understand an understudied aspect of African American history and definitely got an understanding of my own history in a unique way.  The strength in this course is its primary sources which range from notes from the Clark Doll test, poetry written by black teenagers, and etiquette books directed towards black children.  However, I found the secondary sources to be a bit glib.  While I enjoyed class discussion, don't expect Robin to do much facilitating because you will be expected to lead the entire two-hour class discussion, and she will intervene only if things are going astray.  I wish we'd gotten more of her perspective instead of strictly the perspective of our peers.
This class gives you a chance to read and discuss interesting material relating to African American children. Be prepared to approach the material from a humanities standpoint - I came in thinking there would be more sociologically-based discussion/material and I was disappointed. Be sure to put some serious time into the papers, as they're not graded lightly.
This is an absolutely wonderful course - tough, but well worth it!
Grading is perhaps a bit harsh but constructive. Workload is very manageable, but the smaller size of the class means you always have to do your reading. There are only a few graded assignments, so take this course if you like participating in seminars and engaging in good discussions. I loved class every week and Im really glad I took the course.
This is a fantastic and thought-provoking class. Take it!
One of my favorite aspects of this course was the wide time period covered. Rarely does a syllabus include content on slavery and 2015, all in the course of several weeks. I really appreciated the interdisciplinary approach to the wide variety of material. The two assignments are fruitful writing exercises, and the absence of intermediary response papers is a bonus. I highly recommend this course!
This class is truly an eye-opener. The readings are fascinating, and the professor is a joy to learn from!
