This class seems to be taught at a graduate level. People who enroll in this class should have a decent background in and experience with anthropology. You can go into it without any experience in anthropology or African studies and still be fine, but it will definitely be a lot more difficult. It's a class where you most definitely have to do all of the readings because you spend a lot of time discussing the readings in class. Also, the essays/assignments will require you to have an understanding of the readings. It is completely manageable to do all of the readings as long as you space them out and don't wait until the day before. This class will give you a different way of thinking about Africanist anthropology and anthropology in general.
This class is an excellent introduction not just to the anthropology of Africa, but anthropology in general. Much of anthropology is based on structural traditions which arose out of Africa, much of which this course covers. I am so glad that I took this course because I feel like it finally grounded me in the discipline I've been studying for several semesters. Professor Meiu is also an amazing lecturer.
This course provided my first clear understanding of what anthropological discourse in the context of Africa is like - the problematic history and state of the discipline, concepts and theories that are heavily debated in that discipline, etc.  Through this, I learned about some of the foundational concepts by leading Africanists.  I left this course with a greater understanding of the complexities of inter-cultural contact and the responsibilities an anthropologist has to act ethically.The workload is certainly manageable, and Professor Meiu grades very generously while still providing constructive feedback.
This course is an ideal way to learn more about anthropology as a discipline. Professor Meiu is an amazing professor who breaks down complex topics into understandable and interesting lectures.  The reading in this course is quite manageable and provides a strong foundation for future anthropological study. I strongly recommend taking this course!
Don't take it if you're not interested in theory. However, you'll read a lot of central articles and discuss themes that are necessary for all anthropologists to consider, not just Africanists.
