Most Definitely. It is a great class. You learn a lot without the typical stressful Harvard environment.
This course is great if you are motivated to learn Amharic.  The language is a bit difficult, especially when it comes to grammar, however, the class is very good and the instructor is great at explaining the material.
This may be the best class you ever take at Harvard!
It is a wonderful opportunity to learn a new language in a relaxed environment. And it's really fun!
Great for Igbo students or those with a very specific curiosity and/or and open mind
This is a great class for those who ever plan to travel to Rwanda.  Too few travelers to Rwanda know anything about this, the lingua franca of most Rwandan citizens.
Hausa language is really important for anyone who is thinking of traveling in West Africa!
It is a great class to take with friends!  It is a way to interact with a professors or TF more closely and learn a valuable language.  You would be surprised with how much you can learn in a semester.
You want to take this course.
Learning Swahili is one of the greatest decisions I've made at Harvard thus far. The class is very manageable and fun. The teaching is wonderful and I really learned a lot in one small semester.
Get ready to learn the Igbo way.
This class helped me gain confidence in my ability to learn language, and is a good way to satisfy the language requirement.
Very engaging. Allowed me to explore topics that I was interested in.
The class in enjoyable and worthwhile if you would like to learn the language. The professor is very enthusiastic about her work and commands that from her students. Although the class meets VERY early, I came in ready to work because the professor was full of energy.
The onus of learning is on you.
The professor has expertise in the subject, the ability to explain things clearly, great interest in the topic, and flexibility in arranging class times and in the selection of readings.  The material is fascinating.
It is very much self-directed.
This is a class that you get the most out of by treating it as an independent study supplemented by two one-hour class meetings with the instructor. In order to learn as much in this class as in other departments' standardized language courses, you have to put in at least the equivalent time (i.e., 2 hours) studying the language on your own, in addition to the time expected to complete assignments and review class notes. This class should not be marketed as a light fifth class: most students, including me, currently regard it as a two-hour commitment supplemented by some required assignments.
The best class I've taken at Harvard.
Ask questions.
Great experience learning to read, write, and speak this ancient language.
Excellent class.
Good class to prepare for cultural immersion in South Africa
Some background is helpful, go in with a mission and be very explicit about what you're looking to take away.
easy but a lot of work
It's a great way to learn an understudied language - I loved my teacher and my classmates.
One of the best kept secrets at Harvard.
I enjoyed this class very much but it could be improved in terms of structure
Learn Zulu!
Your Bambara language skills will advance greatly, especially the more you put work into this course. The approach is largely to learn several basic grammatical concepts, as well as verb conjugation and tenses. There is some emphasis on both written and oral skills. Great for someone who has had very basic Bambara.
You need to have individual initiative to go over Zulu grammar, vocab, etc. on your own
It's the kind of fun you don't want to miss.
It's very easy not to learn much from this class. Study outside and practice with conversation is necessary to get much out of a language class that meets for two hours a week. Aside from those reservations, though, it's fun and a great way to practice speaking with a fluent native speaker and semi-fluent students.
THIS IS THE BEST CLASS EVER! PATRICK SYLVAIN IS AMAZING!
You can learn more the more time you put into the course.  It requires a lot of practice to understand tones and to remember vocabulary.
This is really helpful if heading to Rwanda.
Its a good practical wa to learn about another culture
I would recommend this course to students with a practical interest in learning this language. It's difficult and often frustrating to learn a foreign language without standardized resources (such as dictionaries, text books, etc.). It won't be worth the commitment to someone who won't be able to apply their new knowledge.
This is a great class and if you are interested in learning Igbo, you should definitely take this class.
You are not going to be able to speak or understand a conversation in creole after this class. You will be able to understand the written text and learn more by yourself once you know the basis.
Patrick is a great instructor and the class is very interesting! The best part is that in addition to learning the language, you also learn a lot about Haiti's cultural history as it relates to the language.
Great class to learn and practice speaking Igbo
It's great! Take it!
Read the handouts!
Great class--very familial atmosphere which facilitates the learning of Igbo.
You should put alot of work into learning the language. There is not a great study support for Igbo as compared to other larger language courses.
take the class, it is an enriching experience!
I cannot think of a more amazing and useful African language to study than Hausa. And the instructor is fantastic.
Awesome!! Must do...
it's more challenging/time consuming than it seems at first. Also, I would say that the program isn't as transparent as it could be, though everyone involved is really great. Idil was a great instructor and I would definitely recommend her without hesitation, as I think she really has learned with us how the program works and will be even better next year.
Be prepared to work through various, often competing grammatical explanations for particular points, and also to deal with very odd spellings.  But the texts (tomb robberies and worker strikes) are worth it --- a lot of fun.
It's a great way to learn about the culture of Igbo and Nigerian people overall because you learn about the Igbo language.
If you want to learn Wolof, this is an amazing opportunity because Lamine Diallo is a dedicated teacher, constantly looking for new ways to help you learn.
I have enjoyed learning Amharic with Dr. Telahun immensely.  The language is interesting and the course makes it engaging with history lessons, conversational practice, theater nights, and even food.  I strongly encourage people to enroll in this course.  And the language is beautiful.
The professor is awesome. Walking in to her class was often the highlight of my day. She is a wonderful teacher and a wonderful person who manages to engage the students and contextualise the material so that it becomes real and meaningful for those seriously interested in Cape Verdean culture.
good class
This is a pretty easy class that will still leave you feeling like you learned a lot of Chichewa (for just one semester, especially).
You gain a huge amount of information, especially in regards to grammar and vocabulary.
Wamai is great and Swahili is beautiful
Only take this course if you already know some igbo.
My situation is exceptional in that I am hoping to gain competence in a related language; therefore, the important outcome of the class for me is increased familiarity with structural components of the Mande language family.
knowing french vocabulary is definitely helpful, its a good class because its not conventional in the teaching style, you learn the language through interesting means such as music and short stories, it is less book-based
Even if you have never spoken Igbo before, you can still learn it easily.
Take this class. Charles Owu-Ewie is the best teacher at Harvard!
This is a great class if you want to continue with Swahili after a summer program. It definitely helps to have already been exposed to the language because the lessons could be difficult to follow without prior exposure to the grammar.
This is a great course to take if you're at all interested in going to the countries in Africa that speak Swahili! Workload is incredibly light, so definitely consider taking it as a 5th class
This Swahili class is a great way to learn a new language in a welcoming, fun environment. Judith is an amazing teacher!!!
I loved this Swahili class! Judith was our instructor and she was great! Really flexible and patient. It was a very comfortable and chill classroom environment and usually the classes are really small. Swahili is really easy to pick up and I recommend it to anyone looking to knock off their language requirements or just as an elective.
Swahili is a super fun language to learn, and the department/teaching staff is really nice!
If you think size doesn't matter, you're shallow
Make sure you know a bit of Swahili first, in order to save yourself a lot of stress at the start. BUT, if you don't know much at all, you can still hold up okay as long as you put in a little extra work near the beginning
This department at Harvard is exceptional. They created this class so that we could continue our Swahili language exposure past the beginning level. If you are able to take the time to continue learning the language! The class is flexible in terms of material covered and meeting time and is totally manageable. Judith is a jem!
The class was quite fast-paced, but it was pretty thorough. I wish there was someway it could be structured differently, but I think that this was just the nature of an elective night class.
An enjoyable and fun fourth class. Much less stressful than other language classes, but still a solid learning experience. Lots of chances to learn about the culture associated with the language. Not always the most organized programme, though.
This is a great class if you are willing to put in the work to learn Kinyarwanda. I think it is especially rewarding if you know you will be using Kinyarwanda in the near future as the class is geared towards preparing you for having simple conversations in Kinyarwanda. I feel so lucky to go to a school where we can have the incredible opportunity to study african languages that are only spoken in a small part of the world. In addition, we get almost individual teaching in the African language from very devoted teachers.
It's fun, really chill. But like any language class, don't put off all your vocab learning until the last minute, or it will bite you in the butt! :D
You will be working very independently, so be prepared to take responsibility for your experience.
The instructor is marvelous!
The teacher is very good and will ensure that you cover a lot of material during the first semester.
It's always challenging to learn a new language, but perhaps it is even more difficult if you don't have something specific motivating you to really try to learn, rather than memorizing.  Definitely take this class if you can see Setswana being useful!
Wolof is a beautiful language and Lamine is a wonderful teacher, and you don't have to fly to Senegal to speak it...you can just go to Harlem!
This is a phenomenal opportunity to learn a language that you otherwise won't be able to learn. No where else in the world (even in Botswana, it seems) can you find an instructor like Ntuli to guide you through the intricacies of Setswana. Really great opportunity.
a fun language. fun to speak, fun to learn.
This class is a wonderful opportunity to learn swahili from an energetic and talented native speaker in a small classroom setting.
This is a great class and if you put in the work, you will certainly learn a lot of Swahili.
It's a great introduction to Swahili, and Prof. Wamai is an excellent teacher.
Take this class if you're interested in learning to read hieroglyphs, even though the African Language Program has extremely annoying, unhelpful, busywork requirements.  It's worth it.
Dr. Wamai is a fun instructor with a zest for life.  He made coming to class a true pleasure.
takes a lot more work than one would expect but rewarding if you have the time
The class is easy, fun, and you learn a lot.
I think this could be a great class, but it was the first year and there are definitely kinks to be worked out.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard
This course truly allows one the opportunity to pursue a new language in a comfortable yet challenging environment.
The Swahili program at Harvard has changed my life.
Be prepared to learn with difficulty material that should generally be taught with ease. This course is not structured like the regular language offerings like the Romance Languages. Preparation and study external to class is absolutely essential if you want to adequately comprehend on the material and advance. Be prepared to also expend more hours on this course than you anticipate.
This class was a lot of fun and and a great introduction to Swahili. I feel as though I have a good basis to build upon, although I didn't learn quite as much of the language as I was hoping to. It is very minimal work so definitely take it as a 5th class!
This class is like literally printing your own money: awesome but should absolutely never be allowed to happen. That is the best way I can think of describing it
Take this and go to Africa! It is awesome, relatively low workload, but you get out what you put in (and you learn a lot)
You get what you put in and much easier if you already have strong foreign language background...tougher if you do not.
You NEED to take this class at some point. It's fun, you learn a new language and you will not do badly in this class.
This is a really fun class. Non-Romantic languages stretch your brain in a way you're probably not used to.
Harvard is one of the few places that will teach you anything, including African languages. Take this unique and enriching opportunity and learn something you never thought possible.
I have really loved learning Kinyarwanda because I feel I have learned so much more than simply a new language. I have learned about the culture and the history of the country. As I learn the language, aspects of the culture and history become evident through the way in which the language is spoken or used in different contexts. This course allows me to escape to a different country for a few hours a week and feel almost fully immersed in Rwanda. It has greatly helped prepare me for visiting Rwanda in the future by teaching not only the language but the proper contexts and uses of words and phrases in the Rwandan culture.
I forgot how much I loved learning a language. The African language department classes are wonderful, imbuing students with a passion for the language and culture of the area. The class was a lot of fun and very different from other classes we take in college.
The class is fun adnd exciting!
This class is wonderful if you would like a relaxed atmosphere to learn a great language.
This is my favorite class. Take it.
You can't learn too much DInka in one semester so you should be willing to continue or just be using it to sort of make an effort to engage in the Dinka community
This course is excellent. In addition to helping with your language skills, this course will open your mind and challenge you to make a difference by teaching you about the present-day conflict in Sudan, Dinka culture, and the power of art therapy.
It is challenging, but well worth it!
Great course.
This class is a lot of fun and you learn without ever realizing that you are learning. But it is better if you have enough time to devote to the class because you will get more out of it.
If you wish to learn Amharic this is a wonderful opportunity.  Dr. Telahun is an excellent teacher and he works well with you to develop your language skills.
It's fun, and not too difficult.
It's a wonderful opportunity to learn Wolof, and the classes are both fun and challenging. You must be very self-motivated to get a lot out of the class, however, otherwise you could get by doing a minimum of work and not gain very many language skills.
This is a really good course, the best course of my first semester at Harvard.
The excitement and passion that Ines brings to the classroom makes the class a delight. Her obvious passion for her subject matter and a desire to engage students made this class a personal favorite.
Nneka is an amazing teacher and try and use her as a resource for improving your language skills.  You will get out of this course as much as you put in.
I encourage anyone interested in Amharic to study with Dr. Telahun Gebrehiwot.
Take it. It will change your Harvard experience.
It is a great course, especially if you are interested in taking an African language.  Atem is a wonderful and patient teacher, and with all of the things happening in Sudan I think Dinka will be a useful language because I would like to go to Sudan one day.
I probably only took this because of the citation. To learn a significant amount, you have to take the "independent study" tagline seriously and devote the missing hours to hours of reading and, if possible, listening and speaking. Otherwise, the course really is not worth it.
for any student of aspects of malian, senegambian or guinean history or society, it is very helpful to learn Bamana.
The language in and of itself is fascinating, and being able to read it gives one entree into detailed aspects of Egyptian culture and history
Hausa is a very beautiful language and Lori has great respect and passion for it.
If you are Igbo, Nigerian, or interested in taking any African language, definitely take Igbo! The teacher is hilarious and awesome, and it doesn't require too much work, although you still learn a good amount.
The class is wonderful. It is a great and fun way to learn to speak, read, and write in Igbo.
Mwalimu Judith is INCREDIBLE! She is so kind, compassionate, intelligent, brilliant, and always willing to help! She inspires passion in others.
If you have any interest in twi or Ghana, take twi! As someone who is the daughter of Ghanians but never learned the language, taking the class helped me learn the basics and created a good base to eventually learn to speak well. I now know basic phrases, the alphabet, the numbers, and many other things that could at least help me get around if I went to Ghana.Cindy is also incredible. She goes out of her way for students and will work with you on any level you need it, whether through Skype for extra review sessions, or extra hours of class to practice for Africa Night, she is very supportive. I could not have asked for a better, more accessible and enthusiastic twi instructor.
The class was a lot of fun. I learned basic Yoruba. I wished we had focused more on speaking though as that is what I am most interested in learning.
This is a great class for learning more about Malagasy, particularly for speakers. Antonio is a great TF and is very responsive to what students are struggling with  and what they are interested in learning.
Judith is wonderful! She really wants you to learn the language in a relaxed setting!
The classes teaching you language organically, perfect for people who want to learn the language.
This class is not very organized. Also, you might not learn a lot in terms of content. There needs to be a review of the way African Languages are taught at Harvard.
Swahili is the best!
You will get as much as you put into this class.
Igbo is a great class for anyone interested in learning the language.
The class was very worth while.  I am eager to learn Amharic and I feel that, in this class, I am going at a good pace.  The lessons and the materials provided in the class are more than enough to give a motivated learner the ability to pick up the language quickly.  I ended up learning more quickly than I had initially thought.
Come with questions, suggestions for how to improve your understanding of the language and come ready to listen
If you are going to take this class, make sure you put maximum effort in order to learn the language. If you aren't going to do that, than it will be very difficult to learn the language proficiently.
Learning a language with a way of saying things that is as different as Hausa is a valuable skill... besides that it is a beautiful yet underappreciated language.
take it. it's great.
to definitely take it if you are igbo or acquainted with the culture. or even generally african of another tribe.
The instructor was very flexible as to what day and time we would meet and what texts we would read.  She was willing to substitute a text I became interested in in the middle of the semester.
It is sometimes a difficult language to learn but you have to be patient.  In order to get the most out of this course, you have to be dedicated.
Put a lot of effort into the course and you will be rewarded. The class can be somewhat for people who haven't heard the language before, but is fun to learn.
This class should only be taken if you wish to learn the language and are willing to put up with some tediousness to do so. There wasn't much creativity in terms of the design of the class.
This is a great class to learn Swahili. It is easy, but helpful.
Lynn is an amazing teacher! She cares so deeply about her student's both as people and their growth in the classroom. I feel incredibly lucky to have had a teacher that was so engaging and used different manners of teaching in order for new information to be learned in a more natural manner.
It's a grew class and learning is fun.
Swahili is a beautiful language and not super tedious to learn. Plus, the joy and support from Judith is incredible. She is such a ray of light and give the class this beautiful humanity and enjoyment. The class is not the most structured, but this speaks of the free flowing and  down to earth nature of this class. Super enjoyable and after just one semester you come out with a nice foundation of Swahili!
African Language tutorials are only helpful if you actually really want to learn the language. You have to put in a lot of effort outside to actually learn the material, but you can easily get by with doing not very much. Lowell and Mugane are great, though.
This course was well-taught. Swahili is a pretty easy language (up there with Spanish), so definitely worthwhile. Probably more worthwhile to start in the fall though, so that you aren't off cycle
This class was everything I hoped it would be. I was so excited toward the end when I was able to answer the questions for the oral exam after only one semester of Swahili. The theater component was also a lot of fun. I really bonded with my classmates.
I loved this class!! Will definitely keep taking Swahili next semester, the African Language Program is incredible!!
LEARN SWAHILI! This had been one of my best college experiences and Judith is incredible!! It is also an incredibly useful language and incredibly beautiful!
