You will love this course! Take it! Carla is amazing!
This class was awesome! Interesting, relevant, and not that much work. Granted, it didn't really count for anything for me (Gened or Concentration), but I still really enjoyed the course and highly recommend it on its own merits!
Although the class is interesting, there was more work than I was expecting.
Great class, not too much work. Plus you get to taste chocolate.
Must take class. By far the best class at Harvard.
This is a solid class.  It is a painless way to learn about something interesting but do take the assignments for granted.  They are not very difficult if you put some time into them but do not think that minimal work will get you a good grade.
Do not take this class just because you think it is easy and will get a good grade. I enjoyed the material, but thoroughly disagreed with how assignments were evaluated. If your interested in Af-Am, I would strongly recommend it though.
This is a really cool course! seemed fairly graded and you get to taste chocolate.
Grading is harder than advertised
Definitely shop this class. I took it in its first time running, and there are some flaws to be worked out but I think there's a really passionate teaching staff (particularly Carla) who are going to continue to improve the course. It has a lot of potential! When I took it, the readings were generally very interesting but not really necessary. The tastings are super fun! I did learn a lot about chocolate and various fields connected to it, such as Mesoamerican history and haute patisserie, but I wish we'd gone into more depth.
it is awesome and very fun.  the professor is very enthusiastic about chocolate and all of the material.
Put in the time for the assignments and this class is worthwhile.
This class is totally unique. Take it if you want to be intellectually engaged in a low stress way. Don't take this class because you think it will be a piece of cake and you're just looking for an easy class. This class is made all the more meaningful if students are there because they legitimately want to engage with the material. If you think you can buy into it, do it. This class will introduce you to several very cool multimedia tools as well as a wealth of information about chocolate - way cool!
This class was great for anyone. Little to no lecture attendance requirements (other than a few tastings) and the material was interesting. Who doesn't like chocolate?
A fun class to take--cool non-traditional assignments, interesting lectures. Not a huge time commitment at all.
good senior spring class
Recommended if you are interested in food culture and history! If not it might be a bit boring but still a fairly light class.
This class was great and I highly recommend it to anyone who can take it. It's all about chocolate: its history, expansion from Mesoamerica, innovation in technology, big chocolate companies, chocolate advertising, labor practices, and premium chocolate. It was a really interesting and fun class because we learned about chocolate and were able to use our own knowledge about and love for chocolate. There were a bunch of chocolate tastings with lots of really good quality chocolate, which made the class more fun. It was interactive and fun, and the assignments weren't too hard but also used digital tools that were nice to learn. The teaching staff is great and very strong and cares about making everyone in the class succeed; even when the class had hundreds more people than they expected, Dr. Martin and the TFs made themselves really available to everyone in the class. I really highly recommend this class: it was one of my favorite classes, not too hard, but really interesting and always fun to attend.
The tastings were a delight and I learned so much about chocolate. Sweet class! 10/10, would recommend.
This course brought a very interesting topic to my attention, chocolate, that I would not have thought deeply about otherwise. I enjoyed that there were no exams in this course, but in lieu of exams, there are many projects instead, some of which are group projects. I had a decent group, so I was fine, but I could see how someone who did not get a good, cohesive group could quickly become miserable because there are SO many group projects in this course. Furthermore, lecture dragged a bit at times, and the course readings, although very informative, were hit or miss in terms of being interesting because some of the readings tended to drag and repeat themselves. But the chocolate tasting (yes, they bring in chocolate several times during the semester for the class to try) in lecture were very fun!
If you love chocolate (or even if you don't) I think this is a great class that is different in the way that it is taught and for all you tech savvy people out there is a fun time for everyone! I learned how to use Storify, Timeline, Photo-Shop, and explore every kind of GoogleDoc out there. The free samples didn't hurt either...
It is an interesting class, but don't take it just to have an "easy" class with no exams or papers. The assignments are actually very time consuming.
This class was so much fun and I felt that I learned a lot while taking it. Carla is extremely enthusiastic about what she is teaching and that enthusiasm is infectious. This class also makes you think about how your actions as a consumer really have an impact on the rest of the world other than just yourself.
This course on paper seems a lot better than it actually is. The lectures themselves are interesting and the professor is wonderful and really engaged and enthusiastic. But the projects were a bit annoying and seemed to be more focused on the technology and social media aspects rather than the material itself. Sometimes the readings were boring and certain topics were covered in much more depth (slavery) than other topics (health and nutrition). The class definitely seemed to be skewed toward these topics, so if you are interested in that it certainly will be a good class, but I was more interested in other topics and was disappointed that we didn't cover these topics in more depth. I do think that the class really helped me learn how to taste chocolate and taste different flavors in chocolate, which will be really useful since I eat chocolate all the time!
The class material is really interesting if you want to learn more about the chocolate industry but the assignments are tedious, sometimes confusing and try to use 'new technological tools' meaning you'll be the one dealing with all the glitches that come with this 'new' technology. It's a lot more work than you think but doable. Make sure you get a good group as most of your assignments will be group-based!
This course is great if you are interested in a nontraditional class that will teach you about modern day social issues. You will learn that many social issues like colonialism, sexism, and racism, are at the heart of chocolate's history, production, and consumption. Also, make sure to get to know Carla. She is a great teacher!
Lots of chocolate tastings - what more can you ask for? Carla is a great, enthusiastic lecturer, the material is pretty interesting, and the workload is pretty minimal. The grading can seem a bit arbitrary, and some of the assignments can be annoying (group work, dealing with copyright issues and "technology"), partly because the course instructors are trying to make the class more serious than most of the students ....
no one takes this class very seriously, which brings down the quality of discussion, etc.
Not as much chocolate as you would think!
Chocolate class is fun and not too demanding. You learn a lot of interesting material, and you eat a bunch of chocolate: Double Win!!
There is so much more to chocolate than would think! Very eye-opening course. Yummy chocolate tastings! Teaching staff really cares. Great elective!
This is an excellent class.  It is not too much work, but you really do learn a lot and lectures are very engaging.  Also, grading is harder than you might expect so it is important to start the assignments early and work with the TF on exactly what he/she is looking for.
Most enjoyable class I have taken at Harvard, but also very informative. Makes you reconsider a lot of daily decisions in a consumer driven world.
This class has been known to be somewhat unpredictable, but I really enjoyed it an had a great time.
This class was new this year, so it is still finding its legs. Some of the assignments were needlessly hi-tech" (e.g. blog posts, digital timelines, etc.) Also, sometimes the course just felt it was throwing anything it could at you that was remotely related to chocolate, with little rhyme or reason. There was some history, anthropology, sociology, and WGS, and at times it seemed almost incoherent. That said, it was an overall good class. You have the chance to develop a new skill (detecting notes and flavors, like at a wine tasting).
Don't take this course. The homework is ridiculous, the technology used to do and submit your homework is impossible to use. The grading is astonishing, like getting every grade ranging from an A to a C+, is mind-blowing, the feedback on assignments is unhelpful and and the lectures are dull.
Unless the assignments are changed, I might not recommend it.  Great prof who is so dedicated, same with the TFs.  I think these issues will be resolved, however, as it is a first year course.
This course was easy, but not an easy A. The assignments required a lot of work, and grading was sometimes tough/arbitrary. Lectures got pretty repetitive as well.
Although it is not the most intense class ever (which is a nice break from other classes), it sometimes can get a bit dull and repetitive
Take the class! Carla is the absolute best and she gathers the best TF's to help teach the class! and you get to sample chocolate!
This class does not have much work during the week but the assignments can be tough and time consuming and are graded hard. I would say do not take this class if you are looking for an easy elective. One of my poorer decisions to enroll.
This course could use a bit of restructuring and clearer focus on the material but it was definitely interesting at times. The interactive assignments and chocolate tastings are definite highlights.
While the class seams fairly straightforward and easy, the grading was pretty unfair at times.
This class is incredibly easy.
This class is incredibly fun and chill! I initially took this class because I wanted an easy class for my senior spring, but I ended up learning a lot of fun things about chocolate in addition to having anthropological/sociological discussions about slavery and corporate consciousness. I find myself teaching my friends fun facts about chocolates all the time!
This class is awesome! Definitely take it, especially if you're just interested in food/chocolate. I wish Harvard had more courses like this. It was great being able to study so many different facets of chocolate (origin, history, politics, trade, etc.).
It is hard to be in a class where you are not allowed to choose your groups.
waste of your time
I barely ever missed class because I enjoyed the material, the stuff I learned in class I will definitely remember, assignments sometimes take a long time but aren't too painful/actually make you think about the material, highly recommend!
Yes, this might seem like an easy course, but you still learn A LOT about chocolate (and its social, historical, cultural, and political history), which is fascinating. A lot of the stuff you learn is great conversational material. For its first year, the course was really well-structured and there was cohesion throughout each unit of material. Be surprised by how much you will get out of this class!
Grading is tougher than expected.
Carla and the rest of the teaching staff have an enthusiasm for this fun, different course material that makes the class a lot of fun. A definite take if you're looking for a light addition to a course load.
It's a fun and interesting course, definitely worth taking.
the materiall is interesting and you will learn interesting stuff and be made to think about things you might not have otherwise, but the lectures are not the most engaging and having to use the timeline can be frustrating and not really necessary to the learning process.
This is by far one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. It doesn't matter what your academic background is, you'll end up becoming extremely engaged in the material and come out with a healthy critique of chocolate industries which will likely stay with you beyond your time in the class.
the grading in this course is very arbitrary, which, coupled with annoying assignments, makes for a relatively lousy class
Fun course
Carla Martin is a wonderful professor whom everyone should get to know!
the assignments take up too much time and are confusing to do in general
This class is truly wonderful and the subject is deliciously engrossing from the ancient use of chocolate to current creations.
This class is very eye-opening, and it provides substantial information on chocolate as an academic interest and the politics in which chocolate and cacao beans are enveloped.  Sometimes the lectures and readings can be emotionally intense since they deal with modern day slavery and vast discrepancies in equality.  The documentary films that we watch for this class are so jarring that they make you question your own ignorance concerning these topics.  I would definitely recommend taking this class since it has taught me how to question the ethics and labor involved in the chocolate industry, and the food industry in general.
make sure you get a good group for your timelines, or else you will get screwed
Chocolate was a far more rewarding class than I anticipated it being. In several instances throughout the semester, I was able to emily the information I had learned. Though it's in the AfAm department, it really takes an interdisciplinary approach and was quite a pleasure.
Enjoy the course.  Come to class; there's free (fine) chocolate.  Minimally, scan the readings.  Have fun with the assignments.  The course speaks on really interesting histories and problems regarding cacao labor.  Everyone is nice.  It's perfect for Senior Spring.
This class is what you make of it. The readings are not always interesting, and the assignments are not particularly enjoyable. However, you do get the opportunity to learn about chocolate production and taste different types of chocolate, which is nice. Also, the course covers a variety of topics, so while you may not be interested in everything, you may find at least one topic that peaks your interest.
This is an easy class, but it is also a potentially frustrating and annoying one. If the class is small I'd consider it, otherwise I'd skip it.
do not expect it all be sweet, child labor and slavery is a big part of this course and am happy to have more understanding about all the evil behind cocoa beans/chocolate but very upsetting
This class was extremely enjoyable. You learn a lot of really interesting information about something pretty much all of us eat but don't think about much. Lectures are great so don't miss out. You should also be there for the tastings. I actually enjoyed going to lecture and section and completing the assignments.
Fun and easy class. The assignments are fun. You learn a few nice things about chocolate while also learning about slavery and other issues related to chocolate and cocoa plantations.
It's an easy course.  The professor and the TFs are fabulous.  However, it gets repetitive and the group projects can be tedious.
Probably one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Very well organized, lectures are incredible, no exams and only mini-papers, chocolate tastings, and cool teaching staff. You will also learn A LOT.
