This course is fairly easy and gives a lot of great information about slavery and the slave trade, as well as analyzing historical themes in general. Highly recommend.
If you're drawn to the course for the material, it is definitely worth your time. It needs to work out a few of its structural kinks, but once doing that, it could be pretty promising.
This is not a structured introduction to Af-Am history. The material (the readings, etc) are fascinating but the course itself does little to support it. You'll learn from the readings, not from the class. Otherwise it's a straightforward, easy class that just needs to refocus and reorganize.
Take the course because the material is really interesting. Don't take it if Professor Williams is teaching it again.
Please take this course with a serious willingness and readiness to learn about an important group of people in this country. The students really make this course, so what you put in is what you will get out. With that being said, as a mere course, it is quite easy and chill, though I imagine that will change next year. Take it not just because you want an easy class, but also because you genuinely care to learn.
I'm not even sure what I was supposed to learn in this class. The readings are great, for the most part, and the final paper and final project allow you to engage with the materials and with new content of your choice, but lectures are non-existent and class discussions aren't terribly well-moderated, so you'd be better off just reading the books on the syllabus and taking a different class in which the professor and class discussions will actually offer new insights into the material.
This class seemed very promising, but I was left quite disappointed. It was not structured at all and a lot of what we learned was based on the readings instead of what was covered in lecture or discussion. But that being said, it was still an interesting course with great teaching staff.
You can learn a lot from this class, but don't hesitate to challenge the professor--both her historical convictions and her teaching style.  Also, do the readings, since they'll be what you learn the most from.
You will learn that Black history is your history.
The professor is great and the course will definitely teach you something new
Make sure you do the reading as classroom discussion really highlights it.
This is really a wonderful class. You might think that you do not need to take an African American History class, but you are wrong.  This class definitely not only presents new information, but presents that information in an interesting and engaging angle.  Prof Sokol did a marvelous job and you will definitely walk away from this class and have gotten something out of it.
The course offers students a comprehensive understanding of African-American history, and, importantly, allows students to bring this understanding to bear on the present. Students who have relied only on their high school education to understand African-American history will be surprised at how different their understanding of this history is after taking this course.
If you have any interest in African American history, you should definitely take this course.
I would tell students that the more work you put into the class and the more of the reading you do, the more you get out of the class. I would also encourage students to get to know the professor and TF and participate in the interesting class discussions.
Take it! The books are great, the workload is manageable.
It is really enjoyable and you learn a lot.
It is a great way for you to learn about the uncommon aspects of slavery and the slave trade...take it!
This class is awful. The lectures seem to never end, the discussions are forced and tedious, assignments are hard and graded harshly, and the readings are unbearable. It is like a bad version of AP History all over again.
The subject matter is incredibly fascinating, but the lecturer will make the difference between this being an joy and a nightmare.
Course is unnecessary to take if you've already taken AP US History or other classes that deal with slavery, even other African American Studies classes like Af Am 10.  You're not learning anything new.
The lectures are uninspiring.
You should speak in class discussion to keep the material lively and interesting for yourself personally. Otherwise, the class and discussion can quickly fall flat.
This course gives an interesting look into the intricacies and impacts of the development of slavery, its institution, and the complications left in its wake.  The class is engaging, and the dual structure of lectures and student-guided discussions keep it dynamic and unpredictable.
It is boring.
This is a really interesting class if you like the subject matter and are interested in the reading material.
Be aware that the papers may be more demanding that they seem to be because they are short. But if you listen well to your TF's feedback and learn from it, you should see great improvement
Very interesting readings and perspective on history as a subject, a very worthwhile class
AWESOME class. Dr. Carter Jackson is the best lecturer I have ever had at Harvard. Her energy is contagious, she's so funny, and she really brings all of the material to life. Make sure you take this class. I'm going to miss it!
This is a great class because Prof. Jackson is amazing. The books you will read are great, especially the one on the great Migration. The discussions that we have on Thursday are a great addition to the class. You wont always agree but it is a great way to challenge the way you think
This is an awesome class! Dr. Carter Jackson is an amazing lecturer and woman in general. She keeps the lectures interesting and encourages lively and meaningful discussions. This is not one your typical history classes full of memorization of obscure and irrelevant dates and names. In fact, Dr. Carter Jackson works very hard to ensure that the class IS NOT that type of class. There is never a dull moment in this class. This has been one of my favorite classes here at Harvard and I have learned more in this class than I think I have ever learned in my entire life. You learn meaningful information and learn how history continues to impact your own life even today. Take this class! You will not regret it!
Best class I have taken at harvard
While the professor is very engaging and lectures often really interesting, the course has mixed expectations from the start. It is an historical overview but also tries to hit on a wide range of topics that make class discussions difficult.  The course expects you to treat it like a seminar even though the format is clearly a lecture.  The attendance policy is the most extreme I have ever seen at Harvard (and is not clearly explained at the start of class - 3 late arrivals equal an absence, arriving 15 mins after course begins equals an absence) and the papers are graded extremely harsh, especially with an eye to formatting particulars.
The course content is very interesting, particularly for someone who has come from a country that does not teach American history. However, make sure you are completely brushed up on your writing skills.
It's a great class. Gives more context for not just the roots of racial relations in this country but the roots of this country. Ridiculous that people still distinguish black and American history- black history IS American history. Dr. Jackson's lectures are incredibly engaging. Make sure to do the reading and you'll get more out of the course. I wish it was a more cohesive syllabus and used more sources though.
This class is AMAZINGG! The lectures are beyond interesting and every one is unique and inspiring! The papers are challenging in the sense that they are graded very particularly but, as with everything, you get out of them what you put into them.
The class is good but focuses way more on breadth than depth.
this class feels like a high school class, the essay prompts were very ehh but Kellie's total sweet heart. I only took. It because I had to, but as far as requirements go, its not the worst thing the worst thing in the world.
This class is a great choice in connection with AAAS 10 because it focuses in on broader subject areas and gives students a deeper sense of understanding.
If interested in African American History, this course is an easy survey for the time periods of Afam history that are least discussed in contemporary US history (i.e not the Civil Rights Movement). Prof Jackson is great at directing discussion, which is really the highlight of the class.
Dr. Kellie Carter Jackson is a genius and an AMAZING professor. There are not many teachers at Harvard who truly love teaching, but she does. The class will make you laugh, deeply move you, and challenge you to question not only history, but present issues for the black community. TAKE IT.
Kellie C. Jackson is an genuinely amazing lecturer who engages students with the material and generates student interest in the material with her knowledgeable and straightforward teaching style. The discussions in class lectures are both interesting and thought provoking, and they make you think about topics that you may have never seriously pondered before or to see seemingly common issues in a completely different light. However, the readings in the course, although extremely informative and very well written to boot, were sometimes overwhelming in length so be prepared to do a lot of reading. Furthermore, TF Charrise Barron, although a nice person, is strict at best and nitpicky at worst in her grading of assignments. However, it was nice to have a class made up entirely of papers as opposed to exams.
Dr. Jackson is a terrific and engaging lecturer. You'll definitely look forward to attending these lectures.
The classes of this class are amazing. Dr. Carter Jackson is a fabulous professor who delivers lectures and leads class discussions that are consistently compelling. I loved the topic going in, and so I really loved the class.
As a fan of the African American studies department I found this class enjoyable because of Professor Jackson's enthusiasm and the ability to have discussions. However, after taking other upper-level Af Am classes, I found this one to be a bit oversimplified at times.  Therefore, it would be best to take this class right after Af Am 10 or as your first class in the Af Am department.  Otherwise, some of the information you learn will not be surprising or new.  However, Professor Jackson is approachable and does an excellent job of including narratives that are often excluded including the African kingdoms and black abolition.  Additionally, the assignments and readings are enjoyable but not too difficult.  You will be exposed to a wide variety of scholars of African American history.  And make sure to read The Warmth of Other Suns!
Prof Jackson is an awesome lecturer and very personable! You'll learn a lot of new things from this class. The readings can be pretty heavy but aren't really essential for success in the course. Be wary of the papers. They require much more prep than you'd think.
Don't underestimate the papers.  Start them early.
it's fine...
It's informative and easy, a good introduction to AAAS
amazing professor, tough with grades but rewarding
Content-wise: Excellent. Professor Jackson is Harvard's newest gem. Great reading. Deep subject matter. Grade wise: It really just depends on who the TF is. Its just 4 short papers all graded by the same person.
Amazing topic. Amazing Professor. What more do you want?
This class presents a ton of useful information about African-American history and how historical influences still impact society today.  Professor Jackson is a wonderful instructor, and her enthusiasm for the history and literature is contagious.  If you don't know anything about African-American history, even (or especially) if you don't think it would be interesting to you, you should really take this course.
First, Dr. Jackson is a phenomenal teacher and you're lucky to have her.  She goes out of her way to help her students learn what they're interested in. Emily is a wonderful TF as well - office hours are where you can contextualize what you've learned.  Overall, they set you up well to write critical, eye-opening essays.  This is a class you won't regret.
The class can teach you alot if you apply yourself to intently doing so. Other than that, start your papers early and you'll do fine
As it was taught while I took it, it was disorganized and the grades were weighted weirdly. The material was interesting, and the class would be better if it were tightened up. If it does not change, I would not recommend taking it.
This class is very well taught. Professor Carter-Jackson and the TF Emily Owens both care a lot about the subject matter and are extremely knowledgeable. The class is often supplemented by guest lecturers and field trips. Although the course covers about 400 years of history, it did not feel rushed to me and I felt like I learned a lot of in-depth information. I highly recommend that anyone take this class, regardless of field of study, since it exposes a side to America that most high school history classes completely gloss over and that many people are unfamiliar with.
This class doesn't really require you to do the reading, as it is often not relevant to class discussions, but papers are graded difficultly. Definitely not a class to blow off, but the week to week requirements are minimal. A great survey of African American history up to the Great Migration. Prof. Carter has strong biases which she liberally communicates in class. I often found that this stifled discussions or made them completely one sided.
WONDERFUL professor (please stay beyond your two-year contract, Dr. Carter Jackson!), fascinating material, engaging lectures. But its frustrating that there isn't more discussion, and it is virtually impossible to get an "A" on an essay.
This course is an amazing analysis of African American history in a away I've never seen before.  Best of all, Prof. Carter Jackson is easily one of, if not the, best lecturers and teachers (read: teaching ability) I've had a Harvard. She is incredibly knowledgeable, passionate, and oozes with a love and enthusiasm for her work that is contagious.  She is engaging and conducts conversation very well, discussions were always lively.  Most importantly, unlike many Harvard professors, Prof. Carter Jackson is not afraid to say "i don't know...but I'll get back to you", something I have the utmost respect for.  I can't recommend her highly enough, please please keep her at Harvard, she's exactly what the department and the university need.  I  Emily is AMAZING!  She is incredibly knowledgeable as well, a fair grader, and amazing helpful in office hours.  She has a library of all things African American history just stored in her head, I'm still impressed.  If you are considering taking this course, DO IT RIGHT NOW!  The work is incredibly manageable and rewarding, awesome teaching team.
Professor Carter Jackson is very engaging and excited about the material. The material itself is interesting and covers quite a bit of history that, unfortunately, is often left out of the classroom.
Stay on top of your work
Absolutely terrific and interesting introduction to African American History and the history of slavery.
Be prepared and put in effort and you will learn a lot!
Learn alot about AfAm history during this period. Prof is excellent and very approachable.
Heavy work load, but you learn a lot and the professor is awesome.
Take this class!! It is a lot of fun and you will learn a great deal about the history of slavery in the U.S. from both sides.
The class is an extremely in depth understanding of the migration patterns of African Americans.
This class gives a great overview of African American history and topics that don't normally make their way into regular history courses. That being said, the class at times felt disjointed, with lectures being standalone history lessons that weren't always tied back to central themes. Still a great and necessary course, though!
It's a great class that gives you a lot of general knowledge on African American history. A lot of which I didn't already know. However, there were a lot of things that were repeated in some way. Also, some of the lectures were very basic. It's hard to really delve into these topics when the course needs to cover so much. Aside from lectures, the readings were really great, and the papers were short. Overall it's a good class.
Great class!
this class was awesome because of the teaching staff and how straightforward all of the assignments were. the teaching staff was lenient with paper extensions and cared about the students. so sad that Dr. Jackson is leaving! :/
The writing portion of this class was pretty informative--3 short papers were really effective in teaching me about the history/historiography of the topic.  Lectures were interesting but really didn't go in depth on anything--although Prof. Carter Jackson is really really wonderful!  If you're looking for a pretty easy introduction to African American History, I'd recommend it--but you may feel frustrated by a lack of depth in content.
This class is such a gem. Professor Brown is incredibly brilliant, and my one complaint is that he doesn't speak for the entirety of the class.
Great class. Great professor and TF's. There is a fairly heavy amount of reading but the readings were very interesting and I wanted to do the reading each week so it didn't really seem like I was doing that much work at all because I enjoyed it.
Take it because it is only going to get better and it is already great. Professor Brown is a fantastic professor and really cares about the material. Not that difficult a class, but engaging and challenging material conceptually.
This is the perfect class if you have no background in African American studies. It's essential history taught in a thoughtful way.
Professor Brown is an amazing lecturer, and the material is extremely engaging. Take the class.
do not miss this chance to take a class with professor Brown. He is incredibly inspiring, insightful, imaginative and both his lectures and his discussion-facilitation are awesome. they have a couple kinks to work out since it was his first year teaching it (such as defining the papers more specifically), but I would highly highly recommend this class.
Do the reading--it is worth it. We read seminal works that are important if you want to be a scholar of this area of history
This class is great if you know what you're getting yourself into. Vince is a lot of fun, really creative, and really cool, but he also can be tough to engage because of how smart he is. The material is challenging and disturbing, so while the grading might not be that tough, you will be challenged intellectually and personally. In other words, don't just take it on a whim. Take it if you know you're interested in the material.
This class will ground you very firmly in the historiography of the African American experience before the Civil War, with lectures serving as the primary basis for historical knowledge. Though his scripted lectures may seem rather dense, Professor Brown's patient, comical, and very attentive moderation of discussions makes every student's contribution valuable and worthy of further examination. The number and nature of the assignments seem fair and straightforward, although it seeks to synthesize a great number of sources for argumentative purposes. So make sure to do all the readings because it will be very important when it comes to writing the essays.
Take this class!
