Mulugeta is one of the most endearing people I have ever met. The course and the language are incredibly interesting. Despite the somewhat challenging nature of the language, I always feel incredibly supported throughout the learning process. I would highly recommend the course.
If you have any interest in Amharic, its literature, or its people, there is absolutely no reason why you should not take advantage of Harvard's African Language Program. With time and effort, you will learn, and you will have the privilege to meet the brilliant, engaged, and fun teacher, Mulugeta.
The class is relaxed, Gashe Mulugeta is a wonderful teacher who cares about his students!
Take this class. Great way to learn an amazing language
You can learn a lot about the Ethiopian culture.
Amharic is a wonderful language, and Mulugeta is an enthusiastic instructor with a deep love for the language and culture. He is extremely knowledgeable and explains concepts with clarity. I have learned so much from the two Amharic courses I have so far taken in the department, and I plan to continue studying Amharic in my years at Harvard.
Professor Muluegta is absolutely phenomenal. He really makes sure on a personal level that you learn the language.
Very easy class as long as you have one family member who speaks Amharic.
Mulugeta is amazing as an instructor, very kind and helpful. The course is difficult, but totally do-able. You will be challenged, but just enough.
Amharic was my favorite class this semester. The coursework was very light and I enjoyed doing it. Tests are rare and manageable. Mulugeta is a great instructor and hilarious. You will look forward to going to class. I'll definitely be taking the course again.
It's an interesting language to learn, and generally not too much work.
The Amharic language is very interesting, and this is a great class for those that have no knowledge at all about the culture or language, as well as those that have grown up around language but never learned it.
I have hopes for the improvement of this class but at the end of the semester, I really didn't feel that I learned anything I can hold on to. I appreciated how easy-going it was but maybe if I had to learn a little more during the semester I wouldn't have felt like the final was a nasty shock or that I learned about as much as I could have learned in three weeks but spent three months doing it.
Only take this class if you have a string interests in Ethiopian culture as well, or else you will not get as much out of the class.
I have learned an incredible amount from this class.  It's important that you come with your own motivation and desire to learn.  However, once you do that you'll be able to go very far with an instructor like Dr. Telahun.
Be sure to practice regularly.
Be prepared to come to class with a specific idea of the grammar points and concepts that you want to learn, as there is no textbook. Be sure to ask for examples, as this is an exceedingly complicated language.
A cool way to be introduced to Ethiopia.
The Amharic class here is great for learning how to both speak and write the language.  I came to college knowing only how to say "hello" and "thank you".  At this point I can read, write, and speak the language on a basic level.  The knowledge of the language I have gained in this class has been very rewarding.
I would recommend to do all the readings and exercises, even if they are optional. It is also important to engage in class and talk to fellow students and the instructor to develop your vocabulary and grammar.
It's a fun way to learn a language that few other places teach, as well as a way to learn about the interesting culture of Ethiopia.
This class (most African languages at Harvard, I hear) need serious restructuring and legitimacy!  I love the program and the encouragement of the prospect of African languages being teachable.  HOWEVER, we need adequate curriculum and expectations set by faculty at the start of the term so that language-learning capacity is entirely met.
The Amharic language is really interesting, and this is a great class to take if you're interested in learning more about it, or the culture.
You want to learn Amharic? Take this class. Absolute blast!
Prof Mulugeta is graet. He's approachable and goes above and beyond.
Its a great class if you are interested in Ethiopian language and culture!
Taking Amharic with Mulugeta was perhaps my academic highlight of the semester. He is such a kind and genuine man and I feel truly grateful to have gotten to know him through our class this semester. I feel like I learned a great deal. While the language is a bit difficult, because the course was so personalized, I feel that I was able to take ownership over my learning experience. I highly recommend the class.
I would tell them top spend A LOT of time being acquainted with the Fidel/Abugida since it is a must for serious progression in the language.
There isn't much homework (at least for beginner Amharic) and the small class size makes it fun. Take Amharic!
If you are interested in learning Amharic this course will definitely help you.  The greatest improvement I have seen while taking this class is my ability to understand spoken Amharic.  In addition, students work with written material so they learn how to read and write passages in Amharic.
Amharic year 1 was a wonderful introduction to the Ethiopian language. Mulugeta is an amazing teacher and will go out of his way to ensure you understand the language and do well in this class.
You must actually be invested in learning the language, because it is so different from English. It won't be easy in the same way an intro Spanish class is.
This is a great language class. Mulugeta makes this class so good.
Its a great class. Mulugeta is a great teacher and has a very individualized approach. Even if you know absolutely nothing entering the class, you aren't at a disadvantage.
Mulugeta is the best professor so kind and helpful you will learn Amharic and it will be fun!
Amharic is an incredible language, with complexities that educators and scholars are only beginning to fully understand.  Mulugeta is a great instructor, and this opportunity-- for those who are interested-- is one that should not be missed.
Take Amharic. Mulugeta is great.
This course is a great start to learning Amharic. The class is very chill and doable-- I took it as a fifth class and it can be done. The workload is light and manageable, so anybody can add this to their schedule and dive in. Mulugeta is hilarious and really engaging as a teacher. Definitely take this class!
If you have any interest in learning Amharic--a challenging and worthwhile pursuit--absolutely take it at Harvard. Not only does the African Languages Program have great infrastructure toward your language acquisition, Mulugeta is a phenomenal teacher who might even become a life-long friend.
It's a wonderful immersion into a beautiful language and culture, and Mulugeta is there to kindly guide you throughout the way. You will learn a lot quite quickly!
Mulugeta is one of the most wonderful teachers I've ever had. His warmness and true investment in his students' lives truly sets his class apart from any others I have taken at Harvard.
Professor Mulugeta is THE BEST please take Amharic you won't regret it - the language of nearly 100 million people, and Mulugeta makes memorizing hundreds of Amharic fidel easy.
