This is a class you can take if you don't mind the lack of structure or grammatical explanations for how the language works. It is slightly chaotic at times, but Saeed is definitely a fun guy.
I would recommend the ALP to my peers, but not the particular Somali instructor.
Somali is not difficult. It is a great adventure that will take you through the sands of the Horn of Africa, a place that will be key in the future to think about our present. Learn to read this place in its own terms. You will love it.
Only take this if you are passionate and serious about learning Somali and the culture.
Loved the class
This class is fun and small, and provides a great way to learn an African language (especially one that doesn't receive too much academic interest). The best way to get something out of the class is by doing the readings and making sure to ask questions during class.
This is a good course if you want the basics of somali. However, since it's new it still has to be developed a bit more.
Definitely worth a shot. Somali is a cool language, and while this course focuses mainly on fundamentals, it's a good introduction to the language and culture of Somalia.
Take this course! Our teacher, Idil Abubakar, is great, and she always makes sure you understand the material, whether it is during class or during her office hours. The course covers the basic from vocabulary to grammatical building blocks, but in the intermediate class, it picks up and begins to deal with slightly more complicated sentence structures. Intermixed with lessons is information about Somali culture which I personally found very interesting.
It was great and a fun way to learn a new language
Somali is an extremely useful language and it is a good time to learn Somali. People may not be aware of how many Somalis live in Boston and the US and how essential this language can be. It is amazing that Harvard offers the course and I'm sure Idil will keep improving as a teacher as it's hard to even find someone with the capability to teach Somali to foreigners.
Be prepared to be challenged but also rewarded,as Somali is a rich and fascinating language.
