This course offered just what the name suggests - a view on "African Future Cities" - but from so many more perspectives than might strike you as directly relevant at first, both in terms of topic (from urban planning to mining industries to fashion) and in terms of approach (from very theoretical to ethnographic to policy). Prof. Mbembe is the skilled weaver of and guide through all this varied information. I suppose he and the class won't be sticking around (?), but they were great.
The lectures are extremely interesting and the reading assignments are very interdisciplinary. I often had to write responses to readings from disciplines I have very little experience with, like urban planning, for example, but this didn't seem to hinder my performance in the class.
If you are interested in a course that engages urban theory and informs your present perspective on the African future city, then I highly recommend you take this course.
Definitely! After taking African Future Cities i would recommend any course offered by Prof. Mbembe.
Great class! Even if you come in not knowing anything about cities (I did), you will still have a great time in class, and leave having learnt a ton! I usually don't like lecture classes, but Professor Mbembe's presentations were always extremely engaging. Having interesting readings meant that weekly response papers were not a bore at all. Lastly, TF and Professor were very accessible outside class, and provided great feedback on work. Definitely take this class if its offered again, very highly recommended!
Achille Mbembe is perhaps the warmest and most creative professor I have ever had in years of undergraduate and graduate courses at Harvard. He is remarkably accessible and open to student ideas, taking them seriously and giving helpful feedback. This course was unlike any I had ever had. It was wide-ranging and at times seemed opaque, but in the end it contributed more to my intellectual development than any other course I have taken. It exposed me to new discourses, new languages, and reshaped how I think about urban theory and cultural production. Phenomenal course that I would recommend highly to nearly anyone, but especially to students interested in urban studies, African culture+history+politics, design, art and art history, development theory, and anthropology and sociology of urban environments anywhere whether in Africa or not. The opportunity to take a course with Achille is one that no one should miss, regardless of the topical focus. He is a phenomenal lecturer, incisive and creative intellectual, and inspiringly generous soul.
Having a chance to study with Achille Mbembe is an immense privilege and gift.
This class is amazing for those interested in post-colonial and African studies. For undergraduates, it can be very sink-or-swim at times, but if you don't get daunted, there's so much to learn from Professor Mbembe (go to all his out-of-class lectures too!) and from the brilliant grad students that are attracted to a class liek this.
This is a very good overview to contemporary issues--social, cultural and political--concerning urban metropolitan centers in Africa and their future growth. The professor is of course extremely knowledgable, and delivers truly excellent lectures. This is not, however, an advanced course on any one set of urban issues, so those with a lot of expertise may not find something around which they can easily grasp hold.
