Course is a great idea poorly executed. Take it in a few years, maybe, when they've worked out the problems. Fascinating concept but honestly did not learn much, which is frustrating because there isn't another class like it.
This class is an amazing opportunity. Professor Lipper is incredibly devoted, and she will give to you as much as you give to this class. Here are the top 3 best things about the class. 1. You get to watch a lot of amazing movies that you would probably never see otherwise. African cinema is fascinating. 2. You get to volunteer with a non-profit. For credit. Wow. You meet people you wouldn't otherwise and it's great! 3. You learn how to make movies. In our world of social media, what a great skill to have! This class has given me the opportunity to explore a great area and find a passion for something I wouldn't otherwise have discovered.
I had a lot of fun in this class. Although some of the lectures are all over the place, you get to do a project that you are really passionate about. This courses takes up a lot of time, and is hard work- but you will learn a lot in it.
Start early on the assignments. You get the most out of the assignments if you give them time to incubate.
I loved this class! I consider it the best elective I've taken yet at Harvard. Be prepared to spend a ton of time on your midterm and final projects--but if you're genuinely interested in the topic, working on the projects won't feel like work. You can learn a lot about how to make a film even though the course doesn't formally teach you anything about how to make films--trial and error in the editing lab + asking for help (and doing so often) will take you a long way. If you're hesitating on whether or not to take the course...take it. If I could take this class again, I totally would.
This is a great class that will help you build a media portfolio (even if you're not even looking into having one!)  The teaching staff is incredibly helpful and gets to know you on a very personal level.  I recommend that you approach the class with a high level of self-awareness and a certain topic you would like to explore and how it relates to you and your own life story.  From there, finding an organization to work with is a lot easier.  Be strategic about how you approach an organization and make sure that they are willing to help you achieve your desired final product.
Very different from synopsis. Not satisfying or engaging. Far too many assignments. Unclear expectations. Frustrating workload.
This course is a lot of hard work, but can be worth it. Take it, especially if you're passionate about a particular social change topic.
The opportunities presented in the class are many, the Professor is demanding but also understanding, you leave the class with a new understanding of many global issues and a greater appreciation for the work of journalists and documentary filmmakers.
If you actually want to develop the skills to make a documentary film, this is your course! Be aware that it will take many hours though (I spent more hours on this than Organic Chemistry). But Professor Lipper is extremely talented and will make your film awesome if you get extra help, and Luis is the coolest person ever!
Very unique course... Struggles because it attempts to: 1) be a film studies course; 2) be a film making course; 3) be a sociology class of sorts; 4) teach you writing. In short, it tries to be everything which makes it miss all marks in some regards. There are too many assignments to do any of them well. Lecture also becomes very piecemeal and you may leave asking yourself what you learned. You will also be frustrated regularly. Still, this class does give you a rare opportunity to work with a nonprofit/NGO and make a video for them, which can be very rewarding! You will also learn Final Cut Pro (mostly by teaching it to yourself), which is useful. A big consideration: cost. This course is likely Harvard's most expensive (or one of them). Costs: Final Cut ($300), external drive ($125), and course books ($50). Plus transportation costs to your subject and other misc. costs likely (~$25). At around $500, this course costs as much as 1-2 semesters of costs for other courses. Fairly unreasonable and ironic for a course that teaches about issues of poverty/access. For the amount you spend, you also don't have access to anything more than the most basic equipment (small handheld, point and shoot cameras). In total, this course could be good if you had a topic you wanted to work on and have the money to spend. You might be better off actually studying video making in VES, film studies in VES/gened/English or issues of race/gender in Sociology/AAAS/Anthro, or writing in English.
This course was amazing in many ways. I think the idea of the course was stronger than its execution. The material we discuss is inspiring and thought-provoking, and the direction we get on making our films is very strong. The work expectations, however, were way too high on the edge of being ridiculous. It was like two courses in one - one in which you make a film and spend a significant time out of class with your subject, and another in which you read and write papers. If you are passionate about film for social change and willing to do whatever it takes to succeed, then yes, this is the class for you. If you don't have time to dedicate to this class as your primary priority, then I wouldn't take this class.
As exciting as the syllabus sounds, the class is poorly organized. As previous students have said, the class is doing too much and you will feel like you are not getting the most out of anything. If you want to learn filmmaking, this class will not prepare you for the technical aspects of it. It will try to teach you the theory behind some of it, which is great but not useful when your final project requires you to know technical aspects. Also, be sure to have an organization in mind prior to joining the course. It would really help. Many students have dropped or withdrawn from the class during the process because expectations were high but no guidelines or guidance were properly given for assignments. The only plus sides were the great documentaries we watched (which you could watch yourself at home!). Joanna's insight on the documentaries are incredible but students won't have much time to devote to analyzing the film so I am not even sure why we are required to watch so many of them.
This course will take over your life. Like, really take over it. And you will have no idea what is happening most of the time. But you will learn a lot. And it's a somewhat fun ride (like a terrifying rollercoaster)...in safe retrospect anyway. And you will likely be happy/proud with/of your final product.
I generally enjoyed this class. Its a fun class with amazing movie screenings, and its awesome at the end to be able to see what you as well as your peers have been able to put together. And you leave with an amazing skill that you may not have had otherwise.
Take it. It is applicable and is a class that is extremely meaningful to you after it ends.
You get out of the class what you put in, and if you put in a lot, you can get out a ton. If you don't know anything about filmmaking, this is also a fantastic way to learn about the basics.
This class can change your life, but only if you are willing to devote yourself to it and to a social issue that you care about. There will be multiple weeks where the projects will take over your life, and you will have to handle many unforeseen obstacles, but if you push through them, the class is incredibly rewarding.
great class but make sure they understand the time commitment of the class
Do not take this class unless you are willing to craft your film in the vision of the professor. Even if you want to portray your subject/organization in a certain way, your film must concord with Lipper's vision otherwise your grade will suffer. Lipper's criticism of films/papers is also frequently unnecessarily harsh, especially when compared to the TF's criticisms which tend to be more constructive. Also, be aware of the cost of the class beforehand. FInal Cut Pro costs about $300, and an external hard drive will cost about $100. The bond between our class got really strong as a result of it being really small. This class is a good idea, but wait to take it until it gets some of the screws tightened. Also, if you really want to learn how to use final cut, there are plenty of tutorials on the internet (youtube + izzyvideo) that will teach you all that you need to know. Having the teaching staff there is useful at times, but they often get in the way of your personal vision of the film. You can learn anything you need from tutorials on line without going through the difficulties of taking this class. Also, get to know all of the teaching staff, but especially Rick. He is a great guy, can teach you some really cool camera tricks, and his personal story on how he got involved in film is awesome.
This course is a life changing course. Learning how to be a filmmaker and use Final Cut Pro is an extremely important skill everyone should know. Joanna Lipper is an amazing professor and the TFs were so supportive. While it is one of the most difficult and time intensive courses I have taken, I think it is also one of the best courses I have taken.
do not take this as a fifth class, it requires the utmost attention for the maximum benefit, but truly, it has the possibility to change the way you think about things
I would recommend this course if you are already interested in documentary filmmaking, but if not it will probably be a waste of your time. It is an ENORMOUS time commitment to do everything this course requires of you and do it well. The professor has very high expectations and the course can feel disorganized at times with due dates changing and discussion questions being posted at the last minute. Only take this class if you don't have a lot of extracurriculars or class time because you will need a lot of time outside of class to work with your non-profit organization, shoot footage, edit your film, do the readings, write response papers, etc.
Though the class itself was challenging and a large learning curve was involved, there is no doubt I've learned more in this class than any other at Harvard. It is heavily based in real world issues and it is impossible to not get something meaningful out of the work. Not only did this class teach me about film, what it means to organize on a grassroots level and what stigma means in society. Moreover it was a lesson in humanity.
The main focus of this course is really "how to use film for change." Each week you are introduced to a different social issue--do the readings, talk about related films in lecture, and watch the week's related film. This isn't a course about theory or even about filmmaking techniques. Those are things you have to learn by yourself. For the most part, it's a relaxed, easy way to be exposed to different social issues, but the filmmaking part really relies on your own initiative.
This class requires a lot of time but offers a significant amount of learning experience. It gives you the chance to really delve into your topic of interest within the realm of social change through film screenings, readings, and perhaps most memorably, producing your own film about the NGO or subject whom you will get to know and learn from throughout the semester.
You have to be committed to this course. This sounds like a very cool course, and is a very cool course, but you can't take this for fun. You are paired with an organization that is most likely depending on you to make a film. It is a good idea to talk with them about where you think the film might go, and very early on work to flesh out a plan for shots. Don't think you can decide all of it later. Even before the major interview required by the course, you should have an idea of what you want to show and how you want to show it. Obviously things might change, but better to have more footage than you know what to do with. In the end I had too much footage that really didn't work for what I wanted to do. Diversifying my b-roll could have helped me a lot.
Great, informative course, but assignments were not explained well enough. Instructor was difficult to deal with at times, but always very knowledgeable. Warning: course expectations do not remain constant throughout course. Follow up early and often to make sure you're doing the right thing!
I loved this class because gets you thinking about what your work means beyond the classroom, how your work can potentially help others and gets you to spend time with the subjects of your projects, get to know them and build relationships and therefore meaningful work.
To really do a good job and be proud of your work, you will have to devout a lot of time to this course.
This is a really wonderful course if you want to learn how to make a film with a teaching staff that really cares about your creative and investigative process. It's also a great reading & viewing list for anyone interested in documentary film or multimedia approaches to social engagement. Unfortunately the course's too-broad focus, overambitious approach, and nebulous goals prevented me from truly engaging with the assigned material, and because of that I didn't feel like it was a holistic academic experience.
It is really is a once in a lifetime class, I am not kidding.  Joanna is a vortex of talent and resources, and the TF's she picked are the best I have at Harvard.
