This is an absolutely amazing class! You will learn SO much and not only about humor. The material covers everything you could want, from stand-up comedy, to TV, to poems (toasts), to literature, to comic strips and cartoons. Professor Carpio and Ernie can't be beat as an academic and entertaining duo and I've had some good laughs in that class, both from the material and from them. They're great people who helped me a lot and were readily available. If you're a freshman (like I am/was), don't be intimidated by the class, it's very manageable and older students are accepting. Plus, in how many classes at Harvard can you study Richard Pryor, Eddie Murphy, Dave Chappelle, Chris Rock, and The Boondocks? Take. This. Class.
It will change the way you laugh and make you think about why things are humorous every day.
Prof. Carpio and Ernie are great, and the readings are often interesting (and the class is very low time-commitment) but I did not leave this class feeling like I had learned very much which is always frustrating.
If you love black comedy, take this course. Absolutely no reason not to. Will give you a whole new perspective on things.
It's a great class to explore a subject that has many layers that you would not ordinarily think of
Glenda Carpio is a phenomenal professor, the class is fantastic and you get so much more out of the television, movies, and readings than you would expect.
Take this class! Professor Carpio is wonderful - not only is she incredibly smart, but she also takes such an interest in her students.  The readings and screenings range from interesting to hysterically funny and there's a creative option for all assignments.  I learned so much and never felt like I was doing busy work.
went in super stoked for this class, but it was disappointing.. class was decent when we watched clips, but it was hard to follow the class as a whole as there was not a ton of flow or transparency in what we were learning and how it was all interconnected.
Take it if you may genuinely enjoy the material. It's not as chill as you might think it is--there are two legit papers to write and weekly response papers. It's fun, sometimes annoying because of what (often white) classmates will say. Overall, the course should leave you with a much more nuanced view of black humor and comedy, with some more insight into stereotypes, the black (minstrel) figure on stage, etc.
Expect to feel very uncomfortable, but learn how to work through that space and successfully express your potentially controversial comments
This material was good but I did not like the class I think because of the people in it. Without a section, it's hard to participate if you don't have a particular background or knowledge of the course material. I think the professor should and will do a better job of facilitating conversation that does not steer into a specific area that requires background knowledge.
This class is great. Don't go into it expecting it to be a barrel of laughs though: humor courses tend to be less funny than they sound. But if you want to learn about Af-Am studies through a really unique lens, there's no better class. This is my favorite course I've taken at Harvard so far.
You'll never see humor as something simple again. This isn't just a survey course on black humor; it's a total re-imagination of African-American and American cultural and racial histories through the lens of that humor. You'll come out of this course a more sophisticated laugher, not to mention a wiser participant in the great American conversation on race and culture.
This class is everything a college class should be. It is taught by an incredibly knowledgeable professor; it is an opportunity to delve into so much material that, whether being experienced for the first or the twentieth time, holds so much information; it is a comfortable place to express thoughts, questions, opinions without holding onto the notion of political correctness; it is a blast.
Maybe the most enjoyable class I've ever taken.
You'll get more out of the class if you do the readings, which are actually really interesting.
It's not a breeze, but you will enjoy it.
The material we studied was excellent: the work of Richard Pryor, Dave Chapelle, Eddie Murphy, Chris Rock, Aaron McGruder of The Boondocks, and many other geniuses of black humor whom I'd never been exposed to in a classroom setting before. Professor Carpio is wonderful, and Ernie is one of the best TFs I've ever had. Great course, the only thing that was lacking was the class discussion aspect, which is mostly dependent upon the other students in the course. I felt like a lot of the time the white students dominated the discussion and would often make remarks dealing with race that made black students uncomfortable and less willing to speak up during class discussions. This was a concern that many black students in the class shared. I think class discussions would have been much more engaging and productive if the class size had been a lot smaller and if some of the white students had not insisted on taking the position of cultural authority on black culture (a time when I felt the professor should have pushed back a little more, opening up the space for black students to do so). The class discussion dynamic would have been extremely different had there been a smaller proportion of white students in the class (or fewer white students who insisted on being at the forefront of every discussion, even conversations that they could not really speak to, coming from a non-black experience), and I think we could have dug a lot deeper into race issues, rather than focusing so much on the aesthetics.
