Class time is enjoyable and meeting times flexible. A great way to stay practiced in Afrikaans if you are still learning.
Afrikaans is a fun language to learn and Lynn is a very fun teacher!
Lynn makes Afrikaans more of a conversational class and less focused on grammar/rules. Great for people who just want to practice the language in a stress-free environment.
Our teacher Lynn was amazing; if it weren't for her, I wouldn't have enjoyed the class as much as I did. She made things fun!
This course is a wonderful way to continue your Afrikaans education. Lynn is a phenomenal teacher. She works to make the class fun for students and makes it easy to learn.
All this course needs is a bit more organization. That said, Lynn is a terrific teacher and Afrikaans is a fun and laid back way to learn a language.
Afrikaans is the best language you can take at Harvard. Lynn is an absolutely terrific teacher who sincerely cares about her students. You are never overwhelmed but you are consistently learning and do come away with an impressive amount of language ability after even one term. If you are interested in South Africa, take this class. If you need to get that foreign language req done, take this class. You'll thoroughly enjoy it and learn lots without any pain in the process!
This course was a lot of fun. It didn't take up much time during the week and I always left the class feeling enthused about Afrikaans and my next visit to South Africa. Aspects I enjoyed most were reading children's books and discussing current events in South Africa with the class and teaching assistant.
This class is fantastic! Lynn is the best and you learn a huge amount without feeling overwhelmed.
This class is absolutely amazing!  If you want to learn a language and have fun at the same time, this is the class for you.  I have learned Afrikaans at a much faster rate than other languages I've taken at Harvard of in high school.  The teacher makes learning the language fun and easy. However,  she covers a large amount of material so that you are proficient at a basic level by the end of the course.
This is an awesome course with an awesome instructor!
This was a great introduction to African languages and the AAAS department. Lynn was fantastic and I encourage anyone interested in South Africa to take the class. She invites conversation about South Africa's problems and is very upfront about what the situation is like. This class will give you an unfiltered account of South African life while engaging you in a unique learning experience. Make sure to ask Lynn to have a cooking day! It was the best day of class.
4/5. Afrikaans is a delightful language to learn - it's incredibly simple grammatically (no verb conjugations, very regular structure, barely any tenses, and no declensions), it shares a lot in common with other Germanic languages (especially Dutch, which has approximately 95% of the same vocabulary), and it's fun to speak! Regarding the class itself, the course was very fun, and we learned quite a bit of useful vocabulary, but I think the difficulty level and workload could be ramped up significantly. It's not easy at all to try and speak Afrikaans outside of South Africa, so in-class time is basically the only chance you get to practice. This was the first time Afrikaans was offered, so it might change a fair bit in the coming years, but overall I think the course could have benefited from more speaking practice and a higher level of difficulty, as well as a more rigorous workload. (I know I may sound masochistic here, but really, it does help!). It was great fun though - take Afrikaans if you want to go to Cape Town, or even if you're just looking for an interesting and relatively simple Germanic language to learn.
Lynn is an amazing teacher! She cares so deeply about her student's both as people and their growth in the classroom. I feel incredibly lucky to have had a teacher that was so engaging and used different manners of teaching in order for new information to be learned in a more natural manner.
The course provides a strong background in Afrikaans and the professor is wonderful!
Great class
Afrikaans is a terrific course. Lynn is a fantastic teacher and also a lovely person. The workload is completely manageable and you really just have to study for the exams and quizzes.
It's an excellent course, not overly difficult and there is not a heavy workload outside of class. It's a great opportunity to learn more about South Africa and the teacher is extremely personable and responsive to students.
Awesome class! Lynn is the best teacher and you'll learn a lot in a short amount of time, not a stressful class at all -- very enjoyable and a good way to satisfy language requirement
Lynn is amazing! I really loved learning Afrikaans. It was a great class overall and Lynn made it so fun!
Amazing professor, good and fun language
This is the most enjoyable class I have taken at Harvard.
Lynn is the best teacher I have had at Harvard.  She is super cool, like she makes food for us, she gets to know us and our lives, and she gets off topic with us.  This is a gem class, unknown to people who do the traditional foreign language requirement classes.  It is super chill, like I take it as a 5th class even after I finished my language requirement cause I love Lynn and its a fun class.  TAKE IT!
EVERYONE MUST TAKE THIS CLASS. IF YOU DONT YOU ARE MISSING OUT ON THE BEST CLASS AT HARVARD. MAKE SURE YOU TAKE IT YOU WILL NOT BE SORRY.
Lynn is the most effective teacher I have had at Harvard.
Afrikaans was a hidden treasure! Lynn is so sweet and supportive. She manages to make every single section hilarious. Had so much fun and learned more about Afrikaans than I thought I ever would!
If you have any interest in learning Afrikaans or visiting South Africa, this is a great class to take!
The Afrikaans language is a fun one to learn and the South African culture is a fun one to analyze
A phenomenal teacher and a great way to learn about a new culture.
Best course I've taken at Harvard. You learn a ton and  Lynn is amazing and there to help always. You get to eat great food and learn a lot about the language and culture. Definitely take it! I was very gelukkig after taking this class!
Learning a language is always difficult, but this course makes it fun.
This course is for anyone wanting a very basic introduction to Afrikaans. You will not learn how to speak it very well but you will likely be able to read it at a beginner level once you complete one semester. Lynn is a fabulous instructor! very kind.
Lynn is the best!  If you are looking for a fun language class and such a cool teacher, this is definitely your class.
