great setting to learn a new language
If your hesitant about taking it, just take it. It's fun and easy and interesting. I take it as a fifth class each semester!
This is an excellent class and Lamine is a very enthusiastic teacher who will put in as many hours as you in order to help you improve with your Wolof
Lamine is an excellent Wolof tutor and is demanding while also being flexible about learning.  I learn by asking a lot of questions, and Lamine is always very patient, even when my questions are quite technical.  He pushes me to revise my work and make it better, and offers opportunities to talk with other Wolof-speakers in the Boston community.
That the primary written resource of instruction is a badly written and unedited Peace Corps language manual.
If you are driven to learn this language, then this course and the instructors are for you.   Be ready to get as close to immersion as you can in Cambridge because that is how you'll benefit the most from the course.
Just have fun with it and it'll be hard to get used to at first, but don't take anything too seriously. Also, joke with Lamine. He's the best.
It's wonderful to be able to take such an obscure African language course, but it's frustrating to study it where it's not spoken and it can be difficult to teach and learn because its rules are so different from those of English or other written languages.
The instructor is excellent, and very committed to your personal improvements and tailors his teaching to the kind of language needs you have.  Interesting and useful language and culture are taught.
Wolof is a really fun language to learn. Lamine sometimes overexplains certain points that are already clear, but he is a great teacher and very nice.
I decided to take Wolof this semester to help me prepare for thesis research in Senegal over the summer. It was a great idea -- this course with Lamine is not very difficult, but you will learn quite a lot even in just one semester if you go to class and think about the vocabulary and grammar over the week.
So difficult to learn this language. You need to study a lot. This is a hard class.
Lamine is a great instructor!
Be eager to learn, don't miss class, always ask questions when you don't understand or when unclear about what the instructor said. This is otherwise a pretty light course, so take it if you are interested and are looking for a  fourth or fifth course.
Great class for you to try something different at Harvard
Lamine is a fantastic teacher, and Wolof would be useful to learn if you are working with Senegalese immigrants or planning to travel to Senegal sometime in your future.
Great fun, great teacher, great language, great culture.
