Excellent instructor who brought to the table a ton of enthusiasm and a willingness to push us to dig deeper in our discussions.  It was a challenge to balance all of the reading, but the books and articles were so interesting that I'll probably go back and read some of them more closely over the summer.
Incredibly interesting, you'll learn a ton, but be prepared to read a lot.
she is an amazing prof. be prepared to speak in class.. she is absolutely amazing!!!and be prepared for an beautiful struggle through the african diaspora
It will give you an incredible look at the history of abolition and how much of that history has a place in the present-day. Global in scope, this course will give students exposure to the processes of human sale and help them to understand why this history is important.
I found this class to be one of the most fulfilling experiences I've ever had in the Af-Am department. Professor Jackson is phenomenal and the class discussion was able to make even some of the drier readings incredibly relevant and interesting.
This course highlights mostly uncovered aspects of slavery and emancipation in the Atlantic. The material is not too difficult, and the readings are manageable for a seminar. The course is open to graduate students, so be prepared to be engaged and on your toes in class.
I would tell future students to come as they are, armed with whatever they know, and whatever they study and prepare to think critically about a topic of which they likely know very little. This is a class where every discipline is welcome and productive. From math, chem, and engineering majors to English, Classics, and History majors, everyone can contribute because the discussion touches upon all disciplines. Prof. Jackson really helps the class resist the temptation of becoming another "anecdote-driven" waste of time. It's not about what you have necessarily experienced, but the history as it's been told, where its been silent, and how that has impacted narratives we learn in school today. Even if it does not set out to discuss current events, students can't help but notice that much of what we discuss persists in the world today. Worth the semester!
Slavery and Emancipation are seldom interrogated in the U.S. outside the rubric of the American South. This course provides an instructive comparative platform for an expanded, more nuanced understanding of slavery, revolt, emancipation, and the economic, cultural and social factors driving such forces in a Caribbean Atlantic context. Recommended.
