You'll learn a lot you didn't know you didn't know, and Mugane's an awesome guy.
All around a fairly light and fun class. You learn a lot, and if you need an easy class to balance out your schedule, I think it's a good choice.
This class introduces many linguistic concepts and provides historical context to make the case of the importance of linguistic diversity and preserving African languages. The professor is engaging and passionate, and the TF are very knowledgeable and interested in the students' learning.
This is a great way to fulfill the SOW Gen Ed. It can be a bit heavy on reading, but the rewards that you get from the class will be equal to the amount of work you put into it.  The topics that we discussed were really fascinating and have applicability to a wide range of fields.  This course really changed the way that I view language and made me realize how much I have always taken it for granted.  Professor Mugane is also a wonderful lecturer. He is engaging, funny, and extremely knowledgeable about the subject matter.
TAKE THIS CLASS. MUGANE IS HILARIOUS AND THE MATERIAL IS SOO INTERESTING
The readings for this course were very compelling and easy to do, but the class itself was not very stimulating and the little class time we had (2 hrs per week) was poorly spent with most of it spent having students summarize the readings. If you're interested in the linguistic landscape in Africa and the social, cultural, and political consequences of multilingualism you will get to explore those issues in this class, but most people don't put enough time into the class to make the discussions interesting.
Mugane cares a great deal about exposing his students to the conditions and problems in Africa right now. Through this class you realize how biased your views on Africa may be and how biased the world's views are. This class makes students care about the linguistic problems in Africa and it keeps you engaged throughout the semester.
I really learned a lot about language; there's much more to it than I'd ever thought. Workload isn't bad, and material is interesting. Professor is funny and the readings are pretty informative and not too long. Deji was a great TF.
Take this if your okay with 2 hour lectures.
Professor Mugane is awesome and is really passionate about what he teaches. There is not too much work, although near the end of the term it can get a bit busy. Sections were also incredible. Take it!
This class is a great way to complete a gen ed. The course load is extremely manageable and the assignments are not too difficult. If you're interested at all in languages, this course is very good at showing you how language plays a role in the various facets of human life. I would recommend!
The class is amazing. It gives a good introduction of the dilemma most African countries face on languages to use and/or support.
This class is a cool way to get your SW gen ed done. The material is interesting, especially for people interested in the intersections of language, class, culture, etc. in Africa. Mugane is  a super cool dude who really knows his stuff - get to know him as a person and he will be a great contact/person to have in your life. I will say though that Mugane's lectures are often challenging to concentrate on/follow - he doesn't use slides very often so if you get easily distracted/need a lot of emphasis on lecture time, this class might be hard for you.
the requirements are way easier in actuality then how they appear on the syllabus. courses in afam department are great. courses with mugane are even better
This class is eye-opening. It is important to learn about Africa and this class does an adequate job about talking about the languages of Africa. The readings aren't hard at all and they're summarized each day in class, so it's easy to catch up.
Take this class. It's an easy gen-ed that gets you thinking.
This class was great! Very fun, and an interesting opportunity to learn a lot about African cultures through interactions with Africans in the Harvard and Boston communities.
This is a great chance to explore African cultures and languages, especially if you don't have prior exposure. I knew absolutely nothing about Africa coming into the class, and I am now leaving with a strong impression of the people and the vibrance of their lifestyle. This class is also super chill work wise--highly recommend for STEM concentrators looking to fulfill SW.
This class definitely taught me a lot and is a wonderful SW. The readings are interesting on the whole, Mugane and Deji are wonderful, and, as the cherry on top, this class is also very chill in terms of workload. I learned more about language in Africa than I thought existed to learn about.
Mugane has fantastic stories. This class will not change your life, but it will be a fun and easy way to learn about the language problem in Africa.
Definitely take this class. Professor Mugane is hilarious and engaging. If you're worried about it being 2 hours, know that it goes by pretty quickly. The workload is very manageable, so this class could be added to a challenging schedule to balance it out. The class itself is pretty diverse and the subject matter is really interesting. It was so fun to watch everyone's projects on the last day. If you're on the fence about it, take this class! I'm so glad I did.
This course was really awesome! Moderate amount of work for an abundance of knowledge. Changed the way I think about not only language, but also the world in general. If you're looking for a chill class that also teaches you a ton, this is your course.
This class did not require a lot of work but was very interesting. Section discussion added a lot too! Definitely a good one to take if you want a gen-ed in conjunction with other hard classes so you don't overload yourself.
Best and chillest class ever.
You can learn a lot from the readings so do them and engage in lecture.
This course has done a better job accomplishing the goals of the gen ed program than any other gen ed I've taken. It made me aware of linguistic and educational issues in modern Africa, and gave me perspective on the diversity of languages that exist today. That said, there were still some negative aspects: the readings were often long and tedious, and it often felt like we only talked about a few things and then rephrased them over and over again.
Very interesting and exciting class. Take for sure
Interesting course and you learn a lot about Africa you may not elsewhere. A little repetitive at times, and is slightly difficult to stay engaged and attentive to the course during lecture.
Expect to learn a lot about sentiments concerning languages.
Really cool course and Mugane and Lowell are both really awesome instructors
great course that deals directly with the language question! Lowell is simply the best TF
Take the class. It will pay off dividends, especially if this doesn't seem like a class that you previously thought you would ever take.
TAKE IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
If you're curious about the African continent, like languages, or are fascinated about other cultures, definitely take this class.
If you stay on top of the subject matter and coursework, this class will be one of the most rewarding yet.
A very good class that makes you think in a new way about something as simple as language. It introduces you to many new perspectives on something you may have only thought about in one way.
Definitely take it! Prof. Mugane is a great guy and is very knowledgeable, as is the TF Lowell Brower. The workload isn't too intense and the discussions are amazing.
Completely changed my perspective on African culture.  Truly a great class.  Professor Mugane is a genius and Lowell was a great TF. Social engagement project is also a lot of fun.
Prof. Mugane's lectures are very engaging, and Lowell as a TF engages with the material and the students very well. I really enjoyed the readings and the types of questions we were asked to consider in the course. It felt important and relevant.
Really cool class. Would especially recommend as a first introduction to African studies. You don't really consider how important the language question is before taking it, and it's fantastic at blowing up former false preconceptions. Readings in the second half of the course are definitely less interesting but the middle portion of the class in particular is fascinating
The section you are assigned to really matters. If you want more structure and more assignments, try to get into Jason's section. If you want a more laid back (but still really interesting/provocative)section experience try Funlayo. Your TF is the most important person in the course. Mugane gives fairly interesting lectures, but you won't really figure out what you're supposed to know until you go to section. if this course is taught in biolabs again, I'd be really cautious scheduling things before and after it. otherwise, this class is relatively painless,and an easy way to fulfill SOCW if you have any interest in Africa
The grading was inconsistent.
The final video is a lot of fun, but isn't the end of the course. I was not prepared for the difficulty of our final exam and wasn't very happy with the outcome considering a long semester of great work.
The class wasn't bad, but it wasn't nearly as great as I thought it would be. Mugane is great, but highly unorganized, which is my exact sentiment toward the class as a whole. The readings were fascinating, and section discussions remained lively through to the end, but the course was lacking in structural integrity--we weren't building off topics, but rather jumping around from one to another. Grading was also suspect at times between TFs, which is again merely a symptom of too few regulations governing the structure of the course and assignments.
the class is pretty unorganized, but you can get a lot out of the lectures if you pay attention and contribute in class
This course isn't as low work I thought it was going to be. There are 4 papers, a midterm, a final, and a social project. The topics covered are also super general as the class focuses on all of Africa. However the social project is really interesting. Overall painless class.
This class is quite unorganized. The ideas presented can be life changing, as I can attest. I have thought about Africa in a new light, however the course was often frustrating due to its lack of structure that it overshadowed some great lessons.
There's actually lots of very interesting information that is available to be learned during the course of this class, but the student has to take a lot of initiative to actually learn it because the course itself does not require that you do much of the readings.  Lecture sometimes leaves you with a question mark, but Mugane is still the best and also just really nice and funny.  The social portrait project is actually very insightful, but it requires a lot of time.  The final exam will make you cry a little because it is so long.
This course presents compelling language questions, and the literature and discussion throughout this course challenge the way you perceive the world around you and yourself. Although the language plays an integral role in how societies and people's perceptions are shaped, discussion of this role is often overlooked. This course may initially seem a bit disorganized because it does not follow the usual strict lecture format. However, this course compensates for that with lectures that engage student thought and sections that delve deep into discussion of thought-provoking readings. Additionally, the final Social Project is a great experience. If you're looking for a stress-free but engaging, thought-provoking way to fulfill the Societies of the World requirement or if you'd like to check out the AAAS department, then I highly recommend taking this course.
Take this class. It is a great way to fill a general education requirement in an interesting way. The course load is more than reasonable and it is very interesting.
It's good.
You learn a lot from the readings, make sure you do as many of them as you can. This class is really about getting out what you put in.
Overall, not a bad gen ed.  Lectures were relatively useless (although sometimes quite entertaining because Prof. Mugane is a funny guy) and all the way in Biolabs for some reason (ugh).  Section was often pretty interesting but unfortunately at 9 am for me, which sucked.  But my TF was good, and we had some interesting discussions.  The readings aren't too bad, and you definitely don't have to do all of them.  Tests are take-home, which I guess is good.  Prof. Mugane makes it very clear that the purpose of this course is to get people to study Africa and African languages and to engage with African people, which is kind of a weird goal for a gen ed full of a) people already natively speaking or taking African languages and b) science majors who found a chill gen ed class and are often seniors and have no intention of and no time for studying an African language before graduation.  The material was often repetitive, and a lot of the work I produced overlapped a lot (I used the same 2 readings as the basis for at least three different prompts throughout the course).  Also, it sometimes seemed like a bit of a high workload for a gen ed, but it wasn't super hard work.  All in all, not a bad class for what it is, and I sure learned a lot of stuff I wouldn't have learned anywhere else because the class was so far out of my usual realm.
The course topics and material are great in general, but the course organization is seriously lacking. Lectures tended to be very general, almost to the point of vagueness, and readings/assignments were a bit unclear in terms of due dates and expectations. Sections, however, were EXCELLENT! They were very well managed and were comfortable spaces for discussion and argumentation over the course material. You may be tempted to not complete the readings, but PLEASE do them - they are fantastically interesting and not too difficult. You may not see the value in doing them during the course, but the knowledge culminates in a fulfilling way at the end.
This is SUCH a poorly organized gen-ed, please don't take it!!! You don't learn much either. Not a great combo.
Take this class! It changes the way you think about Africa even as an African! It really challenged my thinking and the way that I approached the Africa continent. Also, the course load is not a  killer :)
AAAS 20 is a great way to learn about topics you may never study in your other classes. Lecture is boring and you'll likely get frustrated after he shows the same slide and says the same thing for the third class in a row, but section discussions are great, the readings are interesting, and the workload is relatively light.
Take this class! It's a great way to fulfill Soc & The World. Professor Mugane is really funny, and blunt with his opinions. Great TFs. Good way to go. Manageable workload. Glad I took it.
This is a very interesting class.
This class is a good way to fulfill Societies of the World.  It gives you a good intro to African languages/culture
Excellent course, passionate teaching staff.
This course offers a broad overview to African culture and language but there's definitely more work in the projects than in the response papers!
Section (with Lowell, at least) is amazing, the class isn't stressful, and the material is interesting - but you need to show up to all lectures (they take attendance) and it can sometimes be tough to see the point in the lectures -  some of them feel a bit like a waste of time.
The class deals with questions to which there is no known answer or conclusions, so be ready to readdress the same issues over and over from different perspectives. That being said, the course is far from demanding, pretty interesting, and there is no excuse for not doing well.
This class is a good introduction to Africans and the interplay between language and culture. The social portrait project, while a pain to organize, is pretty cool to work on. Be prepared to have things change though - if you're someone who NEEDS structure, this class might be frustrating for you, as the syllabus and due dates are not set in stone. But Mugane tells great stories and is extremely interesting to listen to, so that made it worth it.
I wanted to take this course to really learn about African languages and cultures and do not feel that that was accomplished. Although I tried, this lack of structure of the class made it impossible. Lectures seemed mostly random and irrelevant, and reedings were not helpful. There isn't too much work but the inorganization made me stress out unnecessarily and the grading wasn't always fair.
I guess it's as good as it gets with Gen Eds. That being said, it's still frustrating.
I really enjoyed this course! The workload is not too bad and there are some really engaging readings in the course. I really enjoyed the Social Portrait project for the class. It was a great way to integrate ideas from the class into the real world.
I would say take the class if they end up changing the structure, and solidifying the agenda. Overall, I think the readings were very interesting, but for some reason, that class didn't seem to follow.  Lectures for me where not very stimulating, and much of it seems anecdotal to me. But the sections were more engaging.
Be open to new ideas.
This class is actually very interesting and not extraordinarily demanding. If you would like to learn about African and its culture, but are afraid to because you don't know much about it, this class is perfect. It introduces you to linguistic and cultural questions and allows you to formulate your own ideas. Also its actually very fun to do the projects that are assigned. It doesn't feel like work when its fun and interesting.
This course has the potential to be an excellent course the next time it is offered.
Be prepared to enjoy the class. Professor Mugane and his TF's do a remarkable job in making sure you are actively engaged and benefiting from the class.
This course will broaden your worldview
TAKE THIS CLASSS!!!!!!! ABSOLUTELY AMAZING, NOT A LOT OF WORK, THE READINGS WERE VERY INFORMATIVE, AND SECTION WAS FILLED WITH HIGHLY INTELLECTUAL DISCUSSION.
This class may have been easy in the past, but it is unorganized and not worth the trouble at times. The material is important to be learned, but I was often frustrated by the way it was executed. Very annoyed in fact.
The class in as excellent introduction to African cultures and its relation with language, and in fact the outside world.
This course is great to take if you are interested in African culture and language.
Although the structure of this course is disorganized, you will find that the teaching staff (Prof. Mugane, Lowell and Nkatha) are funny, accessible, and valuable sources of information about the African continent.
very straight forward class, but didn't really get much out of it. too vague
I really enjoyed the topics the class covered in readings but the lectures were a little bit disorganized- perhaps just because it was the first year this course was offered though!
It is a great way to begin learning about African countries through the essential lens of language
Actually did change my perspective on African languages and cultures (surprised me that it did), and I met a few cool people in the class - the native Africans who took this class were awesome!! Besides that, easy gen ed that helped balance out a pset-heavy courseload.
The class is very relaxed and informative.  The workload is definitely manageable, and any work that is required is worth the experiences you gain from working with the language liaisons.  The response papers allowed students to engage in the readings, and the projects allowed students to apply what they've learned to interesting topics.  Definitely recommend.
Fun lectures, Mugane is awesome.  A ton of reading, and while most of it was interesting basically none was necessary.
This class was worth it all in the end because of the hard work of the TFs. They took the time to really dig into the debates in the readings and expound upon the concepts discussed in lecture. You really get an introduction to African cultures that not corny or patronizing, but incorporates the study of African people into the course.
Lectures lacked focus, and attendance is taken so you have to sit through them.  On a positive note, I think I did actually learn about some African Cultures.  The video project was a nice change of pace from typical final papers.  Make sure you take the course with friends though.  You may have to do the project with classmates who won't put in the work.
A great enjoyable class. It's a great way to get introduced to the African Studies department
If you need a stress free/easy gen-ed, take this class! It's not hard at all. Prof. Mugane is hilarious and Lowell is an AWESOME TF. It doesn't require much work.
This class was awesome.  Professor Mugane is hilarious and a great lecturer.  Lowell was an awesome TF.  I looked forward to attending class and section which never happens.
The course covers a broad spectrum of material in a casual manner, so make sure to do all of the readings.
Thought at times you might feel like you're talking yourself in circles, this class truly is worthwhile. The workload is more than manageable and tends to be pretty interesting. Lectures, admittedly, may not always be the most exciting but Professor Mugane is quite the character and Stephanie is one of the best TFs you can get. Definitely take it if you're interested.
Easy course but you learn a fair amount. Lectures can be brutal and disorganized but section was awesome
I learned nothing in this class. The only reason why I would recommend this course is because you can do your work in this class, can procrastinate in this class, and there is very little work. Easy to manage an "A" while doing as little as possible.
This course is not something that will tax you. But that being said, you will get more out of it if you put in the effort. Do the readings and jot down some notes as to how you think it relates to the subtheme of the course for the week, and the overall picture of the course. The more you speak up in class, the more interesting it will be--the lectures aren't too organized, but Professor Mugane treats the class more like a seminar, so speak up.
This course is interesting and allows you to expand you knowledge on culture and language beyond the United States (specifically Africa).
Entertaining class, and very informative.
Its an easy class.
Take this class! If you are interested in current African matters, such as wanting to pursue public health in Africa like I do, then take this class so you can understand the background of the continent so you can be prepared.
It's pretty easy and interesting and if you're not a concentrator, how often do you learn about Africa?
That this class taught me a lot on the concept of language and culture.
it's definitely helpful to do the readings and stay on top of them
Professor Mugane is funny and Stephanie is a great TF, but I would not recommend this class to anyone. The first two weeks are very interesting, but after those two weeks we just keep recycling the same material. You also do not get that much exposure directly with African languages (read lots about them but do not really learn much of any). We also got many of Mugane's anecdotes from Kenya, but not much information from outside of Eastern Africa. Take another class instead of this one if you care about learning more about Africa (or learning more in general). The class is also not very organized.
Very painless way to get a core class out of the way.  Interesting but very easy to zone out and not follow the discuss.  You'll definitely learn a lot about Africa if you didn't know much before.
The section component of this class is really what makes it great. I was never sure what to expect coming into lecture, but the TF was fantastic and tied everything together.  Some of the reading is interesting, and some of it not so much, but it is a good overview of African languages and and introduction to linguistics.
pretty easy courseload and professor Mugane really knows the subject. Definitely a class worth taking as an elective
Utilize the TF as much as possible.
This is a fantastic class! You should definitely take it if you have a genuine interest in Africa.
the information is great but I think there isn't enough significant material for the whole semester. the last third of the class felt just like talks from Professor Mugane about his exciting experiences and strips and projects
TAKE IT!
Mugane isn't a great lecturer, but it's an interesting course.
There is a ton of work week to week, which gets exhausting. The lectures can drag on too.
This is an insightful and eye-opening class that was a lot of fun to take.
For any one interested in gaining a crash course in all things regarding African Language and African Culture, this course does an excellent job.
This is a fantastic course. It'll help you develop new perspectives on postcolonial issues and introduce you to tools for understanding cultural interaction on a whole new level.
Great way to fulfill core/gen ed requirement. Interesting stuff, good especially if you've never learned anything about Africa.
This is a wonderful class. If you give it a lot of effort, you will reap tremendous benefits.
This has been my favorite class that I've taken at Harvard. It is a wonderful class, and you'll gain so much insight into Africa and how the sheer number of languages affect virtually every aspect of African life.   Don't let the response papers and map quizzes deter you from taking the course. The assignments are manageable, the course is well-structured, the material is thought-provoking, and the professor and TF are both passionate about the topic.  I highly recommend this class to anyone with the slightest interest in Africa (or to anyone who wants a meaningful way to fulfill the foreign cultures requirement). Fair warning: the class is mainly about how languages have shaped and are shaping Africa and is not really an introduction to "African culture" in general as the course title may imply.
This class is great! Professor Mugane makes himself available to his students and Stephanie (the TF) has great sections.
There is a LOT of reading for this course, and it sometimes seems to be a bit pointless. Be prepared to read a lot and sometimes be frustrated with the structure of the course.
Language is one angle to become introduced to African studies, so if you're interested in Africa, take this course. I left this course wanting to take an African language and to continue learning more about such a fantastic continent!
If you want to learn something about Africa, this is a great class to start with.  It really helps you appreciate the issues that face modern Africa.
The syllabus is not indicative of the workload.
Very fun class, great teacher and TF, I learned a lot about the diversity (linguistically, culturally, etc.) in Africa.
You can't miss this class.
If you want to convince yourself to take a foreign language (especially African language), this course is a MUST-TAKE!!
If you're ready to work, this class is definitely worth it.
there is a lot of weekly work--reading, response papers, participation--but the class is excellent.
It is a very good for anyone interested in Africa.
This course is essential for anyone interested in anything to do with Africa, from development to just curiosity. By exploring the real cultural aspects of the continent, it gives an informed perspective when viewing the continent.
Take advantage of this great opportunity to have a taste of the great African languages program at Harvard.  You'll want to study an African language by the end of this course!
There are times when this course seems to be unfocused, but times when it really pulls together and pushes forward.
Read the texts as much as possible, and take strong stands on all papers.  Try to speak up as much as possible in class and engage with the professor and TF.
There's a lot of work but at the same time you learn a lot.
Although the class requires a fair amount of writing, it makes you rethink what you know about how we communicate and what has been communicated about Africa.
The material is awesome - important and interesting - but the workload is a little excessive.
Take the class for the readings and not for the lectures.
Be prepared to write every week. This is not a class you can slack in - stay on top of your academic game or things will get hairy fast, and the teaching staff will not be lenient about making up work.
This is a great course, very comprehensive and interesting. The professors take their time with every student to make sure that these foreign ideas are understood. Professor Mugane is hilarious and down-to-earth.
You will learn a lot about Africa and its languages.
This is a great class to take if, like me, you know very little about Africa and are interested in learning more.
A fun, exploratory way to learn about African languages and culture.
