Jeyifo is a genius. Try to keep up!
You will not have another opportunity during your time at Harvard to engage so many different types of 'texts' -- speeches, ballads, novels, plays. Moreover, Prof. Jeyifo is an inspiring individual.
This class is a good opportunity to see how literature and its culture 'others' speak to issues in the Black community.  Where else can you compare James Brown or Fela Kuti with Ralph Ellison or LeRoi Jones?
Do not expect to speak often in class though it is a small seminar; very unusual
The texts are great. Jeyifo is extremely smart and the classes are small. Highly recommended.
every day will be interesting
The course is really dynamic and combines many different theoretical lenses in a way that you get to see them "in action." Very interesting to evaluate literature alongside music and speeches.
There will be no better opportunity to read monumental texts in Black literature and listen to their counterpart texts in the music realm. An excellent course for students interested in studying oral and performative texts.
This is a really interesting course that I feel like I received full value out of. The work is not overwhelming and can be fitted into a larger schedule with ease.
Any class with Jeyifo is one that should be taken. This class was great because it is so easy to get a ton out of without having an overwhelming workload. Seminar was more of a lecture than a discussion, and while Jeyifo does ask questions of the class, most time was spent with him talking through main points about the materials and you absorb as much as you can. The alternating format of a book and a film in each unit was great--in sum, if you're looking to learn a lot, read thoroughly enjoyable books, and have a great low-key seminar this is your class.
brilliant lectures and analysis from the professor, but poorly defined expectations and no discussion in what ought to be a discussion-driven class
I would recommend keeping an open mind in the course.
This course has the potential to enable a deep and novel interpretation of creative work within the African/African-American/Caribbean context. The onus will be on you, however, to generate this interpretation for yourself.
This course is theoretically rigorous and provocative, and pushes you to think creatively about your approaches to "textual" analysis.
Any class with Professor B.J. is going to be eye-opening and really cool. He puts a lot of thought into selecting materials for the syllabus and it shows -- he always has such interesting commentary about the material! Also literally it doesn't get any more chill in terms of workload -- movies assigned to watch, you watch during class time. Books are assigned every other week -- so you have 2 weeks to read any play or book he assigns. And both the plays he assigned were like less than 50 pages (which is good because the plays were the most "meh" in terms of understanding and interestingness lol).
The syllabus for this class is excellent. The professor, however, does not give any individual attention and is not open to accommodations at all. As a result, the classroom atmosphere was very uncomfortable.
This class is super interesting and covers a lot of really engaging and exciting topics with interesting and new perspectives on all the movements, works, and figures.  There's no homework aside from ~weekly readings and 2 papers, so it's not super time consuming.
Every single one of Professor Jeyifo's classes are amazing, and this is no exception. He can literally tell you everything about anything literature-related, which always makes class engaging and fun. The syllabus for this class is also great. All of the books and plays listed are so interesting and enjoyable to read and dissect (though, as he acknowledges, the syllabus could include more black female authors :). Highly recommend this, and all of Professor Jeyifo's courses!
Favorite class I have taken at Harvard. The Professor is really humorous and wonderful to work with, and incredibly smart. I got so much from this class.
This course is a very good way to get to read books and listen/learn about music relevant to the African American and African Studies. It was a really interesting way for me to get exposed in that way. However, if you are looking for a seminar where you can engage with other students, this is not the route you should go. You will spend most of your time hearing the Professor speak (while there will be a few times when he will ask questions). Also, there will only be two essays to grade you throughout the semester so it is critical that you do well. If you are confused, because the prompts may be too ambiguous, go to office hours and ask him. Don't risk writing a bad paper.
Be ready to analyze texts in a way you might not have before; 'texts' such as the lives and works of musical performers in the contexts of social and political movements. Also, you might not have previously engaged with a lot of the literary/sociopolitical theory that is named-dropped, but it's worthwhile to spend some time with it if you haven't. You really won't too much in class itself. I really enjoyed the pairings of written text with oratorical/musical texts.
