W.E.B Du Bois is one of the most important intellectuals of the 20th century, and certainly one of the great founders of African-American studies, though his writings and theories go beyond whatever parameters some may perceive in the phrase "Af-Am Studies." Like a Marx, like a Foucault, he is essential reading to understand modernity, and the concept of race, and a lot of what we take for granted intellectually today. We spend a lot of time re-inventing the wheel in academia--if we read Du Bois more, maybe we would do that less. I recommend taking this course so that you can know something REALLY worth knowing.
If you have the opportunity to take this course with Prof. Shelby and Johnson -- take it!! It's intellectual history, philosophy, literature all in one. You feel like you're tackling the material and trying to understand it alongside the profs, which is awesome.
If you care about questions of race, gender, class, etc. you should take this class.Whatever you think you know about Du Bois is probably wrong, or at they very least incomplete. You will be astonished at how much Du Bois was able to achieve. And you will probably be disheartened at the amount of "work" done today which is mere regurgitation of Du Bois. Though they never cite him, because ya know....
This class is a great opportunity to read some really fantastic books and talk about them with brilliant people--I would recommend doing some background reading on Du Bois first, though.
If you do the reading, you'll get a lot out of this class. During the weeks where I was swamped with other things and unable to read as much, I felt so acutely aware that I was a waste of space in the classroom.
The premise and material of this course are incredibly interested, and the professors are obviously both brilliant. The class was good, but it seems to be unsuccessfully straddling the line between seminar and lecture, with a "discussion portion" where both professors try to condense their complicated (though interesting) opinions on the week's text into like 15 minutes and then give the class 0 seconds to process that info and ask for a response. So only grad students respond, and then the class gets into a realm that isn't necessarily more advanced or more complicated, its just alienating to undergrads because grad students simply approach the classroom differently. And though the undergrad-only section could've been a remedy for that, it became a weird and quiet weekly meeting since the TF left it too open ended. If you don't mind listening to grad students use huge words for no reason and argue of minute details, take the class! The readings are great and the workload is manageable. I love now having a framework of Du Bois as his own canon to approach scholarship with in the future. Du Bois showed up in literally all of my final papers this year as a result of this class. Its an invaluable knowledge base to have.
This class was wonderful, though I think it could have benefitted from being smaller.  I learned so much from Profs. Shelby and Johnson, the reading load/writing load was doable, and I learned a ton about Du Bois.  I'd definitely recommend it for anyone who is interested in AAAS.
The professors and content of this class are fabulous.
The course experience will depend on the size of the class.
Very interesting and thought provoking class. Definitely take it if you want to learn more about and analyze the work of Du Bois; this class is perfect for that.
As it is currently structured, you can take this class and gain a lot without putting a lot of effort in. i.e. listen to other students' + professors' comments without having done the reading, and still learn a lot.
Du Bois is an important (if often challenging and repetitive) thinker, and you'll leave this class with the realization that you could take a "Reading Du Bois" class every semester in college and still have lots left to read. Walter and Tommy are great.
I think this class is really great if you're trying to delve into AAAS as a field or American history/literature or Social Studies. Ultimately, the class is really what you make of it. Profs. Shelby and Johnson are available for office hours and you can choose how much to participate and how much reading to do per week. The more you put into it, the more you get out of it and if you put a lot into it, you'll get out a lot.
- Wonderful course with dedicated professors and teaching staff. I immensely enjoyed the course material. I have a totally different understanding of DuBois as a philosopher.
W.E.B. Du Bois is one of the most important writers. Full stop. Take this course to become more familiar with a wider range of works by an author who wrote so much more than his oft-cited, but nonetheless brilliant "Souls." Professors Shelby and Johnson will guide you through a well-sequenced syllabus and moderate conversations that will challenge you on this intellectual journey.
What I loved about this class was how we brought Du Bois back to earth, considering him as a person. His works are without question phenomenal and I think you'd do a disservice to yourself by not taking the reading seriously, seeing as what you get out of this class is up to you. This is a no-joke class, you're expected to read and participate, simple as that. Du Bois is a ground-breaking talent and he explores so many issues regarding race, capitalism, classism, politics, marxism, Pan-africanism, etc. So, there's a lot to offer and I think that this class is a stellar opportunity!
This iteration of the class was honestly very weird. Professors Shelby and Johnson are really amazing, brilliant, kind professors, but they were not prepared for a class of 30 people. Seminar became a back-and-forth mostly between the grad students and the professors, while most of the class sat silently observing, I think mostly not feeling like we could contribute much to the conversation. The readings were excellent and I learned some stuff, but I would only recommend this class if it's small or if they've re-thought class structure before the next time it's taught.
This is great! The professors and TF is awesome! Definitely be aware of the format of the class before enrolling--if there's a lot of people i don't think they're totally equipped to handle it.But if you do af am or history or sociology, you NEED to take this course.
While this class is enriching and interesting, it's also disorganized-- it was unclear what discipline we were supposed to be working in, and perhaps as a result, the conversations could be unfocused. No prompts were given for paper assignments. There were also many more grad students than undergrads in the class, making it difficult to participate in class discussions and get to know the professors.
You should love Du Bois to take this class, or at least love understanding the trajectory of black political thought and be willing to grapple with some difficult texts.  Also, you have to participate.  If you don't want to talk, this is not the class for you, and your non-participation will suck all of the vigor out of potentially wonderful conversations.
