If you're very into the psychology of intergroup relations, take this course. If not, I'd suggest looking for something else. Professor Sidanius is super smart but doesn't give feedback at all throughout the semester, so be prepared to not know how you're doing grade-wise. The final paper can be a cool experience to explore a topic of your own interest though (although there's no prompt/guidelines, so it could also be stressful).
This course is phenomenal in theory, but fails miserably in execution. Unfortunately we had grad students in the course who completely understood the material, and in the end dominated conversation. The defense and prosecution set up seems interesting, however all of the time is spent talking about the study design. We spent every class period (2hrs a week) discussing study design methods and whether or not the studies we read were preformed in a valid way We barely touched on racism, the implications of the theories and studies presented, or any interesting material pertaining to race. Students would occasionally bring the discussion to race, creating interesting discussion, but it would always be redirected to critiquing study design. Sidanius is an amazing professor and every time he talked (very rarely) I loved the course. Good professor, bad course. Would not recommend.
This class has the potential to be really interesting because of the subject matter but it did not work. It was no structure in the class. The professor while brilliant independently, did not help in this. He treated the class like grad students even though there were only 2 grad students in the class. The final 30 page paper was killer and we also had little instruction from the professor.
TAKE IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
The readings and discussions will push you to think about prejudice and racism in ways you probably would not have.
You need to stay on top of all the readings for every week.  Really take time and understand each concept.
This is a fabulous class! Professor Siidanius is a wonder teacher and challenges you to think carefully about the material in the course. Definitely take this class!!
very easy workload (though unsure about grading - there's almost no feedback in the course); interesting to approach racism from a psychology perspective, but definitely not sufficient (probably need sociology, etc)
Jim Sidanius is wonderful.
If you are at all interesting in race relations, psychology, or the current issues facing African-Americans, I would strongly recommend this class.
Course was great, you learn a lot. Final paper creeps up on you and throughout the semester you are for the most part in the dark about your grade.
This is a great class if you're interested in intergroup relations and why some groups discriminate against others. It provides a psychological explanation for prominent social relations and adds a deeper level of understanding to phenomenon discussed in sociology classes. The class is enjoyable but there is little to no feedback provided so as of now I have no idea where I stand in the class. Professor Sidanius is obviously brilliant and hearing him discuss his own research is really incredible. The final paper is long (20-25 pages) but can actually be rewarding to write if you choose a topic you're interested in.
I would go so far as to say everyone should take this class. The subject matter is crucial to having any sort of authority or opinion on racial prejudice - I think a crucial topic for any American.
