The readings are worthwhile and important for in class discussions.
This class is not very demanding, and it is a good reason to read some very influential and interesting books. Sometimes the discussions can drag a bit, but for the most part they are interesting and enjoyable.
It's a nice introduction into African-American literature, and the class is totally painless and stress-free.
in order to really get anything out of this class the student must be very proactive and involved
I would mention that this a great survey course of African American literature if you're looking for details on what writing was like before the Harlem Renaissance. Its also great to see how the pieces written in this period impact contemporary lit and the African American discourse.
Good lit or af-am course!
Complete the reading for the upcoming week as soon as you can. Look at the course material broadly and make connections.
If you are interested in African American literature, it is probably a good course for you to take, but lectures are laborious because they are not focused, and the TF is very intense and critical.
This course does a great job of both addressing the larger historical, cultural, and intellectual histories of African American literature through the Harlem Renaissance while delving into the particular formal and aesthetic properties of each individual work. The written coursework was well-balanced throughout the semester: you'll write weekly response papers, do an in-class midterm, and write a 10-page final paper. The reading load is generally heavy, but very manageable if you read consistently throughout the week. You'll read some works mostly for historical importance rather than literary quality (see: Clotel), but these all fit together in the larger trajectory of the course. You will also get to read various forms and genres: vernacular forms, personal narratives, poetry, novels, short stories, etc. Professor Sollors is an absolute authority on the material - there is perhaps nobody better to teach this course. Take it and like it.
Very interesting!  Definitely worth taking!
This is a fantastic survey for anyone interested in early African American literature.  Professor Sollors has a great mind and is a delightful person. He presented the texts, all of which are very foundational, with an infectious sense of enthusiasm.
This is an excellent class that provides a really great grounding in early African-American literature. Professor Sollors is smart, kind and thoughtful. I had a great experience and would recommend it to anyone interested in the material (which is awesome, so you should check it out!).
The reading list on this course is great...but I wouldn't take it again unless the class was restructured. Lecture was FULL of information but sometimes hard to be engaged in. Section was...often slow.
Although this course requires a lot of reading, the texts are interesting and the lectures are very informative.  There is a lot of freedom with the writing assignments (response papers, essays, short essays on the midterm).  As long as you approach the class with a desire to read and participate, everything will be great.
This is a great overview of Af-Am literature, and the professor is engaging and inspiring.
Sollors is a giant in the field of mix-race literature. Take the class before he retires. He is irreplaceable, and the class is amazing!
This class is a good intro to African American literature, but if you've already taken courses on African America history or literature, it will feel redundant, because it really is a survey. The structure of the class is not ideal, and the assignment breakdown-while relatively easy-is not great. Professor Sollers is wonderful and the material is incredibly important, but the class is on a whole, not terribly exciting.
This was an interesting class, with very great reading selections; however, the amount of reading assigned weekly was a bit heavier than I imagined and there were only 2 big assignments [the midterm and the final paper] so screwing up on one could screw you over for the entire class.
Take this course! Carpio is great and you'll learn a lot about the history of af am lit
Interesting readings, great discussions, and a very accessible professor.
This course really gives you an appreciation of African American literature to the 1920s--I would definitely recommend, especially if you have never taken an Af Am course.  Professor Carpio is excellent.
I would tell future students of this class to definitely do all the reading because while at times it may seem like a lot it is incredibly enjoyable to do and is very enriching and important for the class.
This class is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Carpio is an amazing professor; she is so passionate about the texts, and it's just a wonderful experience being her student. She truly cares about engaging her students, pushing them into new ways of thinking to enhance their experience with the reading. The workload was really manageable and enjoyable as well. Take this class. You won't regret it!
Do the reading! As long as you do the reading and are interested in the material, the class is fantastic.
I was apprehensive about taking this course at first, because I wasn't sure the material was exactly what I was looking for. I ended up taking it because I like Professor Carpio so much, and it was not a mistake. Take this course so that you can work with her, if for no other reason. The readings are also great and I learned a lot, but they can get a bit repetitive. Be ready and interested in the material, and you'll have a great time.
This is a wonderful class taught by two incredibly talented and smart people. Professor Carpio and Ernie are a lot of fun (both inside and outside of class), are incredibly knowledgeable about the subject matter they teach, and really care about their students. Although this is not listed as a seminar in the course catalog, it is taught very much in the seminar style with lots of class discussion, so doing the reading becomes very important. Be aware that the reading is quite heavy at times, but this class is so engaging that you will want to do all of it! Take this class if you want to engage with an incredible teaching team, broaden your literature horizons (white male writers seem to dominate college English syllabi), and enter a welcoming, supportive and interactive learning environment.
Glenda and Ernie are absolutley fabulous. They can sometimes intimidating because they know everything about anything that has ever been written, I wasn't in love with most of the course readings,  but over all I really enjoyed the class.
This class has all of the components needed for a great learning experience--fantastic professor and TF, stimulating class discussions, interesting readings. Professor Carpio is extremely knowledgeable, kind, and passionate about the subject matter. Ernie Mitchell, who was our TF, is unequivocally the best TF at Harvard today. This class was, without a doubt, the best one I've taken at Harvard.
I loved the teachers; I didn't always love the structure of the class. I wonder what would have happened if the class was broken more explicitly into lecture and discussion...
Prof. Carpio and Ernie are fantastic, and every student interest in black literature (whether it be from the AfAm, English, or Hist & Lit perspective) should take this course because it a great survey of field.  The readings are enjoyable and Prof. Carpio does a wonderful job of highlighting the important themes without dominating the discussion.  The class meets twice a week, but it is set up more as a seminar than a lecture, which was great because it gave us more time to share our thoughts and engage in close-readings a group.  Also, Prof. Carpio is incredibly accesible and encouraging.  She's a great example of an accomplished Harvard  professor that still cares about her students as individuals.
This course is amazing if you dedicate the time to it (by doing the readings really well) to be able to fully participate in class
Take this class if you want to experience one of the best professors Harvard has to offer!
This class is extremely interesting, passionately taught, relaxed, and fairly easy.
Professor Carpio was wonderful and I really enjoyed the class.
Best class that I've taken at Harvard--the class changed and now informs the way that I understand American history and how that history manifests itself today.
Even though I originally took it for concentration credit, it felt more like an elective. It is an intimate setting with an amazing professor, and I finished it feeling like I really had a grasp of the material.
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard.
Glenda is the best discussion leader I've had.  She brings a warmth and enthusiasm to the class that is hard to describe.  She is passionate about the subject and inspires her students with that enthusiasm.
This is an extremely underrated class! I am so glad that I decided to take it. One of the best-kept secrets in the English department/
good class; readings are not always fun(however relevant)
absolutely take it, even if the subject matter is unfamiliar to you.it is worth taking the class just to learn fromm professor carpio.
Professor Carpio is the best!
This was a wonderful class. Interesting, engaging, and incredibly informative.
It's a don't miss. I really enjoyed it and the laid-back atmosphere really made me want to read in order to understand the nuances of her lectures.
Do the readings!
It doesn't matter what race you are or your concentration (AAAS or Hist & Lit or whatever); everything on the reading list is interesting and the whole course is a very comprehensive and different way to look at American history and literature.
This is an amazing class with an amazing professor. Every single one of the readings was interesting and entertaining. You will not regret taking this class.
This class is wonderful! Professor Carpio is wonderful, and you will learn so much. If you have time and are at all curious about any kind of literature, take this class!
Do the reading and come to class.You'll be appreciated for it.
This class is a great way to read important texts in the African-American tradition and be enlightened about them in new and engaging ways by a great professor.
Prof Carpio is by far one of the best professors I have had at Harvard! She's very intelligent, kind and enthusiastic about her work.  The class is really interesting with a lot of good literature and potential for great discussion.  It's a good class to take regardless of your concentration but AAAS, English and Hist & Lit concentrators will probably find it particularly intriguing.
This course gives one a deeper understanding of black literature through reading and analysis. It allows one to see the many connections and themes that were popular in the ante and postbellum periods. The professor gets to know most students on a personal level, which helps in making the class that much more enjoyable.
That they will fall in love with the material of this class; although the readings are plenty, the discussion and lecture given in class are priceless and thought provoking.
This is an excellent course!
You gotta take a class with Carpio, and if you haven't been exposed to African/African American literature, this is the place to start.
TAKE THIS CLASS! The format is great, a mix between lecture and fantastic discussions, and it really opens you to a field of literature not many people have a lot of experience with. Professor Carpio and Ernie are the best teaching team i've ever had at Harvard, and they make this class so enjoyable and worthwhile.
Professor Carpio is amazing. She and Ernie, the TF, are so knowledgeable about black literature. Not only will you be exposed to interesting novels that you may not have heard of before, but you will also learn so much from these two. They also challenge you to analyze texts more closely, which, sadly, not all of my classes here have done.
Take this class. Professor Carpio and Ernie are both absolutely incredible teachers who are both knowledgable about the material and really, really interested in their students' success. Seriously, they are extremely friendly and willing to get to know their students. Besides the teaching, the material for the class is excellent. There was a lot of reading (although they're planning to rework the syllabus), but apart from that there is not much work required for the class, and the reading is all interesting and worth the time. Highly, highly recommend: this is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
this is a brilliant class! Truly great. The professor is BRILLIANT and wonderful. She really knows how to make you think and look at things with a new lens.
The readings are exciting, funny, and rewarding to complete, the professor is very understanding about the  course's assignments and readings in weeks in which it might seem overwhelming, and the TF brings another specific angle with which to analyze readings that helps contextualize them in the literary African American canon.
fantastic, best teaching duo
