TAKE THIS CLASS!!! The material that you learn is straight from the horse's mouth (9th Wonder) and the assignments are dope.
Learning from 9th was amazing, the course was really fun and the discussions were enjoyable. You don't get a whole lot of background on the material and are expected to come in with a basic understanding of recent American pop music.
Only take this class if there is a major hip-hop personality involved with it. Professor Morgan is great, but can be kind of direction-less at times. A fine elective though.
Very cool for people who already like hip-hop
Great class with 9th Wonder -- Other teaching probably could have been better but the fun and information he brought to the class was astounding and really exciting.
If you like hip-hop, you'll love the course, but it is akin to a conversation with friends and you may not learn much if you're already well-versed in the history of hip-hop.
Take this!!
This was very clearly a first-year, celebrity-taught course. Fun, but quite fluffy.
This was an amazing concept for a class, but it was poorly executed. No cohesive curriculum, no real direction in class, no sections (I would have GLADLY gone to section for this, but none of the people in charge bothered to schedule one despite implying that they would), etc. It was a privilege to have 9th Wonder around, but we hardly ever got to hear him talk.
Regardless of what you think you know about hip-hop you will learn a lot from this class
I would tell future students that the course was very poorly organized and that many of the classes felt repetitive.
The class is poorly organized. If you like to listen to good music and meet a talented celebrity in Hip Hop, you can do that. But, in terms of learning, you may not gain much.
Do not underestimate the value of the opportunity to study with 9th Wonder. He may not be your traditional academic, but don't forget this is Harvard! He is a genius and he wouldn't be given this kind of platform if those of us who have worked with him didn't understand this. There is so much to be learned from him.
Interact with 9th as much as possible.
If you love hip-hop and the production of the music this class is for you.  I suggest that you push 9th to be a little more involved in the day to day teaching.
Disorganized teaching staff however this can work in your favor.  Overall course is not very demanding at all and can be interesting at times
Easy and fun. Plus 9th is in class
If you love hip hop, and/or you want to be inspired, take this class. It provides something indescribable that no other class at Harvard, or for that matter, anywhere else, can give you.
This class is absolutely awesome.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard so far! Professor Morgan, 9th Wonder, and the TF's made this class absolutely incredible and I made sure never to miss a class. Studying music you love under an academic light is such a great opportunity, especially with someone as instrumental in the industry as 9th Wonder.
9th is awesome and definitely worth taking a class with. However, if this class is ever conducted outside the archive or without a famous producer, stay away! I have never come across a more pointless waste of time and money. Ridiculously unstructured and ridiculously un-academic.
Work closely with the TFs
9th Wonder really made this course. Without him, the course needs some serious work on aligning the syllabus, course work, and class discussions so that it would have a quality flow without 9th there to facilitate.
This was an awesome experience if you have any interest in hip hop music or culture. I'm a huge hip hop fan, and spending time listening to 9th Wonder, Professor Morgan and even the other students during class discussion was enriching and a lot of fun. This was a unique classroom experience and you should jump on it if you have the chance.
If you love rap or music, take this class
It's great to be able to take a class about hip-hop and discuss the state of the industry and its history with a legend like 9th Wonder, but be prepared for vague assignments, a shifting syllabus, and a course that lacks any coherence in its structure and plan of instruction. At the end of the day, you're sitting in a room with an incredible hip-hop produced for 2 hours a week asking questions that don't have much to do with what you're reading and producing assignments that are supposed to.
Read the source material on your own.
It's the best class, period.
if they get someone like 9th in again, take it: small lectures with a famous producer who knows his stuff (not only with music, but with the history, media, etc...)
