I loved this course, and the Comaroffs are clearly very passionate about the material they teach! It's a very cool way to learn about new research that's happening in the field, and get to interact with professionals who are writing and doing this work!
Great class. Not what the title implies, but you will learn a ton.
If you have any interest in Africa, you should definitely take this course. The readings and visiting professors are incredible, and Jean and John are phenomenal.
Take the course if you have not taken a course with the Comaroff's yet. They are some of the best professors Harvard has. However, the readings are not always that great and the discussion component of the course is dependent on who is taking the course. Take it for the professor's. The content needs to be worked on.
TAKE THIS CLASS. You learn so much from this class, without putting in tons of work. Just come having read (it's a reasonable amount) and prepared to learn and share, really incredible course.
Carpe Diem!
Taking a course with Jean and John Comaroff is a magical experience.  They are brilliant and incredibly invested in students' thoughts.
The Professors are amazing and the material is fascinating
You will learn a ton from the Comaroffs. They are absolutely brilliant and supportive professors and it has been a privilege to take a course with them!
This is a great class to take if you're interested in African Studies regardless of your disciplinary bend since papers ranged from anthro, to history, to lit, econ, urban studies etc. 
Its also great if you're interested in seeing how a paper gets workshopped in an academic context. Not only were the contributions from both noon and evening sessions immensely interesting, it was also great to see the author in person discuss what their process and intention was as they wrote.
Added to all that, its very manageable workload. Definitely recommend!
Its light on reading, you must consider this if you are not into reading a lot of stuff
The papers are good, but the Comaroffs are excellent. They are intelligent, kind, and so very knowledgable about Africa. Low work commitment. Seemed a little subjective at times, but it was an overall good course.
This course was fairly light on readings, though some week's papers were more dense than others. It offers a great way to become familiar with the topics that Africanist scholars are writing about right now, and what the pressing questions of African studies will likely be in the next few years.
The Comaroffs are a wonderfully erudite and approachable set of Professors who make contemporary African scholarship accessible and interesting. You should consider taking this course after at least one other African studies course though, and potentially after you have a grounding in social theory as well (Marx, Bordieu, Kant, Hegel, Weber, Durkheim, etc. -- something like Social Studies 10) if you want to take the most out of it because there is often a theoretical component to the papers being presented.
This course will not be any kind of burden from a workload standpoint but will challenge you immensely. It will teach you to think about Africa differently, but also to approach academic criticism with a sort of optimism that is not required in most settings at Harvard. It is a great thing to learn, in my opinion.
This class is all about discussing ideas, the ones you read and the ones you have. It does get a highly theoretical at times but overall, the Comaroffs are fantastic.
This class will change the way you think about issues in Africa. Totally worth it!
Check the syllabus to see if the papers are relevant to your interest - but this is a very cool way to engage with the academic process and hear from really great professors.
John and Jean are not only the most incredible professors, and arguably human beings, I've ever met, but they are also understanding. They don't require a huge amount of busy work for you, but really give you the ability to get as much our as you put in. One note is that the workshops associated with this class can be very daunting for undergrads, with a lot of academic jargon. That being said, the more theoretical and African studies background you have, the more enriching this course can be. Definitely the best learning-to-stress ratio of any class I've ever had - I feel like I left the class so much smarter but simply by opening my mind and doing the small, weekly work required by the reading.
TAKE IT. BEST PROFESSORS AT HARVARD.
This is a fairly easy and not too challenging a course. We read one paper a week and present on a minimum of one paper during the semester and then write a term paper at the end.
Expect a challenge that will absolutely stretch you beyond the boundaries of your discipline and encourage you to think about Africa in new ways.
This course will either go over your head entirely or you will deeply enjoy it. The first is likely to happen if you are a freshman or sophomore, the second if you are an upperclassman. If you are not a social science concentrator or are just beginning a social science concentration, a lot of the references to theories/theorists will go over your head simply because you haven't yet read them or been exposed to them. This is an excellent course with amazing and very very knowledgeable professors, but the more you bring to this course, the more you will get out of it.
This course was a great learning experience about the history and economy of the continent of Africa. If you have an interest in Africa, I highly recommend taking this course as a great way of learning more about African history, in legal, economic and anthropological terms. The class discussions were always lively and the weekly night presentations by the authors were especially insightful and gave us a great opportunity to hear from many well-known academics studying Africa.
I would tell future students that this course presents a fascinating opportunity to learn with, and from, students from all across the University (law, medicine, divinity, FAS, college), and to see how the Academy produces and reviews scholarly work.
Great class, with really super professors! I would definitely take it if you are looking for a relaxed discussion based class.
John and Jean are inspiring teachers and lecturers; this course broadens the horizons of anyone interested in working in or studying Africa.
