Be wary of what you are getting yourself into. This is a course with an extremely exacting professor who has elusive criteria for success and a very strong set of opinions about the course matter. Seminar classes should be about the people seated around the table, but this class will, in all likelihood, be dominated by Prof. Bernstein's thoughts on the material. You'll have to fight to speak. Be cautious. Be very, very cautious.
This was a good, but not great, course.The topics that the course dealt with - African-American history, African-American drama and comedy, the history and evolution of African-American theatre, etc. - are interesting and rich. The plays we engaged with were fascinating and provided important representations of their respective times. The ways in which we engaged with archival material was also interesting. However, the class is largely dominated by secondary texts, which I found confusing and sometimes dull. The class only covers a few actual plays, which I found surprising and disappointing.  The course is largely based on class discussions, which I typically enjoy, but this time around, I felt that classes lacked adequate instruction and guidance and often times a full hour would go by and I would feel that I did not learn enough.So all and all, this class was ok, but I don't know whether it was worth the rigorous workload and the spot on my schedule.
the professor is fantastic. the material covered is nuanced, complex, rewording, engaging. the archival sessions are a unique experience
Robin Bernstein is an awesome professor! There were only 12 students in the class and every discussion was so good that I literally forgot the time when I was in the class. The readings are also engaging and really allow you to tackle important issues in deep ways that you wouldn't be able to do in a larger class. The assignments are all manageable and you can definitely set up office hours to go over papers before they're due. Robin is excited about the material and can at first come off as intimidating, but she honestly just wants you to respect and engage with material every week. This was a great class, one of my favorites in all 5 of my semesters at Harvard so far.
I thoroughly enjoyed this course, however, I felt uncomfortable as to the dynamics of the course. I felt that the difficulty of the subject was not always addressed properly. We are talking about the instititutionalization of racism and other oppressions in the arts, and the power of theater that works against these oppressions or exists for its own purposes, but the realities of these oppressions within the class and Harvard are not addressed in a way that allows conversation to be as open and productive as it could be.
This course is a small, compelling seminar on African American theater, which gives an interesting and well organized survey of the past 150 years of African American theater utilizing the archives at Houghton library. The three assignments are large but they are distributed well. I think the course is really great and interesting but only for those who really have an interest in spending a semester reading scholars of African American performance.
It's a paradigm shifting class on top of being incredibly interesting. I talked about this class non-stop and would definitely recommend it.
This is an exceptional class, taught by an exceptional professor, populated by exceptional students, and offered through an exceptional department.
Take this class! Robin Bernstein is an excellent professor! You will learn and discuss in a wonderful learning environment fostered by the intelligent and cool Robin Bernstein.
This class was an amazing experience and provided one of the best learning communities I have encountered at Harvard. Professor Bernstein puts serious effort into effective teaching and facilitating. The course challenged me to get over my fear of archival work, and to deepen my research skills. The class environment was very supportive and always full of good discussion. By the end of the semester, the class really felt very close-knit, and it seemed like everyone in the class was learning from everyone else. I would recommend this class regardless of whether you have a particular interest in theater or performance. If you are interested in African American history or culture in any respect, you will learn an incredible amount.
This course provides a very in-depth introduction to a critical period of African-American performance history. The course had a neat variety of components, from archive presentations to visiting scholars, to more standard readings and discussions. It's challenging, but a unique Harvard experience.
This course was fantastic. Robin Bernstein was a joy to learn with and is SO knowledgable about this subject matter and really supportive of you and your interests. She challenges you to take your observations a step farther in understanding the remnants, impact, and history that is all around us.
Take it! Take it! Take it! Whether you are interested specifically in African American Theatre or not. You'll learn so much about life and art o,  more to the point, performance!
Professor Bernstein is a true force; she has crafted this course with expertise, intention, and creativity. The course was an immersive experience from the beginning, archival research and visits were incredible, discussions and texts were fascinating and important. This class was a gem and Professor Bernstein is not only an inimitable scholar and professor but a sincerely good teacher.
I learned so much not just from the reading and the professor, but from my classmates. Take this class if you are interested in history, theatre, af-am experience.
Prof. Bernstein is great. You will engage with a lot of useful new ideas in this class.
If you have never thought critically about theater and performance, this course will give you a good sense of some major themes, but you will have to work hard to reach the high level of detail and insight that the professor and more experienced students bring to the table. That said, it can still be very worthwhile as long as you are willing to open up your conceptions of what it means now and what it has meant through history for African Americans to perform their identities.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard! The material is incredibly exciting and relevant even though it's from different periods in history, and the conversations were always enthralling. Getting to work with the archives so closely and basically hold history (shout out to Robert O'Hara) was also incredibly enriching.
Be prepared to discuss! Discussion makes up most of the class, and are very engaging, so be prepared to participate - great experience.
