I'm sure it depends on who is teaching the course, but I had a tremendous experience working with these professors.
This class offers a great introduction to the individual scholarship of department faculty. I would not recommend this class to someone seeking an introduction or theoretical foundation to theory or an intellectual history of African Studies or African American Studies.
Although the opportunity to engage the AAAS Department faculty on a weekly basis was truly excellent, the course seems to be missing a fundamental opportunity to unify a diverse interdisciplinary student body through a more unified presentation and introduction to the field of AAAS. Students on African and African-American tracks are on completely different wavelengths in many respects and would benefit from additional core curriculum.
To allow the class to send them off on tangents -- to permit it to inspire them to research things they wouldn't normally explore.
It is a great course to expose you to the departments professors but needs structural change. It has great readings but the responses mean that you will spend an inordinate amount of time on this course when compared to your other courses.
The graduate seminar is a great opportunity to be introduced to the wealth of knowledge that is concentrated in the department of African Studies at Harvard. It also provides a good overview of the respective professors' research outputs which may be useful to students to align their own research interests with the appropriate professor/s.
Take and use this class to get to know the work that the faculty are engaged in that might be of interest to you when planning for your PhD dissertation topic and constituting your PhD Committee.
come prepared to share your work and insights with colleagues - the discussions are the best part of this class
I would tell future students that while the material is interesting and the speakers are a huge asset to the course, the presentations and postings take too much time and create too much anxiety for students in the course.
Good to have a strong background in the discipline you ultimately will focus on for your dissertation. Expect to be in regular dialogue with students from very different disciplinary perspectives.
That it is incredibly rigorous but that the gains are more than worth it.  The reading is intense and the weekly responses demand close, critical attention which is quite time consuming.  However, what one gains through the process will be beneficial (and memorable) throughout one's professional career.
A great introduction to a wide range of topics in African and African American Studies, offering stimulating readings and discussions, as well as the opportunity to work on an in-depth project of your choosing. This class allows you to think broadly within the humanities, and identify where you see yourself fitting into them.
The seminar is the perfect platform to get to know the thematic and geographical breadth of the AAAS department. You get to meet a variety of different faculty, are exposed to different topics, and students from different disciplines further enrich the discussions.
