It's an easy to learn language. It reads very much like French.
A great opportunity to learn the basics and engage with a fascinating culture. You will get the most out of the course if you force yourself to do weekly revision and practice with other Hausa-speakers.
Lori De Lucia is a fantastic teacher.  She keeps class exciting by varying the way in which material is covered, and her focus is constantly on how the material can be used in the real world.
Hausa is a really fun language, and spoken by more than 20 million people as a first language in West Africa.  The instructor is absolutely fantastic, and class is really enjoyable.
Hausa is an important language to learn--it's spoken by millions of people across West Africa.  The instructor is fantastic; she makes learning the language enjoyable.
If you're interested in the African continent and/or working with Africans in the diaspora, it's so important to be able to understand the culture and experience they bring to the table. This is a larger lesson that can be applied to any language study, but its very much emphasized in this class. Malama really encourages not only becoming a good Hausa speaker, but also being creative as far as understanding how best all of her students learn, and also emphasizing learning about Hausa people and their lives.
Lori is the best teacher ever and this class was really fun! Also, studying Hausa really helped me with my thesis.
Yes, absolutely.  The instructor was fantastic, and the language is lots of fun and spoken by more than 20 million people in West Africa.
If you are at all interested in the African continent, it's lessons and/or its issues, then you should definitely take an African language! Hausa is widely spoken in West Africa, and this course is led by a very dedicated and engaging teacher! You will have fun learning Hausa, hear some amazing stories and, most likely, pull off something crazy for Theatre Night, which is a learning experience in of itself! You will come away from this course knowing more Hausa, and being confident taking up African languages in general, than you'll probably realize as you move through the semester(s)!
This class was absolutely amazing and I learned so much.
Please take as many languages as you can or can handle whie at Harvard.I dont know anything else in the world asides thathelps you connect with people ou can.I am sure this class would help me in the future if I decide to go back to my home country and in the work I hope to achieve .Goodluck!
