Easiest class I've ever seen.  Not sure why it is offered at Harvard.  A completely unchallenging set of assignment and limited engagement with substantive material
The class is very interesting and enriching. The films are hand-picked and well-analyzed by the professor.
Very great class if you are a cinema fan.
This class is very light, manageable, and interesting. The movies are great; Professor Jeyifo's analyses of the films are great. The course lacks structure, if that is what you look for, and the workload consists of two papers written entirely independently with little to no structure. For me, this was a plus. It was a good, light course to add onto a difficult schedule, and I found it to be very interesting and informative. I enjoyed taking it, for its lightness, content, and materials.
The surest pathway to an easy A you can ever imagine
Class is easy. Movies are great. Jeyifo is an awful lecturer though, so his 2.5 hour long lectures are very difficult to get through. Besides the occasional lecture day, however, this class was great!
Take papers seriously. Class is very enjoyable
Interesting course. Low work load. Get to watch great movies.
It is a very interesting subject for a class, however grading is very much dependent on who your TF is.
Hard to take seriously
This is an amazing class! The movies are must-see films, Professor Jeyifo's insights are incredible, and Dr. Williams is the best TF. If you're looking for an easy but super enjoyable class, especially for seniors, this is it!
I have extremely mixed feelings about this course. On one hand, it's easy and enjoyable. You have no work outside of class besides two short papers, and you spend class watching blockbuster movies and listening to some incredibly insightful lectures. That being said, there are some major issues with this course. We had an attendance problem, so Prof Jeyifo instituted an inefficient attendance-marking system and made attendance/participation 30% of your grade, with no unexcused absences. (Apparently he can just change his course rules on the fly... He later doubled the length of the final paper for no reason, and told us to "ignore the syllabus.") Jeyifo is not the most dynamic professor, and you could theoretically write good papers by watching a couple of the movies on your own and never having to come to class. For this to be a successful course, it needs to be restructured so that students don't want to skip. Also, section was a nightmare. Completely unstructured and a waste of time.Bottom line: if you have any interest in critically engaging with Scorsese and Tarantino films, take this course. But be mindful that though it has a light courseload, it will cause some headaches.
Great class on Scorsese and Tarantino.  Students are afforded the oportunity to discuss and explore deeper themes depicted in the films of Scorsese and Tarantino.
This class is very easy.
You get to look at excellent films and analyze them in a way you've never done before. Very cool to see the way that Hollywood shows race and violence in relation to one another.
it is literally no work and hardly any class time.
This course is great if you really dont want to do anything. Dont expect to learn anything at all. The movies were prett y good, but you are better off just watching them at home than taking this course. The professor is impossible to understand, and the rest of the teaching staff just really doesnt care. If you dont mind wasting your time, this is an easy way to fill a class.
It's a very straightforward course and it is a lot of fun to take with friends. The class is very enjoyable - you get to watch the most famous films of all time and hear the professor lectures on key points.
very enjoyable and fun
Not a lot of work on a weekly basis but be sure to focus on the essays since they make the majority of the grade. Be sure what you're writing is what they're looking for, especially regarding use of outside sources.
go to office hours with your tf to help explain ideas
Very interesting material if you have a good TF who can parse through the rather unstructured nature of the class; if the course is reorganized, it has potential to be really intriguing
Sweet class, you learn to consider classic movies from a different perspective. There also isn't a ton of work, but you get alot out of section just by going and listening and sharing your thoughts. Overall great experience.
Really interesting class where you cover some major topics and debates. Definitely worthwhile.
Very manageable,
The staff are excellent, and the material is interesting. The movies you watch in class are also classics that everybody should watch. The papers are relatively open-ended too. Overall, a great class.
Easy 4th or 5th, but that's the only circumstance in which I would recommend
This could be the easiest class at this school, but it was not really a rewarding experience.  The lectures are brutal and though it is fun to watch movies in class, I would not recommend this course unless the staff find a way to be more organized.
This class was not really worth it, to be perfectly honest. Watching the movies during class is really huge waste of time. The lecture material was inconsistent. I like Prof. Jeyifo, and I thought he had some interesting ideas. But the class wandered for most of the semester. I really, really like the movies, so I enjoyed getting to watch and discuss in an academic setting. But the course itself is not worth it. If you need a very chill class, I'd still recommend taking something a little bit more worth your time.
One of the worse courses I have taken at Harvard and I am sure this comment will get scrubbed from the records. This class needs a new professor, more structure and more assignments. There is no motivation to do this class as there really is no class of which to speak about. It really is so poorly organised I can't fathom how it is allowed to stand as a course.
This class is really good. The section component is great, especially with Eric. The readings and discussions help understand the movies better, which are great movies.
Fantastic class. The movies are fun to watch, and the workload is light.
