This is a very good class if you want personal attention when learning an african language. You also get to know some things about malawi if you take time to communicate with the teaching fellow
Take this class! I would like someone else to take it with me. I am the only student and the class was extremely catered to my interests. Chidzero is a kind and amazing teacher. He really cares about you and is understanding in many circumstances. I learned a lot this semester.
The workload isn't too bad.  If you keep up with it instead of putting it off till the end, you'll really enjoy the class and be rewarded for your work.
If you have reached an intermediate level in the language, translation is an excellent way to take your understanding of the language to the next level.  By pushing yourself to read at a more advanced level, you are exposed to new grammatical structures and vocabulary. This is very difficult at first--but you are forced to learn quickly, and it soon becomes more manageable.
This class was a great introduction to Chichewa! Chidzero was an awesome instructor and was very responsive to the needs of the students. It was a fairly small class, conducive to personalized learning. This will be very helpful if you plan on going to Malawi.
Take this comment with a grain of salt, as the instructor is moving to Texas, but I think it often applies to African language classes generally; This class may well be exactly what you make of it. The instructor is an excellent resource, but may have very low default expectations. If you are busy, you may get by just fine without any work; if you have time, push yourself and push the instructor and you will have a much more rewarding experience. I love the African Language Program, and I enjoyed this class, but keep this in mind.
This is a fun class if you want to learn a local language with personal instruction from the teaching staff
Chidzero is an awesome instructor! So kind and funny. You will become conversational in Chichewa. Class is flexible and not too difficult with the workload. The focus is learning rather than grades.
I usually tell other students that the African language program as a whole is great in its flexibility and great if you're looking to learn a little bit of an African language in a low-key, unstressful way.  It's not going to help you learn a language quickly and fluently, if that's what you're looking for.
