This course was an excellent review of major issues in medical anthropology, working through an extensive array of personal narratives of suffering dealing with the stigma & experience of race, gender, socioeconomic class, disability, structural violence, immigration, and illness. Professsor Ralph is encouraging and intelligent and creates a supportive & inclusive environment: each student is expected to give a demonstration on a set of readings throughout the course and my class was filled with the most badass socially conscious ladies around (and one gentleman.) I would highly recommend this class. You'll learn a bunch of awful things about the United States and the world in general, but you won't leave without some hope for the future. Also, Professor Ralph is really cool.
It really gets you to think about narratives of pain and suffering in ways that are so necessary
This is a great course you being to think critically about topics and issues that you would've never examined in the same eye before taking the class. Professor Ralph and Nick are amazing.
I'm extremely glad you're taking this class; it was life changing.
This class is great!
This class is easy if you put the time in and participate in every lecture and section.
This class was excellent. The material and subject matter were not only interesting but extremely relevant. The class discussions were engaging and thought provoking, moving far beyond the surface or traditional rhetoric. I actually felt like all of the work and assignments had a purpose and made me engage with the material in a productive way.
I loved this class. Professor Ralph really goes out of his way to engage students. The workload is manageable-- you won't dread doing the work for this class and every weekly reading is less than 50 pages and is highly relevant.
This course was really, really great! It's one of those courses that everyone at Harvard should take before they graduate. The work load wasn't bad (a couple of papers, and weekly reflections), but it was one of the most thought provoking and worthwhile classes I have taken here at Harvard. I'm a pre-med, and though we talk about health, it's very much from a perspective of the people that are often marginalized in the health care system due to structural barriers both within and outside this system. Such a great class - take it!
It's a great class and will help you think critically about race, health,suffering, subjectivity and the production of knowledge.
The subject matter of this course and the materials provided are all highly interesting. Professor Ralph is incredibly thoughtful and knowledgeable. I would definitely recommend this course for anyone interested in issues of race, health, gender and sexuality.
The class allows for some really interesting discussions and allows you the opportunity to think through a lot of very important issues
Okay, so this class is actually a hidden gem. The readings week by week are incredible, the engaging conversations in class are fantastic, and the workload (2 page response papers weekly, one midterm, one final), are just enough. My one criticism would be that the turnaround for graded papers/essays is not great, so you may be in the dark at times on your grades.
This class has a pretty low workload and doesn't require much from you day to day. The readings are really interesting and you get knowledge on topics you might not otherwise get. It can be a little boring though and it can be hard to tell the point of the class.
Dr. Ralph is quiet but brilliant. Sections were infrequent and useless. I thought the assignments were interesting, but don't particularly test your knowledge in anyway. Easy class.
Pretty chill class. Professor Ralph is cool but not the most interesting lecturer.
Overall, the readings make this course worth taking, because they shed new light on commonly debated topics and I think they provide important background information to have going forward. But class is the exact same thing every time- more variation would be appreciated. It would also be nice to hear more of Professor Ralph's opinion and have him engage more in debate instead of just sitting back while students talk.
This class covers great course material and the professor guides discussion fantastically.
it is a great class, but sometimes the two hour class can get a little boring and repetitive, as can the response papers
If you are interested in analyzing race, stigma, pain and suffering through a diverse set of readings, then you will enjoy this course.
TAKE. THIS. CLASS. If you are passionate about social justice, this is the class for you. You will already know a bunch of the material so it just helps to clarify your thoughts about social justice and help articulate them better. If you are unfamiliar with social justice issues, you should still take this class though because you'll learn a lot!
This class was really interesting, the grading was fair, and participation is really what you want it to be, but you get more out of it the more you put in and you can get a lot out of it so I recommend doing it. That also goes for assignments. I thought response papers took a lot of time.
This class was amazing, definitely one of the best ones I've taken at Harvard so far. Students got to express how they felt and the seminar setting was not intimidating. We were encouraged to participate and this class allowed everyone to think of a wide range of subjects and look at issues in today's society. I definitely recommend this class!!!
This class was simultaneously one of my favorite and one of my most time-consuming courses. I underestimated how long weekly argumentative response papers would take. That being said, class was always extremely interesting and really made me think. Prof. Ralph is a great lecturer and facilitated great discussion.
Laurence Ralph is excellent. One of the most down to earth professors I have ever had.
Awesome class! The weekly topics are fascinating and the readings are very engaging, also manageable. Reflection papers allow you to come up with your own creative arguments and interpretations of the coursework each week. Professor Ralph leads great discussions so the 2 hours fly by.
This is an excellent class to get an introduction to anthropological and sociological issues, especially related to health. The class is very discussion-based and relies on reading the papers ahead of time (which is facilitated by the reflection papers due before each class). All in all, I would definitely recommend this class to anyone who wants to think about the issues underlying the problems in our society.
This was a really enjoyable class with some great material and pretty well organized for a first year class. It would be nice, however, if the class were a little more critical.
This was one of the best classes I took this semester. Professor Ralph is an incredible teacher and really made every session interesting. There was never a dull moment, something that many other Harvard courses don't have.
Solid course. Professor Ralph is very intelligent!
Excellent class. Perfect amount of reading - you will, and will want to, read every word. Discussions are very interesting and are enhanced by the slides. Assignments are very open ended so you are really forced to think and come up with new ideas. Overall, a very interesting and good class.
This is, along with Jason Sokol's AAAS 107, the best class I've taken at Harvard.
Do all of the reading, and not just skimming.  There's enough of it that it adds to discussion, but it's super manageable.
It's wonderful! You get to discuss and explore social issues (not just restricted to health--about society in general) in depth. The class is small and intimate so you can engage in meaningful discussion and really get to go into depth with various topics during the class time. Professor Ralph also really encourages you to speak your mind and always makes you feel like you have something meaningful to contribute.
