When I took this class it was conducted as a three hour lecture. The first hour of lecture was really good -- West would walk us through the text. He is very insightful and gives you a good background to DuBois's work. After that, however, the class would descend into a free for all Q&A session where div school students would ask tangentially related questions for two hours. A massive waste of time. I recommend attending the first lecture, getting blown away by Cornell West and then not taking the class. Do not waste one your 4 classes on this class. Take as a fifth or six class. Workload is trivial, and reading DuBois is quite fun anyway -- he's an incredible writer that wrote important stuff.
This class is showing up to lecture once a week. Minimal readings, and you're only graded on one final paper. Cornel West's lectures are at times amazing, but this does not feel like a very personal class.
Do the readings! It might not feel necessary since there aren't smaller assignments, but it's very helpful when the final paper rolls around.
Professor West is incredible, and everyone should take at least one class of his before they graduate. Having said that, I think this course has some kinks that need to be worked out. One three-hour lecture was way too long. We separated the class into about an hour of lecture and 2 hours of questions from the class. While Professor West's lectures were great, the questions from the class often went off-topic or didn't relate to that week's readings at all. Even so, I'm glad I took the class -- I feel like I gained real insight into Du Bois.
Prepared to be transformed on an intellectual and spiritual journey with Brother West.
This class fundamentally changed my understanding of American, black thought and sociology, and my place in this country.
I really enjoyed this class. It was a very different academic experience than any other I've had. Professor West's lectures often felt sermon-like (without including extensive religious doctine) rather than strict lectures. He touched on a wide array of material, from the readings to current events to music to stories. He was always energetic and insightful, and being in the class with him was a special experience. What I gained from this class was different from other classes in that I did not become a better writer or a more analytical reader. Instead, I left the class with a feeling/understanding that I gained not only from reading Du Bois and hearing Professor West talk about him, but just from being in a classroom with Professor West.
Learning about W.E.B. Du Bois from Cornel West is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. Make sure you sign up for office hours early and also start thinking about the final paper soon -- with no intermediate assignments to keep you honest, it can sneak up on you.
If you want to take a course with Cornel West, come prepared for a unstructured disorganized class! This class had no section and no assignments except for a final paper. I didn't get a lot from this class though I'm glad I got to see Professor West - if you want to take a class with him, please do, but know it's not going to be one that rigorously deals with + holds you accountable for reading Du Bois.
