I wouldn't recommend this course. The readings were fascinating and I found some of the issues discussed a bit intriguing, but it lacked structure and was not nearly as academically fulfilling as I would've hoped. Our class conversations seemed to take on a circular pattern. Overall I think that most people were left disappointed by the lack of structure.
This class is definitely a gem.  Very easy yet interesting at the same time.  Little pressure to get a good grade because the assignments are more focused on your own reflections and ideas.  It really opened my eyes to another area of feminism and strengthened my feminist views.  Sometimes the teacher is hard to follow and is all over the place, but when she does that it is entertaining.  More focused on old school hip-hop rather than current music.
The readings for the class are spectaculat, but it just isn't a very well-run class at all. Disorganized and repetitive.
Literally if this class had more structure and actual meaning it'd be fantastic. if it was a once a week 2 hour class it'd be fantastic. There's SO much potential and it's kinda wasted because Professor Morgan is so disorganized and noncoherent with her thoughts and lecture style, but I'd take this class again because 1. easy A (despite her complete lack of actual helpful instructions on what coulda been simple assignments because she's really into vague "hiphop" sounding direction titles) and 2. super interesting readings and content.
This class needs to be taught pretty differently before I fully recommend it to someone. Morgan is extremely knowledgable, but the course lacks the structure needed to discuss many of the issues plaguing hip-hop feminism thoroughly. I thought I was going to listen to great music and talk about intersectional feminist theory, but the class did little to engage with either.
Be prepared to not know what is going on, but overall this course was pretty laid back and it was interesting when we would talk about current events and how they related to course topics
It may sound like a cool course, but make sure you know a lot about the history of hip hop if you take this course. It is relatively confusing and not structured well.
I would say take this class, but don't take it if you get offended easily. And don't take it if you are not or have no interest in feminism. If you're OCD about having a syllabus that gives you dates on every assignment with expectations, reading, lecture content, this course is not for you. On the other hand, if you're genuinely interested in modern feminism, and can deal with some last minute changes in schedule, then you will learn a lot, especially from the readings.
The professor has very little organization, and has barely managed to make it through a single lecture without getting seriously off topic. Sometimes it doesn't seem like she even has a topic, but merely starts by bringing up something that happened recently in the media and spends the whole class discussing it with us. Even though we had an awesome syllabus, and we all signed up individually to be discussion leaders for specific readings every week, we only made it through maybe 5-6 weeks of the readings before she gave up on having us discuss them. Her project criteria was incredibly vague, and she would basically tell us to make our own rules/rubric based on our project's topic, without having a standard implemented across the class. She also made comments that I and many other students felt were slut-shaming: she said that shaming people can serve a good purpose, because if she saw a student walking out alone at night wearing "slutty clothing," she would tell them to go back home and change their clothes before anything happened to them, which I and others saw as preemptive victim-blaming.  She also made derogatory comments about celebrity Amber Rose for her clothes, and asserted that being a stripper is demeaning without having a discussion about that statement. She definitely knows a lot about hip hop and hip hop's history, but I don't think she has a very strong feminist background if she is making such strong statements without having a discussion about them. Also, as I've mentioned, her knowledge of hip hop means little when she can't seem to string together a cohesive lecture about it. This class has an amazing syllabus, and the topic is so interesting, so I absolutely recommend it if there is a different professor in the future. But right now, I cannot recommend it.
This was a fun class overall on a very interesting and engaging topic, but it was very confusing and vague and most of the time I left class asking myself, "what just happened?"
While Professor Morgan may mean well, she does a poor job of staying on track during class time and of coherently connecting any of the course material to her lectures. I was excited about this class because I thought it would give me an opportunity to explore theory surrounding hiphop in depth. However, all it did was confuse me as I had no idea what Professor Morgan wanted from us/wanted the students to get out of the course. The lectures and assignments were a waste of time for the most part. If you are interested in this subject, take the syllabus and read about it on your own time, because the course offered no critical engagement with the material.
Despite the allure of the subject matter, DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. Professor Morgan, for all of her good intentions, is a terrible professor. It is impossible to understand what she wants on assignments, she gives completely incoherent lectures, and she changes the syllabus over the course of the term.
This is a very diplomatic course that will teach you a lot about feminism and hip-hop.
