This class was an amazing opportunity to read a lot of interesting books and have substantial discussions about them. The professor is skilled at leading discussions and is happy to help you in person or by email with the assignments. More than any other class, I felt that the work I did in this class was truly for the joy of an intellectual pursuit rather than a grade.
If you want to talk about the construction of human difference with a lot of really smart people, this class is for you. There's a fair amount of reading but it's worth it.
If the title of this course even remotely sparks your interest, you should already be planning to take it. Professors like de la Fuente are a rare find--the subject matter is his life's passion and he is at the forefront of his field yet he still takes cares deeply about your growth as a scholar and your progress throughout this course. I can honestly say I will never forget this class and more importantly, never forget being taught by him.
This class is truly eye-opening! I would highly recommend it. The work load is reasonable, the discussions are excellent, feedback on writing is great. It is also just a very important topic which has changed the way I think about the history of science.
This class will give you an incredible opportunity to explore the history and origins of race and racism in the world and especially in the US. To do this in the context of science is so important and yields so much insight for American society.
This class was amazing and challenging in all the right ways. Don't be fooled by the fact that it only meets once a week, or that there are only two papers and a proposal: the readings are heavy (in content as well as quantity), the discussions are intense (get ready for lots of grad students who already know a ridiculous amount about the material) , and the final paper is worth a huge portion of your grade. You definitely need to be interested in and enthusiastic about the material to do well and get anything out of the class Also, Prof. de la Fuente is amazing! Super knowledgeable, really engaging, and easy to talk to. He made sure discussions were always productive yet respectful, and he gives really amazing feedback on written work. And of course, this content is incredibly, ridiculously important, from both an academic and a social perspective. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
