Great class - an opportunity to learn from incredible thinkers, and a chance to explore your own visions for the country.
This course is great if you want to learn and engage with the topics of race and class in a way that is dynamic and not feel too pressured about hard exams or busy work. This class is extremely interesting and section makes this class even more valuable because you get to apply the themes of the class to current events.
This class could be strengthened by having more critical discussion of the ideas presented by the professors. The lectures feel like 2-hour rants
Take good notes in lecture.
I didn't find this course to be very organized
Go to lecture, it's engaging. Also, be creative with the essay prompts.
This course is incredible, it offers a unique class experience that focusses on creative ideas and innovative solutions. I'm exceptionally glad I took this course because it really forced me to think for myself, and use the readings as a skeleton for creating my own ideas. There's a lot of writing, but it's worth while and the lectures, section, and reading really make everything relevant to learn and develop.
It's interesting but will be better if you're self motivated
I really enjoyed this course. Unger and West play off each other in an engaging way. The assignments were refreshingly open-ended and section was a great chance for the presentation of interesting arguments. An inspiring class overall.
This class is awesome--if you want to critically reimagine the future of American Democracy, there are no better people to do it with than Cornel West and Roberto Unger. Overall workload is light, and the lectures are super engaging.
Course was intellectually stimulating but ran out of topics after 6 weeks at which point the professors largely repeated themselves.
It is very disorganized
This class will draw you in with the big name professors, and you will be able to get to hear their brilliance on full display. However, while they say a lot of impressive words, it often felt that they weren't really saying that much. The course is not cohesive, and the the subject matter is so abstract its often difficult to understand. The key terms of the course are vague, unnecessarily challenging, and are never defined. The professors never actually explain anything; its just them laying out their ideas.
The concepts are difficult to grasp at times, especially when the professors go off on tangents, but overall it is worth it. These are two intellectual giants, so make the most of this opportunity!
This was an extraordinary class. Structured in a manner that is truly designed to enable students to explore alternatives in reconstructing sectors of society, it was one of the most educational experiences at the college.
This is a rare chance to see two seminal speakers, Professors Unger and West, interact and orate. I loved every minute of lecture and learned so much about my own political philosophy as well as the unspoken truths haunting America today.
This class will encourage you to challenge your political ideology. Let it. Think outside the box. It is refreshing and rewarding and intellectually enriching. Take this class if you wish to have a "transformative experience."
the course isn't structured at all, so you get out what you put in
Great lectures, but that's about it...also if you've heard one of them, you've kind of heard them all. Great senior spring class or fifth class, but don't expect to learn a ton or get a ridiculous amount out of it...more accurately, you get what you put in.
American Democracy is unlike any other class I have taken at Harvard. The class does not teach you facts and figures, but rather it introduces you to a new way of thinking about democracy and American democracy, in particular. It is easy to not attend lectures, but if you do this, you are missing out. Taking a class taught by Unger and West is a really unique opportunity -- they are brilliant, and they take questions at the end of every lecture. I would definitely recommend this class if you are interested in the issues facing American democracy and social justice issues. The class gives you a framework that you can use to think about the issues plaguing America, and this framework is very detailed. This class forces you to think differently about America, confront America's imperialist history, and think about how we can move towards a better future.
This is a good course for people who are progressive and passionate/knowledgeable about American politics. It is very one-sided in the sense that the instructors are making arguments about the future of a progressive project, which sort of assumes that the students are progressive. It can also be difficult to understand the substance of what the professors are saying, as it can sometimes be cloaked in vague academic language.
Lectures prompt really important questions.  Be prepared for lectures and discussions to be very general and high-level.
This is a course with two legends that you have to take before you graduate.
Prof. Unger's lectures changed my perspective on the possibilities of democratic government.  I was moved and enlightened by the course.
It was a different kind of course. You had the opportunity to engage with thought and theory in an almost preach-like manner rather than learn from a mere book and lecture. It encouraged you to actually think about what you would do to bring about change. I think that it was incredibly disorganized. Most students stopped attending lecture because it felt repetitive and they could not rationalize coming back even though they were so excited in the beginning. I would say that the professors are acclaimed but don't expect to learn anything you wouldn't learn from the book unless you are trying to explore your own thought. It will uniquely push you to think about how you would come to find new solutions.
This class is amazing. Take it.
Definitely on the list of bucket list courses.
Take what Unger says with a grain of salt, and let Cornel West's sermons baptize you in socialist brilliance. Do go to classthere's very little point to the class outside of lecturebut all the reading is not 100% necessary.
There was no rhyme or reason to the lectures. I took this class because the first two lectures were awesome, and they quickly went downhill. The lectures almost never followed the syllabus, and multiple times, the professors came in with seemingly no agenda and offered to take questions for two full hours. It was frankly disappointing.
Fundamentally analyzes an argument. Has essentially no structure; the keys are reading West's and Unger's books
This is an opportunity to learn from brilliant thought leaders!
Probably not worth it, I would just audit and sit in on some classes.
Definitely take this class if you're interested in a new and different way of thinking about the American left and what its role should be in the national political discourse.
Really enlightening course, but very conceptual.
Do not expect structure from this course, but just go with it
Very disappointing. I had high expectations for this class, and they were all destroyed. Did not learn much besides the trope that "American democracy is complicated." West has gone south.
One of my courses with the least amount of work but still incredibly interesting and relevant. Don't leave the final paper until the last minute
Take it!!!! 10/10 class, you will actually learn a lot and be inspired
It's an enjoyable, interesting, and really quite excellent course; however, I took it under the assumption that it would be tied more to the African American experience and it wasn't. Keep that in mind if you're an AAAS concentrator or secondary concentrator and you're considering the course for that reason. Also, do the readings; I assume they would have helped me with the papers.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It is an absolute pleasure--if not a once in a lifetime opportunity--to listen to Cornel West and Roberto Unger dissect the problems of 21st century American democracy for two hours each week. They stand at the rostrum preaching unconventional and uplifting perspectives that will challenge you or function as a moral salve in these darker times. This class is more than just political analysis; it's spiritual.
This class seems like a great idea to take! The professors are brilliant and the topic is both important and fascinating. Don't be fooled -- this class is poorly planned. Lectures are rambling repetitions of the same subject matter over and over. You would be better off taking a class with less well reputed teachers where they actually put in the effort.
This course exceeded my expectations and inspired me to think critically about encompassing issues and ideas.
disorganized and repetitive
Great class. Super interesting material and assignments. Please please take it, you won't regret it
If it is being taught the same way in the future as it was this year, take it Pass/Fail. The ideas that we discuss can be mind blowing and amazing, but understand that the final paper was vague and difficult to understand/write. It was however, a great intellectual journey. Cornel West and Roberto Unger are perfect complements. Loved having both of them as my instructors!
Be prepared for a slightly disorganized layout of lecture and confusing essay prompts. To combat this I'd suggest coming to lecture with a clear, personal strategy of what you would like to learn and process from class (for example: What questions do you have? Ask them during the Q&A that happens every class. What topics are you interested in excavating, perhaps for the next essay? Keep your ears pricked for any keywords of that topic being mentioned, which will make approaching essays easier). Use section as a day to more fully marinate and interrogate your ideas, especially if you're feeling bewildered or unsatisfied by reading and lecture.
Great class for government concentrators
The instructors were both great speakers and had really interesting ideas. Unfortunately, they kept repeating the same ideas over and over and after the 3rd or 4th lecture I didn't feel that I had learned anything new. Additionally, most of the readings that were assigned for the course just repeated what the instructors said in lecture rather than giving us different perspectives. The final paper was also very unstructured and we were given little guidance about what the instructors expected.
Hopefully this class will be more organized and structured in future years. The material has a lot of potential, and hopefully a more rigorous approach will be applied to it in subsequent iterations.
It's good to formulate your own ideas/opinions and not just repeat what has been taight in class
West is not a good reason to take this class, unless you're a huge fan you will be disappointed if that's why you're taking it.
