You have to work hard but its a good class
It is an interesting, albeit introductory, class.  Professor Gates is interesting.
This class is a great introduction, it covers a lot of history and is a fairly easy core class.
It is important to stay on top of the readings and it is essential to attend every lecture but it is also worth it.
This is a chamelon course, meaning that it can fulfill almost any reason to take a course, from fulfilling concentration/core requirements to sheer person interest.
do the readings! they are interesting and really help understand big concepts and debates of the class.
Try your best to do the readings!
I would tell future students that they will learn so much about African American history and culture.
It is amazing! Profs. Higginbotham and Gates are really fabulous instructors. They are also really welcoming, so be sure to go to their office ours at least once. It is really worth it to get to know them, because they want to get to know you.
This is a unique opportunity to take a course taught by two outstanding faculty members
This class is one of the best opportunities to hear from some of the most famous black thinkers and to learn about issues pertinent to the black community and the history of this nation.
A class that is not heavy on the workload, not strict on the grading, and extremely interesting material -- who wouldn't want to take this class?
Taking this class your freshman year will catalus your development as a person.
You should definitely definitely take this class. Very good and interesting way to get rid of you Historical studies requirement.
It is an excellent opportunity to better understand African American culture through history. It is one of the first classes I've taken thus far in which I feel like I really learned things I can apply to my life.
it was good
This course is great, but eventually you're grade will depend on how much your TF likes you.
Really take the course readings seriously. You'll get so much more out of it if you're familiar with the readings throughout the semester.
Take it
It's a good, interestin class.
This class was taught with a knowledge and a casual professionalism that was exactly how I pictured a Harvard class to be.
The class is very interesting.  It made me review some aspects of my own life, which I think is one of the attributes of a great class.
that the content is interesting, but sometimes it is hard to follow lectures and to know what are the most important themes
Whatever your concentration may be, this class is a great class to take.  It gives a lot of insight into our society and American history from a perspective not usually considered: that of the African-American.  Professor Gates and Professor Higginbotham are such amazing lecturers and very entertaining that you'll actually want to go to lecture. The class is definitely worthwhile and the workload is bearable.  You can apply what you learn in this class to so many things. I highly recommend this course.
A class that's sure to challenge you and those around you.  Perhaps the most interesting part of the course is watching the transformation and struggles of other classmates as everyone wrestles with the materials and ideas presented.
alot of reading, but it is interesting
This class was the only one this semester that I could have, in theory, skippped with impunity-- but I never did, because it was the one I enjoyed the most. Anyone can take this class, and I think everyone who takes it takes something away from it that they won't get anywhere else. When it ended, I felt like in leaving the class, I was leaving something special.
It is definitely a lot of work and intense, but the material is extremely mind-provoking. I leave lecture every day feeling so challenged, yet so inspired. The themes, presented in the form of debates, are interesting and engaging. The professors are both enthusiastic and excellent lecturers. This course will force you to think in different ways and stretch your mind. It is intellectually stimulating and satisfying at once.
DEFINITELY TAKE THIS CLASS. IT'S AMAZING.
This is a great class for freshmen who don't know their concentrations, but are looking for an interesting course that is relevant to the world we live in.
it's exciting and interesting, even if you were not previously interested in this particular subject matter
This is fantastic! Professor Gates is a jewel of the university so take it ANYTIME it fits into your schedule. ANYTIME.
Discuss interesting topics; good overview of AfAm historical/cultural issues - though it is a survey course which means that you can't cover anything in as much depth as I'd sometimes like.
This course poses a lot of explanations to the condition of the Black in current society today and is a good course for true self-examination
The main problem that I had with the course is one that will be encountered with every Harvard course. We are being taught by the best professors in the world, but are being graded by TF's. There is very little recourse if you feel that something is unfair.
It's a good class with a lot of reading.
This class was an absolutely incredible introduction to African American Studies-- Professor Gates and Higginbotham are both phenomenal.  Prepare for a lot of reading but reading that is worthwhile, applicable and compelling.  Overall, a great and not too difficult experience.
This is a great class with a light course load.
too broad, too many details covered too quickly
make sure they read the material
That it's best to read everything and prepare your arguements for section.
It was a wonderful experience. This was the first class I had about my history.
It's a chance to be taught by two of the premiere professors on the topic, yet the class still has a personal and laid-back feel to it.I
Take it!  So incredible.  Inspiring, enlightening.  Taught by the best.  The focus on debates makes it so interesting.  Students are always enthused, always discussing the ideas.  No one complains about it.  It will change your life.  Take it.
There is a lot to learn in this class as it takes a multi-faceted approach towards introducing African American studies.
The lectures are amazing awesome. The banter between Professor Gates and Professor Higginbotham was very entertaining. I would not recommend my TF, but I would definitely recommend attending the lectures.
Only take if you're interested in parroting back the readings in section and in papers. I feel like I was penalized for bringing in outside materials for papers.
It's a GREAT way to fulfill a core while actually learning about fun, interesting and important stuff. The TFs and professors are outstanding.
You will learn a lot; your papers are graded with high subjectivity.
The course is highly relevant to huge issues in government, the arts, and interpersonal relationships today.  It is especially interesting because it is structured around the largest debates in African American history.  The professors often take opposite perspectives on an issue and debate each other in front of the class.
Going to lecture is a fun experience!
Professors Gates and Higginbotham were excellent lecturers and the readings were interesting and thought-provoking.
You will learn a lot.
Professor Gates does a good job of mixing it up in his lectures providing great detail and humor.
The class is taught by wonderful professors.  Lecturers are diverse, interesting, and fun.  I had the best discussions of my time at Harvard in sections for this class.
The lectures and readings are great.  The intellectual stimulation you take from the course depends entirely on what you put in...if you don't try, you'll find it boring.  But the history is awesome.  It's not just a course about black people, it's a course about the human experience.
It's like learning what you should have learned in high school, but in much greater depth and detail.
It will change the way you think about the US and its history.
it's a good class, but might seem a bit basic if you've ever taken an AAAS course before or just know a bit about AA history.  You'll definitely learn something new, but you wont' be inspired.  That' for certain.  Gates is quite a character and after I got used to him, I liked him.  I thought the guest lecturers (and we have many) were pretty subpar
be open and willing to think about issues, racial, that sometimes are hid and swept under the rug.
A good survey course of African American history that covers interesting and important topics.
This class is not much work, and section can be very interesting if you decide to engage. I would say the class is amazing if you enjoy the material, and simply good if you're just taking it for a straightforward gen ed/elective.
It seems like a good idea to take it at the time.
Be ready to share your opinion, I personally clammed up in section, because many of my opinions differed from the consensus.
Gates is great, Higginbotham not so much, but the course is a lot of fun.  You learn a lot about African-American history, but in some ways it's as much a course on the history and psyche of minority groups in America as it is anything else.
The class is very unstructured, so be aware of this if you need structure.
pretty light workload, interesting readings. A good class to take.
This class is awesome but just because it's an introductory course doesn't mean that it's going to be easy.
This class gets more interesting after the first unit, so don't get discouraged when you shop it!
This class is a great way to fulfill US Gen Ed.  Both professors gave really interesting lectures.  There can be a quite a bit of reading some weeks, but they aren't always necessary to do... usually only the ones relevant to the week's blog post.  The papers, midterm, and final are straightforward.  A great class for anyone interesting in race (not necessarily African American) in America.  The themes of the course cover a broad spectrum of issues of race in America throughout history and today.
Henry Louis Gates + Interesting Assignments + Engaging Sections = Awesome Class
The course is very subjective. If you don't get on good footing with your TF from the get go, you might regret it. Go to office hours - for both the TF and the professor. For the exams get really great study groups going!
This class is great!  A wonderful, interesting introduction to the field of African-American studies and its key debates.  Gates is a great lecturer and Higginbotham is also very good; the TFs this semester (Lisanne and Jody) were also very knowledgeable and nice.  The papers, midterm, and final were very fair and gave you freedom to discuss topics you were more interested in.  The weekly workload is very manageable (readings and blog posts), and section was actually interesting and worth the time.  I highly recommend this course; it's especially great as a US in the World gen ed!
You will enjoy it more if you have an interest in knowing about African American history
Go to lecture and do the readings-you will get much more out of the class and it's not that much reading!
Take this class if you are interested in a wide range of topics in African American history.
Things are graded unnecessarily hard.
If you're interested at all in African-American history, this class is a must. Not only for African-American studies concentrators, just anyone interested in the material.
You don't need any information in the black community or in American history to take this course. The professors are very interesting and engaging.
It's a very enlightening course; you will take much from the course if you put effort into it.
This class is interesting, relevant, and fairly easy.
Don't miss a single lecture! Gates is top of the line and every lecture gives a different perspective of African-American history.
The course has many interesting aspects, but the flow of the class may be hard to grasp and enjoy.
It's a very interesting class with a lot of great topics. You will walk away from it knowing so much more about African American history. The lectures are great and provide you with a good amount of information, but can sometimes get boring, especially at the beginning. The readings are fun and engaging, but you don't have to read everything for section. The essays are easy, as is the midterm. But the final will require you to study a bit more. I enjoyed the class overall, and would recommend it for anyone interested in getting a broad introduction to African American studies.
This class is good to take(especially freshman year). Gates is a great lecturer! Don't assume that this class will be an easy A though(not true!). The blog posts are extremely annoying, but they will hopefully help your grade.
This class provides knowledge about not only black history, but also American history. The information presented in this class is necessary for any and every well-informed individual. Every student of any race should take the course.
It is a great way to satisfy a distribution requirement if you are interested at all in learning more about blacks' racial experience in America.
Incredibly valuable take on American history that you don't get from your average high school experience.
This course is fantastic. If you are at all interested, definitely take it. The professors are amazing, and you will not regret it.
Stay up to date for the readings because they will come up on the final exams.
It can be easy to fall behind on the readings sometimes, but try and keep up with. It will help you a lot when it comes time to take your midterms and finals.
This was one of the strongest courses I've taken at Harvard. It draws interesting conceptual conclusions out of a very comprehensive survey of history and exposes students to a variety of readings both influential and genuinely interesting. By and large very well taught, and without a tedious load of work.
I really feel like everyone at Harvard should be required to take this class. While it starts off a little bit slow, the debates you learn about are so important today. The professors are great and the class is a great mix of fun and intellectually stimulating.
This class is great and gives another side of American history not exposed in high school usually.
It's difficult and there's too much reading, but the lectures are good, as is discussion in section.
If you're interested in this course just for Henry Louis Gates, you may want to reconsider. Many of the lectures are taught by TFs, and often times Professor Gates is absent from class to begin with. The course readings can be frustrating at times because the lecturers quote directly from them during lecture, eliminating any need to read them outside of class other than for writing essays.
Take it.
This class is great!
I loved the course and learned a lot! I would highly encourage it for everyone from every concentration except it may not be overly deep or inciteful for those that already have a lot of knowledge of the subject matter. As a white person from an affluent background I would highly encourage all students to consider the course but especially other white students, potentially those who haven't had experience thinking about race in an academic context or would like to explore it more. The course felt very relevant for my daily life and as though it was essential knowledge I needed to have as an informed person and US citizen.
really good intro to this field
The material that is covered in this course is very interesting. Sometimes, however, the way that it is presented can make it a little hard to sit through. The sections make this course and if you get a really great TF you will really enjoy the class.
I greatly enjoyed this class because I had never received a comprehensive African American history class, and this class served as a way of introducing many fundamental topics in African American history.  While I took this class to hear Skip Gates lecture, I was a little disappointed to learn that while he attends every class he does not lecture every week.  Nevertheless, the course consisted of many other wonderful speakers.
Fantastic introductory course that's brood enough to give students a sampling of many aspects of AAS that they may or may not decide to study more in depth.
Everybody needs to take this class. It helps you understand the history that makes race relations and economic structures in the US the way they are today, and how every single person participating in American society is interacting with structural violence that affects everyone. The lectures are awesome (and lots of satire videos fun fun) and sections are really thought-provoking. Definitely take it if Lisanne is TFing at all.
Make sure you read the material or at least get the "gist" of what the authors are attempting to say because then you can make an easier argument yourself and understand each within their historical time periods
Professors Gates and Bobo were really amazing lecturers, and I think this course is incredibly important for anyone who wants to understand contemporary racial issues in the United States.
As long as you at least skim all the readings, it shouldn't be too difficult to participate in section because the subject is interesting.  Do more in-depth reading for the blogs and actually turn them in on time.  For studying, it reallyyy helps if you know the readings instead of having to look at them all last minute like me.
It is a wonderful course. If I were you, I would definitely take it.
Overall, the course format ("Key Debates in African-American history") was very interesting. Exploring different sides of key debates in African-American history was very thought provoking. I found Professor Gates to be an engaging lecturer, but his PowerPoints were not very informative, nor were they available online. It was a bit hard to follow his lectures at times, as he would read passage after passage to the class. Being a visual learner, I needed to see the information on the PowerPoint, but the information was not made available. Professor Bobo's section of the class (the latter half of the course, a half about the debate over the roles of race and class in Black culture) was extremely interesting. He always used a video or song from popular culture to introduce topics, making his lectures engaging and relatable. His PowerPoints were also very informative and were made available online.
You will learn a lot about African American history and learn to apply these issues to current social circumstances in America.
This class demands very little, and is even conducive to procrastinators like me!
Great class, interesting reading material and lectures.
There is no point taking this class for credit. The lectures are valuable, so I recommend auditing the course.
The relative difficulty of the course will depend significantly upon whether you're used to writing papers and taking essay exams.
Professor Gates is as wonderful as professor as everyone says he is; do take the course. Also, office hours are worth attending.
I would be hard-pressed for you to find two more intelligent, interesting, and compelling lectures as Gates and Bobo. Read as much as you can, for your own benefit, and truly take in the subject matter. You won't regret it.
This class is a great intro class!
Participate and really engage with the material. It will be rewarding!
While "African American Studies" may not attract a very diverse crowd, the themes talked about in this class are important for every student, minority or not, interested in changing dynamics on poverty and perceptions of race.
A very interesting class, but the readings must be done in order to keep up & maintain a presence in discussions
Do all the readings and go to lecture.  It makes studying and writing the final papers much easier.
very interesting and thought provoking.
Great class that just encourages thoughtful discussion about social problems in this country
Your section leader determines your experience in classes like this because they are so large.
This is a great class. You'll really enjoy it.
This class is actually more work than you would think. It's a good class, with interesting readings and section discussions, but with weekly blog posts, 2 essays and usually a good amount of readings this class can take up more time than you'd want ti to, especially if you've got other hardcore classes that you're taking.
This class is a good one to take pass/fail. Some of the lectures are awesome, the material is often entertaining or at least controversial and Professor Bobo is great.
This is an amazing class that introduces you to African and African American Studies in a way that no high school course ever could.  You are taught by amazing professors and TFs, you read interesting material, and you are exposed to many areas of African American history that you never knew existed.
I'm white, felt welcome in this course and got an education that every American should receive.
This class is a gem.  It has an excellent dynamic, and it is one of the few that truly questions your way of thinking.  As a white student, I enjoyed the different perspective presented by this class, both officially and under the surface.  Christina is an excellent TF - get her.  Also, Prof. Bobo is so good.  This class will make you think outside, and it's not difficult.  The readings are fascinating.  Don't take it because Gates is teaching it (though he's also great) - take it because the issues are important.
There is a lot of reading and it really helps to do at least some of it. The readings also tend to be quite interesting, so it's not too tough to do them, but it may be time consuming. Otherwise, the class is great.
This course seems to be anti-black and anti white at the same time.
This is an extremely rewarding class, especially for people who have not encountered this subject before. The papers are vague and frustrating but if you put an ounce of effort into preparation (i.e. meet with your TF the week before its due) then you can do some quality work and really learn something important. This class will make you think about society through a perspective that is unfortunately marginalized too often. Take it.
This class is not really about black people... it's about America.
This course is great if you are interested in the subject matter. You can learn a lot more about this subject than you would ever imagine. This is truly a course that you get out of it what you put into it. You can easily do well in this course with little effort, but you can really excel with even the slightest extra effort. Convince your friends to take it with you!
It's amazing. Take it. Just make sure you have enough time to do the reading.
I took this course after not being able to last year because of scheduling conflicts. I enjoyed that there were fewer students this year and the section component was very interesting and engaging. I would recommend this course to anyone who is interested in understanding current and historical questions of blackness in American society. I wish the readings weren't so heavy-- especially towards the end of the class because I found myself skimming some fascinating papers. If you prepare your essays in time you'll find it easier to structure them and do well overall. A "must-take" from me.
The course is fun and you get to discuss the most controversial topics regarding race in America in a free environment with experienced facilitators such as Gates, Bobo and the excellent teaching staff. This allows you to do something that America as a whole has been unable to do - to create a forum for a health discussion on a painful past that continues to affect the future! EVERYONE needs to take this course!
The class is excellent. The readings are really interesting and Prof. Gates is a great lecturer. The papers aren't graded too harshly and there are only two of them. Definitely take this class.
This is a very enjoyable class! The readings may take a while to do and some may seem extraneous but the information you glean from the readings and lecture is definitely useful and worth it. Professor Gates and Professor Bobo make a good team and both are extremely knowledgeable and easily approachable. They also play fun songs and comedic excerpts in class that are amusing but help bring home the themes of the course. The essay grading can be a bit harsh but they're fair on the exams. It really helps to have a great TF like Carolyn who is super supportive and helpful. A good class where you learn a lot that is definitely useful whether or not you're black.
Its very interesting, but don't go into it thinking you can just cruise through without doing much work!
This is good class, and the readings are very informative, but it was a bit unorganized concerning the lectures.
you will be assigned an inordinate amount of readings.. if you go to lecture and pay attention you should only need to do what is necessary to answer the weekly blog responses
Take this class! You learn so much and the professors' lectures are not to be missed! The weekly blogs can get annoying and depending on your TF, the grading for essays can be harsh, but there is so much depth and significance to what you learn that this class is well worth taking. Not only do you learn about history, but practically every class includes a hip-hop video or stand-up comedy clip from Chris Rock or Dave Chappelle and the professors like to kid. Great class!
This is a great course to take if you're looking for a survey of African American studies.  It will expose you to a lot of interesting, thought-provoking questions, but, as a result, it will most likely leave you with more questions than answers.
don't take this class. it is boring and poorly taught.
Future students should know that they will come away with a deeper and more meaningful understanding of the history of African-Americans and the complexity of what it means to be African-American.
I would tell friends the course was pretty easy, but very enjoyable. I always attended lecture and I really like Professor Gates and Professor Higginbotham's expertise and enthusiasm on the subject matter.
It's more work than expected, but not terribly difficult and you debate interesting aspects of society that are pretty relevant to life.
The class is good and interesting, and a pretty easy Gen Ed. But if you've ever taken a strong U.S. history class you'll probably be a little too familiar with much of the material taught. I'm not sure I feel I've learned all that much new.
This is an interesting class that does not have an overload of work and can really make you think.
Great intro class that encompasses a lot of important and general topics in African American culture. Well organized class and interesting reading.
This class is excellent for anyone who wants to understand American history.  It covers so many issues and debates that are never touched upon in standard history courses.  For anyone who wants to understand contemporary social issues or race issues in America, this class is essential.  Gates and Higginbotham are exciting, they bring in fantastic guest lecturers and there's plenty of room for students to take an opinion and are encouraged to do so.  The course material can be confusing and a little overwhelming when you consider its scope and lack of focus, but overall I would highly recommend this class.
The TF's were actually ridiculously bad.
This is a pretty good class; feels like a normal history class with a new focus.
This is a great introduction to African American Studies!!
Your experience really depends on your TF
Take it!
Take the course. There needs to be some changes but still take it. What is more important than it's current and hopefully soon to be overcome shortcomings is all the other truly transformative things that it can prompt you to explore
Make sure you switch sections to one you feel comfortable in right away.
Section is the most important part of the class. Get to know your TF; go to office hours.
While this was not a great course, I would not let it discourage you from taking other courses in the African American studies department.  Overall, every course I have taken in African American studies has been great--this class has been an unfortunate disappointment.
This was a great course. It made me look at race, class and gender differently. It explained many social phenomena I hadn't previously understood. It made me think in terms of debates.
A good HIS-A/Study of the Past course. It is crucial that you join the student group making the study guides before exams. It is incredibly helpful.
This course is fantastic. The professors are fantastic. It will be your favorite class of the year, no doubt.
Class is very poorly organized. Paper prompts were not distributed on time and section was an incredible waste of time. If you do not get a good TF, you might as well drop the class. On the other hand, lectures given by the professors are very interesting and thought-provoking.
Don't take this class. I know it's supposed to be interesting and easy, but it really isn't.
Attend the first two lectures during shopping period. It never gets better than that kids.
The class can seem a bit disorganized at times; however, all in all it's a very interesting course and it's a class that helps you understand the real crux of African-American issues today.
The lectures present things in a simple way, but the ideas are much more complicated from the readings.
Your section leader will make all of the difference in terms of grading and class discussion.  It seemed that some sections had generous graders while others did not.
The class itself is very interesting, but the TFs will make the experience.
good overview of the African-American canon
Lectures range from fascinating to fluffy, but you do gain a very valuable perspective on a dichotomous history that still has a major impact on the way the United States functions today.
This class helped make my freshman year awesome.
It's great at the beginning and the end, but it drags a bit in the middle.
This class is really rewarding. I learned so much more about African American history than I expected. I think it should be a requirement for all undergrads.
was a little unorganized
Read and pay attention in lecture.
If you are interested in African-American history and culture, this is a great class to take.
Interesting class that introduces a variety of topics about African-American history and society.
Keep up with your readingStart your essays early and make sure the TF approves of them. Practically all your grade is determined by them.
Pay attention and do not treat it as a core.
Awesome class, you'll want to go to every lecture. Get Kwame for your tf!
Be aware that this is a survey course that will teach a little bit about many things, but you will not feel like you learned deeply about any particular issue afterward. It is a fine introduction but sometimes feels simplistic.
This course provides a lot of very interesting debates about the history of African American culture. I found it to be a great class. It definitely sparked my interest. There is a lot of reading, but it is not hard to do and can be enjoyable.
It's an interesting class, but the lectures are hard to follow and without a good TF, one ends up doing most of the learning on one's own.
This is one of those classes that everyone should take.  The material is interesting, and lectures are enjoyable. It has really broadened my perspective of African/Black Americans.
This is an eye-opening course and most of the lectures are very interesting.
The course is pretty interesting at times, but the lack of organization was very frustrating.
Lectures are worthless/impossible to follow. Readings are not involving.
The course is challenging, but you can do well if you do all the work.  The professors are great and the sections are amazing.
The course is a good one, staying on top of the readings is obviously a good idea, however it isn't terribly difficult to catch up if you get too far behind.
Take it. I am not an African American - but found the course relevant and enlightening.
be open minded
Take this if you're interested in learning about African American history and culture, or just interested in seeing Prof. Gates' lecture. Be warned that the class is pretty disorganized, and you may not feel that you learned a great deal of "facts". I feel I learned most from my peers, in section--the main reason to take this class. We always had a great conversation, and I feel that sort of discussion is too often overlooked on this campus.
very good, engaging readings! Beware, it is not well organized, and the material gets difficult to keep track of
The professors are great and the material is really engaging if you have a good TF.
I learned a lot, and enjoyed learning it.
The class is very interesting and the debate structure is great, but the administration of the class is poor-- the assignments are poor and unclear.
The subject material for this course is really interesting, but it was approached in a rather superficial way, which was frustrating. I often felt like I was being subtly steered to favor one side or another of the debates we discussed.
great class
Easiest class I've taken at Harvard so far. Take it.
It's a great class because it's a combination of sociology and history
just have fun and take good lecture notes
The stuff you learn in the class is awesome, just be cognizant of the structures and move necessary for the essays and exams - and you can definitely learn a lot and enjoy this class!
in this class you get to learn more about the significance of your skin color.
It's a great course. Everyone should be exposed to the readings in this course- particularly the second half regarding the complexities of race, class, and gender for the modern African-American community.
The professors are great! I really enjoyed lecture every time and looked forward to it.
This class has an inflated Q-rating. It has good content and Professor Gates and Higenbauthum are awesome, but you have to be very careful which TF you get and there are a lot of guest lecturers.
Interesting class! Professor Gates and Higginbotham are great lecturers! Not too much work either so you have time to really enjoy and take in the class. Definitely recommend.
1) it fills a gen ed req2) it's interesting material3) it's easyso take it. you won't regret it - promise.
Take it because it is practical -- but know that it has a bogus element to it.
The essay prompts for this class were oftentimes quite unfair and would affect one's grade, despite the teacher's acknowledgment that the prompt was unfair.
This class is an interesting course taught by two great professors who are enthusiastic about the subject. I definitely recommend it if you are looking for a general education course or want to pursue history further.
Gates' lectures are amazing! The class brings up a lot of really great topics to think about.
This class will open your eyes to things that you never considered!!  It's definitely worth taking!
Skip Gates is terrific and the sections are some of the best at Harvard.
It's all about the tf.  Don't slack, take the material seriously
Gates has tons of energy, other lecturers are okay, class discusses some pretty interesting topics.
Everyone needs to take this class. It's interesting, and if you do your readings and keep up with the themes, it's completely doable.
I found the class extremely disappointing. Recommenders usually mentioned the great "debates" in the class, but really, those "debates" tend to be Prof. Gates presenting one side and steamrolling Prof. Higginbotham, who tries to present the other side in 90 seconds at the end and isn't as good at doing it as Gates is (there were a couple good ones near the end of the course, but neither Gates nor Higginbotham was involved in them). The work is a joke, with very little intellectual challenge (which I guess could be a good thing if that's what you're into). I definitely learned a few interesting trivia points (did you know that Frederick Douglass's father is portrayed differently in each of his three autobiographies?), but no actual important, applicable, or insightful knowledge. I also found it a little odd that a solid background in hip hop and BET programming from the early 90s seemed at times to be a course prerequisite. If you're looking at AAAS 10 for an elective, I'd advise looking elsewhere.
Take it. It's really interesting and you'll enjoy lectures a lot.
the grading is very hard, well... for only certain tfs..which is frustrating - the class is extremely interesting though so you should take it pass/fail.
Don't stress about doing all of the readings, although most of the time they are very helpful and pretty light. Go to lecture, not because it will hurt you that much to miss, but because the lectures are well done and oftentimes entertaining.
Take it
It's not the easy A like everyone says it is.
You shouldn't be allowed to opine about race until you've taken this course, even if you end up disagreeing with its political conclusions.
Be prepared for a lot of readings, the class may get boring at points if your are not a history person.
Rumor has it that course enrollment for this class shot up 25% after Gates was arrested a year ago -- if you are one of those people who wants to take this class to say you took it from the renowned Professor Gates, go for it.  But if you're looking for interesting lectures, stimulating dialogue between two famous AfAm studies professors who teach the course, fascinating discussion on the course topics, and essays that challenge you -- do NOT take this course.  The syllabus is great, but this course is run poorly and the professors seem more interested in showing off their favorite topics of interest than giving their students a true Introduction to African American studies.
Do the readings and then you'll know your stuff to do very well in the class plus LEARN a lot. Don't be lazy
Does a good job of presenting the debates impacting the lives of African-Americans historically and currently.  Not really a history class, this is not the best class to take if you're interested in African-American history (it's more sociology).  Also, very TF-heavy, they do a good number of the lectures and if you're taking this class just because Gates is teaching it, be prepared that he rarely lectures.
Of all the intros to majors out there, this one might be the best due to the depth of the subject matter, the richness of the material you're able to access early on, and to the ease of the course.
I strongly recommend this course to future students provided that they can have a great TF or change to a section conducted by a great TF.  The material and the debates are interesting enough to make you actually want to attend each lecture.  The weekly blog posts are not difficult, and the other larger assignments are few and far between.
Seriously, take this course. It is a wonderful survey course -- lectures are hilarious and very interesting. There is not too much reading. Also, you should hope that you get Lisanne as your TF -- she is the BEST TF in the course!
Be prepared to participate a lot in section and to learn how to improve your debating skills.
great class where you get exposed to material you won't find in your typical history class, helps one to gain an understanding of not only the present issues affecting the african american community but also how those issues have been shaped by history and how to think critically about them
This is a fantastic course, and one that I think everyone should take while at Harvard. It opens up a whole world beyond the "community conversations on race" at the beginning of the year. Coming from a very racially non-diverse area, this course was especially enlightening.
This is a must-take.
If you can write essay and know general African American history, you are straight. However, the papers in this class are confidence downers! As a freshman, if you do not have confidence in your writing skills, I would suggest you wait a little till you get more experience. Also, do not waste your time reading the entire course pack. Get in a study group or get a study guide off the ABHW, BSA, or etc. email list.
Great and interesting class! Prof. Gates is a riot.
Good class, great for a core. Not too difficult but still some interesting material. Some hyper-specific plugs for AAAS professors' research. Not too much about contemporary debates like affirmative action, the achievement gap, housing segregation.
Great class, no reservations.
Expect it to be a tad disorganized, but it's a lot of fun and interesting.
The content is inherently interesting and the readings and lectures are fantastic. Section can be great for some, depending on the TF you receive. Overall, I recommend this class without reservation.
Lectures are boring, but the material is interesting. If you are looking to learn about African American studies independently, the readings are worth your time. The grading is harsh and section can be tedious.
Your TF makes a HUGE difference in how well you do in the course. Avoid Terence by any means necessary.
Take it.  You'll learn a lot about African-American culture, and learn how to argue well.
reading is helpful but not necessarily required to understand the themes or do well in the calss.
I enjoyed the subject matter, although at times the professors were too passionate about the issues. It felt like more of a personal expression of opinion at times than a class.
Definitely take this course during your time at Harvard. This is the best course that I have taken at Harvard. Professor Gates is a captivating lecturer, the material is new and fascinating, the assignments are fair, the workload is reasonable, and the readings are understandable and interesting. Take this course.
Though the lecture environment may seem relaxed, the quality of work that is expected of you is not of the same relaxed nature.
Do the reading, it's interesting and will help you get through the lectures easier.  Be in contact with your section leader as much as possible in order to avoid miscommunications.
Absolutely take this class. You learn so much history that was overlooked in high school or blatantly omitted from curricula.  Excellent course, I highly recommend it!
The readings are not necessary, but interesting.
This is a great fourth class (when you have other classes that are more difficult) because it's fairly easy, not too time consuming, and pretty interesting. If you're looking for a more hard core class on African American issues, history, and/or literature, I'd encourage you to look elsewhere. Otherwise, it's a great way to painlessly satisfy the U.S. in the World Gen Ed without being bored.
Be prepared to hear new perspectives, articulate your own opinions, and take advantage of the stellar professors and TFs.
good class to have taken, especially if youre interested in Afam history. not all that it's hyped up to be, and can be annoying at times. but its not bad.
This course is fantastic.  The professors do a great job, as do the section leaders.  It's thorough and engaging, totally worth all the reading and papers, which are very manageable!
If you're ready for a lot of reading, do it.
Henry Louis Gates is amazing. His lectures are funny and engaging. I'd recommend going to all the lectures, because they are all relevant and interesting. The courseload is not too bad, and the exams are also very fair.
This is a phenomenal class.  It will make you think in new ways, and really inspire you to look at things more critically.  The workload is not that bad, and almost all of the readings are interesting anyway.  Gates is a phenomenal lecturer, and Bobo talks abouts statistics in ways that seem both thought-provoking and sober.  Such a great way to fulfill US in the World--but also a great class to take as an elective!
I would advise you to ration your work throughout the week. There are ALOT of reading to do, and lecture is much more effective if you read, btu sometimes it is impossible to read all of the reading you have to on time. Read as much as you can and they REALLY won't be important until the midterm and the final.
I wish i had taken this class sooner, because I would have been an African and African American Studies Secondary!
This class was my favorite course this semester by far, and I'm a math/CS person so that was a shock.   I would recommend everyone to take it since it is one those classes which fundamentally changes your world view.   At least half the class was non African-American and the focus on debates within the African American community, rather than one-sided ideology, was great and allowed me to construct my own views.   Finally, I loved the exposure to both history and sociology through AAAS 10.
A great introduction to a wide-range of thinkers and issues important to African-American history. Depending on your background, it may not completely change your way of thinking, but it will almost certainly shift your focus to areas of society you may not think about on a daily basis.
This class is interesting, but I really got sick of it by the end of the semester. Gates and Bobo are cool, but neither one gives organized lectures so my notes made no sense after every class. Don't even try to do all the readings - it's not humanly possible, especially when it gets to the sociology half of the class. Also, be prepared to be confused if you don't have much previous exposure to African American history - there seemed to be an expectation that everyone knew what happened during the Reconstruction, which amendments and court cases meant what, what Malcolm X did, and things like that coming into the course. So, take this course only if you really care about the subject or want a good sampling of big names and ideas if you're entering the concentration or pursuing a secondary.
Stay up to date on readings. Attend every lecture.
I would tell students that they should take this class because they will learn a lot and it will change the way they think about life in America, but this class needs to be better organized.
I really loved this class because I am a huge fan of Professor Gates, and I am really interested in African-American history in general. That being said, my previous background and interest in the topic made the class very enjoyable and though-provoking. I definitely learned a lot. To survive this class, you basically just have to go to class and pay attention to the readings that they talk about in-depth.
great concepts but poor organization
Take this class if you need to fulfill US in the world. Relatively painless and pretty interesting. Not a ton of work.
This is such a fun course! One useful tip: do the readings, so that you can keep up with the lectures.
A really interesting course with great lecturers! The essays are graded hard, though, so although the workload is relatively light, it's not an easy A.
Such a fun course! Professors Bobo and Gates are excellent lecturers, and Theo is the best TF ever. And it seems like a lot of reading but you really need to do very little.
When people whinge about half-ass GenEd courses, they're talking about classes like AAAS 10. Interesting (and important) topic, but mad oversimplified and requiring of absurdly little effort: you're not expected to do much except to have basic comprehension of simple readings, and don't expect the course to do much for you but some basic contextualization. Felt like a waste of a Harvard classfind a more interesting way to fill USW.
If your interested in anything about the history of the black population, this course touches every topic and idea of african american history.
If you can read English, you can get an A.
You will learn a lot and enjoy lectures and section.
Great class, amazing professors, incredibly interesting subject matter
Great teaching -- Gates and Bobo are phenomenal lecturers, some of the best I have had. Inspiring topics. Pretty easy, and you learn a lot of cool stuff. People in the class are really passionate about the material which is also inspiring.
Even if you think that you already know a reasonable amount about the topics discussed in this class, you are certain to learn many new and interesting things.
Everyone should take this course. It's also taught wonderfully in the form of debates, the lectures were almost always fantastic, and the readings worth doing. You really learn about how to interpret contemporary debates around race, class, crime, etc., since these have been going on for centuries. Glad I took this class.
Great, painless way to fulfill a gened.
The material is really interesting, but the course is not taught well. All the lectures are read verbatim from a print-out, which make them much more difficult to follow. Also the exams are based almost exclusively on the readings, so there seems to be little point of going to lecture. Additionally, the lecture slides are not put online, which is annoying.
If you just want to take one Af-Am course, this is the one. Guest lecturers allow you to learn from all of the leaders in the field, and it introduces you to both social science and literature of African American studies. Lots of reading, however, including some less interesting ones.
This is a very interesting, easy class that counts for US & the World. Take it!
Do not take this course. Unfortunately, the efforts of its professors do not match the excellence of the literary and sociological material you will read. It's actually quite lazily organized: guest lectures that (although extremely interesting, and much better than the normal lectures) generally don't make sense in the arc of the course. For example, we were asked to read a speech by Bill Cosby and academic response to it in preparation for a great lecture on black abolitionists. An attempt to keep the class update failed: we watched Django, but rather than hearing a lecture about the controversy, the professors had students debate a silly prompt ("Is Django the greatest film about slavery ever?" -- SERIOUSLY) in a complete waste of an hour. Various readings were never mentioned in class or in section (e.g. we read about the Anita Hill controversy -- a fascinating example of the intersection of race and gender -- but never integrated it into our discussion). Poor integration is a running theme: obvious connections between our readings were never pointed out, and the course is basically divided into two distinct halves (literature + sociology) that never attempt to bring their different approaches. For a large course offered every year, the organization was surprisingly poor: there were not enough sections at first (resulting in chaos), the TFs forgot to register the class for an exam until late in the semester, and the first paper had to be pushed back. I found myself miserably apathetic about this course by it's end: which is really unfortunate, because I think this material is so fascinating that it deserves better treatment than it gets. If AAAS wants to attract more students, this course MUST be reworked and taught by different professors.
It is a great class. Gates is an amazing lecturer. He makes sure to include interesting facts and jokes and humor to keep you interested...for half the semester. Then Bobo starts teaching. It's not that he's necessarily bad, but he does have a tendency to put huge block quotes on the slideshows and just read to the class. You get the feeling that you should be taking notes, but you can't exactly write down William Julius Wilson's response to so and so as fast as Bobo is reading. Also the readings are great and you only have 2 papers, which is nice. The midterm and final are in class, which is also nice.
Really fun and enjoyable gen ed.  Professors and section leaders are good, and the course is very interesting and certainly not too difficult.  I especially enjoy how Professor Gates' historical portion of the class eventually tied into Professor Bobo's social analysis. Overal great course.
A great introduction to African American Studies! Made me consider taking further classes in the subject.
There's a great deal of reading but the informative and exciting lectures make it all worth it. You really will have a general understanding of African American studies by the end of the class, but it helps to have a very basic understanding of African American history (eg slavery, civil rights, etc.)
This class is a must for anyone looking to survey African American history, especially those starved of the opportunity in high school.
Very easy, probably confusing if you don't have some knowledge of af-am since they delve pretty deep into some stuff and gloss over other stuff
Go for it
A good overview of Af Am history. A good balance of humanities and social science.
This is an amazing class. It is such a privilege to be able to take this class at Harvard, where black students had to fight to bring black studies into our lecture halls only 45 years ago. Professor Gates' lectures are always very entertaining, and each lecture passed quickly because I was always so engaged. Professor Bobo's half of the class was such an eye-opening experience, as it dealt with the problems faced by black Americans today. I learned so much from this class, even though I already knew a lot about black history. The paper topics were extremely open-ended, so I was able to write about topics I found interesting-- thus paper-writing never felt like a drag. Additionally, the blog posts provided the opportunity for me to be provocative and political in my engagement with some of the most controversial issues we studied (such as post-racialism, the intersection of gender and race, and reparations). All of the material covered definitely hit home with me, as someone who is deeply interested in exploring issues of race and justice. I also met a lot of really great people in this class. This class left me feeling even more passionate about African American studies, which I plan to pursue as a joint concentration during my time here at Harvard. Every student at Harvard (especially black Harvard students) should take this class in order to understand America and its history-- because black history is American history.
You get to be taught by some  of the most renowned scholars in African American Studies, it is an amazing opportunity.
Take this class! You won't regret it!
Learn a great deal about extremely relevant and complex issues. You'll often find yourself discussing/debating these problems with friends at dinner time! Definitely worth while.
This is really important material that will make you consider how we handle racial and gender inequality in this country. The debates are extremely relevant, and overall this class was a great way to get you thinking about them. Perfect way to fulfill the gen-ed!
Take this course not only for Professor Gates' amazing lectures, but for the material itself.  I think that everyone at Harvard should take AAAS 10.  The course not only presents the past history of African Americans, but shows us how society is perpetuating the injustice of the past in today's society.  Each lecture is lively, engaging, and thought provoking and each lecture gave me knowledge that is pertinent to today's world.  Taking Aframer 10 will make you want to continue to take Aframer courses at Harvard.  It ignites a passion. If you can get Theo as your TF, absolutely do it.  He is the best TF I have ever had.  He completely made my course experience.
This course is great if you need an overview of African American history (from slavery to the present). If you already have a solid basis of understanding, you should take another AAS course that goes into more detail on a specific era or topic. The readings and (most) of the lectures are the most illuminating parts of the class. Section and exams are the least illuminating parts. Essay topics were interesting/made you go a bit more into detail on a specific topic.
Great class. I believe everyone should take this before leaving the school.
The information learned in this course is important for every politically aware and socially conscious American.
Take this class!!! Skip Gates is the bomb. But actually you will learn the basics of afam history and contemporary theory surrounding black(descendants of slaves specifically) community problems.
This is a great class and you will learn a lot of things about African American history but be prepared to read.
Professors Bobo and Gates are very lively and friendly. Sit up front in lecture and get to know them. Also, demonstrate to your TF that you are interested in the material.
Gates and Bobo are amazing lectureres, and you will be exposed to a lot of incredibly interesting material. That said, the course is a bit of a mess. You don't spend a huge amount of time or attention on anything, and it's easy to feel as though you've learned a little bit of everything without having spent a substantial amount of time on anything.
Overall, the class wasnt that difficult. But the class was very unorganized which made things very frustrating and difficult at times. And there is a ton of reading. I wouldnt take this unless you're extremely interested in the material.
Go to lecture (or at least find a way to know what happens in lecture). A lot of the course work and tests are indicated by what's in lecture.
This is a simple and thorough introduction to the subject and the department. Lecture and section are both really enjoyable, and the topics you cover are things that everyone seems naturally interested in talking about. The assignments really aren't hard at all, especially if you do the reading (which is really interesting!).
I went into this class with high hopes, and left largely disappointed. The course was divided into two sections, first addressing the history of African American issues through literature, and then dealing with modern social issues of African American studies. But the subject failed to connect these two sections, never addressing the literature in social policy or really foreshadowing the modern issues in the literature. The course often brought guest lecturers in, but instead of being an asset, it was a hindrance, with guest lecturers spending the majority of the hour recapping material already discussed, and leaving basically no time for questions, which would have been a better use of time. Lectures were often cluttered and disorganized. Lecture slides were cluttered and ineffective as lecture complementary tools, as it was largely impossible to take down or even sometimes read all the slide text, but lecture slides were not available to students for reading. The lectures often seemed like a basic contextual setting of the readings, with little analysis or thought.I was very disappointed by this course. I thought it had great potential, which through poor organization and structure were squandered.
The content of the course is great and well-delivered by Professors Gates and Bobo. It's worth taking because of those two professors. Administration this year was poor, but didn't severely affect the quality of the course - it was just annoying.  Just be on top of your game if administration is poor the next time this course is offered. Otherwise, as an African-American, I feel that I gained a lot from this course - knowledge, pride, and a better understanding and perspective on matters pertaining to the African-American community.
Skip Gates and Theo Miller make this class one of the best I've taken at Harvard.
This is an amazing class with thought provoking material and extremely knowledgeable professors. TAKE THIS CLASS EVEN IF YOU ARE NOT BLACK!
This is an interesting class and worth taking.
This class fulfills a requirement and it covers important material. Solid.
It's excellent and eye-opening, but very disorganized.
This class and the readings were very interesting, and it wasn't a heavy work load.
I would tell them not to expect to delve too deeply into the vast amount of topics covered in the semester because it is only an introductory course.
This is a great class. Extremely interesting and the assignments are relatively simple. Don't do all the readings, just do the important ones.
This is a great course. Be sure to stay caught up on readings though; don't fall behind!
Be prepared to do a lot of reading and memorization
It's a great class. The readings are important but pay attention to the lecture slides, because they may contain insightful information that's not in the readings.
This is a great way to learn about big themes is African-America history and the current issues faced by the African-American community. The section was definitely the best part of the course. If you can get Theo as your section leader you will definitely have a great semester!
This class was so enlightening and the subject material was incredibly interesting. I would absolutely recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about American society and ACTUALLY learning something about African-American history outside of highschool. Theo was AMAZING and section was amazing.
Knowing history in the context and in the eyes of the oppressed is critical to understanding the innate racism that still exists today. Although I'm not of African descent, I have learned to see America differently and would like for others to have this same ability.
This is a great chance to go beyond the high school black history month understanding of black history. The themes of tension based on economics race and gender are applicable to countless facets of our society, not just understanding African American history.
very good to get basic knowledge
The class has changed the way I look at the world, Harvard, domestic politics, history, etc.  For the amount of work that it was - very little - I feel like it was a lot of bang for my buck.
henry louis gates is awesome
This is a cool class and the professors are great
The professors are very informative on the topics that are discussed in class and there are never dull moments in lecture or in TF sections.
If you have had a lot of previous engagement with the material, you may find it somewhat frustrating. However, if you are curious but haven't yet gotten the chance to investigate topics related to Black American life in academia, it serves as a good introduction.
You'll love it.
This is a great way to fulfill your History A requirement. It is manageable, interesting, and important stuff to learn. It will definitely give you a new perspective on race in America.
I think all students would benefit from taking this course and getting a different perspective on African-American history than that thought in US history.
good for core, not too much work, lectures great, readings ok
it's awesome! think deeply with the readings
It's a great class that you will really enjoy.  The professors are excellent lecturers and the readings are always interesting and insightful.
It's a very interesting class and you will probably enjoy it if you are interested in African American History. Also, if you put in the effort it will probably be reflected in your grade.
Your professors are amazing, and you will learn a LOT in this class!
You learn a lot in the class and the teaching staff is excellent.
This is cliche, but - a chance to learn about the real history of the United States.
Great lectures
If you get a decent TF, this class is greatif not, good luck.
This is a great departmental class which also counts for a core - it's not that hard, and more importantly, it's actually quite interesting.  The professors are very important in the field, but they care enough about the class to have devised a very effective debate-based structure which keeps things interesting and doesn't just follow a boring timeline.
Lectures are very entertaining and insightful.
Great Class! Spectacular because of the election.
Professor Gates is probably one of the best professors at Harvard, and he is extremely accessible to students in this course. In this course, I learned about American history through a totally different lens. As a white person, I found this course especially interesting because it gave me a completely different perspective on American history.
It's wonderfully taught and changes your perspective on American history!
Everyone should take this class, it's a fun and interesting class, while you learn A LOT.
It was great to be able to sit underneath two of the most preeminent historians in the field of African Disapora studies.
As a senior, I can honestly say one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
You will look forward to going to class
An enjoyable way to fulfill the Science A core and a good introduction to the field.
do the readings, skip gates is awesome
This class is one of the best classes I've taken so far in my time at Harvard. The professors are amzing in that they are passionate about th subject matter but at the same time they encourage students apply what they've learned in the class to modern problems within society.
this was a very interesting and fulfilling course; the lectures were always enlightening and deeply interesting and really held my attention
Gates' lectures are awesome!
The class is pretty straightforward and easy, but it will require a lot of time for your readings (if you choose to commit to reading all of them). The essays are flexible, and the material is very interesting. This class challenges a lot of common perceptions about black history, which I think was really inspiring.
I took this course to fulfill the US in the World gen ed requirement. The lectures were interesting and there was not a great deal of work. The syllabus has a ton of readings listed but you start to figure out which are the important ones to read and which ones aren't as important. The one annoying aspect of the class (well for a non-humanities person) is that a lot is said in lecture very quickly and it is hard to take notes on it all. Then when the midterm and finals come around it is a little difficult to know what to study exactly. But the exams are really fair and not difficult so all around a good gen ed to take!
Take this class if you want to be aware of what factors have led up to the current race relations in the United States---be prepared to be frustrated with tough questions at times, but the class is a worthwhile thought exercise
Interesting, low maintenance course with fairly interesting readings.
You won't regret taking this class. A few ignorant, racist white people here and there can make sections very stressful and frustrating, but most people are reasonable and open-minded.
Its a wonderful course with amazing material and lecturers, however it is also a time-consuming class due to all of the readings assigned.
Gates is great, Bobo is a little wandering. Get Scott as your TF, what a gem.
This class isn't the most difficult work-load wise, but it makes you think, is entertaining, and counts for a GenEd.
This was a very easy course. Just do the readings, take notes in class. You'll be absolutely fine.
This is easily the best class I've taken so far. It will really make you think!
Lots of reading, pretty interesting lectures and discussions in the class. But it can seem to get pretty repetitive at the end because there are only like 2 majors themes. If you know structure vs. agency and politics of respectability then you know the whole class.
This class is a great introduction to African American studies. I had a wonderful section, and I learned a lot from my section discussions. The issues the class deals with are really pertinent, and this class equips you to critically analyze and deconstruct them. Overall, a great topic and class!
This course was my favorite one so far and it was relevant to understanding the plight of the African American and drawing conclusions and thinking critically
EVERYONE SHOULD TAKE THIS COURSE.  If you are reading this and thus are considering enrolling in this class, please do it.
If you're not planning to concentrate in African-American studies/seek a secondary in the field but this history of black people in America is of the utmost importance and interest to you, then this class is absolutely worth the elective slot.
Great class! Not a huge time commitment, but you learn a lot. Professors Gates and Bobo are both awesome!
It is much harder than you think, because you never feel like the reading will get done.
This class is a solid gen ed. It's more challenging than you might expect and  not super enlightening, but sometimes it is interesting.
It's super fun and well worth it for US History Gen Ed
The material and lectures are very interesting, but they go over a LOT of material and it was stressful studying for the midterm because they wanted us to know dates, authors, and titles of works. The midterm turned out to be easy though, just going over the major stuff!
it's a lot of reading (which can't all be done), so go to as many lectures as you can to get the information. study groups/reading groups are essential for managing the readings for exams.
This course is fantastic. Both Gates and Bobo give excellent, informative lectures, and the course gives you a pretty good initial background in African-American history/literature and sociological literature. There is a lot of reading, but the work is interesting and rewarding. The TFs are incredible and so intelligent. I have nothing but good things to say about this course. If you're trying to fulfill US & the World I can't think of a cooler course to do it with.
It was a great class for providing a historical context to the many issues I discuss with others in my everyday life.
Expect a good amount of reading, but honestly the reading makes the class. They are very interesting and manageable if time is planned well.
An excellent class for anyone with interest. I wish I had been able to do more readings because I feel I could have gotten more out of it than I did, but that said, I still had a great experience.
Be in Scott's section, he is so friendly and interesting, and a great person to get to know.
This class is great if you have any level of interest in AfAm Studies. Two fantastic, interesting lecturers and a range of subjects they are renowned experts at, plus the opportunity to engage with them and with topical things - the films we watched being the most easily observed example - make for a really interesting course that is not heavy on workload.
It is a relatively easy gen ed which does not require incredible amounts of effort. It covers very interesting material and you can learn a lot depending on how much you put into it.
A good overall introduction to African-American studies. Lectures by Gates and Bobo are amazing but section needs more work - often feels disorganized.
It is manageable and you learn a lot!
Although this is generally a good course, watch out for the midterm and final exam. These tests are seldom referenced in lecture or section, and require route memorization of people's faces, spelling of names, and dates. There is a gross mismatch between the critical thinking skills and ability to intervene in prominent debates that the course teaches and the details that are tested in course examinations. Hopefully Gate and Bobo will improve their testing methodology, but until then, be prepared for an unfair midterm and final.
This class is great. The professors and tfs are why.
Be prepared for some inconsistency with grading and papers, but immerse yourself in the readings and you will be rewarded with a breadth of knowledge about the African American struggle in history and in the present day.
This is a great way to get a gen ed, and it also counts for English credit! There is a good amount of reading, and I strongly recommend doing most of them. Also, going to lecture is actually really helpful. This course, if you want it to be, is not extremely hard. I highly recommend it for anyone who's interested in learning more about society in general.
This course suffers from many of the problems that typical gen eds at Harvard have.  Poor guest lecturers take away from what could be a really fantastic course.  The readings and content, however, are great.  It is also an honor to be taught by Bobo and Gates, perhaps making it worth it to take this course.
This is an excellent introduction to African American studies. I enjoyed the way the course was structured. Professor Gates and Professor Bobo have different specialties and styles and I found them both to be very valuable. You will not regret taking this course.
It's not a history class, but a survey of debates. very useful knowledge and well worth taking it.
It's a fun class. But you will be responsible for a fair amount of close reading.
It's a very necessary course in terms of educating students on the current racial inequality in America. A great way to fulfill a gen-ed. Make sure to ask what they are looking for in the exam answers such as the debates.
Relatively easy, quite engaging, great TFs and professors and important discourse.
This course is one that every Harvard student should take. African American history is American history, and the debates and issues discussed in this course are relevant to everyone.
TFs make or break this class, I think. Scott was an excellent TF and so I think overall, I enjoyed the class, but I didn't get too much out of lecture. The guest lecturers were also hit or miss.
There is quite a bit of reading, but it is actually interesting for the most part. The papers were on interesting topics
I think this is a highly informative class. You get to examine questions pertaining to the African-American community in a multitude of ways. This class surveys a wide variety of topics.
This is an extremely important course offered at Harvard.  It is one of the enjoyable and opening courses I've taken in my time here.  Though there isn't much stress on extensively reading the material, I recommend reading it anyway for your benefit, because they present interesting and new ideas worth focusing on.
As with most courses, you get out what you put in. If you never learned about black people in school, this whole course will probably be ridiculously insightful. That said, if you have a bit of a background already, it might feel a little cursory.
Very interesting class. Great synthesis of history and sociology. There is A LOT of reading, but the midterm was not too bad. Be prepared to read and discuss if you take this class.
sometimes it's hard to take notes during lectures because you don't really know what you should be getting out of the class
Go to office hours.
If you are interested in the material and ready to read a lot, it can be really powerful, but if you aren't that interested, it's easy to get by doing very little, so it's kind of pointless.
AAAS 10 is an excellent course. The lectures, particularly Professor Gates', are fascinating and engaging. The readings are interesting and well-chosen and the teaching staff is approachable, knowledgeable, and truly engaged and excited about the course.
The class is great, especially if you have a general interest in the subject. You may not always have time to do the readings of course, but make sure you still participate in section. The discussions we had were very thought-provoking and relevant.
There are a ton of readings. More than any other course I have seen. The information is very important and interesting but I wish I had just read some of the books from the syllabus on my own or taken another course to take instead. I regret taking the course although Gates and Bobo are AMAZING. Section discussion is really interesting but it never really helps with the huge amount of reading. Unless you just have a lot of time on your hands I would not recommend this course.
Make sure to go to all of the lectures in order to do well on the exams. The lectures are huge, impersonal and easy to miss, but they are so important in terms of what the class will actually teach you. Also, this is a class where really doing all of the readings should be done.
I would tell future students that the course is great because it allows you to see how a lot of things we are still debating in the African American community now have been discussed for very long periods of time.
Af Am 10 is a must. Foundational readings that EVERYONE should do. Skip Gates is a legend, and hearing arguments from the course will help you beef up your own. Definitely take it.
This class is an easy way to fill a USW or secondary field requirement, but I feel like you just need to know this history if you're going to live in America. It's fulfilling and it prepares you to better understand race and racism and what they mean in this country.
If you weren't woke before at least you will meet people who are in this course.
Course vary dependings on teaching fellow.
The material presented in this course is very much along the traditionally taught black history.It's based on the conveying of events and understanding sort of broad over arching rhetoric, but doesn't leave a lot of room for nuancing this information or further interrogating the events. It is very male centered.
A must take class for all students at Harvard. The professors are great, of course, the material is interesting and relevant, and the work isn't too heavy.
Af Am 10 is lit! Great way to learn about black culture, history, and sociology. Very validating class as a person of color. You do not have to agree with everything the professors say, as one of them can be a bit more traditional in approaches to activism and social change. You'll be thinking about what you learn outside of class as you go about your life. Sections can really vary-- sometimes people get too comfortable and say problematic things, and your TF might not even know what they're talking about and will likely be problematic too. Speak up if you're woke and take this class to learn about your people.
Great introduction to African American studies. The course material is hroad and expansive.
Definitely worth taking. Interesting material and the professors are great. Not too difficult in terms of workload. You don't really need to do the readings, only for the weekly blog post. Lecture is usually pretty interesting and exams were very fair. The 2 papers were also over interesting topics and not too long.
A must take.
This class will not be an in depth nuanced analysis of Black lives, it will be a brush across the top that will simplify a lot of material that requires much more work and depth. Also lectures will not be very nuanced but rather a summary of material with a show for Skip (Professor Gates)
This course is a really great way to learn about incredibly important aspects of American history that often aren't taught the right way in high school!
If you are at all interested in the African American experience throughout the years, you should take this course. The lectures are great. You get into this course what you put in. Doing all the readings isn't really necessary, but the more you do, the better section will be and the better your papers will be.
AFRAM 10 is a good course. I'm not a big fan of the amount of reading (50-100 pages a week) but I really liked a lot of the course material and thought it was really informative. Definitely take this course and grading is pretty chill for the most part.
Really like the class -- good survey of African American literature, history, and modern debates.
This is a great introductory course in African American studies ONLY if you do all the readings, otherwise you'll learn very little. Section can be difficult depending on whether or not you get a group of people who stifle discussion based on extremely strong one-sided opinion.
This class was great. Very minimal work load and interesting lectures. I'm pretty sure the whole class applauded Dr. Gates after every lecture.
This is a great class. It's very chill and a must if you haven't taken an Af Am Studies course. If you have, some of the stuff we learn might be a little repetitive.
This is why Harvard is Harvard - the course is structured amazingly, the professors are passionate about the subject, and no time is wasted in class. Probbaly my favorite class of the semester.
This was a great introduction to the many issues facing African Americans in modern America. Obviously it is far from complete, but it really covers a great breadth. Professors Gates and Bobo are dynamic lecturers and clearly at the top of their field. The readings were interesting and all assignments fair. Greg Davis is a great head TF.
GEM, lots of readings, but very manageable. Everyone should take this class
Great way to learn about the history of the African-American community.
It is very interesting, but a lot of busywork.
Awesome class.
You get as much out of this class as you put into it, but the lectures alone might be enough reason to take this course. It's often amazing to get to hear from some of the primary voices in the world on this topic, and they are so personable and great at teaching what they know to their students. Also the readings are genuinely so engaging
Take this class. Especially if you are not Black and want to be more aware of the Black community in America, or want to be a better ally against anti-black racism, this class is for you.  The first half off class is a history class, taught by Prof. Gates, presenting an ethnography of the African diaspora in America. The second half is a sociology class taught by Prof. Bobo about the societal problems that Black people face and their contributions to American society. This class is comprehensive, very reasonable in workload, and really makes you a more aware person. I enjoyed it.
Regardless of your academic year, you should take this course before you graduate. You learn from a few of the best professors at Harvard and are exposed to knowledge that I believe is essential to being an informed American citizen.
Take this class if you want a painless fourth class.
Great class, but sometimes in-class discussions can feel one-sided because it is hard to be politically correct
The lecturers are always fun and incredibly interesting. You'll learn a ton of new things that your history books in high school choose to skip over.
I took this course for the gen ed requirement, and I'm glad I did.  I got by without doing the readings, but I would have learned a lot more if I had done all of them.  The readings were usually quite interesting.  Lectures were also interesting, with many guest lectures.  Workload was reasonable and not too difficult - two short papers and a midterm and final.
Go to lectures and do reading!
loved Professor Gates. do not need to do the readings for every lecture, only the readings needed to write papers.
This is a great class! Professor Gates is really great -- I preferred his lectures to Professor Bobo's, but Professor Bobo is a good lecturer as well. The class is not very well organized in terms of assignments/sectioning/etc but the material that you cover is really important and interesting and I would recommend that anyone take this course, regardless of your knowledge/interest in history or sociology -- this is information you should have!
You will learn about the true depths of Black history and the breadth of contemporary Black political and intellectual conversations. In short, the idea of the Black monolith will be completely broken down, and you will recognize just how much you didn't learn in your high school history classes.
Educational but disorganized.
I have learned more than I thought imaginable about black intellectuals from slavery to the present
This is a great introductory course that covers a wide range of topics, although in varying depths. The readings were very manageable and also very interesting, and the professors are obviously rockstars and give great lectures.
Do the readings. You could definitely get by without doing them but they are interesting and make preparation for the papers and exams much easier.
Great class, definitely take if interested.
As many people have said, the material that this course covers is information that everyone should have learned in high school but likely didn't. It provided me with a really interesting perspective on our history and a lot more knowledge about the experiences of others.
If you're looking for an easy, but also interesting class to satisfy Gen Ed requirements take this class.
Take this class -- its not too challenging, and you will learn so so much. If you're white this class will change how you view American society.
Was not very difficult and got to learn some cool stuff about black history in the country.
Be prepared to learn a necessary perspective on American history.
This is a course that everyone at Harvard should be required to take, not only because the material is important to learn about, but also because Gates and Bobo do a great job of making this course as engaging and interesting as possible.  A must!
This is a super interesting course with a lot of amazing readings, the lectures are engaging, and the course isn't overbearing but TFs vary greatly
This class is easy to the point that you probably won't come away having learned anything. It would probably make more sense just to look into the readings and do them yourself, or listen to the lecturers who come to the class, because the class itself adds nothing to that experience.
Absolutely do the readings and pay attention to other students' insights and observations.
It is a worthwhile experience to take this class if only to get a survey of the most notable African American scholars at Harvard.
it's so disorganized
This is a great class. Gates and Bobo are both very entertaining lecturers.
Take this class. If you want to learn more about what it means to be black and why being black feels the way it does, take this class.
It's a Harvard black student's right of passage.
This course is great and the professors are great. Do the readings or at least skim them and you'll be fine. I'm an engineering student who really doesnt read. trust me. but its manageable.
Take this course because it is really good in terms of the lectures which are engaging and the readings which are not only interesting but very thought provoking. An excellent way to satisfy the US in the World gened requirement
That the material can be interesting but the lectures not very engaging
Everyone should take this course! Even if you think you know a lot about black history and sociology, this course offers a multitude of perspectives on various topics, so you'll definitely walk away having learned something important. The primary caveat to this course is that it's geared towards freshmen; fortunately, that means that the grading is pretty lax, but it also means that sections are usually spent having fairly rudimentary conversations. Also, the history half of the course ends at the Civil Rights Movement for some reason, so don't expect to learn about important historical figures post-1970.
This class not only presents essential perspectives on race and society but also is run by hilarious and incredibly intelligent professors.
This class is awesome. As a white person with very little racial literacy before this class, I feel a lot more informed both about race issues and about how to appropriately discuss race in the American context. Professor Gates and Professor Bobo are literally at the pinnacle of their field--TAKE THIS COURSE.
Great class with really interesting coursework! Assignments are well constructed but not difficult to do well on at all. With even just basic dedication, its easy to learn a lot in this class and do really well.
Everyone should honestly take this class when it is offered; African-American history is such an important part of American history and allows a great understanding of many of the issues we are facing as a nation today that affect a vast majority of people.
AfAm10 is an easy, interesting class. Section is fun and the discussions you have are important and need to be had. Greg Davis is a great head TF, would highly suggest this class to anyone interested in either African American Studies or Sociology
Some of the content covered in this class is really important, some of it less so. I liked it and learned a lot, but I think I would've preferred 20th Century African American Literature. Note: the class was extremely disorganized (course books not at the coop, syllabus full of incorrect dates and outdated information, assignments and study guides posted late...) but this may be specific to the head TF. Likewise, your section leader will be extremely important. Section is a time to get real about race and a good discussion leader is required. Mine was bad and it was a bummer.
It is very interesting
This class is great!
Interesting but section is pretty ineffective.
This class will change how you think about America--socially, politically, economically. Professor Gates and Bobo are amazing lecturers and really care about students' learning.
easy class, not much work
I absolutely loved this class. To be taught by such renowned professors like Henry Louis Gates and Lawrence Bobo is such an honor, and attending every lecture was so valuable. I loved just listening to the lectures, and applying what I had learned through lectures and readings to papers did not feel like just another chore. I would highly recommend this class to everyone at Harvard!
It is a terrific class and a great intro to African American studies.
It will give them new perspective, and it is a really interesting gen-ed.
This is a great class. It has a lot of work but the work is not too difficult. The material has helped open my eyes to a lot of things but is not presented sometimes in the best manner. If you get friends to study with for the midterms and finals you should be alright.
Take it. Do it now.
Keep up with the readings and remember authors and their arguments. You won't need to try too hard for most of the semester, but do actually study for the tests as they are harder than you might think.
This course is great because African-American Studies is great, but it definitely doesn't do the most with what it's got. Some lectures are unorganized and some readings are dry. But the assignments and assessments are no sweat, and the subject matter itself is fascinating and important.
This class has a lot of reading, and you should at least skim each piece. However, it is possible to get away with not doing much if you pay attention closely in lecture.
You learn a lot about the problems of the African American community; however, the work can get very tedious and redundant.
A great broad overview to African-American studies; if you're already a bit experienced in this field, might not be the class for you. Great readings.
This course is fantastic! The lectures are interesting and engaging. The workload is not too demanding, but you will still leave the course with a thorough understanding of the key debates in African American history.
This is a great class if you want to learn more about African American history in a lot more detail than you would get in ordinary textbooks.
Take this course only if you have an interest in the material, not if you want to just have an easy gen ed that you heard was good.
a lot of reading
TAKE THIS COURSE. if you have never taken an introductory course to AfAm studies, this course is really enlightening. dont let the syllabus scare you with the amount of readings. They're not bad and go by really fast.
Lectures are unnecessary to attend. Do the blog posts and study for the mid term and final, because they are picky on quote IDs.
Go to lectures to get more out of each weeks content then just the assigned readings.
Take this course if you want to speak to race relations in America. Very important
This is a well-taught, well-structured, good class on an extremely important topic! If you are at all interested in African American life (which you should be as a citizen), this course will open your mind to truths you never thought of, and will change the way you view our nation sociologically.
In this class, you will learn a lot about the history of African Americans in the U.S. It is pretty interesting!
You must take this class if you are a Harvard Undergraduate. Your eyes will truly be opened to the history of America, plus it doesn't hurt that you'll be taught by some of the greatest historians on earth!
Most definitely take this course! You will learn the fundamentals of black American history as well as how the black community stands in the U.S. today.
It's a wonderful class! Lectures are a joy to go to and the reading assignments are really interesting. The discussions that happened in the section blog posts were so helpful.
great class, readings are great, very manageable and challenges you to think about current state of race relations
Learned a lot, but theres so much reading and the exams are challenging.
This is a phenomenal class- Professor Gates and Professor Bobo are brilliant and great lectures. A wide range of really great lecturers also join the course. There can be a lot of readings but I found them all useful and interesting and did not ever feel like I was wasting my time. I honestly think all undergraduate student should take this course.
It is a great class to take as you learn from the best about the best and worst parts of American tradition.
Take it; it's not hard, and you learn a lot.
This is a class all Harvard students should take. Despite its flaws, it's important and enjoyable.
This is an extremely fun class and very interesting.
A great class to fulfill the US in the World gen ed.  If you are interested in history but have not yet experienced sociology, I highly recommend this class because it both feels like a history class but introduces you to sociological thought and material.  The lecturers, Gates and Bobo, are fantastic and very enthusiastic about the material.  The course also is extremely relevant to current events and shows you different sides of debates that you may not have considered or even regarded.  The essays are manageable (depending on your TF I would assume) and only requires you to use a few readings so you can get by with not doing the readings.  However, the midterm had quotes from certain works and you had to identify the author, title, and year so I would advise doing the readings unless you know the general gist of the writings of each of the figures covered in class.  Take it!
This course is pretty easy, but there is a lot of reading. The professors are awesome, the only knock is how the TFs grade most of your things individually; this is cool if you have a homie for a TF, but sucks if your TF grades harder.
I really liked this class, but I wish I had put more effort into it. If you take it, I think the only way you'll get a lot out of it is if you actively do the readings and attend every lecture. The content is so important and the course is so well-taught that it's worth it to put in a lot of time and effort. Try to make sure you get a TF who actually knows what they're doing, i.e., get someone who's actually studying African American Studies or socoiology or something. My TF was nice, but not at all familiar with the course content or AfAm Studies in general, and it usually seemed like my classmates knew more than she did.
TAKE SCOTTS SECTION IF YOU CAN HES BOSS
This is a fantastic class that I really, really enjoyed. It is super super low workload and not very hard, and also really interesting and I learned a lot. I truly felt that I expanded by awareness and became a better person because of this class. The things it teaches you about (African American history and experience up to the present day) are things that every single person should know about and be aware of. It is not hard, it is enjoyable, and it is important. This class is great. Professor Gates is one of the top 2 lecturers I've had at Harvard (I'm a senior).
Please take this class. You will learn so much about American history--the type of history that is completely omitted everywhere else. Especially in today's national climate, having a good understanding of black people's struggles in America over the past 4 centuries is crucial. You also have the chance to do readings from great black thinkers who you never hear about. My only critique of the class is you don't really read about black women, who actually played a huge role in the Civil Rights movement! And black feminist literature is a very important genre, but it isn't really touched upon.
This is an awesome course. Take this course even (especially) if you have no background with racial issues. You'll cover a lot of interesting topics, get into awkward but informative debates and do some powerful readings (though not too many, don't worry about workload). Plus, the lectures are great. Everyone applauds after every single one, which should tell you something.
Be prepared to not have an opinion.
interesting material but not a lot of personal attention
For the first half of the course with Gates, you can get away with doing less reading since it is geared to prepare for the first paper. The second half with Bob, however, requires you do most of them, since the final paper and exam cover this entire part of the course, with little mention of the initial material.
This class is eye-opening and important! Take it!
This class is worth it just to hear such accomplished scholars as Henry Louis Gates and Larry Bobo! They are both so knowledgeable and also incredibly funny! The readings are very manageable and the overall courseload is pretty light. The topics covered are extremely interesting and serve as an important general introduction to a people integral to this country. This class is far from perfect but I think the teaching staff will continue to take feedback into account in order to make it better. I'd say this is one of those classes that everyone should take before they leave Harvard!
The lectures are amazing and you learn a lot of valuable knowledge that informs your thoughts as a citizen. This would be a good class to add to a heavy course load/
Take this class if you know nothing about African American history/politics/social thought (or if you want a really easy, somewhat boring cruise through the semester).
Shockingly easy course. Lot of interesting subjects. The hardest part was the numerous small assignments.
The professors are incredible, and the material is fascinating.
It's a good class with a reasonable workload. There are two 3-5 page papers, weekly blog posts that seem to be graded on participation, one hour long midterm, and one 3 hour final. The one difficulty is that the readings can be long and hard to get through, and the many guest lecturers aren't always great. Also, Gates' lectures are difficult to follow as he doesn't actually put text on his screens, just pictures with names and no dates, even though we need to memorize those facts. Overall, though, it's a fascinating class with a critically important focus
The class is a good class, but your TF can make or break your experience. The class will open your eyes and mind though about the black diaspora.
You will learn so much in this class, and the professors are amazing!
It's super interesting and Professor Gates gives amazing lectures that are super engaging.  The readings aren't too hard and you can get by pretty well by just skimming a few of them each week and going to lecture, but if you're really interested in the class the readings are awesome.
take this class, it is a good US and the world and it is also very interesting. some of the best debates and discussions i have ever had in section were in this class
Get a study group! There are a lot of readings and no way for you to read them all by yourself. Honestly, if you go to lecture and try as much as possible to keep up with the readings, you will be fine.
This course is absolutely amazing. The best part is that it's taught in terms of historical/modern-day debates, so when each issue is taught, both sides are presented.
This class functions very well and you will learn a lot. However, they are unpredictable in their grading, in their emphasis on readings, and in their assignment of readings. You learn a lot, but it does not reward you for learning. It (grading-wise) punishes you for not knowing specific details or remembering a name or quote or fact of the thousands you are expected to know.
AfAm 10 is excellent, not just for those interested in AAAS, but those interested in economic and social policy largely. It has a clear left-wing bias, but, at least for me, it was great to hear some of the arguments from that side of the ideological spectrum. Professors Gates and Bobo are two of the most astute and inspiring lecturers I've encountered. Additionally, they provided exciting and witty commentary that made lecture one of the highlights of my week.
This course is a decent and fairly interesting overview of African-American history, though it attempts to cover too much in a too superficial way. The first half is largely history-based, much of which will be familiar from high school American history, and the second half moves into more interesting and recent history of race in America. The course is framed by a series of debates, which offer a good framework, and the readings are really great, but it doesn't seem like very many people do them, or all of them because it's not really necessary to. Overall fairly easy class that is somewhat interesting but feels like it could be a lot better. A decent way to fulfill the USW gen ed, but your experience will vary by your section.
This is a great course. The lectures are very engaging and the professors have narrowed the syllabus down to the perfect amount of reading, compared to previous years. If you don't have any background in AAAS, this course will probably profoundly change the way you view American culture. Professor Gates and Professor Bobo are a strong team, who balance one another out. As a senior I haven't been in another course (especially not a Gen Ed) with this kind of positive energy.
Absorb the material and the experience of learning from the best.
Great course. You will enjoy your semester with Gates and Bobo
I really enjoyed class discussions in section, but sometimes I feel like "unpopular" opinions would get you flamed and make people afraid to speak up in section, which kind of defeats the purpose of having open discussions. But it's great to learn from esteemed professors who know a lot about African American studies.
It is the best course I have taken while attending Harvard.
I really liked profssors Bobo and Gates. They have such personality. I found the weekly lecture topics to be really interesting and there is something for everyone, with topics ranging from the history of slavery, rap, and education.
It's a very good class. The lecturers are great and the themes interesting and important today. It's a little harder if you weren't schooled in the States, but it's definitely worth it to do the extra reading so that you are up to speed on historical knowledge that is assumed. Same with all US/W really...
Every person should know about the debates discussed in this class.
This was a good course. Quite a bit of reading (although you can do just fine without doing it all), but most of it is interesting. It very well encapsulated the experience of being African American in the United States, past and present, and it brought forward several issues I didn't know existed. So if you're looking to learn about the African American experience, take this course. It'll put a lot of what's happening today in context.One complaint would be the lectures. Oftentimes the professor (esp. Professor Bobo) would read his notes aloud (which seem to be written like a textbook) rather than speaking extemporaneously to the class, which made for long sentences and difficult to follow ideas. Oftentimes the slides would only have a quote or photo on them, which made it even harder to follow (there was nothing to look at if you got lost). The guest lectures didn't do this though, and those were easier to follow and more enjoyable.My second complaint concerns section. A lot of time it focused on the blog posts rather than the material from lecture and the readings. This made studying for the exams a bit difficult sometimes.Overall though, great class. Learned a lot.
This class should be taken by ALL undergraduates.
This course is certainly a course I would recommend to anyone looking to expand their knowledge and understanding of the complicated history and issues facing the Black community. Lectures can be a bit much, sections are a hail mary, blog posts are the bane of my existence and grading is all over the place, so prepare yourself for that. If you can't stand disorganization in a class, then this isn't the class for you. If you are willing to roll with the punches a bit and really delve into the great pit of Black American history, then this is the class for you. In all honesty, its all about what you put in to the class. You can most certainly get away with going to zero lectures, and cramming for readings before papers/exams and do fairly decently, so if that's your style, then this class will work for you. Just beware that deadlines and slightly random assignments are closer than they appear and those blog posts get tiring real quick.
It is very liberal.
If you want a deeper understanding about the issues that people are protesting, rioting, and arguing in the media about every day, take this class. Especially if you have not had any exposure to this material before, it will do wonders for your contextual understanding of why these things are such a big deal.
Great class! Would strongly recommend it. I actually took it pass/fail and it was a great decision.
I'd always wanted to try an AAAS class, and I'm so happy I took this one! Prof Gates gives great lectures, and the material learned in the course is so relevant to current events and helpful in considering many of the important racial and social trends happening today. Workload is pretty light (they cut back on readings, and besides midterm/final there are only two short papers and short weekly blog posts). Basically, this course does not require too much time, but you learn so much - take it! And go to lecture, the professors are always making amusing jokes.
take this if you plan on living in this multi-cultural country or any other for that matter
It is important to take an ethnic studies class of some sort during your time at Harvard, and this is a great option!  The Af Am department is one of the best of its kind and Prof. Gates (a writer and literary scholar) and Bobo (a sociologist) do a good job dividing up the course to provide a  interdisciplinary introduction to the field.  Be warned that even though this class is a gen ed it can be challenging as it is very much based on knowledge of the readings.  Having done them, I can say that this will probably be one of the classes I look back upon and think of as one of the most important classes I have taken - It gives you an enhanced understanding of American history and contemporary cultural and political landscape.
It's amazing!
Take this course. Especially if you're white because it will change the way you think.
This is an excellent way to fulfill your US in the World Gen Ed while engaging with a rich and meaningful literature.
