If you want a unique course in an up-and-coming field, TAKE THIS CLASS! I thoroughly enjoyed the subject matter and in-class discussions, and Doris and Alejandro are a dream team. The amount of reading can get pretty substantial, so make sure to plan for it in advance. Also, if the idea of studying issues surrounding Afro-Latin America doesn't sound appealing to you and you're thinking about taking this for an easy A, look elsewhere. I loved it because I find Afro-Latin America interesting, but I could see how it could start to bore you if you weren't enthralled by the subject matter to begin with.
This is one of the few courses at Harvard that addresses the history and culture of Latin America!
The professors and discussions are amazing! The reading can get heavy at times, so be prepared to set time aside for that, but besides that there are only shot weekly posted discussions and a big final paper. The professors pick amazing literature, poems, and images.  Very free style discussion, lots of fun.
I think the most important part of this class was the way it taught me to think about issues of race. I would recommend this class to anyone but I think whoever chooses to take it should genuinely feel compelled to read and think about the texts provided. The class did not require much work on a weekly basis but everyone who came into class was prepared to question and discuss all of the texts. I think this course is really important!
The class is run as a discussion mediated by the professors rather than controlled by them and if you do the readings it can turn into a wonderful debate between students who are passionate about the topic.
Coming from a science background, I wasn't sure what I'd think about this class. However, it ended up being one of my favorite classes! I think as long as you have an interest in Afro-Latin America, you will enjoy the class. I had an interest, but very little background and I learned so much from this class. There is a mix of readings of different genres coming from writers of different disciplines, so I enjoyed that. Plus, there is art. It's a quite a reading-intensive course, but the syllabus accounts for that. The readings are interesting and different from what I am used to, so I enjoyed them. I think issues of Afro-Latin America are already interesting in themselves, but a lot of the themes concerning race, gender and class can be even more insightful when comparing it to the United States. I think creating more classes concerning Afro-Latin America would be an amazing idea with this class being an intro course. Even though I'm graduating, I hope they introduce more courses in the future. The professors were so intelligent and insightful; it was so interesting to see their choreography as they come from different backgrounds. Each lecture really had an a-ha moment and it really made you engage closely with the readings and broader themes concerning Afro-Latin America and nation-building. The conversations/counterpoints really challenge you in a meaningful and engaging manner. Take the class if you have any interest in the material. I watched the first movie on the syllabus and read some of the readings during shopping period. If those pique your interest, take the class. You won't regret it!
This course is an absolutely unique learning experience at Harvard. Your skills as an analytical thinker and in interactions with a variety of different types of texts will improve as a result of incredible teaching and feedback. In addition, the material will alter how you think about the world, give you perspective, teach you about things you won't get to learn anywhere else at Harvard, and is completely relevant to today's world.
