This is one of the best electives I've taken at Harvard. Professor Rivers is a fantastic facilitator for student-led discussions that are thoughtful, respectful, and rigorous. The workload is appropriate, but not overburdensome. It was my first AAAS class at Harvard, and this class left me only wishing I had taken more.
This is a very good class - it's tough, but the course material can be interesting if you do the readings. You're expected to be very on top of the information!
This is a great course! Professor Cooke-Rivers obviously knows so much about the topic and is incredibly passionate about translating the knowledge to her students. If you have any interest in the history of black education in the U.S., this is the perfect course.
If you want to become more aware of the history, research, and debate revolving Quinn's the racial achievement gap I would definitely recommend this course. The work load is definitely manageable but make sure you are ready to devote time to really know readings and to meaningfully draft papers as Dr. Rivers does very critically reviews papers and gives meaningful fecal. I also appreciated her willingness to really help students draft papers.
This course was not exactly what I had expected but was definitely a great course overall, especially considering this is its first run. Professor Cooke-Rivers is welcoming, sharpe, and knowledgeable. You will learn a sufficient deal of the history of Blacks in America and their (continued) struggle for education, which is such a central strand of Blacks' struggles for freedom in America. I feel the course could have incorporated more contemporary/critical cultural analyses of race/power/institutions/etc., however that is not to say that such material was not a part of the course. Overall, I highly recommend the class!
Professor Rivers is fantastic - her tremendous knowledge and passion are evident at all times. She thinks critically about how to make each seminar meeting engaging and thought-provoking. The workload is manageable, and the materials are quite interesting. I would definitely recommend the course to anyone interested in education, race, or the intersection of both.
This class had a lot of engaging and relevant readings, a great group of students, and a professor who was skilled at provoking and guiding discussion, leading to dynamic and engaging class meetings. I recommend with reservations because I felt like the written assignments were exhausting and a bit boring, with the exception of the research paper, which was a fun opportunity to explore a new topic.
