If you're interested in Africa, I think this might be the best course at the school. Little workload with incredibly high quality discussion, and an experience of interaction between working academics.
If you want to challenge yourself and learn more about contemporary Africa from a million angles but don't want to jeopardize your GPA, this is the class for you.
I can't recommend it highly enough!
Very engaging and theoretically provocative, this is a course that helps you ask big questions about Africa and beyond.
I think that senior undergraduates who have had past experience working on the African continent, and who are familiar with the pace of a graduate class would do well in this course.
Jean and John are amazing professors! If you're interested in African anthropology, you'll love this course. Even though they're celebrity professors (at least I consider them to be such), they're the most kind and warm I've met here at Harvard. Feel very free to reach out to them; they are always happy to give of their time and listen. If I could take this course all over again, I definitely would!
It was a pleasure to take a course with the Comaroffs. They are extremely brilliant yet have the ability to make sure that everyone knows their ideas are valid and valued. They created a great learning environment by having students present on the papers every week and thus taking greater ownership of their ideas.
The Comaroffs are amazing people and professors! They are so brilliant and enthused about the subject material and it shines through the lectures and conversations. The course has minimal readings and work but it does require extensive discussions and thought to work through the weekly articles. Doing so, however, makes the course worthwhile and fosters a fabulous learning environment. The opportunity to interact with the authors of the articles discussed in class is an element unknown to most other courses at Harvard. Relish it.
At times, the discussions will go over your head, whether it because of the eloquent graduate students or discussion style of the Comaroffs, but it was undoubtedly one of my favorite courses this semester. I learned about so many topics and a lot of which I had no interest in whatsoever before the course. Take the course if you want to engage in discussion, but if you want an easy course.
I wish there was a little bit more of a structure/holistic perspective on the class. It would have made the discussions much more interesting if we were drawing connections from week to week.
Recommended to those who have a passion for engaging and understanding Africa Rising? in a board spectrum of perspective as well as a reflection on our globalized world, and a view on society from another lens.
This class is an excellent way to get an idea of what the current topics of interest are in African Studiesfrom work in progress papers that will be published in the upcoming yearin a range of disciplines. The workload outside of class is relatively light, which allows for a deep reading of weekly papers and productive class conversations. There is a lot of flexibility around the final paper topic as well, allowing students to apply their own research interests to select themes in the course.
This is an incredibly class. John and Jean are an amazing tag team duo who really know their stuff and convey it with more enthusiasm than most. The class requires 1 reading a week (30-40 pages) which is then discussed in depth in class and at a seminar later that evening. One final paper on a subject of your choice and some background reading throughout the semester.Great class - I learned an immense amount and would highly recommend it to anyone
This class is a low-workload, high-interesting unique experience with the Comaroff professors, who are absolute giants in their fields. While not a survey of Africa at all, it makes bits and pieces of the continent come to life, and it's a great group of people.
Absolutely! Learned a lot and wasn't too difficult.
If you're considering this course, I would highly recommend it! One of my favorite courses thus far.
This class is a gem. The professors are some of the foremost experts in their field, and coming from a place where I had no background in the subject matter, they immediately sparked my interest in it. The discussions are always thought-provoking, and while the readers were sometimes too niche or specific to be super interesting, John and Jean (not to mention the authors, who you always meet several hours after class for a Q&A) find ways to show the importance of every detail--and do so remarkably well. Not a lot of work, super interesting course, TAKE THIS GEM!
If you take one course during your time at Harvard, take this course.. I cannot explain how much I and every single person I know loved it. The Comaroffs are so inspiring, it isn't much work, it's very low time commitment. This course is an opportunity to grow your mind without expending a lot of energy, all you need to do is read the papers each week and come to class ready to discuss. Cannot recommend enough.
This course is a phenomenal way to learn about fascinating topics from Jean and John, who are incredibly caring and intelligent. If you are at all interested in learning more about Africa, would highly recommend, whether or not you have previous anthropology experience.
Awesome course. Prof. John and Jean Comaroff are just brilliant, and they are so friendly, understanding and helpful. Truly role models. The course has a very interesting structure, every week you read a paper, then the author comes and discusses the paper with a discussant, and you get to ask them questions. If you are thinking of pursuing academia at any point in your life, this is a great opportunity to see what types of things you will be doing in the future!
There were some problems, chiefly that the professors spoke for way too long at the beginning of class, which restricted the discussion and took up most of class time. The lack of feedback before the paper was also worrying given that it was our only grade in the entire course. I also felt like using a title from an Economist article and then including no history, economics, or political science papers in a supposedly interdisciplinary course on modern Africa was a bit of a bait and switch. I also felt like it was hard to disagree with the overarching dislike of economists and the West or to talk about how bad some of the governments are in Africa. I also felt like the microphones during the workshop were imposing and stopped people from participating. John also repeatedly seemed to quote misleading or possibly false statistics, such as  "29% of all currency is counterfeit" and there are 7.7 quadrillion lying in unused bank accounts offshore. There was also way more literary theory than I would have liked, but this seemed to be a surprise to John and Jean as well, or at least it was abnormal. The professors and panelists all repeatedly voiced their hatred for economists with some panelists saying, I was afraid when you said an economist was going to ask a question about my paper. I feel like some disagreements between disciplines is fine, but openly insulting them does not lead to a nice environment. The workshop structure of critiquing papers and the writing process seemed much more for graduate students and people seeking to be africanists than for students just interested in the topic. I liked that this was a discussion course on topics that are not studied enough in other departments at Harvard. I felt like it also attracted a very interesting group of students from different schools and backgrounds, which led to interesting discussions. The eclectic mix of papers also really made this a unique course.
Jean and John are individuals with immense enthusiasm for what they teach. If you are looking for a passion, this is a class to help you find one.
-Incredibly fascinating and relevant material with two of the most laid-back and engaging, yet thoughtful and intellectually intense professors you can find. It is great for challenging the traditional way you in which you think about things.
Fantastic class to take just because you're interested in Africa. Great, thought provoking content, and the format of a paper from a different author each week, who then comes in to workshop, is really special. Jean and John are also both just wonderful, intelligent, thoughtful human beings. Take this class.
This is an amazing class. It's rare to be able to interact with established professors who have a very sharp sense about their subject. The discussions are enriching and it's impossible not to have a good time taking the class.
I enthusiastically recommend everything taught by the Comaroffs. Africa Rising, Anthropology of Law, and Social Theory have been the intellectual highlights of my time at Harvard. Throughout all three courses, I have been consistently engaged and challenged and feel that Ive learned valuable new ways to analyze economic, legal, political, medical, and social issues. Even more importantly, John and Jean are awesomely brilliant and supportive.
