This class is amazing - a hidden gem!
It's a fantastic way to expand your musical sensibility and to gain an appreciation of music as a product of its time.
A great introduction to the music and its pioneers. A fun elective!
The course was a fun way to engage in interesting subject material.  The classroom atmosphere was relaxed, yet students were able to learn a lot at the same time.
Have fun
Take it! It is so informative, and SO much fun.
Favorite class taken so far.
I recommend this class for anyone.  Whether you are a fan of modern urban music and want to learn about artistic back story of that music, whether you are interested in the social relevance of black art, or whether you do not know much about black popular music and are looking for something completely new, this course can satisfy all those needs.
Professor Monson is the best!
All I wanted to do was dance and celebrate the Music. The rest of the class seemed very frigid. Passion for music will be quelled by the academizing.
awesome if you are interested in learning more about R&B, soul, and funk music!
It's not that easy.
If you write your papers on something that is interesting to you, it will be easy and seem like no work at all.  Plus listening to the great music is awesome.
Lecture is exceedingly boring, but the assignments are fairly easy, and fun to write if you enjoy music of the type covered in the course.
very easy yet somewhat disappointing class....i just expected more of an learning experience. basically, you get what you put in, and after the first few lectures, i put in minimal effort
This class is definitely unique. It's a very easy gen ed, but is also not the most stimulating or enlightening. Basically, class is spent listening to Prof Monson read off of a piece of paper and play some songs. That said, going to lecture isn't necessary to doing well in the class. For most of the class I felt like Prof. Monson had a fairly sophisticated understanding of the music, but lacked appropriate cultural and contemporary context. Many times she awkwardly asked black students if they felt "inauthentic" because they came to Harvard...not even sure what that's supposed to mean. I also think she missed the point of a lot of the black music we listened to, in terms of her interpretation of the lyrics and messages. Really anything past the 90s, I don't think she really understood. That being said, she is definitely passionate about the class...just a bit misguided.
This course is a painless way to get a gen ed requirement out of the way, and the material can be interesting if you really delve into it. However, you may find that lecture is a little underwhelming at times.
The lectures were great and even when I didn't really take notes I always went just because I liked it.
Great class - lecture is basically chilling for an hour twice a week and listening to some sweet tunes. You also learn some cool things about music you've listened to your whole life that makes you see it in a whole new way, which is pretty awesome too
This was a great class for me because I had an amazing TF, so section was thought-provoking and assignments were graded fairly. Lecture was a bit dull, but the music was great. The readings are interesting, and I definitely wish I had done more of them.
This class has an interesting topic, but the lectures are not given in a way that is engaging. Don't expect this class to be any near how great the topic is.
loved the material that this class had to offer, but about half way through the semester the lectures started to seem irrelevant. a great gen-ed if you are interested in r&b
The materials for this class are great. The music is fantastic.
A great course. Professon Monson's lectures are great - you get to listen to a lot of music. This course will change the way you listen to music.
I got out of this course exactly what I expected - a whole new repertoire of great music to listen to that I otherwise would not have been exposed to, as well as several main themes and frameworks about African American music (authenticity, social consciousness in music, etc.) In that sense I can't say I'm disappointed. The course is fun. However, personally I feel that Monson's lectures raise analytical issues about the music we are studying, but not consistently enough and not in enough depth(ex. not enough about how MJ, Usher, and R.Kelly's music connect to the central themes of the course). My TF Sarah was excellent and will fill in the blanks on the academic side of the course that Monson sometimes leaves.
If you need an easy A&I, you could do worse. Did not get much out of the class, but didn't put much into it.
The material is interesting, but the lectures were often very dry and unengaging. After a while, people just did not come to lecture anymore. If you want to learn more about black music, take the class. It is an easy way to fulfill Culture & Belief or Aesthetic & Interpretive Reasoning.
The workload is very light, the material is interesting, section discussions are engaging and lectures are fun. What more could you ask for to take up that last spot on your study card? Enjoyable lectures and readings make you look forward to them, but you can still do very well without doing any of the readings or going to any of the lectures.
Even if you're only a fan of a few of the artists featured, you'll enjoy this class. You're given a lot of freedom in choosing the topics of your assignments. Light workload.
The music is incredible, but I didn't end up feeling like I got a lot out of the course. Very, very easy and low time commitment, but there are more interesting ways to do both Gen Eds.
This course was incredible! Not only was the material really interesting-you leaned about the history of music...but it was also so easy! In class you listen to music and all you have are two papers and a final project (as well as some section assignments, but those aren't bad at all). This is a great life course-great for cocktail parties and to enhance your overall interest in music. I highly highly recommend this course!
The class has the potential to be very interesting, especially with the topics covered, but fails to be engaging enough to be interesting enough.
Fun class, interesting topic, enthusiastic teacher, fun essays.
The material, music and musicians, from Sam Cooke to Alicia Keys, is just incredible. But the lectures  try too hard to make the class easy. I didn't learn anything about a subject which I was really excited about. Take it if you need a filler course, but be prepared to be frustrated, because really, we're all nerds here and we want more than watching music videos in lecture every class
Chill but make sure you get a good TF because they have unduly influence on your section experience. Monson is awesome and has no reserves, which makes her an authentic and genuinely honest lecturer.
Lectures aren't worth going to. Professor tries to make them interactive (especially in the end) but most of the time it ends up being a reading of text/notes. Most readings are interesting if you decide to read them (though you don't need to). Grading on assignments are dependent on your TF but they shouldn't take long at all (bulk of work: 2 short papers and 1 final project). Interesting topic, chill workload, but uncertain grading.
take this class its fun!
Lecture sucks.
This is a very fun class and a good way to better understand the significance of African American music on American pop culture.
The lectures can be very boring; however, you will be introduced to so much good music. Keep in mind there is a final project involved that can become quite time consuming.
Boring lectures where the professor exclusively reads off of the slides/notes, doesn't even sound like she's trying to be original. Material can be interesting but only if you already have a real interest in music.
Although Monson's lecture style isn't always engaging, the content of this class made it one of the most interesting I have taken at Harvard. If you grew up loving hip hop, gospel, and blues, it is incredibly enlightening to understand the social context in which they developed and, in turn, the movements that they helped foster. Also, Scott Poulson-Bryant (TF) is the man.
If you like old time R&B music, this is a great course.
This is a great course for students looking for more knowledge on popular music and its roots
chill gened
Take this class if you want an easy gen ed with good music and little to no work.
It's a great and exciting course. The most important work you have to do is listen through the assigned music which happens to be very very good.
This class welcomes sheer interest in African American music, and arms you with knowledge of the context that provided the room and inspiration for Black music.
If you do not know much about this type of music, that is all the more reason to take this course. It was very educational and engaging and I think would be enjoyable for people with all musical tastes and backgrounds!
Take this course if you are looking for an easy gen-ed that requires little to no work. The content is very interesting, the lectures are literally pointless (you get all you need from the readings). I got through the course without too much difficulty, without going to a lecture since Oct 10.
very interesting and different than typical course.
There is more reading than you really want to devote to a class about music.
The assignments are totally manageable. The readings are interesting and you are also exposed to awesome music. This is a great course to satisfy a gen-ed. I got love for Ingrid, which is why I highly recommend this course.
Good class overall. Great way to discover old music you never knew
I thought this course offered an in-depth look at some of the most popular music of all time. It also provided a great theoretical framework to place some of the most pressing issues facing black artists and also black issues of the time
I think the course is cool because you get exposed to a lot of different artists and music that defined black music and culture in the 20th century. Its also a good mix of music, history, and politics at times. I would say though that the lecturing is a bit disorganized at times even though the professor is really smart.
This is a fun class but the assignments can pretty tough.
This class gives you an opportunity to listen to a lot of great music that you probably wouldn't be able to hear in any other Harvard course. That's the main strength of this class. Lecture is not engaging and is pretty much a biography lesson on each artist (and mainly repeats information from the readings, making it pointless to do them), and doesn't really delve deeply into AfAm topics and ideas. But the music is great, and it's a low stress course, so consider taking it for those reasons.
The class really started off strong but died down quickly. It became very bland as we ran out of material to study and talk about. The section component was very good and Charisse was an amazing TF.
It's really interesting to learn about the ways in which history and music feed off each other. It's a really manageable way to get your gened for AIU
This class is a really fun class if you come to lectures and engage yourself and get outside your comfort zone a little bit.  It provides some very interesting information as well
This class is amazing! The subject matter is very interesting. The music we cover is fun and Monson is an effective lecturer who really tries to engage everyone in the discussion. The workload is reasonable. There are two essays, a final project, and multiple weekly section assignments.
It isn't hard and you will leave with an expanded music library. It can feel too much like a music class rather than a class in AAAS but you do get to talk about the cultural issues.
This class is a great way to learn about the history of African American music and a lot of the relevant social-political issues surrounding this music. Section can be a great way to oppenly discuss about issues addressed in class and overall you could come out of this class having learned a lot. You do however have to invest a fair amount of time doing the assigned readings and listenings for the class and lectures can be a bit repetitive when it comes to the content you've covered in the readings.
Definitely take this course! You learn so much about music and the social implications of the course content are also interesting. Very low workload. A great gen ed.
It was a great class that provides a different perspective to popular music (both classics and more contemporary) that many of us have enjoyed for years but didn't know much about. It definitely gives you the tools to be able to analyze the music that you listen to and the songs that you know from before and apply an opinion about their impact/messages. I would recommend it since it additionally exposes students to the significant influence African American artists have had on popular music. Plus, the music we listen to is truly enjoyable and interesting to learn about.
This is a fun class that fulfills the Culture & Belief gen ed. It was sometimes hard to go to lecture because of the light-hearted content. Also, Professor Monson's lectures are sometimes disorganized and disappointing. Definitely taught me how to better analyze pop music, though, and pointed out interesting aspects of songs/artists to listen for.
Great class with great music
Take this class along with a load of harder classes.
The class is just a ton of fun. you learn a lot.
So, I can honestly say that if I hadn't had my TF Charrise Barron that this class would have been ridiculously bad. Here is the lowdown: the Professor's lectures are monotone and she has overstepped on MULTIPLE occasions her position as a 'black ally.' The readings and musical selections became irrelevant to my life by week 3, and lectures as well honestly. Basically, this is a class you take for an easy A, to get a couple new classic songs on your iPod, and laugh in lecture at how awkward it is. This class has sooooo much potential, but being real the Professor is holding it back. So don't take this class if you are looking for some deep, life-changing course (mind you IT CAN be that for you if put in the work), but do take this class if you are looking for something light and enjoyable to do with an easy workload.
Take this class. You will learn about of very interesting information.
I cannot begin to express my complete and utter contempt for this course.  I will start by saying one positive thing- Professor Monson is sweet and knowledgable about her stuff.  Everything else about this course was a total nightmare and something I have never experienced in my 3 years at Harvard (and I have taken LS1B). First, lectures are terrible. Monson is not good at lecturing to a large class, it's literally read from paper. Second, there is literally no point in the lectures anyways because all of your grade comes from papers that are unrelated to lectures and arbitrary section assignments.  Third, section was the most miserable experience I've ever had.  Discussions were entirely uncomfortable as apparently nobody, INCLUDING THE TF, is able to talk about race openly. My friends and I were afraid to speak in section since if our TF disagreed with us she would drill us as if to make a point that we said something racist. It was the most unprofessional thing I've ever seen, and frankly, the topics we were discussing shouldn't have even been that controversial.  Fourth, the course organization was abhorrent.  There was no connect between section and lectures, yet pretty much your entire grade comes from section. Along with this lack of organization was a disconnect in expectations.  Expectations differed from TF to TF and from TF to Professor.  Heck, even my own TF changed her own expectations at whim.  Students start receiving check minuses for writing more than 3 lines to a bullet point or for "writing too much" in response papers, without warning beforehand.  Fifth, feedback and accessibility was terrible.  It took literally a month to get papers back, and 2-3 weeks to get a one-page response paper back.  I had not received a single grade before the WITHDRAW DEADLINE, not even the add/drop deadline. Don't take this class, save yourself the frustration and misery.
The grading is not what you expect and the lectures are basically biographies. Not really relevant and you do not talk about the actual struggle.
There's no other way to put it, lecture was really boring, but take this class for the section component. My section delivered what lecture failed to do. We were able to really get a better understanding of the material. Section and lecture were really disjointed and I often felt that going to lecture was not even necessary for completing the assignments or for having fruitful section discussions
As a soul and blues junkie, this class was a dream. I teared up several times the first week of classes as some of my favorite Sam Cooke and Aretha Franklin songs were played. But overall, it was a big disappointment. The teachers didn't have the spunk and charisma that the teaching of this music genre necessitates.
This class is not great and not bad. The lectures leave a lot to be desired and there is a lot of inconsistency among the TFs in terms of familiarity with the topic, assignments, focus and grading. That being said, the music the class studies can't be beat.
This, was THE class.
This class has a very manageable and easy course load. Grading is a bit ambiguous, though, and there's no chance to learn from your mistakes to improve in the next essay/project since each one is very different. Lectures have a lot of great music!
This course really depends on your TF.
I think if you and your classmates are more active participants in the course, you might get more out of it. The class really hinges on how much you put into it. Lectures were a bit boring, like listening to a wikipedia article, which is frustrating, because Prof. Monson is clearly SO knowledgeable about the music, but seemed to be super concerned about making it accessible to everyone without a musical background. I think if that was more a part of the course, that would make it more interesting and challenging and enjoyable.
I found it to be an interesting subject made boring by teaching.
Work hard, and you will be rewarded.
Unless you absolutely love popular music, this course will be tough to remain interested in.
Take this class if you are very interested in cultural studies and music history.  The class is not very difficult.  If you do take it, I suggest you do all of the reading and listening assignments, and then go on and read more.  Also, take advantage of Professor Monson's office hours.  If you go above and beyond what is assigned you will take alot away from this course.
This is a relatively easy and interesting class to fulfill the A&I gen ed requirement.
This class is great for learning the background of R&B/Soul.
If you are interested in Black popular music, take this class.
The lectures aren't always the most interesting thing in the world, but its definitely an easy gen ed credit. You get to listen to a lot of great music, have some great section discussions while gaining a new appreciation for a lot of these artists and the musical process and pressures they have to endure.
This had the potential to be an amazing class but fell short. While Professor Monson is very knowledgeable, her lectures were mostly uninteresting and she didn't feature enough music from the artists we were studying.
if you like music you will like this course
Don't expect to get much from lecture but if you're interested in the subject matter you can get a lot from section.
You'll get out what you put in. No midterms or finals, but papers are graded ambiguously and often unfairly. Lectures are cringe-inducing and you won't even bother attending after Shopping Week you'll be so disappointed in the lectures (and yourself, for choosing this class). But then your pre-med friends will be dying in mid-October and you'll have a 4-pg paper and it won't seem so bad. Same thing around December. So, take this class if you're a) a first-year who will actually go to class and get something out of it or b) anyone else in need of a Gen-Ed gem.
This course requires so little work that it might be worth taking it despite how badly run and disappointing it is.
Take it but don't expect an interesting lecture.  All you glean should be from readings on your own and just listening to the music on your own.  Lecture is really not worth half the time you put into it.
It's fun, relaxed, the music is fantastic.  Most people (myself included) did not always do the readings or go to lecture, but there's still a good amount you can get out of the course.
I loved this class and recommend it to anyone! The music is excellent, the material is compelling, and the discussions and section assignments are extremely interesting, going beyond just a summation of what happened in lecture and in the readings.
The content of this course is great. After taking AAAS 182, I became significantly more knowledgeable about both African American music and culture from mid-20th century to today. However, the lecture portion of the course can be significantly improved. Professor Monson is clearly a leading academic in the field; however, her lectures tended to be disorganized and seemed to be just her reading off of a report she had written. Nevertheless, if you are willing to follow through with all the readings in the class and attend all the lectures, you will come out of the course with a new, refreshing body of cultural knowledge.
This course is a good combination of good teaching, fun material, and not-so-hard assignments that fulfill a gen ed. Definitely take it if it fulfills a requirement.
It's a great course, and as with most courses, the luck you have with a section leader is extremely important. Monson is great, but she doesn't give great lectures. Read what she's written though. She definitely knows what she's talking about.
Lectures are useless, section is great
If you want a good gened that has awesome music and a dancing professor take this class.
It's cool to learn about new music
The course experience really depends on your section leader.
This class has one of the most informative and engaging reading/listening syllabi that I've encountered at the college. That said, I'll say that the lecture presentations are, in general, far less enriching and engaging than the assigned readings and listeningsmore summarizing and rehashing of assigned material than presenting new perspectives or arguments regarding these sources (although this is good if you don't keep up with all the readings/listenings).
It was fairly easy althought some of the readings were a bit excessive
In general, this class was terrible. Only take it if you don't have other options for gen eds. The music was great to listen to and it was mostly chill, but I would not take it again if I didn't need it for the A&I requirement.
This is a great class that offers a fresh perspective on media today and its relationship to that of the past
Its a breath of fresh air from concentration courses.
I liked this course. The course load was easy and chill. The material was fascinating, and the sections were fun too where we just got to discuss our point of view on the different types of music and their impacts.
This is a fun way to analyze a different form.  The music in this course is terrific, and the coursework is very manageable.  Be prepared for discussions of race, sexuality, and socioeconomics, and be prepared to talk more about these aspects than the music in section.  If you do the reading for this course, you will know a lot about how great music came to be, and how black art and artists have been alternatively marginalized and incorporated by greater American society.
Get up an dance any chance you get
Lecture is very boring, but the topics are sort of interesting.
This course is a great way to learn a lot more about much of the music you probably listen to.
This course isn't hard, and is a lot of fun. Even the papers are fun to write. The creative final project is also great.
Doing a group project will be a great way to get to know people, especially if it is performance based! However, if you are swamped during finals, a solo project may be the way to go since the TF requirements do vary and you might feel better planned that way.
Easy way to knock out a gen ed requirement Material is interesting if you invest the time and energy to actually read books/articles/do the listenings...but its not necessary to do well in the class.
Easiest class on the face of the earth.  Readings are interesting but it's no big deal if you don't do them.  Section / lectures are sometimes awkward (awkward silences), but good music makes up for it.
Easy class. So much potential, but it fails. I love this music, and I thought I would be taking a class that would really get into the heart and nitty gritty of all the awesome artists I have on my ipod. Beyonce and Erykah Badu. D'Angleo and Stevie Wonder. Ray Charles and Jill Scott. Michael Jackson of course. I was so excited! But class conversation both in lecture and in section was extremely limited we only ever talked about the same "oh wow gee! i didn't know elvis took music from those poor black people back in the day! gosh darn it" over and over and over again. Literally there were white people in my section still talking about how they didn't know that in the very last section. There was someone who decided to do their final essay on that. This isn't a bad thing in of itself, it's just a pretty good example of how limited this class was as a whole. Basically you stop learning after 3 weeks because from then on out they just repeat the same things and questions about cultural appropriation, black ownership, and authenticity in the black community. As a black person, these are already things I know, but I was still interested in hearing different perspectives/hearing academic discussion about these topics. However, everything always came back to Miley Cyrus and Robin Thicke and blah blah blah. Easy class, I'd take it again, but not with high expectations.
This is one of the gems of Harvard.  The material is fascinating, and is really different from your typical class that would be found at every other school in the country.  Listening to the music is great, but understanding some of the history behind the musical themes and transitions was really what made this class great.  The lectures were pretty boring, though.  Professor Monson seemed like she was just reading notes most of the time.  This class is not demanding at all, though, and the material was really interesting overall.  I actually enjoyed doing the readings for this class.
Great class, recommend it to all, section very much depends on what TF you get, but professor Munson is great.
This class sounds amazing on paper.  However, as someone who is extremely interested in music and black history, this class definitely disappointed.  It needs a different professor and a better organized way of running things to improve.  I really wanted to come from this class saying it was my favorite, and having learned a lot with my eyes opened about things that I care about, but that honestly did not happen.
Awesome, interesting, and super easy!!
This is a good course to take to complete your A&I gen ed.
Good class to get AI or CB out of the way, but you can probably find better ones for each.
Monson is a ninny, but the music is excellent. Take it.
AAAS 182 is a fun and enjoyable class! Definitely a great way to fulfill the A&I or C&B requirement. The music is nice to listen to and you also get more in-depth knowledge about what was going on during the time that this music was created. Some TFs are a little more strict in their grading than others, so make sure to get to know your TF before the first paper is due in office hours to determine what they want your paper to contain.
really good and interesting class that is pain free.
Provides an interesting venue to explore the power of music, but lectures feel like individual platforms for audience members to then launch academic exploration rather than explorations in and of themselves.
While the musical selections of this course are fantastic, the lectures are very very boring.  I would not recommend taking this class just because it is easy, because it ends up being harder as the TFs grade it too hard, and Monson's lectures just do not do it for you.  I guarantee you would fall asleep for at least one class.
Take this class if you are interested in learning about r&b and soul music. It's an easy way to fulfill a general ed credit and is not a stressful class.
This class is a great gen ed to fill A&I or C&B. It's not a ton of work, you listen to goo music, and Professor Monson is definitely enthusiastic about and knowledgable of the material. It's an interesting class with a low workload. I recommend it if you're at all interested in learning about the history of R&B and soul.
The topic is really interesting. However, the lectures were lacking. I often felt like I didn't really learn anything in lecture. That said, section is great and all the readings are thought provoking. In addition, the papers are on great topics and are enjoyable. Overall the class is easy and relatively interesting despite lectures consisting essentially of just listening to music and watching music videos.
This class is a great way to learn about the history of black music and how black music has impacted society through the years.
It was a great experience that reminded me of good music and musicians beyond my time.
This course is very easy. You can get by without doing the bulk of the readings, reading only those needed for one of the papers and specific readings for section. Lectures are great when Professor Monson plays music and talks about it from her own perspective, but they are really dry when she reads from her notes (which tends to be a lot of the time that she comments/speaks). This course has great potential, but I didn't get as much out of it as I thought I would (even knowing that I was mostly taking it to offset a difficult workload). This music of this class is really fun to listen to, though some improvements could be made to get a better understanding of the cultural and social issues surrounding the music.
A gem among gems; the lectures are mainly comprised of listening to music and studying interesting groups and artists, and sections don't demand much (a few small one-page assignments, but that's it). Definitely take if you're looking for an easy CB or AI - you won't regret it.
Do not underestimate how much work the class requires, essays can be graded meticulously.
The music is wonderful, the guest lecturers and workshops are fun, the workload is incredibly manageable.
I feel like Im not respected. Simple typos in the simplest of slideshows, 50 minute long slideshows that I could make in 2 minutes (sans exaggeration) via quick Google Image searches and a few default text boxes. The only excuse for these mistakes is dyslexia, but Im more inclined to think that it is simply carelessness, considering the rest of the evidence. Professor Monson, to be fair, has spent some time on her lectures, evidenced by the fact that they are read directly from her notes. This preparation, however, is not enough to keep her from stumbling in her lectures and sounding terribly unnatural in her speech. Despite her syllabus promise for an 80 minute class, Professor Monson cuts the class short by ten minutes (12% of the potential class time, a significant amount for the price we pay) each week for no stated reason, which is somehow both disrespectful and welcome. The lectures themselves are 50 minutes long, followed by 20 minutes of awkward discussion (which is significantly more intellectually engaging than Professor Monsons ill-formed drivel). In my best estimate, 30-35 minutes of lecture are comprised of music videos and songs, with Professor Monson dancing half-heartedly behind her podium. The videos in the slideshows are rarely of acceptable quality, if they work well at all. There were also multiple instances of Professor Monson playing multiple versions of the same song by the same artist, spending upwards of ten minutes just to tell us that live performances are different from one another.Worst class I've taken at Harvard. Steer clear unless you really just need to fill your schedule and hate learning.
This is a very fun and easy class.  If you love music, especially soul music, take this course!  The majority of lecture is spent listening to music, the assignments are easy, and the reading is interesting, but you can always get away with not doing it.
To take it.
This class is AWESOME. please take it, especially if you want to know where Lady Gaga gets her moves, why saxophone's are coming back into pop music, why Ne-yo sometimes can sound like he's in church, or why Lauryn Hill makes de-wop references. DEFINITELY take it if you're not into religion but need to fulfill a Culture & Belief. It also is a very easy class (two essays, one final project, and section assignments that are mostly just asking you to talk about something interesting you learned or evaluate a Youtube video), so you'll have a lot of fun with it and going to lecture will be something you look forward to.
Take it! Especially senior fall. You will not regret it.
take it.
It's really easy and really fun. However, sometimes (especially in the second half of the course) you might leave lecture feeling a bit let down.
Best class ever. You can go to 0 lectures, do 0 readings, and still do well. However, if you do decide to occasionally go to class or do some of the readings, you'll be guaranteed to have fun, so you won't regret it.
learned a lot in a very fun class
TAKE THIS CLASS. It was fun to go to and talk about, the assignments were interesting but not difficult, the professor is passionate about her subject and often unintentionally hilarious in the best of ways. You will not regret taking this.
It's great! The material is interesting and I always feel like dancing when I'm in class.
Take it for the opportunity to listen to a lot of awesome music and look at it from a new perspective. Don't expect to have your mind blown or anything like that, but expect to have a good time.
Be prepared to think about popular music in an entirely new way, but you will find this class thoroughly engaging and honest in its reflections about the history of R&B and Soul in the United States
Definitely take it. It's a very fun, relaxed way to fulfill your core or learn some stuff as an elective. You learn some great music. If you have the choice to do a final project or performance, definitely do that instead of a final paper.
This course was very unorganized. While the material was definitely so exciting and interesting, the assignments and lectures could have been improved.
Very fun class and the music is fantastic. I learned a lot about African American cultural history, and explored concepts of authenticity, originality, creative license, etc. It's a very easy course and if you put in just a little, you'll get a lot out of it. Meredith is by FAR the best TF.
This class is a fun one to take and it isn't very difficult. The level of writing expectation in papers and assignments can be high, but lectures are fun to attend and the topics prompt a lot of student interaction.
Class is great! If you love black music, take it!
Take the class. If for anything the gen. ed can fulfill either requirement and the fact is what other class can you actively enjoy what you're reading other than within you're concentration. The lectures can get a bit dry but the information garnered is well worth it
This class is a lot of fun, but students should know that it is not heavily focused on music or on the social implications of the music.
This class was awesome and a I had a lot of fun.
Very interesting. Dont be intimidated if you're not familiar with the music
Incredible class - a must-take Gen Ed. Easy, interesting and a lot of fun. You don't get too many of these at Harvard, so take it while you still can.
One of my favorite classes in my college career
Great course, awesome ambiance, inspiring opportunities, surprising flexibility.
Like good music?  Take this course to find out about its history and social importance!
The material all in all is amazingly interesting, but its a matter of lecture being disappointing. I think if the lecture became a bit more substantive then I would say take it for sure.
Ask questions early about what it means to write about music.
Take this class is you can. Amazing course.
Different kind of Harvard course, real focus on listening and interpreting the music rather than reading about it. I'd imagine it's an excellent way to fulfill a GenEd requirement, but also makes for a fun elective.
This class is fun if you like to listen to neo-soul, r&b, funk, and blues music. It can be annoying sometimes because the information presented in class is pretty basic.
If you love RnB, soul, or any other related musical genres, you'll love this class.  Be prepared to really think about the music and its significance, not just listen to it.
This class was very entertaining and exposed me to a lot of great music and musical history of which I wasn't previously aware. However, I did not leave the course feeling that I had learned an incredible amount, or that I had particularly challenged myself.
Need Culture & Belief? Take this class. Guaranteed easiest way to comp that credit. Hands down. Listen to great music. Chill. Not rigorous.
Not a difficult course, and the music is obviously amazing. Doesn't necessarily live up to expectations but is still an enjoyable and worthwhile course.
Definitely take this class! it is a lot of fun, and you're always being exposed to new music and news ways of perceiving music.
The music is fun at first, but then things start to get boring when you get to the modern era. The class becomes some combination of a morning dance party/sing-a-long, especially in the Usher and R. Kelly sections. Lecture attendance drops off because neither the lecture readings nor the listening is really necessary to do well in the class. It's definitely a fun elective, but you may end up wondering what you got out of it.
If you're just looking for an easy elective, this class was fun. It's cool that Harvard offers classes like these, but it's not the most rewarding class you'll take here.
It's a great course, you'll learn a lot- it's definitely a great aesthetic pleasure but beware the papers are not that easy so if you're not a good writer, it will take you a bit more effort.
One of the most entertaining classes you will take at Harvard
Really fun class and material, and the professor is super enthusiastic. Sometimes I felt like I wasn't really getting much out of the class or learning anything though. Grading of response papers sometimes seemed a bit arbitrary, but a small point compared to others... an enjoyable elective without too much work; the chance to do a creative project at the end was really cool
Great review of the evolution of black popular music in America, whether you need it because you don't know it or whether you just want to revisit it. Professor Monson is extremely approachable and speaks very candidly from both a general and personal perspective.
Incredibly easy.
This class is a very chill and easy class. It doesn't require much outside work but you still can learn something! If you're not interested in the genre of music, I would not recommend taking it. The two short 4-6 page papers that you write are not particularly difficult as long as you have some sense on how to make an argument or delve into the subtle historical/social/racial nuances expressed through music. If all, this class really teaches you to hear music in a different way than before. It also gives you plenty of chances to go and listen to music that you probably would not have listened to before.
it was FUN! who doesn't want to learn about popular music?
Very fun class.  Lectures are laid back and interesting.  There is no reason to do any of the reading because the only evaluations are two papers and a final project.  Readings are enjoyable though.
This class is wonderful. From Ray Charles and Stevie Wonder to Lauryn Hill and Kanye West, this course considers so many prominent black artists and does a great job at introducing you to new music from an aesthetic, historical, and cultural point of view. Knowing basic music theory is helpful but by no means required. The content is super engaging and I highly recommend this class.
It is very fun! And you listen to a lot of excellent music.
not much work, interesting material, music was great. chill gen ed for sure
Outstanding content. I read past reviews that this class was a blow off- if that was true in the past, it's not anymore. Not that I wanted it to be, because this topic is central to my career and I learned a TON. It's actually an outstanding course. You definitely get in what you put in and the lectures should be shorter to give way to more discussion so try to push for that early if she only allocates 8-10 minutes for discussion again during plenary. I know there's a section for deeper discussion but it should happen during her lecture too.
It's a good course if you're interested in the material. Lectures can be a bit boring, but section is stimulating. Hopefully you get a good TF.
This class is great with a very low time commitment. The assignments are legit though... you will have to write a couple papers, actually go to lecture for attendance, and have an assignment/quiz every week in section. But its easy and really fun so you should do it anyway
it is possible to do very well if you put in the work
The class is great overall because you get to listen to good music, learn how black music has evolved, and you learn to listen to music with a more critical ear. I would say that the content is extremely interesting, but lectures don't do that content justice because Professor Monson just reads from a piece of paper and then asks a few questions at the end.
Monson is a genius and this class was fantastic. You get to listen to fantastic music while learning about why it all matters.
If you have a genuine interest in the music and are willing to do a weekly section assignment you will have a good time.
Great way to fulfill a gen ed with an interesting course. Light workload.
Lectures are a little boring, but the content is good
Everyone could gain something from this course! This music has affected almost everyone's life in someway.
Strong course about the history of black music, with strong ties and themes across the material.
There are a number of little assignments throughout the semester that are kind of pointless, but for the most part its a pretty laid-back class, not too difficult
I enjoyed going to every single lecture of this class, and this is coming from a student who skips most of her classes... This is a GEM class!! If you love music, take this class!
you have to enjoy the music genre of focus
Take it, it's a gem.
This course is a great one! The work is pretty easy and the material is great. The only reservation is lecture (the professor reads off a sheet of paper), but even that has its great moments. Also, you can tell Ingrid really cares about the material, so that's a plus.
absolutely loved this class. take it if you have this gene to still fill
Take it! You'll learn a lot and your playlist will grow!
This is really a great class, despite what some might say about lectures being a bit boring. The music is incredible, and Prof will teach you things you never knew. I recommend actually being engaged and listening to what she is saying- and engage in section as well! Highly recommend.
You learn a lot about music (especially if you were fairly ignorant before)
This is an amazing class which looks at the integration of black music into American culture, and everything that is involved with this.
Great class, not too difficult, work wise.  Monson is a great lecturer and the readings are very interesting.  Greatly broadens your understanding of African American culture and the role that black music plays in both black and American culture as a whole.  Would definitely recommend as an elective or gen ed.  Must take!!
This course is very easy, but it's fun. Honestly, the hardest part for me was showing up to lectures because they were very boring and had no impact on the assignments.
An awesome class that will expose you to different genres of music while informing you of the social and political importance of each genre.
Overall, it was a really excellent class, and I would definitely recommend it!
It is amazing!
Aside from mandatory lecture and section, the class is pretty chill.
very interesting and learn a lot about how much of today's music came to be
I really liked this class! I got to explore music that I spent listening to all of my childhood and adolescent life while also learning how to evaluate it in an academic setting with was actually pretty cool! Beware that Monson does do a lot of reading off of her slides and sheets, but she is presenting some cool material so try to pay attention. Overall, solid class. Enjoyed waking up to music on my Tuesday and Thursday mornings!
Momsen is not a very engaging lecturer, but she seems to care deeply about the subject. The section component was ok, but the music is so good that it carries the course.
This class was a great way to satisfy AIU requirement.  Pretty interesting and taught me a ton about the evolution of Motown, hip-hop, etc.  Class is pretty easy, kind of a lot of busy work but it's all relatively short and painless.  Certain TF's grade harsher than others obviously, but as long as you do the work and go to class you'll be fine.
Great class
You get out what you put into this course
This course is a really great gen ed. The course load is fairly light, usually only one response paper a week. The take-home midterm was very straightforward. The other two papers were really open ended, especially the final research paper, so you could learn about whatever you wanted. There was also no final exam which is nice. The lecture was pretty fun because there were a lot of videos and music.
This is one of my favorite GenEds I've ever taken. If you have any interest at all in expanding your music palette, take this class! I feel like I am walking away a much more educated citizen.
This is an excellent class and a great way to discover classic black music in the context within which it was produced
take it! its really fun
while learning about the music is very interesting, you have to wade through professor monson's BS to get to it. and the class is meant to be polarized and talk about black lives matter and racism but there is not discussion, white people are wrong and black people can say anything they want just because they complain louder and monson enourages this
The course material is interesting. There is a lot of busy work and way too many assignments assigned in this class.
It's a good course and it will make you more cultured if you don't have any experience with studying music. I came into the class not knowing any about R&B and black popular music but I left with an appreciation for the power that music has in society.
Do the readings.  They actually discuss some really interesting points and you can actually have really engaging conversations about issues that we all deal with.
If you go to lectures and do the assignments, you'll do well without too much stress. The lectures aren't too dynamic but it's a calm Gen Ed, and the material is pretty cool to know. The music is great, too.
it's so much fun! learn interesting information about great artists
This class is lit
Great music. Important information. Lectures OK. Section excellent. Difficulty low. Good gen ed overall.
This class is the most interesting class I have taken so far at Harvard. However, the lectures are inherently dry and attendance is taken. Assignments are somewhat fun to complete and the section component is the best part.
This class is a great way to learn about the course of Black musical history in America (more so in recent times), and you will be able to apply lots of what you learn to music that you hear everyday.
Great course, interesting topics. Really does depend on your tf though.
