Take this course! Ms. Genesee is amazing and she's really invested in your learning experience. In addition to covering the Jamaican language, you also cover Jamaican culture (food, music, history, literature, media, etc.). It's a great course to take if you have any interest in Jamaica. There's a lot of variety in what you do in class, so it makes it a fun and interactive course. You can tell that Ms. Genesee puts a lot of thought into the course and cares about what you take away from Patois. She's always welcomes questions and encourages a conversation among her students. If you have the chance, do take this course.
This class is amazing. Not only do you learn about the Jamaican Patois language, but you also learn about Jamaican culture on a whole. Miss Genesee is so passionate about the material, and she teaches the course at a pace that is great for everybody!
This is the BEST way to satisfy the language requirement, or just to learn a language while having a BLAST! The perfect balance of challenge, learning, and fun with the best language teacher around: Dwayne. Take this class if you ever have space in your schedule.
GEM, Dwayne is a fantastic professor who cares about the material. Little work, you get out of it what you put in
Dwayne is the man!
TAKE THIS CLASS! Dwayne is super chill, and he wants to help you understand the material as much as he can. Also, the class is really small which allows you to really get that one on one attention you want.
Be prepared to work hard
Great class that is not difficult! Take for an easy balancing class or 5th class
Be engaged in the material. You're going to have a blast!
Ms. Genesee is truly THE BEST! This was one of the most educational and fun classes that I have taken at Harvard. I think Ms. Genesee really made this class. She made all our classes interactive, fun, lively and educational at the same time. Preparing for theater night was also a unique experience and it was great to have a more creative assignment. If you have ever had an interest in Jamaican Patois or culture, I highly recommend this class. The workload is very fair and you not only learn about the language, but you learn about the culture and history of Jamaica, which is very interesting in itself. Take this class; you will not regret it!
Take this course! Absolutely amazing!!!
You would enjoy this course
