This class was excellent. A lot of reading but it's worth the work.
The reading load for this course is heavy, but the professors and fellow students share a joy for the material that makes the class a true delight.  I enjoyed each and every meeting of the course and it left me wanting even more.
take it. You learn a lot about two magnificent authors and feel well read as well.
This class was essentially a perfect English class, and had everything I could have wanted from something reading oriented.  The material is brilliant, and you exit the class having read most of the canon of Richard Wright and Zora Neale Hurston.  Profs. Sollors and Carpio are each excellent, very expert in the material and everything relating to it, as well as just all around great teachers who guide the class almost exclusively through discussion to higher levels of understanding of the text(s).  This is not necessarily a commentary on the course, but the peers taking it were all intelligent and very invested in the course material.  Course work is not hard per se, although often the reading can become fairly long (up to 600 pages a week) and almost all has to be done.  Well worth the extra effort though.
Take it and love it. Professors Carpio and Sollors are a dynamic duo, and they complement each other extremely well. You will come away from this course knowing so much more about Wright and Hurston then you previously thought possible (and also more then anybody else you know). And most importantly, this course will quickly debunk and destabilize any previous notions you have about the authors. The course does a great job of balancing discussion about literary form and style with larger questions about cultural politics  for example, what it means to "read for race" or what makes a "white novel." And so the course gives you lots of freedom to write and talk about Wright, Hurston, and Ellison from several perspectives (e.g. religious thought, political thought, modernist technique, folk culture, literature and art, etc.)
Take this course!  It is a combination of three great writers and three of the greatest teachers (Carpio, Sollors, Ernie Mitchell) at Harvard.
This class is great and will give you the opportunity to read great works more deeply than ever before and possibly ever again (presumably).
A lot of reading, but SUCH a cool class. TF and professors are awesome.
I think that this class is a wonderful opportunity to get an in depth understanding of Hurston, Ellison, and Wright's work. Professors Sollors and Carpio are incredible resources for learning about the authors, their literary forms, and about the contexts that surround them. The class can at times become boring, because the dynamic of the class and the style of facilitation rarely varies. Despite this, it is a wonderful class overall.
It's very rare that you get a class where you can really focus on one our two authors for the entire semester.  It was a unique experience getting to really learn about Hurston and Wright with great depth.  Expect to do a lot of reading and write weekly response papers but the readings are all fantastic.  Professor Sollors, Professor Carpio and Ernie are the BEST; their passion and knowledge of the material was very inspiring.  The class was the highlight of my semester and one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard.
