This course is great! Professor Jackson is amazing!
A most amazing class! Prof. Jackson is literally everything. The course material is so valid and you get a lot out of group discussion, not to mention you probably won't take any film at face value ever again. Highly recommend for individuals from any academic background. My favorite class this semester and I'll definitely be taking another fine of her classes in the spring!
If you're interested in where modern racist stereotypes come from, this course will be very enlightening as most black stereotypes derive at least in part from the plantation and depictions of it.
It's a brilliant class! Learnt a lot about African American history, society and society today. Professor K.C Jackson is wonderful - insightful, stimulating and allows you to explore ways of thinking critically.
This is a SUPER fun and interesting class if you love film.
Kellie Carter Jackson is amazing and every week is truly enlightening! Even if you've seen all the films before, be prepared to learn a lot!
KCJ is the bomb diggity(translation for the lost==she's awesome).
So fun! Do it
If you ever get the opportunity to take a class with Professor Jackson, DO IT!!!! She is an incredible professor and her love for history is so apparent. She is able to faciliate intresting and thought provoking lectures and I always came to class knowing that I wouldn't be wasting my time. The material is super interesting and the discussions that came from the readings and the films were great. I would highly recommend this course (and any other course taught by Professor Jackson, like AAAS 118) to anyone!!
I loved this class. Professor Jackson is very enthusiastic and always happy to answer questions. I really believe this was my favorite class as there was always something very interesting to be discussed.
This course was excellent! The films that we watched were sometimes difficult to get through, but they always allowed you to come up with several personal responses to them to bring up in class discussions. I learned a new way of thinking about films and the problematic messages that they may be sending to moviegoers and the effects that they could have. Dr. Carter Jackson is one of my favorite professors at Harvard. She is so sweet and extremely accessible and helpful. There was never a dull moment in the class. One of my favorite classes in my 7 semesters at Harvard.
This is a thoroughly interesting course. For movie-lovers, it's a prime opportunity to approach film intellectually. I definitely developed a new perspective on the politics and intentions behind the visuals on the screen.
You will learned more than the just the single story narrative history you learned in high school or in other courses.  Very eyeopening.
This class is fun, but it doesn't go in depth.  We were assigned really awesome readings but never got to talk about them in class.  I think this class was trying to do too much in two hours a week, and would perhaps benefit from being a lecture course with a section component.  Regardless, listening to Dr. Jackson is always enjoyable because she brings such energy and passion to the classroom, and is also super fun to meet up with outside of class (and always willing to meet up!)
