The course was a wonderful introduction to both Platonic thought/philosophical ideas as well providing language practice and skills.
You should take this class if you're interested in Plato and philosophy, not just to get some practice with Greek.
Reading the Republic in an atmosphere of constructive learning and discussion is completely worth the effort you put into it.
If you have decent Greek, and you like dense, knotty philosophical problems, then I can't recommend this class highly enough. So much stuff to get your teeth into, and Professor Schiefsky knows a thing or two about Plato.
Your Greek and analysis improves. Great opportunity to read Plato.
definitely take this class if you have any interest in Greek philosophy or in love and sex in general. symposium is the most well-written work i have ever read.  i think we could have spent a whole year on it and still not come close to exhausting its meaning
Great Greek class, good size, good discussion, very reasonable assignment, and we actually completed the text!
I really enjoyed this class! The Symposium is interesting and fun to read.
Great Plato, great Elmer, a perfection. Take it, you will not regret.
Do the reading!
This course (on Plato's Symposium when I took it) covers excellent and important material, and (with Elmer) is taught very well. A straightforward Greek reading course, with no bells and whistles but thorough and fun.
Take it!
great opportunity to do close reading of one of Plato's best and most engaging dialogues.  your Greek translation will definitely improve.  Prof. Elmer is great.
Great text, great author, great way to improve your Greek reading skills and get used to one of the greats of Attic prose.
This was a very strong course. Assignments were manageable, instructor did a great job mixing translation/grammatical analysis with class discussions that was interesting and touched on a wide range of topics, exams were fair. One of the best language classes I've taken!
This is a very good fourth course.  Prof. Henrichs is always a delight in the classroom, and the workload is not heavy.
This course is the perfect companion to students who have just finished learning attic Greek grammar/prose and are looking to study an actual, full Greek text analytically for the first time. A great deal of the class focuses more on syntax, grammar, and translation rather than philosophy/interpretation (although this is still a slight component of the class), and Professor Henrichs ensures that everyone understands every aspect of each passage before moving on to the next. The work load is relatively light, maybe an hour to an hour and a half a night, with only one weekly quiz that is graded as Very Good, Good, or Unsatisfactory as opposed to with a letter. Only the midterm and final have letter grades. If you are looking to pursue Greek at a 100-level for the first time, this is the perfect course. If you already have experience with Greek and are looking for something more rigorous, this might not be the course for you. Professor Henrichs himself is a great teacher; he is animated and passionate about the subject, genuinely takes interest in his students, and is good at explaining concepts of syntax and grammar.
I strongly recommend taking this course. As I understand it, Professor Henrichs will not be teaching this class again, so the way the course is taught may be different the next time around. Nevertheless, Plato is a great author to read, and one of the best examples of Attic prose. As the Symposium is a work of limited length, the reading will not be overwhelming, but this class will keep your Greek up and help you to appreciate a seminal work of Western philosophy.
Prof. Henrichs guides the class through a fascinating text with an equally engaging teaching style.  Definitely take this.
Plato's Symposium is often heralded as the best work of Attic prose. This is probably true. As taught by Albert Henrichs, at least, this course will introduce to Plato's text and use it as an opportunity to review the parts of Greek grammar you never bothered memorizing because you felt you could translate well enough without thinking too hard about conditionals. I found this class pleasant and often exciting, but it's worth elaborating on a few of my reservations. First, the syllabus is quite small -- smaller than I would have predicted, because we ended up skipping some sections of the Greek and reading them in English instead. Second, because you spend so much time translating in class, our discussion of the literary and philosophical issues in the text were rare, and when discussion did occur, it was usually only about whatever particular passage we were reading at the time, rather than the work as a whole. Third, and relatedly, this was not a particularly dialogic class, in terms of the relationship between professor and student. We heard Professor Henrichs share his thoughts on the text often, but it was usually hard for the students to ask questions, raise objections, or interact with each other's ideas. This imbalanced classroom worked to the extent that Professor Henrichs is an extraordinary scholar, and that listening to his monologue on the Symposium is better than plenty of group discussions. However, I think this is a bad model for learning in general, especially in a small seminar. With all of this said, I am deeply glad that I took the course, and I look forward to more courses in this department.
