Prof. Henrichs is a brilliant man and a kind and solicitous teacher.  He also happens to be an expert on tragedy, so this class is obviously bound to be excellent.  Reading assignments this semester were very gentle--60> per night--so this is (in my experience) the ideal companion for a 112 level course with its more demanding reading schedule.  Treatment of grammatical topics is thorough, but the true strength of the course lies in Prof. Henrichs' encyclopedic comments on all things tragic, and really all things classical.
If you want to read tragedy, this is the class to take. Professor Henrichs is brilliant and hilarious, and you'll learn a lot from his discussions of the texts. The amount of Greek, though substantial, is completely manageable.
This class is a fun, solid 100-level course. I would recommend it for somebody coming into their first 100-level Greek class. Professor Henrichs is a blast to have in lecture; he's a really funny guy and incredibly knowledgeable.  Sometimes he gives the sense that he doesn't think you knew what you were doing, and gives you more help than necessary if you hesitate on an in-class translation. That said, I very much enjoyed class. We didn't get through all the reading we wanted to, though, so it may have been a little too easy.
The course provides a opportunity to read two of the ancient culture's greatest plays in much great detail. The Greek is difficult, but the assignments are very fair. Professor Henrichs is very knowledgeable, and he will often enlighten the class with information not found in the commentary. Definitely take the class if you are interested in making stronger your ability to read Ancient Greek more fluidly.
This class was amazing! Professor Henrichs is one of a kind. He is so smart and really brings the material to life. Definitely take this class!
Professor Henrichs is really enthusiastic about the material and carries it with him to every class. Though tragedy is not the easiest genre to read, I found it to be an incredibly rewarding class.
