Be prepared to read 100-200 lines of difficult Greek for every class meeting.
Taking this class with Professor Nagy is a truly incredible, unforgettable experience. He has changed the way I look at several Greek authors and is an infinite store of information and experience. Not to mention that he is incredibly kind and friendly. One of my favorite classes in the department thus far!
If you love ancient Greek literature and want to learn from one of the most engaging scholars of Greek in the world, you should take this course.
Have to be really committed, willing to devote lots of hours
The course is a good way to prepare yourself for generals. I would warn that the course will vary with whomever happens to be teaching it in a given year (as is the case with the sophomore tutorials); in any case, be prepared for a lot of reading, and be aware that it would be prudent to take the 112 series at some point before graduation.
Despite their reputation, the 112 courses are some of the most exciting that the Classics Department has to offer. You will learn a lot (and learn how to read very quickly).
one of the best classes you could ever take in the harvard classics department!! really well-run, exhaustive.
the course is a fabulous introduction to greek literature and a wonderful way to cover a good portion of the reading list material.  however, the value of the course is highly contingent on the teacher and the approach taken, so that is something to take into consideration.
Honestly, just don't take this class if your Greek is bad. You'll just be frustrated and overwhelmed and you'll hold up/annoy everyone else.
It tough, but it's worth it!  You definitely learn a lot.
The course is a really great introduction to archaic Greek poetry. It's a really demanding course, but if you put the work into it, your Greek improves exponentially and you gain a greater understanding of the works you read and their contexts.
Greek 112a is one of the most satisfying courses I have taken at Harvard.  While challenging and very time-consuming, the material is extremely enjoyable, and Professor Schironi holds such high standards that you cannot help but want to try harder, read more, and translate better.  The result is a course that introduces you to the wide world of ancient Greek literature, and simultaneously improves your own Greek tremendously.  Highly, highly recommended.
I don't imagine Professor Henrichs will be teaching this course next time around, so I am sure it will be very different in many respects. Nevertheless, I imagine the syllabus will be comparable: Homer, Hesiod, the Homeric Hymns, the Lyric Poets, and Herodotus. Any course that exposes an undergraduate to this range of Greek will be excellent.
This course is a great! The material is very interesting and many of the poets we read are not covered in other courses.  We even were able to look at fragmentary poetry discovered in the last 10 years.  That said, this is surely a course that is defined more by the professor than the material and we were very lucky to have Professor Henrichs teach it. While many teachers might only be worried about getting through the reading in class, Professor Henrichs would be happy to spend time on select passages or even lines that shed light on the poem, poetry, or poet in general.  His knowledge of the Greek language is unparalleled and one comes out of the class feeling a lot better about reading Greek closely than one does going into it.
Your Greek will improve, and you'll have a great time with Professor Nagy.
Lots of reading, so make sure you're comfortable with translating. Be conscious of who the professor is, though.
A lot of work, but sort of a must
a really great opportunity to read the most important greek poetry ever written
this is not a course to take if you're not 100% confident in your ability to handle an upper-level course in Greek literature.  the reading can be difficult and there's a moderate-high workload.  that said, most of the reading is really great, and Prof. Nagy is great as well.
