This class is one of my best experiences at harvard so far.  The teaching and material are among the most engaging I have encountered in school so far.
The course material is very interesting and stimulating, but keep up with the readings or else studying for the exams will be brutal.
I loved lecture, but the rest of the course was very poorly organized
This class with Professor Dan Gilbert is hard. Do NOT underestimate it. I recommend with strong reservations especially for those who are not too interested in psychology. The tests are very tricky and believe all the comments that say this. They are extremely challenging. EXTREMELY.
You cannot take this class pass/fail so be prepared to put in a lot of effort in terms of studying and keeping up with the readings.  This class is extremely interesting and that should be how you approach the class.  Don't get discouraged by how you do on the exams because I found the presentation of the multiple choice questions unfair for someone who just wanted a general background in psych.
This is a great class! Each lecture is super engaging and informative. Sections are also great and relevant. The midterms are definitely tricky- make sure you read the textbook!!! A lot of the material for the midterms comes from the book and not just the lecture.
It's an incredible class- Dan Gilbert is phenomenal!
One of the very best classes that I've taken at Harvard.I would highly recommend this class to anyone, especially when Gilbert is teaching it. Last term, I shopped it when Pinker was teaching but decided to wait and I'm so glad I did. Gilbert is a delightful teacher, and the course is so well thought out and put together. Lectures were outstanding, and the sections were by far the best run and most enjoyable and interesting sections I've ever been in. I liked that there were two midterms (which weren't cumulative) and no final paper or research or anything - even though the exams were surprisingly difficult, I think that they were pretty fair. Best option for the SLS requirement, as far as I can tell.I'm going to do a Psych secondary based on this class.Heartily recommend.
There are two myths I have heard about this course before I took it: 1. It is a difficult Science of Living systems and/because 2. Exams are ridiculously hard. Neither is true. Gilbert is a REALLY GOOD lecturer so on a weekly basis you can get away with no reading and only going to his lectures that are super interesting. If an hour of work a week (writing a short response for section) is too difficult for you, take a semester off, have a little break picking up flowers.The exams are a little bit tricky but firstly, they are all curved and Gilbert removes questions that ended up being unnecessarily difficult, testing tricky crap. Such a good deal. Whatever grade you got is a 100% what you deserved. No traps, simple deal.
The actual class was amazing and interesting, but the exams were pretty hard.
This course is extremely interesting and I would highly recommend taking it to learn about the world! Don't let the thought of tough exams scare you off- it's worth it.
This is an amazing course! Professor Gilbert is a wonderful lecturer, and the material itself is fascinating. No formal background in science is necessary.
Everything about this course (taught by Gilbert) is great, except for the exam questions. They are confusing and do not accurately measure students' understanding of the material taught.
Take it if you want to understand human behavior better. Material is fascinating, even if the two-midterms-and-done grading structure may feel a bit harsh/not ideal.
This is one of the best classes I've ever taken. Be sure to take it with Professor Gilbert. He is absolutely amazing! It's not too much work and so much fun! You'll think about the world differently after this class.
This course is interesting, but it's frustrating. Despite my genuine interest in the material and countless hours spent over the textbook, the tests still found ways to trick me and cause doubt in my own knowledge. Lectures are engaging with Gilbert.
You will learn a lot in this class. You will not get an A unless you plan to be a blonde freshman girl who is also taking a freshman seminar, LS1a, and basket-weaving, who can sit in Panera for days with a 3 foot stack of notecards. The level of detail you have to learn for the two exams is kind of absurd, but thats the only way they can carve out a difference for their 15% A's number. If you want to learn psychology but save your GPA, take Psych 15. If you want to learn about psych from a professor who admittedly is a fantastic lecturer, this is your class.
This class was one of the best classes I've taken in terms of lectures - Gilbert is great.
This class is like UberFacts if UberFacts were actually facts
Extremely engaging lecturer, exams somewhat unnecessarily difficult (especially given how straightforward the material is on its own)
SUCH A DOPE CLASS. You might not get dat A, but it's so worth. You'll learn a ton about how the mind works, which will benefit you for life. The class is full of useful ways to actually make you a better person. Take it with Gilbert FOSHO; you'll never want to miss lecture.
This is a very tough course with a lot of reading and tough exams.
Gilbert's exams are tricky and require good test-taking skills. Do your best to do all the readings and you should be fine. It's definitely worth it though because the lectures are like TED talks and there is little other work.
If you want to be a Psychology major, you must take this class.
take it. its awesome, but really hard
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer - he's really entertaining, and you learn a lot.  The midterms are stressful, and a lot rides on them, but if you study for them, you should be fine.
Take this class if you're interested in learning about how people think! The workload is quite manageable on a week-to-week basis, with textbook chapters to read and a few magazine articles to write about. The midterm and final are really tricky, and I found them frustrating.
Take Gilbert's class for fascinating lectures. If you're concerned about grades, take the class with Pinker and go watch Gilbert's Ted Talks.
I took the course with Gilbert. The lectures are far and away the best I've ever attended at Harvard. The tests are far and away the most trifling and unreasonable I've taken at Harvard. All in all, I think it's worth it  so long as you wouldn't mind getting a B in a Gen Ed.
There is a lot of reading but you must do it to do well on the exams.
The lectures are great, section is good depending on your section leader, but the exams are atrociously brutal.
This class is phenomenal and very fun!  You'll love it!
It's very hard to get an A in this class, but I still would have taken it again.  It has completely changed the way I think, and Gilbert was an incredible professor.
Yes, Gilbert's multiple choice exams are hard.  But if you do the work, the interesting subject matter is well worth the relatively small amount of time you have to intensely study
Lectures are like entertaining TED-talks and make it a pleasure to come to class. Readings are well-selected and usually pretty fascinating bits for section discussion. Exams are stupidly difficult. You remember how you can sometimes feel unsure about a multiple choice answer? Well that's equivalent to getting the question wrong in this class because every question has "Exactly two of the answers above" and "All the above" options. Take it for your enjoyment if you don't care about grades anymore.
This is an absolutely wonderful class! I feel like a more complete person who knows her own mind better as a result of taking it. The class is always engaging and I think some of the material will even stick with me for the rest of my life
Take this class!! Gilbert is amazing and lecture every day was so incredibly interesting. Workload is relatively light, just go to lecture and keep up with the material.
This class is very pointless to take unless you are a psych concentrator or are in hopes of being one. It is too difficult and time consuming to just fulfill an SLS requirement. Despite the fact that the class may be extremely attractive due to only 2 exams and no final or final paper, along with the extremely interesting subject matter (which proved to be true), the course requires a lot of diligent outside work in order to come close to doing well. It is difficult and extremely annoying, despite how interesting it was, so do not take it unless you have to.
Amazing class, amazing professor. I was told this was the best class at Harvard, and in my experience, it definitely is one of them.
Make sure you have the time in your schedule to devote to this course. If you want to do well, you need to put in a significant amount of time reading the textbook carefully throughout the semester. The exams are very hard!
The assignments in this class are great. The section readings and short papers are quick, but interesting, assignments, and the fact there are two midterms without a final make the class a gem. Lectures are also very engaging.
It's amazing!! There really isn't that much work day-to-day, but you better study for the two mid terms. The exams are curved and only 30% of students get As (both on the exams and in the class) so you have to really work hard to get an A. As far as enjoyment and learning goes though this class was phenomenal.
worth the hard tests. gilbert is hilarious and a fantastic lecturer
If you're at all interested in psychology, TAKE THIS CLASS. But take it with Professor Gilbert, because his lectures are like mini TED talks and he's overall just a really enthusiastic person who is a pleasure to listen to twice a week. Be warned, though--the exams are picky and challenging. While they haven't really detracted from my experience in the course, they're something to be wary of because they're randomly really hard when the rest of the coursework is interesting and pretty light. I guess this is one of those courses where you can put in as much or as little work as you want, because the section readings and response papers don't take long to do and the textbook readings are optional. What makes this class great is definitely the lectures, so I'd say DO IT just for that because you'll learn so much interesting and applicable information about everyday, observable life.
It is very difficult and stressful and requires a ton of work.
The class is as rewarding as it is difficult.
This is a great course to learn very interesting things about our minds and behavior. The lectures are very engaging, and even reading the book is interesting and did not seem to me to be at all tedious. The main deterring factor will probably be the exam format and grade distribution. As has been said over and over, you will find yourself studying a lot for this class, and perhaps not get an A or A-. I would still recommend this class for its instructional value though.
Keep up with the textbook readings to reduce stress before exams. Gilbert's SLS20 was an interesting course, and discussion sections were great.
You will really enjoy the lectures and the material, but be ready for the tests.
Excellent lectures, relevant and engaging material.  Basically need to read the entire textbook (find a study group to help things along).  Section readings and discussions a bit pointless.  Exams not as difficult as some make it out to be.
When Gilbert is teaching, this is not an easy Gen Ed. He is a great lecturer and is very engaging but I felt that the exams were too difficult and counted for too much of our total grade.
I took SLS 20 as a gen ed, and I enjoyed it. Professor Gilbert's lectures are phenomenal. He has a ton of energy, and puts a great deal of preparation into making his lectures engaging and thought-provoking. The class is a good overview of psychology, and definitely broadened my mind with respect to my thinking about human behavior. I had taken the introductory human behavior class in the Human Evolutionary Department (HEB 1329), which has some overlap with SLS 20. However, the perspective of psychology and HEB are very different, so nonetheless I would definitely recommend this class as a great way to fulfill Science of Living Systems.
You will never think or observe humans or social interactions in the same way ever again!
The material is highly engaging, and both the lectures and textbook are incredibly interesting. Be sure to keep up with the readings, though, as the exams tend to test very specific knowledge.
SLS 20 provides a broad overview of disciplines & concepts within psychology. Lecture is engaging and the topics discussed are fascinating; this makes for a great Gen Ed.
This is an absolutely amazing course! My favorite course by far. If you're taking it because you're considering a concentration in psych, it will inspire you to pursue it. If you're just taking it for a gen Ed or because you find it interesting, you will enjoy it very much. Gilbert is a phenomenal lecturer. You definitely cannot miss the lectures in order to succeed in the class, but you won't want to because they're so interesting and engaging. I have never met or experienced Pinker's class, but I enjoyed Gilbert's class so much that I would recommend taking it with him. Beyond attending lectures, there is barely any work for this class, and all of it is meaningful. There are 7 discussion sections in a semester that are each one hour, and you will write a short (1 page double spaced) discussion paper before hand that is basically graded on completion. There is also a requirement of 5 hours of research participation in the semester, which is easy to get done and enjoyable. Beyond this there are just two exams. The exams are hard and require you to be well prepared, but are absolutely fair and are graded on a curve. They are based on lectures (GO TO LECTURE), the discussion readings, and the textbook. The textbook is quite a bit of reading, so definitely try to keep up with it through the semester and don't open it for the first time the week before the exam like I did. That being said, you can do that and probably still do well (I did well). Take this course!!
Definitely take SLS 20 with Gilbert. His lectures will inspire you and the class is great. You learn so much about so many things.
Gilbert's exams are very, very hard, and to do well on them, you have to have an amazing command of the course material (lots of little details and vocab terms to remember). That being said, I'd be ok with getting a B in this course just because it was so interesting and both lecture and section were so enjoyable. Gilbert is a renowned speaker, and it's clear from the very first lecture why. Other than studying for the exams, we just had to take textbook notes and write short response papers on really easy-to-read and interesting articles each week, so not too much work except around the time of the two exams. No final was a huge plus.
This class is great, Gilbert is a really good lecturer which means that the hour and a half lecture goes by so quickly because you're enjoying it. The midterm questions are worded in a tricksy way but after the first midterm you will have learned how to deal with it.
Take this class. Gilbert is the best lecturer on campus. Period.
I do not recommend. Take this course if you are good at multiple choice quizzes and you have an extremely good memory. Otherwise, I highly recommend finding another class. There are other interesting psychology classes that are not out to get you and actually test your knowledge, not just your test taking skills. This course was extremely difficult and discouraging to the point that I no longer am interested in the field. I ended up being happy with my scores on tests and my section grades, but the tests are extremely poor and disappointing reflections of students' actually knowledge. They were so tricky that I felt like it was almost a joke to Gilbert to see how tricky he could make his questions. Also, sections were required but were not only useless, but also uninteresting. I do not recommend.
Lectures and readings are very interesting. Midterms are tough.
Fantastic lectures, but you MUST keep up with the textbook reading or you will not pass the exams.
The lectures of this class are incredible. Each one is basically a TED talk. I strongly recommend taking this class with Gilbert.
This is a fantastic class, but it is graded in a very rigid manner. The curve is a bit harsh and the exams are hard. So if you take the class, you will have to put in a lot of work reading the textbook closely and taking super detailed notes.
This class is amazing. Professor Gilbert is an unbelievable lecturer and manages to bring his class to life. Sections are FANTASTIC. I looked forward to my section as much as I did the lectures. The class is difficult. You MUST do the readings and attend class if you don't want your gpa to die. If you start studying early enough for tests (at least a week ahead of time) and really focus on the text book- take good notes while your reading them for lecture and just learn that- you should be just fine. TAKE THE COURSE. Don't worry about it being hard or if you have already taken AP Psych. Just take the course(make sure you have time for it but take it). It's worth it.
Gilbert is the best orator I've ever encountered. He presented material that was intrinsically interesting to me and my friends in such a way that it was utterly fascinating and enjoyable to process it all. Along with CB 34, this class is the main reason I decided to declare Neurobio out of all choices from the life sciences concentration cluster.
This class is quite interesting and for purely learning this is phenomenal.
Very very cool class, Gilbert is awesome too!
The exams are very tricky, but the lectures are great.
The material in this class is very interesting. Lectures are amazing. It was by far my favorite class. The tests are incredibly hard though.
Keep up with the readings weekly and don't overthink the exams!
This class is for everyone, whether you're interested in psychology or just casually wondering about human behavior. It's not difficult, although the exam questions can be tricky, and every topic is super interesting and relevant.
If you have taken AP Psych, then skip this class, because you will be relearning the same material. Although this class has very few assignments, the exams are very difficult and very stressful. Although Gilbert is a very good lecturer, the exams are so hard that it's not worth taking this class, no matter how much you study.
Do not overthink during the tests. Feel free to get up and ask the TFs questions. DO THE READING BEFORE LECTURE. Make flashcards on vocabulary with the reading.
This class takes a lot of work and diligence. There is a ton of textbook reading, but the questions about it on the exams are so specific that it isn't really helpful to read it throughout the course.
The material is interesting and there are a lot of small ways it changed the way I think about the world. Take it if you're a freshman, and unsure about whether psych is your thing. Don't however expect a heavy duty introduction to psych as an academic discipline.
The lectures are seriously amazing and you will learn a lot. Just be open to learning and read the textbook!
This class was great! Gilbert is an incredible professor and he gives extremely engaging lectures. The material is very interesting and I definitely learned a lot. The tests were hard- but doable.
the material is really interesting, the lectures are great, and sections are painless. only reservation is that exams are quite difficult given the breadth of information covered
Hard to get an A but definitely worth taking
Depending on your prior knowledge you can gain a lot from this class and it can be very rewarding.
Great way to knock out a Gen Ed.  Gilbert's a good lecturer, and you emerge with some applicable knowledge of Psychology, even if you have no plans on studying it further.
Professor Gilbert is very relatable and engaging, which adds a great element  to the course.
Dr. Gilbert is an incredible lecturer. The sections are interesting and this is a course you must take before leaving Harvard.
This is such an amazing course! I really cannot recommend it enough. Professor Gilbert is an amazing and engaging lecturer. The material is fascinating and very useful. Section discussions are thought-provoking and you will get so much out of the course. It was honestly a fun experience. Easily my favorite class of the semester, I highly recommend. Just be willing to put forth a lot of time to study for the exams if you want to do well. They are challenging and you have to work hard to do well, but they are fair.
Take the class!
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer. Each lecture was like a TED talk. That said, STUDY HARD FOR HIS TESTS and READ EACH TEST QUESTION VERY CAREFULLY. He loves asking tricky test questions. They're very doable though, just be calm while taking the test and really double and triple check every question and answer. TAKE THIS CLASS, it's amazing, you learn so much about human psychology and behavior! Engaging material, great professor.
Take it. You may not get the best grades, but the best experiences and useful knowledge even if you don't want to go into psych. Go to lecture, it's fun. Keep up with the textbook readings, otherwise you'll be in trouble right before the exam. Don't freak out if the latter didn't go well - it doesn't for 90% of the class.
This class definitely has a phenomenal lecturer and really great readings, and you will come out of it with a better understanding of human nature (and yourself). However, for students who are not fantastic at memorizing chapters on chapters of facts, studying for this course will take a lot of time. The exams are not hard in the sense that the questions are unreasonable - Gilbert actually goes over the whole exam with you to determine if all the questions were good ones - but you will have to spend many hours (maybe up to two weeks in advance of an exam) reading and reviewing to do fairly well.
The lectures are awesome and you won't have much work, however the tests can be pretty hard.
absolutely wonderful course. really enjoyed the material and section. gained new perspective and understanding of others around me. not a fan of the test and grading.. did not think it demonstrated who was the most knowledgeable. overly tricky. but what can you do- move past it and look at this course as an experience which you gained very important and interesting knowledge.
Gilbert's lectures are amazing! It's like listening to a 90 minute TED talk every time. The exams are hard, definitely finish all the readings.
Be on top of your readings, and know all of the assigned materials and lectures inside and out for the exam.
Absolutely fantastic class that people should take regardless of any formal interest in psychology.
Without a doubt, Professor Gilbert is a great lecturer. I enjoyed the class overall, but like others may mention, I thought the exams to be a little tricky. Reading the textbook and reviewing lectures are definitely a must, but somehow no matter how hard you study, it all comes down to how well you can navigate through the wording on midterms. I'm sure some people who did well in the class will say something along the lines of oh, as long as you do readings and go to lecture you'll do great, but I think that your performance in the class will just depend on how well you can interpret the questions and "think how Gilbert would."
GILBERT IS AMAZING. As is the material! Yes, his exams are hard, but there are only two and if you study the right way (aka overkill on the textbook the most, throw in some lecture review, then the section reading) you'll be fine. It' SO WORTH IT.Go to lecture. Also totally worth it. Please I'm begging just take this class with him.
Professor Gilbert is full of himself, as, it seems, are the other SLS 20 professors. This was indicated primarily when he would lecture on something, say a sentence about it, and then show a Discovery Channel video where he said the exact same sentence, simply to show us that he'd been on the Discover Channel, or an insurance commercial, or some documentary. Having renowned professors isn't enough, the professors must actually engage and challenge themselves. His self-congratulatory, self-obsession was also indicated, though, in more detrimental areas--his unwillingness to budge toward a more progressive and contemporary set of topics. Seriously, lecturing on race and IQ in 2015? Not only offensive (not to mention the totally gratuitous photos of lynchings, beheadings, or graphic stories of rape,) but uninspired, unenlightening, and uncalled for. In a survey course on all of psychology, you get to choose what to lecture about. And you choose that? OR you choose to lecture on the SUPER outdated finding that Newsflash: sexuality is not caused by parenting. I am embarrassed that this professor (and Pinkner as well) is lauded as a great when his lectures were incredibly basic at best and deeply offensive and regressive at worst. The first lecture is essentially on how social justice warriors are ruining the white man's classroom. Save your time. Or, if that's what you're into, you'll feel right at home. I so badly wanted to learn the basics of psychology, and it was a true shame that this class was the way that had to happen for me.
I found that this class redefined how I conceived the human brain and human behavior. Everything is linked to some psychological concept or another, even theoretically intangible things like morality. The lectures are hilarious and informative, and you will love this class.
Very interesting material and a great class overall. Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer.
Gilbert is incredible. Hands down the best lecturer and one of the coolest people I have met. He keeps his audience engaged and pours so much time into the course because he really loves teaching. If you are debating taking it and spring versus fall, wait until you can take it with Gilbert!
SLS20 is very interesting and Professor Gilbert is a very good professor! Take his class! However, don't underestimate how much you should study.
Keep on top of the readings or you will be doomed for the exams. There are much more satisfying SLS gen-eds.
TAKE GILBERT.AMAZING CLASS.
Many people say that this class is challenging and you should not take it, but the material is very interesting and worth the challenge!
Take this course!!!! This was one of the few classes I've ever taken where I felt like I was constantly learning, and everything I was learning was interesting. The lectures with Professor Gilbert were incredibly interesting and entertaining, and I looked forward to them each week despite the fact that they were my longest classes. An additional plus: everything you learn is very applicable to real life. It kind of just changes the way you look at the world. The test format is a little tricky but I found it to be fair rather than a nuisance. If you're on the edge, DEFINITELY consider taking this course.
Its a fascinating class with a great professor but the exams are very difficult.
Professor Gilbert is the best, just attend lecture and do the readings and you will be fine!
Go to lecture/read the book
Professor Gilbert's lectures are like TED talks.
This class with Gilbert is totallyworth it!  It is NOT an easy Gen-ed but what you learn and the level of interest he incites about the topic is great.  Also, the workload during the week is very manageable, just a few section readings and a short response about every week.  You SHOULD be reading along with the textbook, but of course I didn't and cramming for the midterms was all the more difficult.  The exams are non-cumulative but very very tricky but Gilbert is very fair about what he puts on the tests.  also no Final Exam, YAY!
Great class. Make sure to take it with Gilbert.
SLS 20 is a very important foundational course for understanding all sorts of things about the world. It's a survey of many topics, so it won't give you deep understanding into many of them, but it serves as a heuristic for shaping your own behaviour and understanding that of others.
hard tests, but worth it because Gilbert is fantastic and the lectures are very engaging.
learn a lot, but tests dont show how much you learnt which is frustrating could just watch the lectures before the midterm and read the book chapters and be done, not interactive
The course material is very interesting and the lectures are as high in quality as Ted talks which makes learning the material very fun. Section (at least for me, yay Tanya) was awesome. The exams, as everyone will tell you, are kind of poor. They don't really test understanding, they test memorization. You can still do above average if you understand everything and read the book without memorizing everything, but if we were tested on comprehension I think the scores would look different. Ultimately it's up to Gilbert to decide what he wants to test but I do wish he tested more comprehension than memorization since that is what will be most important years later when the details of the course are forgotten anyway. The first exam was pretty good about testing comprehension but the second one was key terms mostly. TLDR; good course, fairly low workload, learn a lot (even stuff you can tell your friends and they won't tell you to stop talking about boring school stuff because SLS20 stuff is cool), exams are kind of tricky and memory reliant
This class is fascinating, and you will learn a lot. The tests are challenging, make sure to go over all the readings and all the lectures. Be communicative with your TFs. Pay attention and take good notes. The whole course will leave you amazed with humanity, though, and with an appreciation of how different every single person's experience is.
TAKE. THIS. COURSE. Hands down the best material and best professor I have encountered at Harvard. Gilbert is an absolutely amazing lecturer during class and he prepares everything with utmost detail so you'll never be confused. There's no final, and the midterms are extremely fair. Gilbert uses an arsenal of statistical analyses to ensure that every question is doable if you prepare well. The way he teaches this course truly instills an interest in psychology and delves into the way humans, and you, work. Take this course to fulfill SLS, to finally realize what a good teacher is like, and to find out more about the world around you.
Do not be scared by comments that say that this class is hard. So long as you do the assigned reading, the grading will go in your favor. This was by far one of the best class I have ever taken. The subject material is incredibly interesting, and I learned so much about general psychology that will be super useful going forward despite the fact that I am not concentrating in psychology.
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer, but be prepared for the exams.
There is nothing negative about this class.  The lectures are probably the best lectures you will ever have at Harvard, section covers super interesting and current hot topics, the work load is minimal, and the testing, though difficult, is extremely fair and you will do as well as you want to do (it all depends on how well you study). The class is so interesting that you may actually wish it required more work so that you can engage more with the material. In any case, it's always beautiful to have a class with no final.
tests are tricky! but the material is interesting!
This class is for students who like not having a rigid structure in a class. None of the readings are required. Perhaps, the optimal use of time is to delay doing the readings until the day before the exam. The articles
Take in the fall under Gilbert rather than the spring under Pinker. Here's a comparison:Upsides to Gilbert: fantastic lectures, good textbook, he defines clearly what will be on the test and if he didn't tell you to study something but tests it he tosses out that question afterwards, he lets you argue for/against test questions after the test, the current section time commitment is just 1 hour 7 times plus maybe 1-2 hours of prep for each. Plus, the class ends before reading period so you'll be done way early. Downsides to Gilbert: only the curve, but if you study you should be fine (you need top 30% for an A but just top 50% for a B, and in a class that is size of 200+ kids you just need to be in the top 60 for an A or top 160 for a B). On the flip-side, upsides to Pinker: more famous professor (allegedly, though Gilbert has done Prudential investment commercials and a PBS mini-series and is highly cited, including in "Thinking Fast and Slow" by Kahneman). Downsides to Pinker: much more boring lectures, worse textbook, miserable paper requirement at the end which is graded harshly.
If you take AP psych, you won't learn anything new. I was told this, but still decided to take the class. Gilbert is a great lecturer, but because the material isn't revolutionary (to those who have taken AP psych), you may fall behind on readings, which will bite you in the future for the 2 midterms. Although I enjoyed SLS 20, I wish I had taken a different course. I feel that it would have been more beneficial to me if I had taken a course where the material was new and refreshing, where I wouldn't be able to slack off as much!
This class is fantastic but very difficult. Professor Gilbert is a brilliant lecturer, but his tests are ridiculously difficult. Make sure you do all the textbook readings because they are tested heavily.
Interesting but the tests are really hard.
This is a great class. The professor gives incredible lectures and the textbook is fun to read. That being said, there is a lot of reading to be done and the exams are meant to trick you.
Very enlightening and engaging class! 10/10 would take again.
TAKE SLS20 WITH GILBERT! He's an absolutely amazing lecturer - every class is interesting and feels very "Ted talk like". He puts a lot of effort into the class and it's very obvious that lectures are prepared with detail. Tests are not hard, you just need to know a lot of material, but very very manageable. Stay on top of your readings, so you're not reading an entire textbook before the exam, and you will do just fine. The tests are not meant to be tricky; in fact, they are very fair and Gilbert ensures that they are. You learn a lot in a fun way.
Beware of the tests.
Really fantastic course. The lectures are phenomenal and incredibly thought provoking. The tests aren't easy but in the process of preparing you learn a lot and as long as you prepare you will do well. The tests aren't designed to trick you. If you took detailed notes on the textbook and paid attention in lecture you will do well.
This class is difficult. However, it is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Gilbert is an amazing professor and gives some of the best lectures I've ever seen anybody give.
The tests can be hard but are fine if you read and go to lecture. It was definitely my favorite class this semester.
Don't let all the comments demonizing Gilbert and his unfair exams scare you. It would be a lie to say that this is a very easy course you can breeze through without a second thought, but it is a very fair course and even Gilbert's exams, which are difficult, are still very fairly written and doable. Gilbert's lectures are amazing and riveting, the textbook is actually FUN to read (I never thought I'd be saying that!), and section is a fun experience! Please take this class if you're at least a little interested!
Gilbert is an AMAZING lecturer. Even if I'm sleep-deprived and falling asleep in other classes, Gilbert is so interesting and lively that he keeps me up so I can take in all the fascinating things he has to teach us.
Lectures were interesting, section was a bore, and the exams test how well you memorize rather than how well you learn.
I would urge them to take this course. It's amazing and important. I think everyone should know some psychology to have more empathy and better understand their social lives.
Hard exams but the class is very rewarding and interesting material.
Do not take this class unless you can memorize minute details from readings/lectures. 2 multiple choice exams determine your entire grade.
This class is awesome! The tests are difficult, it is true, but the amount you learn is worth it. Everything is very well organized and Professor Gilbert is the best lecturer I have ever had.
If looking for a course to fulfill the SLS requirement, this course is excellent and very interesting. Psychology is a field everyone individual should have the chance to at least have one experience in, and Professor Gilbert offers an excellent experience. While the course is not terribly challenging, one should still be prepared to put in the regular and consistent effort every week to keep up with readings and lecture material.
Interesting material, great lecturer (Gilbert), exams are tricky, but doable. Study up!
Class and lecture are great! Section and materials for section are also well organized. However, tests seem to test your ability to target wording or memorize a single fact from the book instead of key knowledge takeaways.
You will never learn more in a semester. Gives you a great overview of the psychological functions and malfunctions of the brain.
It is a great class, the exams are pretty difficult and you really need to have an in-depth understanding of the material to be able to get a good grade on the exams. Professor Gilbert truly knows how to make multiple choice difficult.. But if you are not only interested in getting an easy A, this class REALLY teaches you a lot about psychology and it's definitely worth it!
Professor Gilbert's lectures are easily some of the best of any class. The multiple choice tests can be hard, so definitely study a lot. On the plus side, there is minimal weekly homework due.
This class was my favorite course that I took this semester. It was so intriguing to learn about how human beings make decisions, interact with others and develop intelligence. This material is important regardless of what you are studying and Gilbert makes it so fun to learn about. Each lecture is so amazing. I highly recommend this class to anyone!
I think this is a really good freshman class because it demonstrates the level of rigor you will need in more advanced classes, but it honestly feels a little bit "kitschy" for a senior.  The content knowledge is interesting.
This class is pertinent to every single student at Harvard, regardless of whether or not you are interested in psych. Professor Gilbert is straight up genius. This class instilled in me such an interest in psych.
If you are willing to do the readings, follow along with lecture, and participate in section you will definitely an appreciation and love for the subject. The tests are difficult but the course is definitely worth taking.
Want a class where you get mind blown everyday: this is it trust me!
Awesome class...beware of the exams
TAKE THIS CLASS (if with Gilbert). The tests are not as hard as the hype. They simply require very thorough knowledge of the material, which is not all that difficult. Keep up with the readings and pay attention in lecture, which is not all that difficult. GILBERT IS FANTASTIC. I'd be hard-pressed to name a better lecturer than Gilbert. He's engaging, informative, and simply an awesome person to learn from. I looked forward to lecture and learned a lot. I feel like a more complete, informed person because of Gilbert. And some of the stuff you learn is just honestly so cool! Take SLS 20 with Gilbert!! Recommend with great enthusiasm.
This is a great intro to psychology course, yes the exams are extremely hard and you will probably do worse than you expect on them, but i think what you learn from this class outweighs the hit your GPA may take.
This is  fantastic course, and a really great opportunity. Take it-- it's like going to a Ted Talk every week.
Professor Gilbert's lectures are wonderfully interesting, but his tests can be tricky. Study well for the midterms, and this course will be very enjoyable.
This class is difficult. There is a lot of material and it covers a wide range of topics.  But its a wonderful class, if you can get through the tests. You will learn so much and grow as a student.
The lectures were extraordinary, even life-changing.  The readings were interesting and enjoyable.  Professor Gilbert (who, when introducing himself, goes by Dan) actually cares about the students.  Even the somewhat infamous exams, in my opinion, are a good format for assessing fluency with the material, in a not-so-awful setting of multiple choice.  Ultimately, the new perspective you attain through the course is its greatest strength.
SLS 20 was the highlight of my freshman fall! I looked forward to going to all of the lectures - every topic was so interesting and Dr. Gilbert is amazing!!!
Make sure to stay on top of the readings. It's tempting to not read the textbook since it isn't "due," but you'll be sorry when the exam comes.
This class will help you understand yourself and others in a much deeper way. You will gain insight into why you think the way you do and learn life lessons that are applicable in so many areas of life. Definitely take SLS 20! I recommend to everyone even if you aren't at all interested in psych.
This is an extremely interesting class. Lectures with Gilbert are like Ted Talks, the textbook is a pretty good read, and section material is pretty good too. However, the two exams are really really difficult and unless you're reading the textbook under a microscope, you won't do stellar.
TAKE THIS CLASS!  Professor Gilbert is the best lecturer I've ever had at Harvard and he is the reason I am now concentrating in Psych.  The material he teaches is SO interesting and he teaches it in a really exciting way by making it relevant and applying it to our daily lives.  It's a really great class with a light workload, and although the midterms really are tricky (start studying early because they cover a LOT of info), they're curved so overall the class is a really great choice.
No matter how many people tell you how hard the midterms are... you still won't be quite prepared for the feeling of panic when you read the first question on your first midterm and have no idea what the answer is. However the lectures are absolutely amazing!
Gilbert is the best lecturer in the world.Tests are difficult like everyone says but definitely are not insurmountable. Read the textbook and pay attention and you will not have any problems in this class.
enjoy the course, it is truly informative. However, the exams are very difficult, and you should keep up with the readings.
To do well on the exams you need to be engaged with the reading and lectures every week.
This course is amazing introduction to psychology. I loved it. Gilbert is a wonderful lecturer and the things you will learn in this class will affect the way you think about others.
The tests are hard but the lectures make it totally worth it. Gilbert is great and you should definitely take this class before you graduate.
It's a fascinating course and really makes you look at the world differently.
Exams are very hard
The content from lectures, the content from sections and the content from the book are different from one another, so keep up with your book readings. The exams are very tricky and hard with Gilbert; you should know that before enrolling.
Gilbert is well-qualified, and this is a great introduction to psychology. He is very entertaining. Read the textbook IN THE PROPER WEEK, go to lecture, and don't be psyched out about the exam. It's not hard. Just do the work.
SLS 20 is a great class. You will have tons of fun in lecture, less fun reading the textbook, and a negative amount of fun studying for and taking the almost absurdly challenging exams. I took this course because I was interested in studying psychology at Harvard. The class confirmed that I love psychology. I don't know if I want to major in it, but I recommend this class to anyone who is remotely interested in the subject. You will be challenged and you will be fascinated. If you took Psych in high school be prepared to, as Gilbert says the first day of lecture, not merely skim the surface of the ocean, but dive.
it is extremely interesting course material and the lectures are outstanding
This class is reputedly difficult but don't let that prevent you from taking it! Professor Gilbert is phenomenal and I wish he taught another class here. A lot of work is required and the midterms are as difficult as rumored, but the experience is extremely rewarding.
This was an amazing class, and I'm so glad I took it to satisfy SLS. The tests were not nearly as bad as people say--if you put the time in to study, you can get above 90% on them (even if you have no prior experience with psych, like me).
When Professor Gilbert teaches, it is so entertaining and interesting it feels like you just watched TV for an hour and a half. I found myself looking forward to lecture.
This course will be very interesting, but it will be incredibly difficult to find success.
Tests are really difficult and tricky but the course is so fun and entertaining and interesting that it is worth it.
It's good but challenging and section does not feel like a good use of time.
Yes, Prof. Gilbert's lectures are very interesting and you learn some interesting things about your mind in this class. However, it also requires you to read several hundred pages of textbook twice or even three times to memorize everything and do well on a very tricky test, which didn't seem to worth the time. If you are merely interested in learning about the decision making or behavioral side of psychology, reading paperback books on the market such as "Think Fast and Slow" would be an effective replacement for this course.
Awesome lectures. Only two tests, although they are super tough. Section is okay and the papers are frustrating, but there are only a few so no big deal.
It's really hard. Don't take it if you don't care that much about psychology. The lectures are great, that's for sure, but the textbook is painful to read, and no one helps you accomplish that.
I do not regret taking the class but I thought I would get more out of the class. A lot of the topics were not new to me (I never took psych but I had an interest in pysch so I had read some articles and a few books) and I wish we went deeper into the topics.
Take this class for the lectures, if nothing else. I think that they fascinate and captivate even those with no previous interests in psychology. You will learn a great deal, and your perspective on life itself will be altered, even if in a minute way. However, be warned: the exams are difficult, and you DO need to do all the readings from the textbook if you expect to do well in the class. The lectures may mislead you into thinking that you know everything you need to know just from them, but do not be fooled. Luckily, the textbook is also enjoyable and easy to read, as long as you give yourself enough time.
Tests are very hard but class overall is great
This is a simple, energetic, non-technical introduction to psychology.  This class will inform your daily interactions, and touch on many aspects of life and society.  It is a great way to fulfill a GenEd.
The material is interesting and important. Professor Gilbert is a very entertaining lecturer. However, I think that he is a bit arrogant and a bit of a misogynist.Gilbert thinks that the assessments in the course should be used to compare students in the course, which I believe is at the expense of students actually learning the material.
This is a fun course.  Come to lectures, try to remain engaged in the material/readings, speak in section and you'll both do well in and enjoy the course.  That's all it takes.  It's a well put together course.  It does the hard work for you (besides the hard work of the actual course, that is).
The tests are ridiculously hard.
The course gives a great overview of psychology and was definitely one of my favorite classes. The material is very interesting, and the lectures and sections are fun. However, the tests are pretty difficult compared to the course material.
Sit back and prepare to be entertained by Prof. Gilbert- professor extraordinaire and top-notch showman rolled into one. Come exam time though, read and memorize the fine details in the textbook, and everything that was covered. Evaluations are tough.
The tests are difficult, but the material is interesting.
Lectures are amazing. Keep up with the readings. Section was engaging and fun.
Super fun and interesting class, however the grading is brutal.
Professor Gilbert's lectures are incredible.  I learned more through this class than through most classes I've taken at Harvard.  I highly recommend it.
Read the book.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. DO NOT BELIEVE THE HYPE. It is a scam. Gilbert's lectures are "entertaining" but nothing more than that. It's like a high school course.. except for the EXAMS WHICH SCREW YOU OVER. The exams are not testing you on the actual material but instead testing your reasoning skills. If you're an excellent reasoner you will do well, if you aren't you won't. Doesn't matter if you review or not. E.g. I studied a ton for the 1st exam and got a C, second exam I didn't studied at all and LITERALLY GUESSED and got a B. Class is bull.
Took this in my senior fall and certainly don't regret it. There are lot of great and some bad things about this course. In the end, I would still recommend it. I really feel like a learned a lot, especially about the different areas of psychology (for some reason I had always thought of it as therapy). The material is easy but the exams are tough (but not undoable if you read the book and study). I found the class to be logistically extremely inflexible and unforgiving, and also found that the expectations for the section papers were generally a lot higher than what could be accomplished in a 3 page paper. I spent the same amount of time writing as I did trimming it down. Also, you really can't let us drink water during the 1 hour and a half exam? Why? Other than these things, I recommend it. And don't miss lecture - Prof. Gilbert is fantastic.
Prof. Gilbert's lectures are incredible. You'll learn so much in this course and all this material can be directly related to how you live your own life. It is difficult to receive an A in this class, though. If you want to do well in this class, be prepared to pour a lot of time and effort into studying for the exams.
SLS 20 is the bomb
The course material is incredibly fascinating, but the exams are difficult.
It is a lot of reading
THis is an incredible course that provides students with a firm base on psychology. However,the tests may make you regret having taken it.
I love this class and it changed my thoughts about academics, about life and it really is the best class for easing into college academics.
I would tell them that this course is only passable if one actually reads all the material; otherwise it's not possible to do better than a B- or so. Seriously. It's like the only class at Harvard that requires to read the textbook, but it's well worth it.
exams are tricky, but class is well worth it; Professor Gilbert is an excellent lecturer and is very passionate about teaching students; really enjoyed this class, and material is something I think about now on a daily basis
This class is a lot of fun - like everybody says, the material is very interesting, the sections are usually cool activities, and Gilbert is a great lecturer (and has pretty good taste in pre-lecture playlist music). It shouldn't deter you from taking the class because obviously we are all here to learn and have no anxiety whatsoever about grades, but it is true that assessment is bizarrely weighted. Papers are very easy but still way more effort than their 7 point-value would suggest, and then exams often seem needlessly difficult (or perhaps it's just that the bar is set much higher here than in most Harvard classes I've taken, which is interesting because the rest of the course is so easy).
This class is easy, interesting, and offers one a wide smattering of topics in psychology.
Not an easy way out of the SLS requirement.
The course under Gilbert had unreasonable tests, so beware. Gilbert's lectures feel like you're watching pop science and not psychology, which is interesting for the first three lectures, until you realize that you've read all of the lecture material already on reddit.
I learned so much in this class. However, it is not easy. Exams are extremely tricky and difficult. You must do all the reading and pay attention at lecture. That being said, Gilbert is a wonderful lecturer and section with Kevin Madore was always stimulating.
The lectures are very good and the material itself is easy and straightforward.  Exams, however, are not straightforward at all.  If you hate true-false questions because you tend to over-think them, then you will hate the exams in the course.
this is a really great and rewarding class, but is really tough. worth it for the lectures though
The best class I have ever taken. Lecture is a performance. The material is awesome. I left every class thinking, mind blown.
This course is worth every hour of effort. The lectures are so captivating and the material is incredibly interesting and applicable to everyday life. I think for students who may not feel like they have a huge interest in science, psychology is a great way to explore social science, and test out the waters of neuroscience.
Can't recommend this class enough. Super-interesting, Dan Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer, and requires very, very little work, especially compared to anything else you would be fulfilling your SLS with.
Gilbert is a great lecturer, and you will learn a lot from this course. It's a good way to fulfill the SLS requirement if you're not into biology.
Read the book and go to lecture
Go to lecture, one of the best classes I've ever taken. Gilbert is THE MAN. You have to be prepared to do the readings, and make sure you get the psych studies out of the way early. But it's so worth it. Take it take it take it!
The course material is fascinating. Gilbert is a great lecturer (and he knows it, which means he's kinda cocky which can be annoying...) but overall it's a pretty good class. I enjoyed it and I really do feel like I learned a lot. The lectures are great and the readings are interesting. Section has potential to be great too and really fun, as long as you get a good section leader though... The tests are unnecessarily hard and would be the only reason to not take the class. If you want an easy A, this isn't the class. If you want to learn a lot and have fun, this is the class. It's not all about the grade, and although this class probably wasn't good for my GPA, I'm still so glad I took it. TAKE IT
Beware. If you are used to getting good grades and show the results of the hard work you are putting, this course will be a terrible, traumatic experience. I saw no correlation between the amount of work I put in and the final grades I got. The lectures put too much focus on making a "show" and don't teach you nearly enough. The textbook is interesting, but you will have to spend hours reading it, only to be finally asked about the smallest, pettiest details. This has been a terrible, traumatic experience for me. However, the material is interesting. If you are willing to take a course and completely disregard the evaluation of the TF's and the exams - take it. In my opinion, at least, it's not worth it. And I wanted to be a psych concentrator before taking this class.
Easy rote memorization class (under Gilbert ONLY). Stay on top of reading and you'll do fine.
This is an incredible opportunity to take a class with one of the best lecturers I have ever seen.  Each class feels like a TED talk and I looked forward to Mondays and Wednesdays because of it.  The textbook is as engaging as a textbook could be.
My favorite course ever! I loved section, the readings, and Gilbert is hilarious and entertaining. I can't recommend it strongly enough as a gen ed or exploration of psychology. After taking it, I'm getting a secondary in psychology.
This class is great - Prof Gilbert is an amazing lecturer, the assignments and tests are fairly graded and the material is fascinating!
Fun class, low workload!
The information is so relevant and applicable to real life situations, which makes it extremely interesting.  The papers are pretty easy to write and the reading is doable, but the exams are very hard; it takes time to get used to how professor gilbert asks questions.
best lecture at harvard. An exciting hour and a half twice a week that keeps you interested throughout with each lecture touching on a different aspect of psychology. the exams are very difficult (although graded on a scale). it is important to keep up with the reading as it is all tested. well worth taking.
Lectures are great and the material is very interesting and relevant.
Midterms are the worst, but Gilbert makes the rest worth it.
It's a great class, but you need to read the textbook carefully and read his questions carefully in order to do well on the tests. I know a lot of very smart people who got screwed by his evaluation style because they sped through the exams a little too quickly. I wish there were some other chance of redemption in this class other than the exams, but unfortunately there isn't.
This is an awesome course!! As Gilbert points out, it's hard to make psychology boring because the subject is so interesting, but he's also a phenomenal lecturer which makes it even better. The tests really aren't that bad - if you pay attention in lecture and actually read the textbook, you should be able to do pretty well. Definitely a good class if you need a SLS, or just want to understand psychology!
Gilbert's lectures alone make the class worth-taking but the exams can really be a let-down.
This is pretty much an awesome class. Lecture makes it, with Professor Gilbert rocking the podium in a way that would make even those completely uninterested in psychology pay attention. The tests are very difficult; don't let the multiple-choice format fool you. All in all, the class is challenging but very enjoyable. Don't count on it as an easy A, but if you can stand to lose a few points, the lectures and sections might be worth the risk.
This class is one of the best I have taken at Harvard as a junior.  Professor Gilbert is the best, most interesting lecturer at Harvard, hands down.  Coming into lectures felt more like a treat than a real course.  However, although the lectures are fun the class in itself is challenging.  To pass the exams as well as the class you must read the book and read it well.  The exams are beyond challenging.  I remember reading the book fervently and still getting Bs on the exam.  Work hard in the course and you will enjoy it.
It's a very light workload; there are only three papers and you can easily do the reading the weekend before the test if you are willing to spend 10-15 solid hours on it (depending on how quickly you read).
This course is interactive and genuinely very interesting, however be prepared for difficult exams. Even when you study at length, the right answers are difficult to pick out.
The tests are difficult lectures are great.
This is a fun and engaging class. But just know that the exams are very difficult. Don't get behind on the readings because they are necessary for the exams and they take some time to read and understand. One of the hardest classes I have ever taken but very rewarding for the amount of information that I have learned.
The lectures and information you will learn in the class are riveting. However, if you are worried about your grade, I would not recommend taking this class for a gen ed. The tests are unnecessarily tedious. You can review the lectures, read 400 pages from the textbook, take extensive notes and have an incredible understanding of the information, yet still get questions wrong just because of the wording. Gilbert is a great lecturer, but I have heard that the spring class is easier in terms of exams.
This course, although challenging, gives you a plethora of knowledge about the foundations of psychology.
This course has awesome lectures but the section papers are a hassle and graded pretty arbitrarily with little feedback.
Amazing class! Gilbert's lectures are so entertaining and informative at the same time- don't miss a single one if you can help it. Exams are tough, but you should do okay if you've kept up with readings. If you're looking for an easy gen ed, this is definitely not it, but it is one of the best classes at Harvard (in my opinion) and I would take it again if I could.
There are two sides to this class. First, the lectures are all fantastic. Each and everyone is so interesting because Gilbert is a really good public speaker and makes his lecture engaging and even sometimes interactive. The subjects that are covered are really applicable to every-day life. I frequently found myself referencing psychology theories of experiments we studied in class in regular conversations with my friends. The second aspect of this class, however, are the readings and the test. These are very important components that many people might overlook when coming into the class but PLEASE plan ahead to having at least two hours of reading per chapter due each week. The test are difficult. They're not impossible but they're challenging because they're multiple choice questions that can be very tricky by having questions such as "Pick the correct answers: A, B, C, Two of these, None of these." Because the readings are also on the tests, I usually took notes while I did the reading so that when I needed to prepare for the tests, I could look at my notes rather than going back to scan pages and pages of information. This took me about three hours per chapter. Some took me less time because the chapters were shorter. Still, it's important to realize that while the lectures are fantastic, there's a lot of work that goes into the class also.
Lecture is fantastic. Grade is calculated very weirdly: midterms are each worth 33%, and each of your papers are worth 5%. However, this is not a big deal as long as you know how to take tests well. Don't bother read the book, just go through and memorize every single bolded vocabulary word.
Text book class that is not worth 1/4 of a semester
Be ready to not get an A in the class, but Gilbert makes it so worth it with his amazing lectures.
Take this class!  The lectures are amazing, and although the exams are a bit scary, it's a fair price to pay for how much you learn and how much you'll enjoy the course (and the exams are graded on a curve anyway).
This class is just like a high school class, if you can read and memorize the books the tests are really easy. That aside, this class is worth it for Gilbert's lectures and section. A fun gen-ed
While this class demands your complete attention during lecture and a significant time investment in doing the textbook readings, the material covered is illuminating for many topic areas.
Professor Gilbert makes this course interesting, funny and relevant. His teaching makes students get fascinated with the field of psychology and its potential. Although the exams are extremely hard and stressful, and you may not get an A, do not let this deter you from taking the course - the knowledge you will take away from it is invaluable.
do the reading
This class is fantastic, it was the one class I looked forward going to the lectures.
The grade you get in this class is determined by your ability to remember facts from a book, and express them by taking an unintuitive test.
Fun.
The lecture is very entertaining and you will learn a lot about things that might come handy in everyday's life. The exams are hard, but curved generously - so as long as you manage to read the textbook you will manage just fine.
This is probably one of the more useful ways to fill the SLS gen ed. Psychology is a fascinating discipline, and you will never want to miss one of Gilbert's lectures. They are like TED talks. People complain a lot about the exams, but I guarantee those are all people who didn't do their readings and put them off till just before the exam and so only had time to skim. If you have done the textbook readings, you've been in lecture, and you read questions carefully on the exams you will be more than fine. Also section is tons of fun, and there is no final exam! There are two midterms, and the second one isn't cumulative. The only qualm I had with the class is that Gilbert doesn't let you keep a copy of your exam. He treats the exam as a "secure document" and doesn't even let us take notes or have any materials out when we are reviewing it because he's worried we'll write down the questions and give them to future students. He needs to stop being lazy and write new questions. He is just like the College Board lol.
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer!  He's the biggest draw to taking SLS20 in the fall rather than spring term. If you already know some psychology, many points in the class may seem very basic and low level (even for an English concentrator like me!)  but Gilbert's presentation of the material makes all the difference.It's a fun, easy way to fulfill the SLS gen ed.On a side note: the exams are not as difficult or as tricky as people make it out to be--if you kept up with the readings and study before hand, the exams are fairly straightforward.
Be prepared to read. A lot. Stay ahead on your readings and pay really good attention in lecture. Don't take it if you are looking for a fun and easy class.
Everything you hear about Gilbert's tests is true-- it's hard to get an A on them. However, it's relatively easy to get by with a fair grade, and the material is really interesting. Possibly the most enjoyable lecture class you can take at Harvard, so take it just to see Gilbert present.
DO THE READING!
This course is terrible. The lectures are fascinating and engaging. However this fact often blinds students to the fact that this class is terribly structured! You are required to read about 2 chapters (30-45 pages each) each week. Lecture covers about 40% of what's covered in lecture, if that, plus new material. There are only 6 sections, which cover some "big idea" that is really just ONE key term from the book and then you are required to write an essay on this big idea. Then the exams test you on everything!! It's like wait, when and where did they provide a space for you to understand what you read in the book?! If we have to teach ourselves almost 3/4s of the material, what do we need professors for? The exams are unnecessarily difficult. Competition can by useful, but for those of us actually trying to LEARN, it's annoying. If you have to take this course in the fall, good luck. Otherwise, I would suggest taking it with the new professor, Jason Mitchell. He gets great Q scores on the other courses he teaches here.
Gilbert's lectures are amazing; section is not that helpful, but it only meets six times during the semester; the tests are tricky but not too hard if you read the book thoroughly (it's fairly entertaining to read) and pay moderate attention in lecture; the five hours of studies you have to participate in are kind of annoying (get that done early); the workload is light- two mid-terms but no final plus three small essays (3 pages); Overall, it's a pretty interesting and fun course if you're at all interested in psychology.
It's an awesome class that you definitely wouldn't want to miss. The exams were not as difficult as I expected but still very tricky. Anyway it's still possible to get a good grade as long as you study hard for it! It's worth the efforts!
The material this class presents is interesting to learn about, the lectures are entertaining, and the section activities are hands-on, informational, and fun.  Above all, everything--from the textbook to the lectures--is clear.  Professor Gilbert does an excellent job making sure all slides in his PowerPoints express information clearly, and he makes sure that there is no room for miscommunication in his textbook.  Beware the tests.  They are tricky, and they are graded on a curve where most people end up with Bs.  However, they are not impossible, and about a third of people do get As.  I found this process successful: First, study terms and concepts by yourself, and then study in a group.  I found groups extremely helpful for studying in this course.  Next, when you take the exam, read the question, formulate an answer, and then look at the possible answers.  If you look at it all at once, there is potential to become confused and choose incorrectly.  When you make up an answer in your head and look for it, there's less chance of getting it wrong.  Overall, great course, definitely take it.
Tough exams.
The lectures are amazing. Gilbert is an excellent lecturer and it is impossible to feel bored during his lectures. More than once throughout the semester I had to pull all nighters in the night before his lectures and I could be dying before class, but after 5 minutes of lecture I was completely aware and having fun. He is really passionate about the material. The problem with this class is that you are not going to learn anything from section and the 3 papers you will have to write during the semesters will be boring. The prompts and the background articles are not interesting and you will have to write following very strict rules, what is kind of disappointing. The midterms are also hard. Because we do not have psets it is very easy to procrastinate and not do the readings on time. Because the amount of reading is about one hundred pages per week or more, if you do fall behind it is very difficult to catch up for the midterm. You need to be very organized to successfully take this class.
After all of the hype about SLS 20 exams with Gilbert, seriously, they're not a big deal!  Study hard for a few days, read the textbook as you go along, attend lecture, and know definitions.  You'll be fine.  Lectures were either good or fascinating every time, and it was definitely accessible to non-psych or even non-stem concentrators.
This class is so rewarding because you will learn so much more than textbook material. Because lectures and sections are frequently related to real world situations, it becomes so easy to apply to everyday situations and what you learned is retained.
Take this class! It's my favorite so far. As many people say, the exams are tricky and focused on small detail. I found it very hard to study for the exams, but I actually enjoyed learning the material and the tests are very small prices to pay for Gilbert's excellent lectures.
Take this course any time Dan Gilbert is teaching.  Lectures are relaxing and feel like watching a movie, so I really didn't mind going to them.
Thoughtfully composed course, thoughtlessly administered. There was more anxiety about testing than there was about learning the material, which is an attitude Gilbert seems fine perpetrating. I've no qualms with difficult tests, but when it becomes the defining mark of a course, that seems a bit problematic to me. The number of "gotcha" questions on tests is unnecessary. But then, as Gilbert will be sure to say again and again, it's what separates those who truly know the material from those who have a superficial understanding of it. Not a great class; buy the textbook if you're interested in the material (because it's all very compelling... even if it does change in the next five years or so), but don't confuse flashy, funnyman lectures with educational value.
This class is great and is the perfect way to get credit for the SLS gen-ed requirement. Just know, the exams are very difficult, and to do well you just have to do well compared to everyone else in the class.
SLS 20 is a great course if you're either interested in psychology or thinking about studying psychology. Daniel Gilbert is an EXCELLENT professor and lecturer. He is engaging, thought provoking, humorous, and so so so interesting. Lectures were very relatable to everyday life, and I now feel as though I understand the world and how people act and interact so much better. The exams are incredibly difficult though, which may affect your grade in the course; but I think Gilbert's teaching makes it worth it.
Really good class, learn a lot, Gilbert is fantastic, but be ready to keep up with the work while the class is going on. I tried to cram before the midterms, but it didn't work out so well. The two midterms are the major part of the grade, and there is no final, so don't wait until the end of the term to start working.
Very interesting class. Gilbert is a great lecturer. Be prepared for a lot of reading.
Professor Gilbert is amazing. His enthusiasm is contagious! He'll make you love psychology. The textbook work may be long at times, but its a greatly written book!
If you're taking this class, know what you're getting into. Professor Gilbert is, without a doubt, one of the best professors at Harvard. You'll learn a lot of great stuff and you'll actually enjoy going to lecture (which is so rare). However, the tests are tough and require you to basically memorize the textbook. I'm glad I took it, but I could have definitely gotten a better grade in a different SLS course. Your choice.
Do the reading and go to sections!
This class is amazing, but be prepared for tests that are more difficult than any test you have ever taken.
You will learn so much from this class that becomes relevant in your daily life because you start seeing the material everywhere. Such a great way to fulfill an SLS requirement.
very interesting class but really hard tests
This class is a challenge - plain and simple. It seems very simple and easy because there are no assignments at the start, but the exams are difficult. Taking this as my first class with a midterm my freshman year and then receiving a not-so-flattering grade was startling. However, if you love psychology and want to try something new, this is the class for you.
This is a fantastic course. The tests are hard, but neither impossible nor unfair. Lecture will blow you away. Section is interactive and engaging. The textbook is fascinating. The class is exactly as hard as it needs to be to be rewarding, so take it.
I recommend this class for anyone who is interested in anything to do with human behavior!
It is exactly what a gen ed should be: informative, thought provoking, and fun.
Don't be too intimidated by what they say about the tests at the beginning of the semester. The class is on the curve, so as long as you understand the information well by going to lecture, section AND staying catch up in the textbook, you should be able to succeed even if you don't answer "the hardest" questions on the exam correctly. I definitely regret not reading the textbook as the topics arose. Because of poor planning, I ended up doing most of my reading in the week leading up to the exam and I'm sure that that negatively impacted my test performance and acquisition of the concepts. The take away: Don't be intimidated, READ the textbook as the topics arise if at all possible, go to lecture and section and do the things you need to do to be successful.
The tests are brutal and unrelated to course lecture
INCREDIBLE lectures. Not a lot of assignments.
This is a great course.  Professor Gilbert and his staff have devoted a lot of time and effort to developing this course and it shows.  This is a fabulous and engaging introduction to psychology.  Be prepared to study hard for the tests, they are not easy and everything in course is fair game.  This course is completely worth taking.
Three major points:First, a lot of people say that Gilbert's lectures are engaging and entertaining.  However, as a science concentrator, I found lecture to be often times more about teaching a bunch of fun party tricks.Second, read the textbook.  Review lecture.  Those exams are tricky--you need to know the material really well in order to succeed.Third, section is the best!
Psychology is an interesting subject and Gilbert's lectures are certainly the best way to get intro into the subject
One of the most well-conducted classes I've ever taken. Each lecture is like an hour and a half long TED talk. It will undoubtedly change the way you think about human behavior and interaction.
This class is difficult but worth it because it is genuinely the taught by the best lecturer.
Definitely take this course, but you have to be prepared to do all the reading and go to all the lectures if you want to do well.
Fantastic class. The grading curve is a bit harsh, and the tests are difficult (and deal with some minute details from the textbook on occasion), but Gilbert is simply a fantastic lecturer, and sections are super-interesting. Take it!
The best class I've ever taken.
This is a really hard class, yet it is one of the most interesting.
This class is AWESOME. Professor Gilbert's lectures are the best. There are two hour and a half long lectures a week, but I never found myself dreading lecture, or getting bored during lecture. Sure the exams are pretty difficult, but if you read the textbook and study a fair amount, a good grade is very doable. The material is extremely interesting, and this is the best course I have taken at Harvard thus far.
Take this course--Professor Gilbert is excellent and one of the most captivating professors that I have had the opportunity to learn from.
Fascinating material, which is made only more fascinating by Gilbert. His lectures are incredible and he makes the material stick in your head. Everyone should take this class to learn about the mentality and behavior of yourself and of other people!
This class was so interesting! You learn something incredibly fascinating every day. Lectures are actually fun to go to because Gilbert does such a great job presenting. The only thing is these tests are SO DIFFICULT. Be prepared to memorize your textbook if you want a good test grade. The tests are curved, but the average is usually a 50%.
This class gets really hyped up, and people always tell you that the class is great but the tests are hard. The mistake that you should not make is to think that it is a worthwhile trade-off. The class is basically a series of TED talks, with crushingly difficult exams. It is really not SO great that you will find it worth the effort. If you are FASCINATED by psychology, then take it. Otherwise, do not.
This class has very engaging lectures, and you will learn a lot about the way that psychologists think.  Although the tests are hard, they are doable if you make sure you are actively studying and doing recall, not recognition.
One of the best courses at Harvard. Be warned, the exams are mostly based upon the textbook so do the readings!
Great class, just study and you'll be fine.
This class was hands down my favorite class of the semester. Daniel Gilbert is absolutely fantastic - his lectures are extremely engaging, entertaining, and will, in a sense, actually change the way you look at the world. While taking the course, I've always find myself relating what I see in my everyday life directly back to the material I learned, which made the  course just that much more interesting and relevant. Plus, Gilbert has an impeccable taste in music and is just the coolest professor ever.The workload is definitely manageable, only consisting of a couple chapters of reading per week, three short section papers (which are more 3-4 page summaries than actual essays), and 5 credits of psychology studies. The only reason I was somewhat anxious about taking the course was because of his notoriously-difficult exams. In all honestly, if you keep up with the reading and study in advanced for the exam so you know the material well, the exams really aren't that bad and should definitely not be a reason that a person shouldn't take this amazing class.It is true that for people who've taken AP Psychology in high school already, most of the material is going to be review of what they've already learned; however, the way that the material is presented and taught in lecture will completely change you think about psychology; I took AP Psychology in high school, but found this to be a very engaging, educational experience for me myself. Plus this makes the exams even easier since the material is review.Take this course. It will change your life. Actually though.
This class is frustrating because the material is relatively easy to grasp, but the tests are extremely difficult. Not worth it.
This class is not easy but it is surely not unbearably difficult. Gilbert's exams are difficult but they are difficult because he grades them on a curve. That being said, you need to read the material and attend the majority if not all the lectures to do well in this course. You won't want to miss the lectures anyway.
Definitely take it. It was by far my favorite class and you will definitely not regret it. Gilbert is an amazing lecturer and even though his tests may be difficult, you can usually argue back a few more points.
Very unsettling. Instead of inspiring, this class often trashed some of the most remarkable aspects of being human. According to Gilberts Psychological Science, you are a meaningless fragment in an alien universe, allowed a few short-lived pleasures followed by pain and ultimate annihilation. You are not truly free, and therefore you are not morally responsible for your actions. Consciousness is an illusion, so nothing really matters. You are a complex machine. Nothing more. You are here for only one purpose: to pass on your genes. Once youve done that (or if you cant do that) youre pretty much useless. Can someone say existential crisis? With phrases like Nature made it so that and From an evolutionary perspective this class manages to dismisses acts of altruism - like a soldier throwing himself over a grenade to save his comrades or a woman donating her kidney to a complete stranger - as acts of selfishness! Find me a more depressing and dehumanizing outlook than this one. Much of what is taught in this class, including its primary axiom - that the mind is reducible to purely physical systems - is greatly contested by leading philosophers of mind (e.g. Heil, Chalmers). Instead of having my scope of knowledge expanded, from day one I felt like I was being inculcated with Gilberts liberal, atheist ideology. His textbook is replete with anti-religious propaganda: accusing the Pope to be a figure that reduces self-esteem, theorizing that all religious beliefs are made up to ease the psychological pain of mortality, claiming that atheists are smarter than theologians, etc. Considering the extent to which this class (and this college) goes to make sure to not offend different minority groups, it is amazing how quick it is to denounce believers in God as stupid and misled. So why do you find hundreds of other recommendations to Take this class!!!? I think the answer is that this class is highly enjoyable. It is more of an entertainment than an education. Gilbert is not a lecturer. Hes a performer. You are his audience. Watching SLS20 is like watching TV - equipped with music videos to excite you, gory clips to disgust you, and semi-pornographic images to arouse you (please have some respect for those of us who still care about decency). When watching TV it takes effort to think critically about the material being presented. While I would not urge you to not take this class - its an easy, interesting and fun gen ed - I would say that if you choose to take it, please take it with a grain of salt. Thats all folks.
SLS 20 with Gilbert is a fantastic course in my opinion. The lectures are fantastic and the subject material is fascinating; in addition to being relevant to many other fields of study (political science, behavioral economics, etc.), it's just good knowledge to have in general. The midterms are somewhat difficult, and if you let the reading pile up it can become something of a doozy. This isn't an easy Gen-Ed to take just for the grade, but it is a great course that teaches you a lot. I would highly recommend it.
The course material is highly engaging and the textbook is great. However, I felt the lectures were more like "ted talks" and I wasn't absorbing much of the information. Professor Gilbert is an engaging and entertaining professor. Most of my learning came from studying for the two midterms in the class, which meant cramming in six chapters worth of information. I thought this class tested us on memorization more than anything else. I didn't get much out of it as I had originally hoped.
Exams are difficult but the lectures are awesome.
Professor Gilbert is amazing, and will always make you enjoy lecture
Gilbert is a great lecturer, but horrible test-maker. Take another class in Science of Living System if you don't want an arbitrary grade. Seriously, how well you perform in the exam is hardly correlated to how much time you put into studying.
A good class overall. The lectures were really interesting and entertaining, but the tests suck and don't really test your knowledge. The questions are just there to trip you up. The sections are fun too, and the workload for this class is pretty light, just some reading.
excellent course with socially relevant subject matter
This is a really great gen ed because the information is interesting and the assignments are reasonable, just make sure you go to lecture and do the readings (the reading are very important, and the book is written in a lively manner so it shouldn't be an issue).
You do not have to do much on a daily basis, but staying on top of the readings before going to lecture helps a ton when you get to the exams. The exams are very tough in that you actually have to know the material well (not just glaze over it and guess), so don't fall behind or else you're going to cram (probably unsuccessfully) for the exams.
Whether you are interested at all in studying psychology in any manner, this course is a must due to  the interest it will ignite for the understanding of how we view stimuli all around us and their effects on our way of conducting our lives.
This course is worth taking just to be able to hear Professor' Gilbert's lectures, which are amazing. The tests aren't as hard as some people would make you think: yes, you need to read and understand everything, and some test questions are tricky, but if you read all the chapters, go to lecture, and skim through the important stuff before the tests, then they are doable, and based on a curve anyways. With that said, I found the section component weak.
Really helps you look at the world differently.
It's a lot of reading and outside work, but the lectures are fantastic and well worth attending
Lectures are very interesting, but it will screw up your GPA, if you aren't willing to dedicate your all to it. The questions on the exam are extremely picky--if you read it slightly wrong, or understand it wrong, you will get the problem wrong although you know all of the content it's asking. Although I felt like I studied quite a bit for it, and actually knew the content fairly well (read the book twice), I still got a lot wrong on the exam because the problems were worded so trickily. I would never take this as a gened.
This is, hands down, the best course I have taken at Harvard. Don't get me wrong, it's hard. Don't take it if you want an easy A because it's competitive and curved. The exams are brutal and you really do have to study (read the textbook or you're doomed), but it is 100% worth it. Professor Gilbert's lectures are amazing and you will come away from this class with a much, much greater understanding of how people think, how they work, and why they do the things they do. It's fascinating material. This class has literally changed the way I look at the world, and I feel I gained so much from taking it.
This class was my favorite class that I have ever taken at Harvard... and I'm a senior. Though the tests were tricky and required a decent amount of studying, it was worth it. This class has taught me more than many other required classes and also changed the way I think about interpersonal interactions. Would highly recommend to anyone considering it, even if it's completely outside your area of expertise. Also, Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer and I genuinely looked forward to lecture every Monday and Wednesday.
Take this course. Professor Gilbert and lectures are great. It's a general survey course so it doesn't go too far into depth into any one topic, but it's very good for someone without an psychology background to get an idea of what the field has to offer.
The secret to this course is keeping up with the readings, and taking it with friends so you can keep each other in check with the readings and commiserate together when need be. Gilbert is an awesome lecturer, but don't let that fool you. You have to put in the same amount of effort as he does if not more if you want to be on the good side of the curve.
While the lecture material is very interesting, and the sections are very engaging, the structure of homework in the course is terrible and almost a waste of time. It is very reading heavy from a single, oversimplified text book, that ignores the scientific depth of psychology that we briefly delve into in class. Furthermore, the tests, while easy to prepare for, are nothing but simple reading quizzes and not gratifying to take and do well in in the least.
This class is so interesting and so well-taught. Professor Gilbert is dynamic and hilarious and going to lecture is actually a really fun part of the day, two days a week. Section also gives you a chance to do fun and illustrative activities. Psych is awesome and this class shows why!
Very interesting but difficult tests.
This class is really great and you will get a lot out of it, especially if you pay attention and take good notes in lecture. That way it is much easier to prepare for the exams as anything he talks about in class pretty much is fair game.
This is probably one of the most fascinating courses that I have ever taken. Gilbert is such a great lecturer but remember to keep up with the readings because cramming even the week before the exams will not help. Be ready for some exams that are a little bit more difficult than normal but be prepared to have your mind expanded.
This class is impossible but interesting.  It opens up many options for future classes.  It will ruin your confidence though so be prepared.
the exams are impossible but the interesting topic and lectures make up for it
If you search for an easy course which is really funny, take it with Gilbert. If you want a good grade and aren't a genius, just read the ~50 pages per week and you will be more than fine.
Take it. Especially with Dan Gilbert. You'll love it even though the tests are hard.
This class caters to the freshmen in the class and at points, the assignments and lectures can be fairly dumbed down. That said, it is extremely interesting and the book is very well written.
This is a very enjoyable class to take! It is one of those classes that you ACTUALLY look forward to going to because the topics are so interesting and Gilbert is so engaging, that you don't feel like you're in class at all. It's like just going to learn a bunch of cool, fun information. And don't get discouraged if you hear that Gilbert's exams are super difficult-they are totally do-able!
The class is not very difficult, and is a fun way to get introduce to psychology.
Great subject, really interesting and learnt a lot. Gilbert is a great lecturer. Exams are bullshit.
Going into the class I didn't know what to expect. I was worried after hearing the exams were "impossible." However, after taking this course, I found it to be awesome. I loved it. Every lecture was interesting and engaging, the subject matter was interesting and you can see it in your own life. Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer, you'll never want to miss class, he's hilarious and loves everything about what he's teaching. Now, the exams are definitely tough, but if you read all of the chapters in detail and pay close attention in lecture and study, you will do fine. The exams aren't "impossible" just specific and detailed. Don't let the difficult tests deter you from this course. TAKE IT. It's fabulous.
DO THE READINGS....the exams are very detailed. There isn't much work due between exams so it can feel like you blow off this class until exam time...don't do it.
Gilbert's lectures are fantastic, the tests are hard but completely doable if you read over the textbook and pay attention during lecture
This has been my favorite course so far. I loved lectures so much I was sad to hear we wouldn't have one on Veteran's day. Sections were fun and the papers were easy to write. I even enjoyed reading the textbook and studying for the two tests (which aren't as bad as people say they are, in my opinion, as long as you study thoroughly). I feel like I have a really great foundation in psychology from this course, and one that I will retain for many years.
While the grading scale is horrendous/ambiguous and the curve is stressful, this course was awesome! Gilbert is very engaging and you learn psychology applicable to everyday life.
Definitely a course one should take whether or not they're interested in delving deeper. It's a course that has amazing lectures by Gilbert and is loaded with lots of interesting and thought-provoking information. Only downside is that the exams are very tough.
This course is probably your best bet if you're a social science concentrator who has to fulfill your science of living systems gen ed.
Be prepared to read the textbook material carefully and its helpful to create outlines of the assigned readings as you do them week to week.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!  It is awesome.  The lectures are awesome, and it is very little work.
The exams in this class are really really difficult. I did all of the work for the class, yet still did horribly just because I am very bad at multiple choice. But rather than saying that as a negative, I use that to emphasize how much I still recommend this course despite how poorly I did. It is an amazing and interesting class that is a great example of something you should take to learn, and not just for a good grade.
An interesting course and good if you want an intro to psychology, but be warned that it is much harder than it seems.
Take this class if you have the slightest interest in Psychology! Professor Gilbert's lectures are honestly the best at Harvard! You learn so much from lecture about everything related to the human mind and behaviour. But you should also be willing to accept difficult exams, and possibly lower grades, to gain the best learning experience through lecture.
This class is exceptional. Grading is tough but fair. Material is excellent. I am not a science person and yet this class was one of my favorites.
This is one course that I'd recommend without reservation to everyone. Prof. Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer, and as we like to joke, it's almost like watching a live TED talk every time. It's neither difficult nor time-consuming, but the material is interesting and relevant to our daily lives. Take it if you're looking to fulfill a GenEd. It might even persuade you to concentrate in Psychology.
Try and get Gilbert. I don't know much about Pinker or whomever else is teaching but Gilbert is the best option of all.
Gilbert is AMAZING. AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING. Made me decide to be a psych concentrator, such a fun and engaging course.
Beware of the exams.  Otherwise, the course is fascinating.
Do the readings. And study.  Study for the mid term and final as you never have studied before.  You need to know the material inside and out for those tests.
If you're looking for a class where your professor and TFs are invested in making the class interesting and engaging as well as informative, and you're willing to put in the effort-because the tests aren't easy-then I highly recommend taking this class.
While the testing for this test is very difficult, it is not unfair. In addition, the experience of engaging with the material with a teacher like Daniel Gilbert makes the class very much worth it.
gilbert gives very entertaining lectures, and it's not a hard course. on the other hand psychology isn't a very rigourous science so... yeah whatever it's just for fun, and at least gives you funny way of looking at your interactions in the world
If you are interested in psychology, then I would highly recommend this course. People often say they are hesitant to recommend because of the difficulty of the exams but I think that though they are hard, the course is too worthwhile to miss out on. Gilbert's lectures were the best lectures I have sat in on at Harvard so far. He teaches not for the sake of fulfilling the Gen Ed requirement but to enhance your own life.
Gilbert tells you before the first exam that he wants the average to be 25 out of 50 questions. He wants the average to be a failing grade so he can scale it up. That's BS. The rationale is stupid. Make better questions. If I wasn't taking two other upper level Psy classes with this class, I would be discouraged from concentrating in psych. Gilbert is one of those people who is too famous for his own good and it all went to his head. There are better ways to fulfill the SLS gen ed.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. The sections are enlightening and productive. Professor Gilbert is the best lecturer I have ever had, and the material is relevant and interesting. The workload is absolutely manageable given that you read the chapters when assigned and do not procrastinate.
Gilbert's lectures are awesome, and the sections are also a highlight. However, the tests are challenging and the post-mortem is painful.
You should take this class despite the hard exams; the information is interesting and very applicable in anyone's life!
Take it for Gilbert's lectures.
This is an incredible class. All of Gilbert's lectures belong on TED. There is a lot of material to learn, and the course moves very fast through difficult concepts, but the material is engaging enough to keep your interest and motivate you to put in those extra hours of studying.
To be honest, the exams are terribly difficult but the course itself is SO worth it. Dan Gilbert is an AMAZING lecturer and you will learn more in this course than you probably ever expected. Section only meets six times over the course of the semester and is so, so fun, learning practical examples to help you assess your views in psychology. This course is amazing and I really think that every Harvard student should take it. Best class I've taken here (speaking as a sophomore), hands down.
Take it in the fall for Professor Gilbert's lectures.
The exams are HARD! Gilbert makes them difficult for no good reason and it makes it seem as though you haven't really accomplished anything, which is unfortunate.
This is an enjoyable way to fulfill Science of Living Systems.
You'll get a good grounding of psychology from this course. Lectures are very engaging and the textbook is well written. Yes the tests are hard, but the curve is the same as other classes and shouldn't deter you.
Don't be discouraged by students who say the tests are really hard. They might be tricky, but they are do-able. The workload isn't too much and it's a fun class in general. Sections are a bit pointless however.
Definitely take this class, especially if you need to fulfill a gen ed. I think everyone should have a basic knowledge of psychology, and this class is thoroughly enjoyable for most people. Gilbert is an excellent lecturer, and the textbook is interesting and easy to read. I usually did all the readings before their corresponding lectures, but I might suggest doing the readings after the lecture, because that way the lecture material will be new and fascinating (otherwise you get to lecture, and you're like "wow, I already knew that. Been there. Done that. Okay let's move on."), and you can use the textbook as a way to remind yourself of what was said in lecture. The tests are meant to be really tricky. Make sure you read the questions very carefully. And keep in mind you will have to do five psych study hours, which kind of suck. At least it's only five.
Sure, Dan Gilbert's lectures are entertaining. But the exams are not fair at all. They don't test the students' understanding of the material, but rather who can think like Dan Gilbert the most. Don't take this class unless you have to because you want to be a psych major.
Take it, but make sure you have plenty of time the week before the exams to devote to studying.  Definitely a fun class to be in, and I would recommend it to everyone.
Take this class if you want to learn about yourself, the world, or just about anything having to do with humans. Gilbert is amazing, puts so much into the class. I'm going for a secondary in psych solely because of this class. Eye-opening. Best class I've EVER taken.
You will probably like it because the lectures are very entertaining and showy, but that's the very reason that I hated them. It's a lot of reading, and you're going to have to do the reading for the absurdly designed tests.
Dr. Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer, and section is also very interesting.
The material taught in SLS20 is not only fascinating, it is also incredibly applicable! Although SLS20 has been criticized as being "the greatest hits of Psychology" and not very representative of the concentration, I (as a non-concentrator) was thrilled with the way Gilbert chose to deliver information. This will definitely be a class I remember for many years in my future.
It's a good way to knock out SLS and lecture is fun, but don't expect to be swept away with interest in psychology
Tests are bad.  Lectures, sections are good.  Study a lot.
Amazing lectures and a very interesting class. A fair amount of reading though, and the exams are very difficult.
If you took AP psych, you won't learn that much.
Gilbert is the best lecturer at Harvard. Take this class.
The lectures are amazing and interesting and section includes great discussions and hands-on participation that is actually intriguing and helpful to clarify the big ideas of lecture.
This course was tremendously enjoyable. Gilbert's lectures were extremely well prepared and fun, and he is one of the most engaging lecturers I have ever seen. This course had the highest ratio of interesting material/workload I have taken.
This is my favorite class I've taken at Harvard. The worst thing about this course is that it's over. Gilbert is the best lecturer I've ever seen. Exams can be kind of tough but it's not that big of a deal. Section is really fun and laid back and the readings are amazing. I look at the world completely differently now, and would recommend this class to every person.
Though the exams are tough and there is a lot of reading, this course changed my life in the best way possible and is the reason why I want to be a psychology concentrator. Daniel Gilbert gives captivating lectures, and the TF's are all really cool. Best course I've taken at Harvard yet,
The tests are ridiculous, but Gilbert's lectures are really great and the material is interesting.
This is an excellent class that everyone should take. Psychology will be helpful to you for the rest of your life. However, as you are probably already aware, the exams ARE DIFFICULT. Doing well depends more on your test taking ability and your ability to "think like Gilbert." It is very important to know the little nuances in the textbook and even in lecture. Some of those small things WILL BE ON THE EXAM
The lectures are what makes this class! So don't miss them! Yes the exams are hard but you'll survive.
This course fits the ideal mold of a gen-ed.  The lectures are engaging, entertaining, and accessible.  There is minimal required work outside of class, and it's a good introduction to psychology if you're into that kind of thing.  I'm glad I got the chance to learn some of the big ideas in the field.
Lectures are never boring. As soon as you walk in, Gilbert has music blasting in the lecture hall that somehow pertains to the topic at hand. In addition, Gilbert is a great lecturer who always manages to keep us entertained and laughing while he was teaching. Although, the tests are difficult and the grading on papers is harsh, you'll learn a lot of interesting material and you won't regret taking this course. This class reaffirmed my decision to be a psych concentrator at Harvard.
The tests can be unfair to poor test takers, even if you study!
This is one of the best classes I've ever taken. I learned so much from Professor Gilbert's lectures that I didn't care that I didn't do well in the exams. This class is a reminder that learning isn't all about grades, but about the things you actually bring home. I had zero plans of even taking a class on psychology when I entered but this class made me consider taking a secondary in it (for a while, I was even thinking of concentrating in it!). Love, love, LOVE this class. Professor Gilbert is THE best lecturer I have EVER listened to.
Make sure you take it with Dan Gilbert but the lectures are amazing and make the difficult exams well worth it. You also learn so much about human life that comes up everyday.
Be aware of the cruelty of the curve! Do not take this class just to fulfill the Gen Ed requirement. It is interesting, the lectures are hilarious, and it requires very little work throughout the year. However, the multiple choice exams are notoriously hard to prepare for. 1/10 of the class will get very poor grades, even if they learnt something valuable by taking it. It is easy in the sense that there is a low workload, and the concepts are not hard to grasp. However, it is very difficult in the sense that it is hard to get an A.
I would tell future students that the lectures are really interesting but the tests are designed to trick you which was a bit frustrating but overall I'd say this course was incredible and I would highly recommend it.
Great way to fulfill SLS requirement! The exams are tough but I think it is a great introductory course.
Large lecture hall and tough tests
The tests DO mess with you a bit, but they're really just making sure you know your stuff. It's very little work. Each essay is about 3 hours and I studied for ~3 days before each of the tests and did literally 0 work outside of that. You could even study less for the tests if you actually did your reading when it was supposed to, but I prefer cramming.
The lectures are great - entertaining and educational.  Exams are surprisingly challenging.
SLS20 is a pretty painless way to satisfy the SLS requirement in that there's no lab component and it doesn't require a lot of work.  You do get a lot out in relation to what you put in, though the class at times seems to veer toward the "pop sci" category.  Prof Gilbert is one of Harvard's best lecturers, so that portion of the course is fantastic.  Section activities are somewhat contrived but they do help illuminate the material.  The one bad thing is that grading is somewhat harsh, so it's not an "easy A," especially if you're not a comfortable taking tough multiple choice tests.
Overall a great class! The class is fast-paced and requires a lot of readings and exams are awful!
Definitely the best, more "social" life science class you can take if you don't want to handle straight-up Life Sci courses. And if you have never sat in on a Gilbert lecture, it's really something that you have to do before you graduate from the College. Warning: have a free slot in your schedule ready, because you will fall in love with Gilbert's style and find yourself having to juggle another course in your planning.
This is a really interesting class and it definitely is worth going to see the lectures, but the other reality is that the exams are difficult. They require you to really have a lot of the material memorized and are tricky. So this isn't an easy class if you were planning on taking this as an easy class, I'm not sure that's a great idea.
Know what you're getting yourself into. People say that the exams are hard. They mean it.
I think everyone should at some point take SLS 20. If this course isn't for a concentration then just take it for enjoyment because Gilbert is great!
Let me start by saying that the lectures are fantastic. However, I encourage you to look elsewhere to fulfill your Gen Ed requirement. The course features two horribly unfair exams that are designed to trick students, rather than measure their knowledge of the learned material. I do not understand why Professor Gilbert does this to his students, but this class is sure to kill many students' GPAs. I am very disappointed in how this course turned out.
The lectures are great, but the tests are really hard and even if you study a lot you may not be pleased with how you do.
Don't take this class if you want an easy A. Don't take class if you want an easy A-. I worked really hard in this class but I don't feel like I did nearly as well as I should have.
This will be one of the greatest course I take in my time at Harvard.  I have ultimate respect for Gilbert as professor and as a scientist.  That said, this class will ruin your self-esteem and then laugh about it.  If you are considering enrolling, one must be more concerned with enjoying what they're learning than simply doing well.
It is a very interesting class but be prepared - the exams are tough, however they don't just reflect what you've learnt through the semester
Yes, the exams are difficult, but if you study the book diligently, they're really not that bad. Most importantly, the lectures are AMAZING. They were the highlights of my academic week and warranted applause each and every time. You must take this class with Professor Gilbert! He's incredible. Even though I wasn't that interested in psychology when I first got to Harvard, my friends told me I had to at least shop this course. I did, and was convinced from the beginning. Awesome class. Would recommend it to anyone!!
very riveting lectures, interesting topics, great professor. But be aware of three small essays, and two exams that are like few other exams you've probably ever seen.
This is, without a doubt, the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. The lectures are fascinating, the textbook is actually fun to read (as long as you don't wait until the day before the midterms to start), and even though the exams can be frustrating at first, they're not a good reason to miss taking this class with Gilbert.
It's true what you'll hear about Gilbert; lectures are great and tests are hard. I probably won't get the grade I want in this class because I wasn't willing to put in the extra work it would take.
The exams are difficult it is true. You do need to know the concepts very well but also don't overanalyze how a question is worded. However, this course is taught by an engaging Professor Gilbert and it does give a good overview as to all the different subjects one can further focus on in different fields of psychology.
Take it! Fun lectures and super interesting! Learning about the human mind in such a way is a rare opportunity!
Gilbert's an incredible lecturer, and you'll be surprised at how often you think of this curriculum in daily life!
That lectures are absolutely astonishing.
Exams are hard, study hard. Lectures are worth it. I brought friends from other schools to come see lectures.
This was by far the most interesting class I took this semester and taught by an awesome professor. The readings are manageable and you learn a lot by the end of the class. The exams can be tricky so study the terms and chapters well for them, but overall you don't have to stress too much about the class.
This is a wonderful class! It is especially good for humanities concentrators because you learn about the human mind from a scientific standpoint that complements what you learn about humanity in other classes. Prof. Gilbert is an excellent and engaging lecturer and it is a privilege to hear him speak. Be sure to read EVERYTHING, at least by the time of the exam, and to attend every lecture, take meticulous notes, and study thoroughly. You will learn a lot of interesting things and it will be worth your time.
Yes, the lectures are entertaining, but no, it is certainly not worth it to take this class (unless you need to take it as a concentration requirement). The lectures lack rigor and don't amount to much more than you could gather by skimming any pop psych book. Moreover, the lectures do next to nothing to prepare you for the exam in any meaningful way. By this I mean the nature of the material that determines your grade is not at all close to the tone and digested quality of the material you are presented in lecture.
very difficult class but you learn a lot about psychology. upperclassmen beware, this is mostly first-year/sophomores class
Great lectures. One of the funniest and most charismatic professors on campus. Tests are hard, but as long as you keep up with the reading you will be fine.
Gilbert is the best lecturer I've had at Harvard. I took AP Psych in high school, but I still enjoyed this class immensely. Definitely take it with Gilbert.
Read chapters regularly!
The tests are extremely hard and that every point from the papers and participation is crucial.
This class is very interesting and fun but extremely hard tests.
Basically just a rehash of all of the other comments - tricky tests, great lectures. Do your best to understand Gilbert's way of thinking, as the correct answers are the ones he thinks are correct.
This was the worst class I have ever taken at Harvard for the following reasons:1. Lectures, though sometimes engaging, seemed over-rehearsed and extremely black and white.2. Section will be a waste of an hour of your life (not including transit to and from the Northwest Labs).3. You will do well in this class if you are immensely capable of understanding Gilbert's sense of humor and his desire to trip up his students. Even then, you might not survive the curve. You should only take this class if you can do well on multiple-choice exams (if you thought the SAT was the last time you would have to measure test-taking skills instead of real understanding and intelligence, then you should not take this class).You do, however, learn valuable things from the book and sometimes from lectures - but don't expect to be tested on them!
Lecture's fun, you gotta read and study the textbook to do well on the exams.
exams are graded kind of unfairly in the sense that since he throws out questions that are often disputed on technicalities, your curve may be ruined if the questions that were thrown out were questions you got right but had originally had a really low percentage correct
Regardless of what you think you want to do with your college career, this is one course that every Harvard student should take. Every aspect of the course is simply awesome. Gilbert and the TFs made this my favorite class thus far at Harvard and it will remain so for the foreseeable future.
A very solid introduction to psychology, but prepare to be frustrated by the evaluation format (both papers and exams).
Midterms are hard :(
Gilbert's exams are tricky and require a minute, intense, close-reading and memorization of nearly every detail in the text book and that is not an exaggeration.  So be ready for that.
Gilbert will change how you learn and study. His lessons go beyond the realm of psychology. He is truly one of the best lecturers and educators at Harvard..
Gilbert is a great, entertaining lecturer. It was easily my favorite class and actually got me really interested in psych as a concentration. I really have nothing bad to say. It wasn't a hard class, but its important to keep up with the reading, which can be dense at times (but was always very interesting). The tests are hard but definitely doable.
Gilbert is BY FAR worth the difficulty of the tests. Going to lecture was like going to see a show or a movie. You really will look forward to class.
SLS 20 is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. You learn so much and Gilbert's lectures are a pleasure to watch. The material is all really interesting while still being totally manageable. If you keep up with readings, this class can be relatively stress-free. Yes, exams are difficult, but they're not unreasonable. If you put in the time, you can absolutely do well on them. I'd say the main drawback of this class is section. Section is "fun" and interesting, but it's a waste of time. You won't learn anything new that you can't just read about and you won't review anything learned in class. In my opinion, section either needs to be eliminated or completely restructured.
It is tough but worthwhile
The lectures and sections are very interesting and entertaining, but you have to prepare very well for the tests.
Although the lectures are more entertaining than others, I don't think that's a trade-off for the incredibly difficult and unfair exams that do not test your knowledge fairly and end up weighing the most heavily into your grades.
Great course, but keep up with the reading and know it in fine detail.
Gilbert's lectures are about as good as lectures come -- engaging, fun, interesting, thought provoking. The exams, however, are quite difficult and require careful reading of the textbook. I would not recommend this class to people who have a difficult schedule and would not have time to read the textbook chapters each week. It is impossible to do well in this class without reading the textbook. That being said, I found the textbook chapters to be very interesting and would definitely recommend this class to people who have an interest in psychology.
It's easy and goes slowly. It's boring at times. Sections are rubbish. The professor is often more focused on showmanship than presenting information efficiently.
The tests are HARD, but everything else is great. Gilbert is a riot; he doesn't lecture, he PERFORMS.
Lectures are interesting, but the exams are just tedious tests of how well you've memorized the bold terms in the textbook and have a lot of poorly worded or incorrect questions.  If you're not overly concerned about your grade in the class and need to get SLS out of the way, take this class, go to the (generally quite entertaining) lectures and don't worry about spending too much time studying for the exam, and you'll have a good time if not an A.
This class is great. I didn't think the tests were that bad; you have to actually read the textbook, but if you've read it and you know all the terms then you should be fine. Lectures were fantastic, and although the short research participation papers were a little annoying, they were really easy despite being literally the only work in the class. The material is fascinating and with the exception of some dry sections the textbook is engaging and easy to read. If you haven't done your SLS yet then absolutely take this class, and even if you have I'd still recommend it.
The exams may be painful, but the class itself is worth it. Gilbert's lectures are worth your while
This class is a lot of fun and Gilbert is one of the best lecturers at the college. That being said the material you learn in this class is more fun tidbits to share at parties and less a comprehensive understanding of psychology.
Dan Gilbert is the reason you should take this course. Do not take it for the grade (for it is difficult to get an A due to the testing), but take it because Dan Gilbert is inspiring, enthusiastic, informative and an altogether great lecturer.
the course teaches useful information, it's just difficult to do well
Really great and interesting class! Gilbert is a great lecturer and the sections are a lot of fun. The material is extremely applicable seeing as it is psychology. The tests are really difficult, but you'll be okay if you keep up with the reading and start studying early.
If you want to do well, make sure you keep up with the readings.
This class is evil. NEVER TAKE THIS
The lectures are amazing. Professor Gilbert prepares for them so well but the exams are very tricky and you can't go in expecting/demanding an A+.
The exams are not only intellectually but also psychologically taxing. There are very few questions that simply gloss over topics, instead every question is "tricky." It takes a real mastering of the topics to ace the exams, but the questions are still fair. There are no problem sets, but it is important to pace yourself to read and re-read before the exams.
The material of this class is very interesting, and the lectures are by far the best part of the class. Professor Gilbert is the most passionate teacher I have had and he really keeps the students interested in the subject. With that said, the sections are not always helpful in helping with understanding and the tests are very, very, very difficult. Fifty multiple choice questions do not seem daunting, but they are very tricky. I found that studying and studying would not prepare for the tricks that came with the exams. It is not easy to get an A. Also, the research participation papers are not easy to get good grades on either, although the feedback on them can be helpful.
It's great course, taught by a great team. It's very organized, very fun to listen to Gilbert lecture, but still challenging in its tests.
If you care a lot about your GPA then this might not be the class to take, but Dr. Gilbert's lectures are among the top offered at Harvard.  Overall, a great course.
terrible for your grade though interesting. But there are many more interesting courses that are fair and actually lead to you learning important material. This course is basically a seminar on interesting facts and social phenomenons
The exams are extremely difficult, but the information is extremely interesting.
The class is definitely on the difficult end of the Gen Ed spectrum. The sections are not effective and the grading for the research papers are entirely arbitrary. Gilbert purposely grades on a bell curve so expect difficult grades. Furthermore, the material is very similar to that of AP Psychology.
gilbert is engaging, but class itself is not a gpa booster
Memorize minutia from the book and lecture
SLS 20 is a difficult course. However, it is totally worth taking, as it will give you a chance to really explore how the human brain and mind work. The lectures are superb and sections are interesting.
Take this class! Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer and the book is just as fascinating of a read. Sections are fun (you get to do activities/experiments that go along with what we learned in class). The work load isn't too difficult either. Definitely read the book well for exams. I always did the readings once and then reread or skimmed through all of the readings right before the exam and that helped me do well on them. This is the class that solidified my desire to become a Psych concentrator. A great way to fulfill the SLS Gen Ed.
Keep up with readings every week! The tests are very difficult so you need to keep on top of the workload the entire semester.
The tests are ridiculously hard and you won't do well in the class, but the lectures are fascinating!
Its a great class but be prepared to have a rough time with the exams.
Take this class during one of your four years, and make sure Dan Gilbert is teaching. do it. (unless you already took AP psychology, in which case it's all review)
It's a great class with really interesting lectures! Be prepared to do the readings though.
Lectures are entertaining, but the exams are a pain.
SLS 20 is by far on the most interesting classes I have ever taken. Lectures captivate you and time flies because you actually enjoy what you are learning so you can apply it to your life. I would recommend it to anyone!
The question is whether Gilbert's lectures and fun-filled sections are worth suffering through the exams, post mortem and mandatory psych study participation.  This class is graded on a curve and I found the exams very difficult.  I took the class as an elective.  Maybe others found it easy.
NONE
This is a very interesting and engaging class.  The tests are difficult and it is not possible to do well if you are someone who waits until the last minute to study.
The class is great, the lectures are engaging, but the exams are impossible. If you need a grade boost, DO NOT take this. If you want a good psych class, take this.
Take it
Everything--and I mean EVERYthing--about this class is great: from Professor Gilbert and his lecture style (funny, engaging, clearly put in effort n the powerpoint slides, and very educational) to the sections (we ate miracle berry once!) to the assignments (papers and psych study participation component were worthwhile) IS AMAZING. THE ONLY thing I would heed you is the way Gilbert creates tests. They are insanely difficult, even if you are a good test taker.
The lectures are fascinating, and I would take the course again. However, the tests are confusing and frustrating, especially if you are not very good at confusing multiple choice questions.
I strongly advise taking this course with Gilbert! He'll make you fall in love with the material. His tests are insane though. But with enough studying--you'll do fine.
It is a really cool course but really hard tests.
This is an amazing class! The lectures were the highlight of my week. Dan Gilbert is the most engaging, fascinating, and hilarious lecturer I've encountered at Harvard. Just be prepared for tough exams. He grades on a curve, whereby your grade is determined by your rank in the class. But in general, you learn a lot and it's a lot of fun.
Take it at some point, and take it with Gilbert.
SLS20 is more than a painless way to fill your SLS requirement: Dan Gilbert is an extraordinary lecturer, and his presentation of the material will change how you understand human behavior. The workload is entirely reasonable, though it would be prudent to stay up-to-date with the readings and complete the papers as early as possible. The multiple-choice exams are not nearly as gruesome as my fellow students would have you believe, though if you want to avoid these you can take the class in the spring.
The class was extraordinarily interesting and completely altered my view of the human psyche.
It's difficult, but interesting.
Gilbert is a phenomenal lecturer. The information was very interesting and extremely well-presented. Exams are a bit tricky, but nothing to be afraid of if you study. You'll come away seeing humans in a whole new light!
Professor Gilbert's is an amazing lecturer, but the exams are really hard and it is difficult to improve.
The class is wonderful on all fronts, but just make sure you put it the amount of time you need to thoroughly comb through and absorb all the information in the textbook.
lectures very engaging, but exams must be studied extra for
Gilbert's lectures are very entertaining. There's no doubt that you'll enjoy lecture, it's a bit like being in a live movie theatre. That being said, you have to be willing to either work on this class every single day or take a hit to your gpa. The tests are ridiculous, and at times, infuriating. You can study for weeks before the exam and still not do well because the questions are written in such a tricky/ambiguous manner. The best preparation is to practically memorize the text, and take practice exams, but even then you're not likely to do well. I don't know yet how overall grades for the course will turn out...but the exams are very discouraging. The material is engaging, and it does provide a good introduction to psychology.
Everything about the course is amazing except for the exams. Gilbert is fantastic; watching his lectures is like watching TV. Lectures are not only entertaining but very well-organized and easy to follow. You have to participate in psych studies and write some papers about them, but they are usually not a big deal and not too painful.
Talk to professor Gilbert at the end or out of class; you won't forget your conversations with him.
It reminds me of the AP classes I had in high school - dynamic lecturer putting on a show for his students, fun section activities, etc.  Not always the most sensitive to others when lecturing - is sensational because it makes a better show.  Prior knowledge of neurobiology, statistics, psychology, and reading/summarizing research papers is helpful.  Your grade really hinges on the tests - looking over the material is extremely helpful, as well as general testtaking ability.
Really awesome class. Just awesome. Really good lectures, gilbert is the best lecturer at Harvard.  READ tho, exams are impossible
BEST CLASS EVER! Professor Daniel Gilbert is AMAZING, but what people say is true, beware of his tests. If you have n interest in psychology or are even remotely curious about the mind, take this course.
It's an awesome and entertaining class, but what you hear about the tests is true- they are difficult, and the way that he grades is a little confusing/frustrating.
The lectures are incredible and Gilbert is hilarious and great. He knows so much about the topic and is an unbelievably engaging and great lecturer. However, the tests are formatted very poorly and do not necessarily reflect how well a student knows the material. The grading is very tough, but the class is extremely interesting and enjoyable.
The lectures are entertaining but got old fast, and for me at least didn't make up for the difficulty of the exam.
Gilbert is awesome. Enough said. Take this in the fall and not the spring. Read the textbook. The multiple-test questions are NOT EASY.
Don;t be discouraged by the difficult tests. It is the most interesting class I have taken at Harvard.
This is one of the most amazing courses I've ever taken.  But be warned, the multiple choice tests are killer.  I'm a science concentrator and I was pulverized by the exams.  Regardless, the material you learn in this class really applies to everyday life and is stuff you should definitely learn if you have the chance.  If you're scared of the exams, just come to lectures!  If you make an effort to pay attention, I promise you'll be coming back for more.
This class is extremely interesting, but it covers a lot of information and the tests are extremely difficult.
If you are even slightly interested in psychology, I would definitely recommend taking this course. Gilbert is an amazing lecturer, and you'll be surprised by all the real life examples that you learn. While it is easy to blow off reading the chapters since it is your only "homework", you'll regret it when it's time for a test. His tests are incredibly hard, but they are graded on a curve. After an exam, he'll even allow you to argue with him if you found any questions misleading. Don't let the tests scare you; take the class!! His incredible and funny lectures more than make up for the difficulty of the tests.
I recommend this class "with enthusiasm" because I learned so much from Prof. Gilbert. Be careful though because this class might really hurt your GPA, as I am expecting it to hurt mine. But I don't regret it because Gilbert was so amazing.
Very interesting lectures, exams were tricky but not too bad, great as a Gen Ed.
Take it! Gilbert is an amazing lecturer, and the material is fascinating. The tests and papers (which are not overwhelming by any means) are fair and explained very well. Just make sure to keep up with the readings, which can definitely pile up.
It is probably the most difficult gen ed, but it totally totally worth it!
This class is absolutely amazing.  Not only is it taught very well (the professor is hilarious), but it's also a class that teaches you how to be successful in it.
I would recommend studying for the exams more than you think necessary and to complete all of the assigned reading.
I would tell future students contemplating this course that, unless they feel they are excellent good test-takers and have a lot of time to read and re-read the material, not to take this class if they want to receive a good grade. If they merely want to learn psychology and do not care about their grade, it would be an excellent course for them.
Definitely take this course, but know going into it that it is going to damage your GPA a little (or a lot !) That being said, do the readings, take notes in class, and hope for the best!
Tests will kick your butt. Do the readings, but even that may not ease the pain of the curve.
Read the textbook before class. Then you can get the most out of lecture and section will be interesting regardless. Study for tests but know that they are still very hard. Do the studies as early as you can.
The lectures are really interesting, but the course does take some time after class on the reading of the textbook.
The lectures are excellent, but the tests are extremely difficult.
This is a phenomenal class. As someone primarily interested in Gov/Econ, this class made me reevaluate my concentration plans. Dan Gilbert is a truly fantastic professor, and makes every concept fascinating. The hour and a half lectures were the longest I had this semester, but the classes seemed to go by much more quickly than every other class. If you want to learn about the reasons we make decision and the way our lives are shaped, take this class. Exams are difficult, but the curve makes it all better, and the quality and quantity of what you learn in the class is well worth it. Also a great gen ed.
You will absolutely love it.  The content is relatable and relevant, and Dan Gilbert's lectures are like stand up comedy with a point.  You learn a lot, and it is mind-blowingly exciting material.
I would tell them that the lectures are very interesting and to be prepared to  take some very challenging exams
I'd take it in the spring. Gilbert's tests kind of sucked.
Gilbert is great! This is a painless way to conquer the Life Sci Gen Ed requirement.
It's a decent intro course for people planning to study Psych, or for people interested in getting some sense of what is being discussed in Psych today. It was somewhat sensationalist/shallow- lectures are great fun, but I never felt like I learned anything cohesive, just lots of pieces of information
Very interesting. However reading the book and taking notes is absolutely crucial in this class.
Prof. Gilbert is an entertaining lecturer and a very nice person, but his exams are abnormally difficult.  They require close reading of the course textbook, which has chapters numbering around 40 pages each.  Taking and studying lecture notes as well as an outline or skim of the textbook won't suffice.  I've heard Prof. Pinker's course in the spring is drastically different in both content and assessment.  In choosing whether or not to take the course, you'll need to balance your desire to earn a good grade easily with your desire to enjoy a lecture.
Daniel Gilbert is one of the most amazing lecturers you will ever experience, period. It can't get any better than this.
This class is very popular with freshmen who will spend endless hours memorizing the book in preparation for an exam.  If you are looking for a class in which you do not need to put in much work but will still be able to get a good grade, this is not the class for you.  The grading in this course simply rewards brute force - the willingness to put in more work preparing for the multiple choice tests than other people.  In the end, the tests are what separate people in terms of grades.  the range of scores in the other areas of the course (section + research papers) are much more condensed.
Difficult exams, but if you keep up with reading and study hard it is manageable. Fantastic material and Gilbert is amazing, but sections are a bit useless
This class gives you a great introduction to psychology.
This has been one of the most rewarding classes I have taken. Nothing compares to Gilbert's lecture style and ability. Understand that for the vast majority of students, no matter how hard you study for this class, Gilbert's tests will trick you. They are exceptionally difficult and are nearly impossible to do well on.
Professor Gilbert isn't a lecturer, he's an entertainer. If you miss his lectures you're shooting yourself in the foot: they're amazing. Tests are nothing like you've done before so be prepared to not be prepared.
Lectures are great but the tests are so hard.  Grades on your research participation papers depend on the TF--be sure to get a TF who is a lenient grader.
It's fun to learn about your own kind like this!
My favorite class! Exposed me to the world of psychology and a subject I am immensely interested it. Plus Gilbert is an incredible teacher!!
This class covers extremely interesting material and Professor Gilbert's lectures are awesome. Read the textbook closely because it is a main focus for the exams. The exams are definitely really tough but worth it because of the awesome lectures.
Probably the best lecture course I have taken at Harvard. Watching Gilbert's lectures feels like watching Bill Nye the Science Guy from back in the day! Extraordinarily well-organized and thought out. Sections are super fun and engaging and relaxed. The reading is more intricate than lectures but no less exciting. I learned so much in this course and found myself telling my friends and family excitedly about lectures the next day. Take it!
The class is great. Professor Gilbert is an amazing lecturer, definitely one of the best at Harvard. Despite what people say, the exams are not tricky. They are multiple choice, which can be difficult, but the answers are always pretty straight forward assuming you know the material well. Make sure to do the readings in depth in order to be prepared.
This course has the most difficult multiple choice exams possible. Furthermore, though Professor Gilbert is an amazing lecturer and very understanding when it comes to grading exams, you may not necessarily learn too much of import from him.
It is a very interesting and enriching class, but not one to be taken lightly. Professor Dan Gilbert is a phenomenal lecturer but the difficulties of the exams can detract from your overall enjoyment of the course.
Absolutely take it, very engaging lectures make you forget about worrying about how you are doing
Professor Gilbert is incredible and the psychology you learn is fascinating. Only tricky part is the exams, but know the material well and you'll do fine. Literally the perfect way to fulfill SLS for non-bio people.
Tests are pretty horribly made. You really have to be able to think of it from Gilbert's perspective, but at the same time not over think things. Otherwise a pretty typical introduction to pysch course.
Be prepared to suffer for your knowledge
gilbert's test are hard as hell. they really don't test your knowledge of the material as much as they test your ability to take his tests... however, the interesting things you learn, and the great lectures you will sit through are really worth the grade you will inevitably suffer...
Those who are not good at managing their time and are yet to master studying for courses all by themselves should take this semester at a later time...(this would apply to freshmans..) If you are passionate about Psychology and confident that you will be able to read the textook closely, take it!
Need to be excellent at taking multiple choice tests; need to have 10+ hours per week to devote to this class
Professor Gilbert's multiple choice tests are very challenging, but not impossible, and he is very fair about curving and removing questions no one could answer. His lectures are amazing, so entertaining and informative at the same time! Definitely take this class, having a basic knowledge of psychology is so valuable!
Gilbert gives the most amazing lectures about interesting topics in psychology. But as everyone says, the exams are very tricky. A question can involve material from multiple lectures/chapters, and the questions are often worded ambiguously or worded specifically to trick you. Be careful.
The lectures are AMAZING. Professor Gilbert is the BEST lecturer you can possibly ask for.
READ THE BOOK AND UNDERSTAND (very important to understand, not just memorise) ALL OF THE CONCEPTS!
extremely interesting material that is applicable to all aspects of life; lectures are very engaging and entertaining
The tests are somewhat difficult and tricky, but the material is so incredibly interesting and relevant to every aspect of your life that taking the class is definitely worth it. Also, if you always keep up with the readings, the tests are definitely manageable.
You will likely have heard about the difficult midterms before reading this. They are bad, but not impossible. They just seem to require not second-guessing yourself, knowing the concepts and having applied them through and through, and sometimes pure luck. The course material is interesting, but I found my experienced dampened by the midterms. The research participation papers were graded harshly, so definitely read the "Writing for Psychology" guide. I'm not sure how much it helped me though...
An easy, but informative, SLS gen ed course. Gilbert is a great lecturer who is enthusiastic about this subject. The tests are hard, but Gilbert explains himself to the students and discusses the test, so its not so unfair.
The course is incredibly interesting, every lecture is not only interesting but hilarious. The tests are very difficult, but do not let them bring you down because the rest of the course makes it all worth it.
There's no secret ingredient that makes Gilbert's tests hard. I found them similar to questions on the AP Psychology exam and prepared by cramming from the book. It's difficult to get an A, but Gilbert's lectures are fantastic and make this course worth taking.
Gilbert's lectures are a lot of fun, he is definitely a showman. However, his lecture notes are completely useless for review, apart from the "key takeaways" on the last slide of each lecture. Tests are essentially a measure of how well you have memorized the book, so do not expect to get the chance to compare and contrast different theories, or even think very analytically. Typical, cluttered freshman intro psych course.Might be for you if you have no previous experience, though.
I thought i was a good test-taker, but I got wrecked by these tests. I understood the material. But the test questions were so complicated and confusing that I ended up with poor test scores nonetheless. I took this class as an elective, and to fulfill my SLS requirement. I would not recommend taking it unless you are a Psychology concentrator, or you are very good at multiple choice.
Great lectures, and really interesting, but the tests are absurd and pointless
Take it it's fun
Even though the tests were incredibly frustrating, the course was worth it because of the interesting lectures and everything you learn.
This may be most interesting class you will take at Harvard. Definitely take with Gilbert.
Yes, yes, you've heard it over and over. The exams ARE hard. So just be prepared! But then again, the material is easy to grasp, we're not talking Calculus here. Also, it's SUPER interesting stuff!! ALSO, the lectures are SO FUN. It's legitimately a series of comedy shows, where you also learn a lot of awesome psychology. This was SUCH an amazing class, I'd recommend it 100%.
Take Gilbert's class in the fall.  He is such an amazing lecturer, and is well worth waiting for.  His midterms are all MC and tough, but when he curves the class at the end of the year he's pretty nice with handing out mostly B's, some A's, and then some lower grades, apparently.  Refer to his lecture Powerpoints and section notes when studying for the midterms, not just the textbook, and you'll be okay.
I would thoroughly recommend this class - but it is not easy! Keep up with the readings.
The tests are incredibly difficult. You must stay on top of the material in order to do moderately well.
This class is fascinating, and Gilbert's lectures are highly engaging; however, be aware that the exams are very difficult.
DO THE READINGS AND TAKE GOOD NOTES!
This class is a very simple exercise in opportunity cost: you will gain a thoroughly incredible lecturer who discusses incredibly engaging material for the cost of some incredibly hard tests with tough curves. A third of the class gets an A, but I'm not exactly sure who that third is or what they do because everyone I've spoken to seems to get the median of 60-65%. Either way, I think its ultimately worth it unless you are TOTALLY grade oriented.
This class is awesome! Professor Gilbert is an extremely engaging lecturer, and I was laughing through every class. However, if you are extremely concerned about your GPA beware because the tests are insanely hard!
Seems easy until the tests. They are very hard. But pay attention and do the readings and you'll be ok.
Prof. Gilbert's  lectures are entertaining and engaging, but his tests are notoriously hard. They are in fact so hard, that I would NOT recommend this course to anyone. Do yourself a favor and audit it instead.
The lectures and material are so interesting, but be prepared for difficult exams!
I would recommend this course.  The lectures are engaging, the material itself is fascinating and the staff is hard-working.  However, if you have no intentions of reading the material for comprehension, this class is not likely to benefit your GPA. It is not difficult, but it requires a sincere work ethic.
Excellent course. Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer: entertains but still provides excellent substance with meaningful anecdotes. Book fills in gaps very well. Don't underestimate the trickiness of the exams, but they're really fine so long as you expect each question to attempt to deceive you.
Great Professor
If you are taking this class simply for General Education Requirements, I would recommend taking a different class. The exams in this class are incredibly difficult and preparation for them involves a LOT of reading. If, however, you are taking this class because you have a genuine interest in psychology, by all means go for it. Professor Gilbert's an excellent lecturer and sections are always fun. Be warned, though, exams are ridiculously difficult.
Do not hesitate to take this class. Gilbert is phenomenal, his wit is as boundless as his sense of humor and may only be surpassed by the energy he possesses.
DO the readings! If you do not do the readings then the tests will seriously kill you. Otherwise take this course! Best Course this Semester. Gilbert rocks.
While the material is interesting, the tests test your understanding of Gilbert, not the material.
Just like everybody else says: great lectures, not so great exams. You will learn a lot from this course about how the mind works, but your grade may suffer. Thus, whether you think this course is worth it depends on your priorities.
This definitely isn't the easiest way to fulfil the SLS Gen Ed requirement, but you learn a lot of interesting and useful information. The workload is really light, only 3 short papers, and 2 exams, along with weekly reading (which you can definitely catch up on if you don't have time week to week). Gilbert is an amazing professor, and the hour and a half flies by!
This class is a must. I even told my friend to sit in on lectures, and he doesn't go to Harvard.
This class is just one of those you have to take, grade received aside. Gilbert is such an amazing lecturer, so entertaining and so knowledgable. This was the first class I have ever actually enjoyed/ looked forward to attending. The exams are a pain, very difficult. You MUST read the book. At the same time, the book is written in how Gilbert presents the info, so it's not bad reading, just time consuming.
Daniel Gilbert is probably the most amazing and powerful lecturers on the planet and you should not pass up an opportunity to take his class.  Be prepared for difficult tests that require a lot of studying beforehand.
Overall I wouldn't recommend taking this class. Yes - it's loads of fun, but you don't really learn anything substantial and the midterms are unpleasant.  The class is a survey course, so you sort of just dip into everything a tiny bit, without really getting any overarching sense of direction.  If you're really interested in psych, you might as well skip it, and just start with higher level courses.
Take the class with Gilbert!!! His lectures are like watching a really entertaining show. He's so funny and great at teaching. Don't listen to people who complain about this class ruining their grades. The tests are hard, but they aren't unreasonable at all. People who do badly in this class are generally the ones who didn't actually read the textbook. As long as you keep up with your reading (which you should. Don't leave it all until the few nights before an exam or you WILL do badly), go to lectures (because they aren't taped), go to section, complete your study pool credits, and write your research papers, you will be fine! This class is soooo much fun, and absolutely worth every minute of close-reading the textbook.
Super tricky.  The material is interesting but Gilbert's goal is to have the average person score 25 out of 50 on the tests which kind of sucks.  It's a little annoying and frustrating.  If you like psych, take it.  But maybe shy away from Gilbert.
Lectures are amazing and material is interesting...but tests are very tricky which I personally believe is unfair. It is disheartening to study diligently for an exam, comprehend material thoroughly, and perform poorly on the exam because it is more of a mind game than an exam. If you are like me, I'd recommend taking it in the spring with Pinker where exams are formatted more to gauge actual knowledge of material. Gilbert, however, is a wonderful lecturer and a nice professor.
I'll give you the whole truth about SLS 20, speaking with some perspective as a senior. The course is a pretty amazing introduction into psychology. It is intended to be a survey course, so you look into many different areas of psychology (pretty much every major area). The first half of the course is a bit more science-based with a look into the brain, and the second half becomes a bit more qualitative. Prof. Gilbert's lectures are pretty consistently incredible, and class each day is like attending an engaging TED talk. You should try to read the textbook concurrently with the class, or you could do what I did and cram the textbook chapters in before each midterm. We had two midterms and each one had roughly 300 pages of reading attached to it (and these are textbook pages with lots of information). Speaking of the midterms, you will hear from many that they are crazily structured and overall just ridiculous, but then again, a third of the class gets A's, so not everyone is struggling. I found the tests to be tricky, but to reward those who studied the lectures and the textbooks an adequate amount. The trickiest thing about the tests was the fact that many of the multiple choice answers were things like "two of the above" and "three of the above," requiring you to have a fairly strong grasp of the issues associated with a particular psychological idea or a particular study. I studied really hard and did pretty well on the first midterm. I studied even harder after that and did very well on the second midterm. It's definitely possible to do well in this class if you put in some work and if you don't succumb to the groupthink that your grades will be doomed by this class. Harvard is all about challenging ourselves, and SLS 20 is a fairly mild challenge when all's said and done. The payoff from what you learn is huge, and you'll realize this after you take this class. Note that Prof. Gilbert is typically considered a much stronger lecturer than Prof. Pinker, who has his own strengths as well. I highly encourage you to take the course with Prof. Gilbert if you can. You'll be happy you did when you're eighty and looking back on your time at Harvard.
Gilbert is one of Harvard's best lecturers but his exams are unfairly difficult.
Tests are hard.
Great class but watch out for the exams!
This course has a lot of reading, but the readings are extremely interesting. Additionally, Professor Gilbert's lectures are excellent. The tests are challenging, but effective studying will pay off.
The exams are the hardest part. Unfortunately they are also the make or break component to your grade. Despite enjoying the concepts, the exams ruined the class for me.
BEST CLASS EVER!!!
Although you will hear horror stories about the exams in this class, it is definitely worth it. The day-to-day and week-to-week workload really isn't that demanding. It is easy to fall behind reading the textbook because the chapters are quite long, but once you get to it, it is an easy and entertaining read and everything makes sense because it coincides almost perfectly with what you learn in lecture (Gilbert & others wrote the book). Lectures are great and Gilbert is hilarious, I have never paid such full attention for the entirety of a lecture until this class. Section is also fun, not demanding, and something to look forward to. The only downfall of this class is that no matter how hard you study for an exam, it is impossible to feel confident going into one or walking out of one--but everybody feels that way so don't be discouraged! Take this class with Gilbert!
The lectures are fascinating and well-delivered --Gilbert is very performative and going to class feels like going to a good theater performance most days.  The assignment structure of this class is less than ideal though with all of your grade hinging on your performance on 2 multiple choice tests that fall during inconvenient times of the year and that test inane and ridiculous details from the readings.  Recognize that this class might tank your GPA even though it is very entertaining.  Probably only worth it if you can take it with Gilbert.
Professor Gilbert is the most amazing person, lecturer, and professor ever. He is simply just so funny and eloquent! Some of his lecturers evoke so much emotion that made me want to tear up. The standing ovation he received in the last lecture was well-deserved. Plus, Professor Gilbert is just so incredibly nice and wonderful. You should visit him during office hours and ask him to sign your book before the course ends. Despite all his incredible achievements, Professor Gilbert is so humble too. I worship this man.
This course is very doable, but you really need to 1) go to lecture and pay attention, maybe not write notes of everything Gilbert says but at least identify general studies he mentions because they are repeated in the test, and 2) read the book in advance, about half the information in the test is based on the text. But if one doesn't do the 2 above perfectly, the tests are extremely difficult, very tricky, different style than probably anything anyone has seen. But 150 percent worth it, especially because of the way Gilbert lectures, he arouses attention and interest with every word he says. His lectures are fascinating. The book is a tedious read but interesting. Papers are fun as long as you choose an interesting psychological topic to go to a study and write about. Sections ARE AMAZING, truly engaging, you play psychological games and they make you think. That 1 hour passes in seconds and you're thirsting for more.
Dan Gilbert is easily the best lecture I've had at Harvard.  It was a privilege to watch his lectures.  You have to study hard for the midterms.  Just read the textbook at least once very thoroughly.  Studying is really straightforward; just don't underestimate the midterms.
workload low and fun but exams are very hard and annoying, good thing there are only 2. try memorizing as much material from book and lectures as you can as that is the only way to prepare for the tricky test questions that basically just test your memorization.
I feel like it's designed to both get you interested in and scare you away from the rigor of the Psychology concentration. There's a TON to read, but it's all extremely interesting and Gilbert is the best lecturer I've ever had.
Gilbert is an awesome lecturer who will give you insight to human nature by connecting topics in Psychology in an entertaining and meaningful way. If you have good test-taking skills for the tricky exams, I would definitely recommend taking the course. Also, the material isn't much different at all from AP Psych, so I'd take a different intro-psych class if you did well in Psych AP.
This course provides a good first approach to psychology, although I feel I would have learnt just as much just by reading the textbook (lectures were indeed just a summary of what was written on the textbook). The assignments are very easy and require very little time. Gilbert is very funny and witty and makes you want to attend lecture if only to get a good laugh. The section component of this course has a lot to improve on, and most of the time it doesn't really address the topics that are being covered in lecture directly, and there is very little class discussion. For those who are not Psychology concentrators, this might be an easy course to fulfill the SLS requirement, but for those who are truly interested in psychology, like me, this course might feel too basic and even frustrating, as there aren't many instances to discuss the topics being covered.
The lectures are great. If you prepare adequately the tests are not so bad.
Lectures are awesome, go and PAY ATTENTION. Good notes will be crucial to exam preparation. Try and do the reading assignments before lecture, if you can't do them before the exam. You NEED to know the book for the exams. Tests are tricky, read all questions carefully.
The class may be hard, but if you put in the time, the tests are definitely doable.
THis is an interesting class and gives good background in psychology, but the tests are really hard and even if you study you might not get the grade you want.
be careful of the exams...
The lectures are fabulous. Although the tests are challenging and can be a bit shocking, they are pretty fair and well worth it for the quality of the lecture. My jaw was on the floor every few minutes, and watching professor Gilbert lecture is better than television. I will really miss this class
The lectures are amazing and you learn so much, but the tests and grading standards are very, very demanding.
The tests are extremely difficult, but Gilbert's a fair grader and as long as you put in the work and THOROUGHLY read the book, you should be fine.
the lectures are great, but there is a lot of emphasis put on multiple choice tests with often tricky questions. even if you were good at MC tests like the SAT or other high school tests, you should know that you won't necessarily do well on these tests.
The course itself with Gilbert is great. He's a phenomenal professor. But, the exams are very difficult and if you don't do well with multiple choice than I wouldn't recommend the class.
The exams are very difficult but the Gilbert is an incredible lecturer and he and the material make the class very much worth it!
Take this class. It is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Take it with Gilbert. Don't let the tests scare you - this class is more important than anything it will do to your GPA. The tests are hard - but the lectures, section, and text book readings are worth all of it. I cannot recommend it strongly enough. Take this class. The emotional, mental and financial cost of admission to this school are worth it for this class.
If you can test well, take it.  Otherwise, there are better classes out there.
Take this class with Gilbert absolutely!
This has been the best course I have ever taken. Dan Gilbert is absolutely amazing and will make you interested in psychology. It is true that the exams are very difficult and ambiguous but if you do the reading and go to lecture you will be fine. Everyone should take this class with Gilbert. It is not too much work, only three short papers and two exams, a perfect set up. I reiterate how much this course has impacted me and has made me chose psychology as my concentration. The best course ever. Do not miss out on the opportunity to actually want to go to lecture and listen to him speak.
Be prepared to study a lot for the exams, but the workload on a weekly basis is not bad at all.
Don't be afraid of the midterms, and keep a clear head. They are somewhere in the middle between a memorization test and a test of general intelligence, so know your basic concepts but also be concentrated and watch for trick questions.
This is a decent way to fulfill the SLS requirement. Professor Gilbert's lectures are some of the best I have heard at Harvard and I am not a science person. The reading can be a bit tedious and you will memorize like a high school science course, but I really can't complain. I do recommend the course over Molecules of Life which is just a jerkoff course. At least in SLS 20 you will learn something useful.
Take it!!!
Keep up with the readings, you don't want to be reading 400 pages the night before the exam...
This class makes learning fun. Lectures and sections are exciting to attend. Sure, the exams aren't always the most straightforward you'll ever take but they're fair enough and it's definitely worth your time.
The class for the most part is fun and light, and you will explore some very interesting concepts. And then there are the tests. DON'T WAIT UNTIL THE LAST MINUTE TO STUDY FOR THOSE. You will panic and be sad. Try to do the readings awhile before, and review lecture slides. He will test little details to see how deeply you read.
Sit in on the lectures; do not take the course. You will get just as much out of this course, if not more, by simply auditing it. Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer, and the subject is relatively interesting, but with the current grading structure, I cannot in good conscious recommend this course. SLS 20 is not difficult; it is unfair, whose testing often amounts to little more than the regurgitation of overly-specific facts. Sit in on the lectures; do not take the course.
This class was one of the best I have taken at Harvard. Gilbert is without a doubt the best lecturer I have seen and it is worth it to take this course just to hear his lectures. The workload is low  and the only important thing is to actually pay attention in class which isn't difficult because the class is interesting.
gilbert is a great lecturer, really enjoyed going to lecture and the information was interesting. that being said the tests are SO hard, i studied for weeks for the final and got a tutor, and did not do well. the section are fun though!
It is a tough course with a lot of reading but if you do the work you should be fine
Tests are incredibly difficult.
The material is fascinating and Gilbert is an incredible lecturer, but the test are incredibly nit-picky and unfair.  Make sure that you keep up with the reading and REALLY understand the concepts, otherwise you will NOT do well on the tests.
STUDY FOR THE TESTS
My favorite class at Harvard because I learned the most. Really difficult tests.
It is definitely A LOT of reading, and the exams can be extremely successful. Nevertheless, the class is very interesting and fun if you are willing to put the work in.
Take this class with Professor Gilbert - fantastic lecturer, makes the class so much fun. Do not underestimate the exams though, very difficult
The only way you're getting an A in this class is if you're a good test taker
Daniel Gilbert is actually the most AMAZING lecturer you will EVER have. Take this class  just to listen to him, he is brilliant and so entertaining. You will never be bored, and it is so worth it to take this class even as an elective. Be warned however, Gilbert is a cruel exam writer. However, the curve is fair enough, and a B in a gen ed should not deter you from taking the BEST class offered at Harvard.
I really enjoyed the material that was taught in this course, however I'm hesitant to recommend other students to take it because of the challenging exams. The exams were definitely the hardest multiple choice tests I have ever taken, however, the material is so fascinating and it is a requirement for psych majors.
This class is awesome but the tests were a struggle for me! I would recommend that you just sit in the lectures, so you don't have to worry about the tests. Overall it was a good learning experience!
Lectures are great, section is interesting, and it's definitely one of the best lecture courses I've had. That all changes at the tests though, which are more difficult than any other test I've ever taken. As an upperclassmen, you probably won't get the best grades simply because you won't be able to put in the time that freshmen can for the tests, which depend on the time you've put into studying and memorizing. The class is worth it though, and definitely worth taking if you don't mind the grade.
This class is incredible in terms of the actual class, but I wouldn't take it if you are worried about your grade because it's very tough test wise.
If there is a course that represents the best of Harvard, a course which I can confidently say cannot be reproduced in any other college, this is it.
You will enjoy lectures, that is for sure. You will not enjoy exams that is for sure. The class overall is difficult, but what you take away from it is remarkable.
In all honesty, I would recommend you don't take this course. Yes the lectures are good, but that really doesn't make up for how bad the tests are, and in most cases the lectures don't a ton of what is actually in the book on that topic. But that's okay because we are in college and are expected to do the work on our own. However, the exams basically ruin the course. They are designed to trick you in the smallest of details, and are worded so ambiguously that you could simply read the question wrong while having knowledge of the material needed to answer it and end up answering incorrectly. This goes to the point where knowing the material will not end up getting you a good grade on the exams necessarily. Professor Gilbert does let you argue your answer on a question at a later time, but he could just say that you thought about it wrong, and even though you just read it differently than his intentions and applied the material properly, you still get it wrong. Then others just more effectively argue their point, and get regrades on tons of questions because the whole exam is that way and get perfect scores when they may not necessarily have a full handle on the material, they can just argue their point well. And if you are maybe just a bad test taker and don't do well on the exams, there is nothing else you can do to bring up your grade. There are other points you can get, but essentially everyone gets full points on them so it doesn't help you at all on the curve the class is graded on. The course actually deterred me from studying psychology again, as it did with other people I know. Unless you are a Psychology concentrator, I would recommend taking a different elective. I studied a lot, and I took psych in high school twice so I was familiar with all the material, and that still didn't help me do well in this course.
Lectures with Dan Gilbert are some of the most fun you will have while learning a science anywhere ever. Shut up and take his class.
The class is phenomenal and the subject matter interesting, but the exams WILL KILL YOU!!!  They are seriously the most awful things I've even taken in my life.  Beware, this course is not a GPA booster.
Only you take it if a) you are good at memorizing useless details or b) you are ready to get a C.
We just love Gilbert!
Great lectures, interesting readings, fun section.  The tests are hard and the scale is not great, but it is not hard to do relatively well so long as you study.
This course has a great lecturer, so you will enjoy lectures. But if you would like to maintain a good gpa DO NOT take this class. I took it, thinking that I would study hard to do well. Unfortunately, the tests are made to trick you on every step in every possible way. This class will bring you misery and frustration.
Gilbert's lectures are spectacular. The tests are not as difficult as people say if you just read the textbook carefully and pay attention in lecture.
Awesome, fun class.  Definitely take this if you are interested in psychology and are looking for an engaging, worthwhile course.  Dr. Gilbert is a brilliant lecturer.
YOU WILL NOT GET A GOOD GRADE. IF YOU WANT TO GET AN A DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. GRADES HAVE LITTLE TO DO WITH STUDYING. YOU CAN LEARN MOST OF THIS STUFF BY READING AN AP PSYCH SPARKNOTES.
This class's exams are a psychology experiment in themselves.  You should audit this course to hear Dan Gilbert's fantastic lectures, but the exams ruin the experience of actually taking the class.  The people who do well on them are either pre-meds who already have relative mastery of the material, or people with too much time on their hands.
The tests are tricky, but the material is so worth learning and the lectures worth attending that the difficulty of the tests don't really matter.
The curve will kill you. The tests test your knowledge but also your ability to read questions closely--but not too closely. It's a stupid mind game. My friend never studied and got the same grade as me because he didn't make all the stupid mistakes I did on the test. Lectures are great but if you're just taking for gen-ed take it with Pinker if you don't want a C.
To do well in this course, you must have a lot of time and energy to dedicate to studying and sheer memorization.  I wish I had known that at the beginning of this course.  I honestly feel that this course should not be labelled as introductory due to the volume and depth of material you will cover.
This is a fantastic course. Dan Gilbert's lectures are some of the most fun you'll have in class at Harvard - he's funny, engaged, presents the material well, and raises some fascinating questions. The material is really awesome, and between Gilbert and the textbook it's presented very well... if you're even vaguely interested in how the mind works, you should absolutely take this course. If you want to do well on the tests, you should probably spend a lot of time every week doing and taking notes on the reading assignments... totally worth it, though. Fair warning: the tests are very difficult, partly because you have to know all the material really well and partly because Gilbert writes maniacal multiple-choice questions. You are not guaranteed an A in this class by any stretch. Still... great class, I'd recommend it highly.
Professor Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer! I always looked forward to class. The tests are hard though--he'll always try to trip you up, so study hard, and pay attention to details.
DO NOT TAKE IT. PROF GILBERT TRIES TO TRICK YOU IN THE TESTS. AND HE ACCOMPLISHES THAT.
This course is very fun, but be prepared for very difficult exams.
Great course! You really learn a lot about life, but be prepared for the midterms - they will get you!
It is so awesome!
Borders on pseudoscience. The compulsory 5 hours of study credit only drive home the sense that the findings of many studies are based on poor foundations. I took it for the General Education credit, and in that sense it's probably the best choice for non-Life-Science concentrators; it requires pretty much no work and the lectures are somewhat engaging. I decided to take this course this semester because of the reputation of Gilbert, but it wasn't enough to hold me through.
The first midterm will hit you like a car. Be prepared.
An amazing class, great introduction to psychology with a fantastic professor.
Lectures are amazing, go to them. Exams are not so much about learning the material but about learning how to take a Gilbert exam.
Take this course with Gilbert! Gilbert is an outstanding lecturer. The lectures are engaging both for the course material and Gilbert's humor. You can tell that he finds what he teaches fascinating, and it rubs off on the students. The material is both interesting and useful. People will complain about the tests, but I found them to be fair if you study. The workload is very light: three tests, no final, and three very short papers responding to studies you participate in. The rest is reading the textbook.
Gilbert is an awesome lecturer, just be prepared to read the book multiple times to prepare for the test if they still test it with 3 non-cumulative midterms because the grading scheme is completely dependent on how other students. There isn't really any other practice material besides the chapter reviews
Gilbert is a great lecturer! Take the class.
Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer, the textbook is worth buying (both to mark up thoroughly and to have for future reference / amusement.) Section isn't just a discussion of the text or review of material (though you can get that from it) but instead a fun venue for experimenting and applying the concepts from lecture. Don't overthink the papers - even as a perfectionist, I found that I didn't need to devote more than a couple of hours to the whole process. Also, the required studies tend to take about 2/3 the budgeted time and can be fascinating.
Amazing class, with amazing lectures.  You learn everything you would want to about how our minds function and how we interact with others.  Textbook readings are very dense and time consuming: you must put in this work to do well on the exams.  Exams are very tricky, all multiple choice questions.  If you are a bad test taker, do not take this class.  The three exams are non-cumulative and there is no final for the class.
Although the tests are difficult, Professor Gilbert provides engaging and entertaining lectures that are a MUST during a person's time at Harvard.
SLS 20 with Dan Gilbert is one of the worst classes that I have taken at Harvard. People told me that "his lectures are like watching TV!" Unfortunately, it is like watching Reality TV: the lectures are truly entertaining, and Gilbert works hard at this. But, ultimately, you learn essentially nothing in lecture, and are left to learn the material from a middle-school level textbook written by the professor himself. In short, take this class with a different prof.
It's really fun but you will be stressed for the exams.
Take this class. Yes, the tests are hard, and yes, you might do badly even if you know the material backwards and forwards, but the lectures are worth it. If you study hard for the tests (with friends, with flashcards, etc.) you should be able to stay pretty solidly on the upper half of the curve, and when you're done with the class you will have learned so much. It also helps significantly to do the reading before lecture.
Take this class if you have any interest in psychology whatsoever or if you are looking for a fun and interesting elective!! You MUST take it with GILBERT !!!!!!!
Extremely interesting and easily to understand and follow. Every single lecture is like watching Gilbert put on a performance...he is an amazing lecturer. Definitely take this class regardless of what you are concentrating in. I have learned so much about the world and people. It is also not a lot of work at ALL. It is the one class where I have never wanted to miss a single lecture or section
OMG Gilbert is sooooo goood. His lectures are instructive and funny, although the other half of the material, to be read in the textbook, is not as fun. But nevertheless, Gilbert is a huge A++, and that balances out the A- of the textbook reading. All the stuff I learned are useful (in my opinion) and interesting.
The lectures are awesome, and Gilbert is a riot. However, the tests will take away your soul, dangle it in front of you, and cast it into the fires of Mordor before your eyes. It is a shame that such an awesome course had to be plagued by tests that are meant to trick you.
It's worth taking, just be prepared for tests that are bizarre, confusing and marginally related to what you've been learning all semester.
Amazing lectures but difficult tests.  Really easy papers and such a fun section.
Although students will often talk about how tricky the tests are, do not let this dissuade you from taking this class. It is such an amazing course, and Dan Gilbert's amazing lectures and the knowledge you leave with make everything worth it.
The lectures are very interesting and fun, but the exams are difficult and take time to study for.
Definitely take the course if Gilbert is teaching it. The subject is interesting and applicable to almost all life situations. Gilbert makes the material even more interesting with his enthusiasm and fun teaching style.
Beware of the Tests (Seriously.) They're horrible.
The class is fantastic...the exams are not
It's a great class to take.
Don't take it with Gilbert. The test questions are poorly written, the curve is harsh, and the lectures don't always directly apply to the test. Not the best option, although the lectures and the readings are great. There's a huge lack of specificity that's absolutely crippling moving forward into advanced psychology courses.
The class if fantastic, and definitely worth taking, but be ready to kill yourself studying for the tests and be ready to cry after all three exams.
TAKE THIS COURSE AND TAKE IT WITH GILBERT.  Gilbert is the man.  Best SLS course ever.  All intro courses should be like this.  I looked forward to every lecture and section.  Yeah, tests are tough but so is life.  There is no reason not to take this course.  If you value education and life over GPA take this course.  If you are not an intellectual coward take this course.  Once again: TAKE THIS COURSE!
Fantastic lectures-go to them.  Fun sections.  Reasonable papers.  Great teaching staff.  Abnormally difficult exams.  Study a lot.
Really great lectures like everyone else is saying, but if you know you're interested in psychology, this is just a GenEd intro course and you may want to take something else.
Unbelievable lectures: some of the greatest you'll ever see. But if your GPA is more important to you than the experience of a course, then (unfortunately) you may have to make a choice here because Gilbert's exams are frustrating and ambiguous.
This class is amazing, providing that Gilbert is teaching. A must take for every Harvard student.
I would recommend this class, but you have to be willing to do the work, read the text book, and pay careful attention in lecture. you could probably find an easier gen-ed but this class is extremely interesting.
The course gave a great overview of psychology, and was immensely enjoyable. Overall, it was an engaging, fun, and fascinating experience. Gilbert is also the best lecturer of all time- never miss one. By far the best SLS I could have taken. Taking this class at the same time as Social Studies 10 and Ec 10 also made for some really awesome psychological connections. What you learn in this class will apply to a score of other fields.
The readings are very long and can be convoluted at times, meaning that if you're going to read (which is essential for this class) you'll have a fair amount of work for the class outside of class, but apart from the first 2 chapters, are very interesting if you have any interest at all in psych. The tests are killer, but I think that a good amount of studying, reading, and going to class would make it possible to do well. Gilbert makes the lecture component of the class fantastic! He is so interesting, funny, and knowledgeable about all things psychology.
take it! Gilbert is a great lecturer, and you'll learn a lot of really interesting subject matter.
Proceed with caution! The course is great but be prepared for a curve ball with the exams.
take it pass fail or make sure you really pay attention to every detail in the book and in the test questions
Professor Gilbert is the best lecturer I've had at Harvard. Learning about what makes other people tick is also interesting.
This course is a great introduction to psychology and covers a lot of very different topics. It's so interesting and the textbook is great, but it can be a lot of reading and the exams are very challenging.
Very interesting course but requires to put a lot of time in to prepare for the exams because they're very difficult.
one of the best courses I've taken so far.
This class is NOT easy
TAKE THIS CLASS! Lectures are beyond phenomenal, and this class helped me decide to concentrate in psych. If you study the textbook and lecture notes, the exams aren't as hard as people say they are. While some exam questions are definitely unfair and the exams overall are very difficult, they are not impossible. Section was a lot of fun, too.
If you like psychology, think you do, or just want to fill a gen ed requirement, you should definitely take this course. Although the midterms are difficult, Gilbert's lectures are so great that it makes it all worth it.
The exams are extremely difficult and your scores on the exam often do not reflect how well you know the material. However, even given the difficulty of the exams, this class is one of the best I have taken at Harvard. Dan Gilbert is an extremely interesting and effective lecturer and the course content is fascinating.
This is SUCH a great class--Gilbert is amazing as a lecturer and as a person. Class is remarkably interesting, the textbook is intriguing and often hilarious..you'll find yourself talking about the things you learn in your every day life. Yes, tests are hard and the curve is more than annoying--be ok with getting a B even though you're rocking the info, and you'll like the class. It's worth it.
The lectures, readings, and sections were great. The exams were brutal, and the papers were worthless and there is really no support or assistance to help you prepare for them. Furthermore, I personally learn a lot from office hours, and the professor does not offer them.
Don't do all the readings the night before, and read all the questions on the exam carefully.
Gilbert is a very engaging lecturer, and the textbook is actually not that boring to read. The tests are challenging, there's no denying that, but if you study for them you will at least feel like you are learning something. And it's nice that the things you study in this class are actually applicable to real life.
Lectures are awesome! Gilbert is hysterical. However, the exams are brutal and do not accurately test knowledge of the material. Overall, decent class.
If you've taken AP Psych-- DON'T TAKE THIS COURSE. Gilbert is great, but it is EXACTLY THE SAME.
Gilbert was entertaining at first, but he is pretty annoying. The grading format is pretty lazy. The only thing that matters are the mid-terms.
It is an amazing class, Gilbert is awesome! But the tests are ridiculous, so be prepared to get a bad grade. You will love lectures and hate the exams.
Gilbert is an awesome lecturer but his tests are really hard.
Take this class - the things you learn apply to every day life and will change the way you view the world and people
A great course, but I don't understand how Dan Gilbert sleeps at night knowing every semester he teaches this he effectively ruins the academic careers of 50 Harvard undergrads
Lectures alone make the class worth taking! Professor Gilbert is my favorite, and, unlike some of my other classes, I was sad when the last lecture was over. The exams are difficult, but relevant and stimulating in that they really make you apply concepts from readings and lectures. Sections are fun and always on interesting research/topics.
Very interesting class, but Gilbert grades on a pretty tough curve.  40% of the class gets in the C or D range.
Professor Gilbert is a great lecturer and the material is very interesting. The tests are extremely difficult and the class will not help your GPA. Only take it if you are interested in learning the material, which is very useful.
It shall destroy your GPA but the lectures make it less painful when you receive them. Professor Gilbert is truly amazing.
Gilbert is the epitome of a havard professor who has reached the pinnacle of his professional career and thinks because of that he can treat undergraduates unfairly. He sucks.
Amazing class  but really tricky tests.
The tests are very hard. You need to study not only the material but how Gilbert might present the material.  Take the class to learn. Not for a grade. Its worth it.
While the tests are tricky, and the curve can be frustrating, the class is definitely worth taking.  Lectures are great; Professor Gilbert offers an entertaining introduction to a wide range of topics in psychology.
As a senior studying the physical sciences (who didn't need to care about grades anymore), this was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard and I absolutely loved it. The lectures were often the highlight of my academic week, and the workload is very low. Many students complained about the difficulty of the exams and the curve (which I didn't find that bad, but remember! I'm a senior who doesn't care about grades anymore!), so if you are paranoid about keeping a 4.0, then maybe you should just audit the class - but the lectures are so damn good (entertaining AND intellectually engaging) that I'd urge you to come to them regardless of whatever else is going on in your life.
The lectures for this class are entertaining (if Professor Gilbert is teaching, at least), which is why I took the course.  Nevertheless, I don't recommend it.  The amount of material covered is rather small, and that only at a very simplistic level.  The "learning" involved is primarily memorization of random facts.  Not surprisingly, then, the exams are primarily about regurgitation of said facts.  Even worse, the exams often have questions that are ambiguously worded, or that arguably have multiple correct answers.  This problem was severe enough that on the second test, Professor Gilbert had to rescore 11 of 33 questions.  That's unacceptable.  Finally, the grading is harsh - the curve is guaranteed to give many people Cs.
AWESOME lectures and FANTASTIC materials; be prepared for a B if you don't spend tons of time studying though --- this is not your typical easy gened.
This was a very well taught course, as many of the Q guide reviews tell you. You can definitely do well in it, given the right amount of work, but bear in mind there is some inherent unpredictability with the grading scheme of this course. That is particularly frustrating and certainly detracted from the enjoyment of the course; nevertheless, the material is inherently engaging.
Please do the assigned homework on time. Do not procrastinate and study more than you think. Especially for the first test. There are only three.
If you are looking for a class purely to learn about psychology, then this class is for you.  Professor Gilbert is an amazing lecturer and I never felt like I had to force myself to go to his lectures.  He's very clear and always adds humor so the hour and a half just flies by.  Sections don't require much work, they're just participating in experiments.  There are three pretty easy research participation papers, but as long as you do them you should get full credit.  What makes this class hard are the three midterms.  Gilbert's tests are REALLY HARD.  His wording is extremely tricky, and I felt like he was always playing mind tricks with us.  There were times when you could know literally every single answer choice, but still not know the answer to the question.  If your goal is a 4.0 gpa, I'd be cautious about choosing this class.
poor choice of examination - unrepresentative of students' understanding of the material.
YOU HAVE TO TAKE IT! It's just absolutely fantastic. The lectures were unbelievably engaging and informative, I savored every chapter of the textbook, and enjoyed immersing myself in the material for the exams. It was literally so fascinating, so relevant, so exciting, and so mind-opening. I was extremely sad when it ended. I truly looked forward to every lecture, and the textbook is both hilarious and really informative. Professor Gilbert's lectures are true performances - carefully rehearsed, meticulously planned, with hilarious examples, funny images, lots of cool video clips, and they are full of questions and examples that engage you and make you think about your own mind and your own world. The subject matter of this course could not be more interesting - memory, learning, social psychology, mental disorders, sleep and dreams, behaviorism - and so much more! This might be the most amazing lecture course you ever take - be sure to take it with Professor Gilbert! I'm pretty sure you hear about the difficulty of the exam. Don't let that dissuade you from taking this class. There are participation and research participation grades to help you, so you will get a decent grade even if you don't do extremely well on the test. The tests get easy when you get used to "Gilbert's logic"
If I could go back, I would have audited this class. The lectures are amazing, yes, but you will get nothing from section, the readings are all from a textbook (an enjoyable one, but it still gets boring to just read a textbook) and the midterms (which are basically your whole grade) are very difficult. It's possible to do well on them, and you might. But you also might do badly. One careless mistake  just one  can make a huge difference on your percentile and thus your grade. So if you take this class be prepared for the fact that it's very possible that you might not do well, and this might not be related to how hard you work or how much you think you "deserve" to do well. The lectures will be great, but they will be the only good thing about the class, and actually being enrolled in the class and doing the reading will not make them more enjoyable than if you just came in without any prior knowledge (Gilbert is that good). So if you can commit to going to a lecture for a class you're not enrolled in, you'll get the same benefit as everyone else - but without the annoying/dull sections, tests and readings.
This is a must-take class. Gilbert is an amazing lecturer and the material is incredibly interesting. The course also had a great balance. Research participation is interesting because you get to see the current state of psych research and learn about experimental design and the papers are painless. Section is cool because it is part review of any confusing material and part working through and discussing an experiment. The lectures are amazing and it is very nice to learn some cool results about how people decide, think, perceive, act, develop and generally behave as people.
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer...very entertaining and engaging.  The textbook (co-written by Gilbert) is one of the more interesting school textbooks I have read (it can be witty and engaging, as well).  However, the tests are BRUTAL (almost every student I know in this class feels the same way).  They are entirely multiple-choice, and some of the questions seem designed to trick students.  I don't think the tests are an accurate assessment of students' knowledge of the subject matter...I felt that I knew the material much more thoroughly for the second test than for the first, but my grade only improved marginally.  Again, others I have talked to have had the same experience.
Be prepared for tests that are meant to trick you. Read the textbook carefully and pay attention to minor nuances because you will be expected to distinguish them in very ambiguous situations.
The class is very interesting. DG is an awesome professor and keeps you engaged and wanting to learn more. With that said, however, the tests are VERY HARD. The lectures, although very interesting, are shows. DG picks the most interesting parts of each chapter to lecture on, but the exams cover everything in the text book. So doing the reading is a must, and a lot of what you have to know for the exam you will need to tech yourself.
I stand by my decision to take this course with Gilbert because I think he is a great teacher, but I have never had to work so hard in order to do well before
The exams don't necessarily test how well you know the information, just how well you can take Prof. Gilbert's exams.
Be ready to commit.
Professor Gilbert is an amazing professor - honestly, going to lecture is like watching TV. Section is also enormously fun - food, psychology, experiments, psychology, food, psychology, etc. However...the exams and the curve are things you should know about before hand. There are three multiple choice exams that test how well you can get into Gilbert's head. They are brutal. The benefits vastly outweigh the costs though.
the lectures make the material very enjoyable to learn.  although the tests are a bit difficult, this class is very interesting and one every college student should take.  Gilbert does an amazing job at keeping you entertained during lecture and really makes you want to go to class.
This is the best class I've taken so far at Harvard. The midterms are hard and you might not end up with the grade you hope for, but definitely take it!
This class is AMAZING. Literally every class was THE best hour and a half of my week. Professor Gilbert's lectures are SO interesting - it's like watching TV. And because he wrote the textbook, the readings are interesting, too. If you want to fall in love with psychology, definitely take this course!
Gilbert is an incredible lecturer. The course material is so interesting as well. I learned a ton and it was my favorite class of the semester. However, the tests can be tricky and with the curve, 30% of students get C's and 10% get D's or F's. Still though, don't let the grading stop you from taking this course. You'll enjoy every minute of lecture and learn so much about psychology in a short amount of time.
Just make sure you study for tests.
If Professor Gilbert is teaching this class - TAKE IT! This class is great if you want real life applications in understanding why people do the things they do. Gilbert makes sure you're never bored in any of the lectures. His tests are difficult but doable. Make sure you do the readings before the week of the midterms...
I would highly recommend they take this course. Some students have said that it has hurt their gpa so i would recommend they take it pass fail.
lectures are great. tests are impossible. gilbert can be off putting to some (when he makes his shameless self-promotional plugs) but he is great lecturer. its hard because i like the subject matter but my grades are so bad since the tests are so hard...i don't know if i should continue in psychology
Daniel Gilbert is an amazing lecturer. Absolutely do not fall behind on the textbook readings, and take notes on your computer or in your notebook while you read (do not just highlight!) if you want to be prepared for the tests. The tests are not always fair. If you care about your grades more than experiencing great lectures and learning some really neat information, then do not take this class. If you do take this class, be prepared for tests and a grade that aren't necessarily an accurate reflection of how well you have mastered the material.
The material is very interesting and the lectures are always very engaging, but be prepared for extremely difficult tests, which make up almost all of your grade.
I wish I had taken a different course to fulfill SLS
Gilbert's lectures are ferocious, his exams are rather intransparent.
Gilbert is an AWESOME lecturer, but beware of his exams! Because this class is graded on a curve, just improving your score in the last exam wouldn't work. You really have to be prepared for the first exam because the multiple choice questions are tricky.
I'd definitely recommend this class. Although tests are kind of annoying, the material is very interesting and worth knowing. The lectures and sections are both fun and engaging as well, and the class is not very much work at all.
Be prepared - tests are extremely hard/tricky, often unfairly so, but it's worth it to take the class anyway.  Don't fall into the Pinker hype you see everywhere, and don't take intro psych with anyone but Gilbert.  His lectures are amazing, always extremely interesting and hilarious.
If you care about your grades do not take this course. It is not enough to do the readings and know all the bolded words. You need to know minute details in the readings and just paying attention in the lectures will not help you. Gilbert is an amazing lecturer, but his lectures do not make up for how awful his exams are.
As long as you go into the exams knowing that they will be difficult, you will be fine. The class isn't impossibly difficult, just don't let it take you by surprise. Besides the exams, the rest of the coursework is extremely easy. There is no better lecturer than Professor Gilbert.
This class is fantastic! The exams are very difficult, but the material is so interesting, and Prof Gilbert is such an awesome lecturer that it is totally worth it. The textbook is written in a really conversational tone, so its actually quite fun to read (just make sure you stay on top of the readings, they add up quickly).
Be prepared for the exams. They are not what you might expect.
Gilbert is an outstanding lecturer. I always looked forward to his performances twice weekly. Sections were also a great deal of fun, just exploring psychological phenomena on ourselves. Be warned, exams are difficult, but keep up with the reading and take notes in lecture and they are survivable.
I would say that this is an awesome course and very interesting.
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer! Also the exams are manageable as long as you study enough for them.
the tests are hard and really test your in-depth knowledge of course material.
Gilbert gives great lectures, but the grading is unforgiving.
This course is totally worth sitting in the lectures and auditing. The exams are impossible, and don't test you on what you know, but on what you don't know... and how well you can read the professor's mind. Very frustrating, and honestly, very discouraging. I would never ever take this again.
Lecture is fun and Gilbert is hilarious but his exams are extremely difficult. Don't take the class unless you're actually interested in psychology. If you just want to get a Gen-Ed out of the way there are other, less painful ways to do it.
The reading was great but the midterms aren't directly related to your understanding of material covered during lectures and section. A lot of the questions require memorization of sentences in the textbook, so... Enjoy the lectures and have fun participating in section, but read the textbook repeatedly!
its hard! As a pre-med class, do something else. As a psych class, think twice.
Psychology is very interesting, but I would only take this class if you are pretty sure about majoring in the subject.
Make sure you know what you're getting yourself into. This is a FANTASTIC course, mostly because Professor Gilbert's lectures are phenomenal. However, his grading curve is quite severe. If you are taking this class as a Gen Ed, think about whether or not that tradeoff is worth it to you. In my opinion, it was. I loved the class, and am thinking of taking more Psych courses because of it, but it is certainly no easy A. Also, essentially your entire grade is based on 3 multiple choice tests that are very tricky.
Definitely one of the most interesting classes I'll take at Harvard. Prof. Gilbert gives entertaining yet intellectually stimulating lectures that you'll look forward to every week (and seriously miss once the semester ends). The only downside to the course is the famously difficult exams. Don't be surprised if your exam scores don't align with your expectations for a typical GenEd course.
The lectures are great and it is very interesting, but READ the book as well and ask lots of questions.  Don't get frustrated on the exam though.  You may feel like you're ready for the exam, but you never will be....
THE CURVE IS NOT YOUR FRIEND
Anything, anything at all, is up for grabs on the tests. Study with that in mind, and even then, whatever answer you think it is, it probably isn't.
gilbert is awesome
The exams are extremely difficult and soul-crushing, but the material is interesting.
As a person who likes science, I didn't find the content super interesting, though Gilbert is a great lecturer. The tests also require you to know the material very, very well.
Be prepared to struggle with the tests but as long as you study the reading, the tests should be okay.
Although the tests are very difficult, the course was the most interesting one I took this semester. The work load for the course is not that heavy and the lectures are amazing.
Even though the exams are really difficult, you'll be entertained by Prof. Gilbert's lectures and obvious passion for the subject!
Prof. Gilbert is an incredible lecturer, and you should take the course just to hear him speak. Besides, psychology is a very interesting subject, and you should take the course even if it is just an elective. Be forewarned, though, that the multiple-choice tests are incredibly tricky - they don't necessarily measure your mastery of the material so much as your ability to understand what Prof. Gilbert is thinking. Also, the book may look like a high school textbook, but make sure to do the readings carefully (which will take some time). The tests will include information in the assigned readings that was not covered in lecture.
If you're planning on concentrating in psych, then you have to take it.  Even though I loved the lectures and learning about all the different information on how our minds worked, my grade will not be a valid representation of how well I knew things or how much I put into this class.  The tests killed me and are very difficult.  Only take this if you (1) love the material and will devote countless hours to it or (2) have to take it for psych credit.
Gilbert is a dazzling lecturer, and some of the material is really illuminating.  I've found that certain phenomena discussed in lecture help explain a lot about behavior that I observe in my daily life (e.g. perceptual confirmation, attempts to resolve cognitive dissonance, the biological background of human attraction, etc.).  The midterms are challenging, and the class as a whole tends to do better on each subsequent midterm.  Since you are graded on a curve, this means that a good way to get ahead is to overprepare for the first midterm and do really well on the test on which everyone else does poorly.  Know the key terms thoroughly!
The class is amazing but the tests are brutally hard.
Gilbert is a fun lecturer, but he is devious and sadistic when it comes to testing you on what you've learned. Prepare be irritated after the tests and have the curve be varied after people prove that his questions were ambiguous and could have been answered multiple ways.
If you don't have the time, wait to take this class. It is very difficult.
I'm sure this has been said a thousand times before, but I'll say it again. The material is fascinating, the lectures are mind-blowing...and the tests will eat you alive. He tends to ask you to relate concepts in abstract ways, which means you not only have to know everything...you have to know EVERYTHING. Also, just a tip, record the lectures and listen to them before the test! There's a lot of lecture material.
The lectures are great, and the sections are fun, but the tests will make you hate your life. They are tricky and difficult, and the forced curve guarantees a lot of people will receive unsatisfactory grades.
It's a good class. If you do your work, it will pay off. You must keep up with the textbook readings, and study vigorously for the tests. If you do this, you will do well!
One of the most interesting classes you'll ever take, but the grading is very stringent.
This class was the most fun I have ever had learning!
The grading scale is very harsh.
Be prepared for the midterms.  Make sure you read the textbook carefully and go over lecture notes!
The material, lectures and professor are amazing. The tests are deadly. Be warned.
tests are ridiculously hard
Don't take this is you're a freshman or unsure about your scientific ability. The exams are overwhelming for first semester freshman year.
The exams are super hard.  Study every detail though, read every question and answer thoroughly and you should be fine.
Great elective!
Read the text book
This is a fun but not easy gened. A lot of people say the tests are hard, which is true, but as long as you know the materials very well, which means doing all the readings and taking notes on key terms, you'll do fine.
Take this course if you are looking for a low-stress introduction to psychology (an interesting field) and a nice SLS Gen Ed. Reading was easy, the three written responses were easy, and section and lecture were interesting. Beware of the exams only. It is multiple choice, but they make hard multiple choice questions.
Take the class with Professor Gilbert! He gives awesome lectures and he explains the topics well.
This course is incredible; unbelievably interesting, indubitably impossible, and a blast. I'd recommend taking it pass-fail, if that's an option! Also, maybe not the best freshman-fall course.
i would say that i really liked it (although im biased towards psych) but that the tests are very hard and you need to study a lot for them
This is a great class and you should definitely take it even if its just to hear professor Gilbert lecture.  But be prepared- the exams are hard.
Take this course if you haven't taken psychology before. I learned so much. The exams are difficult, but they are not insane. Gilbert's a terrific lecture. Tough gen ed but worth it.
Do the readings twice: before and after lecture.  Set a good amount of time aside to review. Tests are extremely tricky. Don't expect much help from section, but go because you will get graded for participation and will likely need those points. Gilbert's lectures are priceless.
Exams are very difficult, detail oriented and apply theory to real situations.
This is a great class if you are looking for a way to fulfill a science gen-ed but are not too sciencey.
HORRIBLE TESTS!!!! BE PREPARED FOR SOME HARDCORE EXAMS! Memorize your lecture notes and know all the weird details from the textbook! Try to ace your first test, becase you get only 3 tries! But overall, this is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard! I loved it! Lectures ARE AMAZING! I could not peel my eyes off Gilbert and his powerpoints! He is a great lecturer - all of his presentations were fun, lively, engaging and extremely informative. Take this class (but keep in mind that it is going to rape your GPA)
Professor Gilbert gives incredible lectures and section is actually very fun. Watch out for the tests though, because I felt I understood the material well yet the questions are very tricky. I felt sometimes I had little control over my eventual grade.
The lectures are great, the textbook is well-written, but you have to really study hard to be ready for the tests.
Professor Gilbert makes the class incredibly funny and engaging. It's worth it just to experience him lecture. As long as you stay on top of the reading (which you really have to do- you will be tested on stuff not included in lecture) the workload is very manageable.
It is VERY important to stay on top of the reading in this class.  Budget your time so that you have questions to ask during section.  Also, the review sessions are very helpful.
Take this class for the lectures, not for the grade. I am pursuing psychology as a major because of Gilbert. Truly an extraordinary lecturer but the tests are ridiculously hard. No correlation between mastery of subject and test grade.
Daniel Gilbert is an amazing and inciting lecturer. The material is so important to our everyday lives and understanding how we and other humans function.  The sections are filled with activities and useful tools for further understanding of the course content.  Plus, do psych studies for money!
The tests are very challenging and even if you prepare sufficiently you still may not do as well as you would expect. I would recommend staying on top of weekly reading and taking very detailed text book notes as you go along so that you don't have to revisit the textbook when you're studying for the midterms. Gilbert's lectures are always engaging and make the class worth taking- they almost seem more performance than lecture, and section is always a lot of fun.
You must be prepared, over-prepared even, for his exams, for you can never be too prepared.
This class is fascinating and I loved the lectures and the material, but be prepared to spend upwards of 25 hours studying for every exam if you want to do well. The tests are impossible.
Take this course! Even though the tests will make you want to close all the windows in your dorm and gas yourself to death, it's worth it.
take it. it's great. Don't freak out about the exams or grades though, just be interested in the material.
The lectures are wonderful, but the tests are extremely difficult and tricky. Be warned that with Professor Gilbert 10 percent of the class will automatically receive an F. That being said, you will learn a great deal if you pay attention and read the materials.
BEWARE. Do not be fooled by the carefree, high-spirited atmosphere Dr. Gilbert creates in lecture. You will enjoy and learn a lot from this course, but the exams leave a nasty bite.
Gilbert's lectures are absolutely amazing. However, the tests are very difficult. Sometimes it seems as if no matter how hard you study, it's impossible to catch Gilbert's little tricks. Don't expect to get A's on every test. The textbook is easy to understand overall, and there isn't too much outside work.
Lecutres are extremely interesting. Do know that exams are...interesting. I would always come out of it not exactly sure about how well I did. Since your grade is based on how well you do compared to everyone else in the class, getting one question wrong can result in a significant drop in what percentile you fall in.
This class is INCREDIBLE. The material is so interesting, and Professor Gilbert makes it fun to learn and very easy to understand.
The lectures with Gilbert are amazing, but the exams are very difficult!
great class but hard tests
The class is a wonderful subject...but your GPA will take a nose dive. If you don't care about your grades, it's worth it.
Everyone should do themselves the favor of taking this course.
Yeah the tests are very, very tricky and feel like they're testing you more on your test-taking/logical abilities rather than your knowledge of the material. It's frustrating when you can't really expect to do well on the tests no matter how hard you've studied for them. With that said, if you study you can still probably do fairly well and the things you learn in this class are so interesting that the possible drop in your GPA is worth it. Professor Gilbert is an amazing lecturer, and everyone should take this course! Also, GO TO THE TEST REVIEWS, because you'll learn how to think like Professor Gilbert and do better on the next test.
It's a very rewarding class, but it's not easy
Class is interesting but very likely that you will FAIL
Yes, the material covered in this class is interesting, and yes, Prof. Gilbert is perhaps one of the best lecturers here, but, IF YOU ARE CONCERNED AT ALL ABOUT GRADES, IF YOU ARE PLANNING TO APPLY TO MED OR LAW SCHOOL AND THEREFORE NEED TO KEEP UP A HIGH GPA, THEN THIS CLASS IS SIMPLY NOT A RISK YOU SHOULD TAKE. Though there are other components making up your grade, most students will be awarded full credit on research papers and section participation, and so really, THE ONLY FACTOR DIFFERENTIATING GRADES ARE EXAMS, AND THERE IS NO WAY TO PREPARE FOR THESE EXAMS, NO AMOUNT OF READING OF LISTENING IN SECTION OR LECTURE - THEY SEEM AS THOUGH THEY ARE OUT TO TRICK YOU, AND MOST OF YOU WILL BE TRICKED. The curve is an absolute nightmare, and you can get a C or D because you made a few wrong guesses on the exam (though you went to every section and completed all the research studies/papers). THAT'S RIGHT, YOU CAN GET A D (WHICH YOUR GPA WILL NEVER RECOVER FROM), even if participate a lot and study and do well on papers. If you care about grades, this class is too large of a risk.
Be ready and willing to make fundamental changes to the way that you learn and reason. The class is challenging, but the challenges are healthy. I learned to give more importance to having a comprehensive recall of lots of facts"Trivial Pursuit" knowledge as it were. But I also learned the importance of close attention to detail (the class is great not just for future social scientists, but also future lawyers).
i'd tell them that this is an amazing introduction to psychology! gilbert is an incredible lecturer. however, i'd warn them about the difficulty of his exams.
The class gives you a great understanding of modern psychology and is extremely interesting. Gilbert is an amazing lecturer - I guarantee you will enjoy every lecture and learn so much about the human mind and how it works. The tests are difficult, though - lots of kids who are taking this course to fulfill a Gen Ed end up being bitter because it's a lot more work than they expected for a class they wanted just to fulfill a Gen Ed with. It is a great class, however, and worth the work for a good grade.
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer but the exams are killer (and unnecessarily so. I studied my butt off for exams that I failed. And I'm not talking C+ failed. I'm talking straight up failed). It's still worth taking though.
Professor Gilbert is an amazing lecturer, and you should go to lecture! Also, read the book because most of the test is based on the books.  The tests are notoriously tricky, and many of the questions are bad/poorly written, so be prepared.
The tests are ridiculous. Don't take this course if you care about your GPA. If you can get past that, it will be the most interesting course you have ever taken. Don't miss lecture because he doesn't post the videos online and you'll miss an amazing class.
This class is a great introduction to psychology and piqued my interest enough to make me consider psychology as a concentration.
unless you are taking this for psych secondary or concentration take another sls for the gen. ed. The tests are literally the worst thing ever. Though I progressively did better you can audit the class and get the great lectures or just read someone elses book that's in the class
Fun, but don't expect a challenge or an easy A
I can't stress this enough, because it wasn't stressed to me enough before I took this class: the exams are very difficult, require detailed knowledge of the textbook, use a lot of tricky wording, and are strongly curved. Be aware of that, study a lot, actually do the readings, and be ready to accept the fact that you might not do as well on the exams as you think you should. That said, Gilbert's lectures are some of the best I've had at Harvard, and I really feel like I came away with an intuitive understanding of a lot of psychology.
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer.  The material is fascinating.  The class as a whole is definitely worth it.  However, the tests are a little unreasonable.  They focus a lot of details, rather than the actually important overarching themes of the course.  Still, you'll learn a lot and I definitely recommend the course.  It is very possible to do very well in this course if you study properly for the tests.
A great, interesting class with fantastic lectures, but be prepared to be RUINED by the tests.
The class content is excellent and provides an amazingly comprehensive introduction to psychology (especially if you get Gilbert).  Be prepared for unnecessarily difficult exams, however.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. The lectures may be great, but the grading system is very poor. Professor Dan Gilbert does not understand the goals and expectations of Harvard undergrads who are taking his class for various reasons- not necessarily to become psychology concentrators.
You can learn a lot, but its very frustrating to do so poorly grades wise in this class. I wish they would change that.
This class is AMAZING!! Gilbert is hilarious, so make sure you take it with him! Sections are incredibly fun and informative. You will learn a lotttt so tests will cover a lot, but they are manageable. This class is the REASON I AM GOING TO CONCENTRATE IN PSYCH!!
Read the text book!!! *anything* he says in lecture + *anything* written in the text book you will be tested on
The lectures are interesting, but the tests take the fun away from learning about the material.
Great class, professor Gilbert is an outstanding teacher, his tests are killer...
the tests are HORRIBLE
This class is really interesting. Make sure you do the readings ahead of time and don't wait to do them until you study for the midterms. They midterms are difficult! It's all multiple choice, so make sure you know the little details.
Just make sure you are very attentive to the reading. They don't play around when it comes to tests.
When Gilbert is teaching, this is a really great course.  I learned more than I have in any other Harvard class.  Gilbert is the best lecturer I have found and makes the information so interesting and understandable.
This is a really good class. Gilbert is amazing just like everyone says. The tests aren't as bad as everyone says if you keep up with the readings and take good notes. Take this class if you like anything.
Um. You will have a lot of fun. I personally never cut this class since it was so engaging and practical. However, the tests are extremely hard, and the curve is brutal. If you want fun but not grade, take it in the fall with Gilbert. If you would rather get the grade and not have fun, take it in the Spring.
Amazing lectures!!  Very arbitrary tests.  Take this class knowing that you will learn a ton from an incredible teacher but will have very little control over your grade.
This class is very fun and very interesting, but be prepared for some tough exams! I thought to myself, "how hard can a multiple-choice exam be?" but the questions are very tricky, almost testing your logic more than your grasp of the material. So be prepared for three stressful days and about 24 really fun ones.
it is not easy
Although the lectures were the most interesting I have ever seen, the midterms were very difficult and I feel they did not actually cover the material well. Overall, if you have great test skills along with an interest in psychology, this course is for you.
Daniel Gilbert was one of the most enthusiastic, passionate, and humorous teachers I have ever had.
Gilbert's exams are pretty much..impossible to be prepared for. As long as you don't have a problem with taking a (possible) hit to your GPA, take this course to fulfill the Gen Ed!! the lectures are funny and engaging
Great class. Definitely take it.
I've shopped SLS20 with different professors, and Professor Gilbert is worth the wait. He delivered the most interesting lectures I've had at Harvard, despite the 1.5-hour lecture times. The tests are difficult - make sure you read the textbook chapters carefully and stay on top of it because they are LONG. If you stay on top of it, the work is manageable, and with Gilbert there is no final :)
The lecture are great, and the material is both interesting and applicable. However, the tests are extremely difficult and worded confusingly.
The tests are no joke! Study well in advance for them because cramming is not an option.
It would be helpful to take very good notes during lecture because there are no notes on the lecture slides. The tests cover both the textbook readings and the lectures.
Great lectures, rough exams.  Exams are only 4.5 hours total.  Lectures are much more.
Tough, but... Gilbert is boss.
Do all the readings, go to all the lectures and write down everything he says. Study for exams in groups so you're quizzed on stuff you may think you know but actually don't. Or do that active learning/quizzing on your own by making flashcards of all the terms instead of meticulously taking notes on all the readings. Study actively! It's not about how many times you've done the readings but how you understand the definitions of terms, how concepts tie to each other, etc.
It's a great class. The lectures are amazing. You will fall in love with Psychology. However, the exams are very demanding.
The content itself is great and interesting, but the exams are quite hard.
I would highly recommend taking this class with Gilbert, who's really engaging and whose lectures are an experience within themselves.  The readings and study participation papers are very manageable, but make sure to pace yourself.
The exams are difficult but the course is super fun and the material is very interesting
This class is super interesting, but your grade is determined solely by how lucky you are on the tests. You could study 20 hours or 2 hours and get the same grade on the test, because the exams are so ridiculous.
tests are hard but professor and material are fantastic
A very interesting course with an entertaining professor. However if you are concerned about getting a good grade take this course with Pinker. Gilbert's exams are very difficult and your scores don't necessarily reflect the amount of work you put in. That being said lectures were the highlight of my week.
Take this class when Gilbert teaches it because the excellence of the lectures outweighs the difficulty of the tests.
This was the most intriguing class I have ever taken. I actually looked forward to going to lecture.
Read before class. Study your butt off, and then when you think you know everything, study it more. The tests are very difficult. They contain a bunch of little details from lecture and the reading that is easy to brush off as insignificant. Otherwise, Gilbert is an AMAZING lecturer.
Gilbert is one of the best lecturers I have ever had! Lecture is fun and interesting, but beware of super tricky exam questions.
it's definitely a chill, easy, fun class~ if you keep an open eye in life, you probably won't learn too much new stuff, but you can use common sense to nail the exams. gilbert is not the nicest person in the world but certainly among the most entertaining professors at harvard. so just sit back and enjoy the laughs~
This is a fascinating and brutal course. The following skills would result (i believe) in a perfect/near perfect student of Science of Living Systems 20: good time management in order to effectively prepare for ALL the exam material and to ensure that all chapters are read by the exam date; speed reading, quick reading ability, or no friends/other commitments so as to keep up with reading requirements; personal resolve and confidence so as not to be crushed by poor exam results or confusing exams; good reasoning skills and knowledge of psychology to argue for your marks in post-mortems; and strong desire to participate in section.
TAKE THIS CLASS.  Gilbert is a phenomenal and gifted lecturer...the best I've seen at Harvard so far.  He is engaging, clear, passionate, and funny.  The material is extremely interesting as well.  There isn't much physical work require, but the tests are very tricky.  It helps to keep up with the textbook reading.
It's a phenomenally interesting course that gives you knowledge about every day life.  You will find yourself describing situations in your normal life in psychological terms all the time.  However, make sure you study hard for the exams - they are difficult!  It's still a worthwhile class, even with those exams.
The class is amazing and totally worth it.  The tests really are arbitrary and abusive, even discouraging.
The lectures and material are amazing, but the tests are unfair.
A very, very interesting course -- good book, superb lectures, provides a really comprehensive look at a fascinating discipline. HOWEVER, Gilbert's tests are not only very, VERY detail-oriented; they are also extraordinarily poorly written, with some questions requiring close attention to phrasing and others requiring a simpler look, and no way to differentiate between the two. "Read these questions very closely, but, y'know, don't read too much into them, either" -- that's the instruction we were given. If you're a psychology buff, go for it, but be ready for genuinely frustrating tests on which you can end up doing poorly despite a best attempt to master the material.
Be ready for very difficult tests.
This course was a lot of fun and I was legitimately interested in almost all of the course material, but the tests are tricky, so be ready.
The tests are brutal, but otherwise, Gilbert's lectures are engaging and often feel like top stand-up comedy.
The exams suck. A lot. They're so tricky, sometimes it's just luck. The material is interesting though.
This class is very well taught and sections are insanely interesting.... Unfortunately, the exams are also insanely hard (he's very picky and specific). The post-mortem are times for you to ARGUE for why your answers are correct so prepare yourself!
TAKE THIS CLASS WHEN GILBERT TEACHES IT. His lectures make the class worthwhile. The material is intrinsically interesting, but he clearly puts so much time into his lectures and powerpoints that they are engaging, interesting, fun, and informative! He basically talks flawlessly, non-stop for 90 minutes each time. And you are left wanting more. The exams are tricky, but GO TO THE POST MORTEMS (where he explains why each multiple choice answer is correct or incorrect for each problem) because it let's you see how he thinks about the multiple choice problems (which you will see on the next exams!). Sections are really fun and the psychology experiment participation is fun. Best class I've taken at Harvard so far, I might go sit-in on some lectures again next year.
Do the damn reading. Find friends in the course, meet once a week, and drill each other on course material.
none
Lectures are fantastic and enjoyable, and Gilbert is engaging and quite good at teaching the material. This is the best gen-ed I've taken so far, and to anyone who's on the fence, you will not regret taking it.For me, one of the best takeaways was being able to recognize and explain psychological phenomena on an everyday basis, which makes this course relevant and extremely useful. The other was an understanding of how "I" , as a person, work, which I found to be valuable. The only thing to watch out for it the exams. They aren't bad as past students make it sound, but some questions can be tricky and the exams are worth quite a bit.
This class is extraordinarily well-taught; Professor Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer!  The TF's are great and will do everything in their power to help you succeed in the course.  The material itself is extremely interesting and provides a great overview of many of the aspects of Psychology.  With that said, however, the tests are incredibly tricky and really do not accurately reflect mastery over the material.  This however, should not deter a student from taking this great class; unless of course he or she is concerned about GPA.
This class really opens your mind to how our minds work, some of the fallacies our reasoning falls back on, and how to get people to like you. You can start applying the principles from day 1! The exams, however, are killer and no amount of preparing will guarantee you a good grade. Don't let it deter you-- the interesting lectures and materials are worth it.
Awesome class. Check it out, even if just as an elective. Gilbert is an incredible lecturer-- the best I've seen in my four years at Harvard: a rare example of a guy at the top of his field putting a lot of effort into teaching what he knows, rather than just researching it. It pays off dividends. Every Harvard student should take this class, a truly fascinating, well-articulated 21st century take on human nature.
This class has hands down been one of the most eye opening intellectual experiences I've ever had. And though countless have said this before, Gilbert is absolutely phenomenal. He's lived up to my high expectations coming into the course. A true legend.
Gilbert is the best professor you will ever have. don't take this course unless it's with him. the lectures are extremely interesting, funny, and captivating. Tests are a bit tricky, so study hard and really know information clearly b/c it's the "best answer" not necessarily just the correct one. this class gave me so much insight on life- take it.
Definitely take it with Gilbert. Yes, the exams are hard. But they're basically all that is demanded of you...this was an easy class in terms of work required, just difficult 3 times a year. But I loved the lectures and learned a lot. Great way to fulfill SLS
It's fun, the material is fascinating and really essential stuff to understand, and Gilbert's lectures are great ... although he often quotes verbatim from the chapters of the textbook which he wrote. Sections are fun and activity-based, though one might sometimes wish the discussions were more focused.
The lectures overall are highly entertaining. However, the tests, for me personally, were really frustrating. Be prepared. The tests are not suitable for everyone.
Lectures are great. Gilbert is the man. But the tests are painful.
1. Gilbert's lectures are entertaining but completely material-less. Listen carefully to him for 10 minutes and you'll notice that you have barely learned anything at all.2. The tests are completely arbitrary and based on random details memorized from the textbook.3. The distribution for this class is incredibly harsh.
Yes it's difficult with Gilbert, but it's also the most-rewarding intellectual experience you will have at Harvard, especially if you have no experience in Psychology. I'm changing my concentration because of this course - it's literally life changing.
The exams are impossible and don't test what you've learned.  You can do well in everything else but do terribly in the class because of these unfair tests.
Don't take this class from Gilbert.  He gives good lectures, but his exams don't test your knowledge of the material.  They test how good you are at guessing and taking his tests.  Wait for another teacher of the course who doesn't implement a ridiculous curve.
Professor Gilbert is a fantastic lecturer. Every class is engaging and the topics are fascinating. I would highly recommend taking the course as a basic psychology introduction. The topic is very relevant to everyday life. However, the tests are terribly hard and there isn't much room for error. Make sure you are good at very tricky, logic-based multiple choice questions.
It is harder than you would expect it to be,  but also more interesting
Gilbert rocks.
This is a very well taught class - you will learn a lot, probably without even realizing it!
very little work, and consequently little value. worth taking if you have 3 hard classes, and want a painless science B core
AWESOME lectures. AWFUL tests.
I would tell them that Gilbert is an AMAZING lecturer, but be prepared that your grade on exams may not reflect how much you learned or know because they are really tricky (they purposefully try to trick you), so even though you study for HOURS, it doesn't necessarily show which is really frustrating. But the material is really interesting! The 1 1/2 hour lectures go by so quickly.
this class is AMAZING. Gilbert is incredible, the material is fascinating and will stick with you in real life.
You'll absolutely LOVE the lectures with Gilbert. But unless you are willing to invest a disproportionately large amount of time studying for the midterms, you'll hate them. Summary: AWESOME lectures, AWFUL midterms (so if you're grade conscious be careful).
Gilbert's lectures are amazing performances.  They should be on a bigger stage.
the tests are really hard, but the class is very interesting and the lectures are fantastic.  most i have stayed awake in class all year.
Taking SLS20 with Gilbert is a double-edged sword. On the one hand, he's entertaining in lecturers, and he's certainly has the charisma to teach the class. On the other hand, the whole grade is based on 99 multiple choice questions (with study participation and reflections pass fail), and Gilbert likes tricks, i.e., changing one word that can negate a seemingly correct answer, or phrasing the question so that while multiple answers can be correct, only one is correct in the context of the question. After messing up the grading on the first exam twice before getting it right (I hope), which took a week and half for 33 multiple choice bubbles, the second exam took even longer to return and still had 2 misgraded questions. So if you want a fun class, or want to learn about psych, or want an easy class to fill the gen ed credit and you don't care about what grade you'll get, go ahead and take it. If you want a class that will grade you based on your knowledge and not test taking capabilities, maybe try a different professor for psychology. It's fun material, and something to learn, but Gilbert and his grading just aren't cut out for everyone.
Gilbert is unmatched - his continual enthusiasm and engagement were impressive and inspiring and I'm sure made every student in the 450-person lecture hall strongly consider concentrating in Psychology. He is phenomenal - hilarious, brilliant, and relatable - and I'm sorry next year's freshmen won't get to have him. The midterms are tricky so reading is essential and you need to read as you go or it will pile up before the midterm, but Gilbert is very fair and during review sessions is straightforward about what not to focus on when students ask, and he emphasizes lectures so copious notetaking is essential - but Gilbert is fairly easy to follow so it's not a problem.
Gilbert is the best professor I've had.  The exams are brutal but the lectures are enlightening.
This class is so interesting! But the exams are tricky.
Gilbert is LEGEND!
Lectures are entertaining, and the material is very interesting, but unless you want to study hard for this course, the curve makes for a GPA killer.
Dan Gilbert's lectures/texts are what make the course.  The tests are pretty brutal.
Gilbert is the best professor you'll probably ever have.
Professor Gilbert is absolutely amazing, and while the tests are difficult, the course overall is really entertaining and a great way to complete the science of the living systems gen. ed. requirement.
The content of this class is great. It's a wonderful introduction to psychology and important for anyone who wants to better understand human nature scientifically. But it's large and therefore hard to do very well in and I find it difficult to get as much out of a class like this.
Only take it when Dan Gilbert is the Professor.
Great class, but difficult to get a good grade.
It will be the most fun you will spend in a Science center lecture hall.
Gilbert is by far the best lecturer I have ever had at Harvard. However, he is also by far the most cruel exam writer as well.
It is a fantastic course, and Gilbert is an incredible lecturer. It is totally worth taking, and you will learn a lot of useful, practical information. Just beware: the course is more difficult than it appears. Exams require a LOT of studying.
If Dan Gilbert ever teaches this class again, arrange your schedule anyway you can to take advantage of it! There is a reason why twice as many students as expected enrolled in the class- it's amazing.
Gilbert is amazing.  Perhaps the best lecturer I've had at Harvard.
It is one of the most interesting and engaging classes so far.
Definitely take this class if Gilbert is teaching it
Make sure you read the questions many times and look for key words. There are times when you think the question is asking about one thing but it is actually testing your knowledge about something else.
If Professor Gilbert is teaching this course, you cannot miss it. I always looked forward to lecture, loved the readings, and was generally having a lot of fun. The research and information presented in the course is both exciting and important to know.
This is a class you should really consider taking, even if you know you wouldn't be concentrating in psych. The material is so interesting and Gilbert is a magnificent lecturer. This class may make you want to concentrate in psych after you have taken it. Forget any misconceptions you may have about psychology.
The lectures are fantastic. But Dan Gilbert's exams are the very worst kind of multiple choice. The options are typically A, B, C, two of the above, and all of the above (or none of the above). So knowing two of the three most important facts about a topic, for example, won't get you any credit. Additionally, the class was very impersonal. They didn't have enough TFs, so section was optional...I never went. I thought the content of the course was great, but the entire grade was three multiple-choice exams...and they were brutal.
This class is fantastic.  Gilbert is an incredible lecturer and the information is very interesting.  However, this is not a blow off class, as there is a large amount of reading and the exams are very difficult.
amazing lectures, by far the best at harvard. I never felt restless or checked the time, but the exams are tricky and annoying. Also you should keep up with the textbook readings and not wait until the last minute.
If you are interested in the current scope of the field of psychology and the kinds of questions that are on the horizon, I would recommend this course.
highly recommend the class, fantastic class, but very hard tests.  should be able to take the class pass/fail
It's a life changing course that is very difficult but not impossible.
One of the most enjoyable classes I have taken. Lectures are a lot of fun to go to because of Professor Gilbert.
It's really interesting and a wonderful way to spend 3 hours of the week (a great cross between informative, engaging and comedic). But be prepared for hard tests.
Daniel Gilbert is amazing.
If this class consisted only of Gilbert's lectures, I would most definitely recommend it with enthusiasm.  The lectures are concise, well-presented, and memorable.  They present the material in a way that is extremely applicable, and I feel like they have definitely changed the way I judge human behavior.  However, the rest of the class, sections, assignments, and tests, do not match the rigor of the lectures.  The exams are some of the worst I have experienced.  One's performance on the three exams are determined by the way the questions are worded, not on one's knowledge of the curriculum (although I imagine performance would suffer if no study time was invested).  The psychology articles one must read for the three essays are interesting, but the essays quickly feel trivial since they are never returned.  Overall, I feel like I have received some definite insights into human behavior and what the field of psychology entails, and for that I would definitely take this class if I had to make the choice again.  However, unless the assignments are improved, I would have some definite reservations.
This is a well-taught class, and it's very fun and engaging. However, the tests are oftentimes brutal and will not reflect the work you've put into the class.
Take this class. Daniel Gilbert is the best lecturer I have ever, and probably will ever, had the privilege to listen to in my life. The textbook is interesting, the material is enthralling.
If you want to take a class with a great lecturer, this is the one. Professor Gilbert is the best lecturer I have had in Harvard. The problem are the tests, which are the worst thing that could ever happen in a test. Don't let the fact that they are multiple choice fool you.
SUCH a great course. You will never meet a better lecturer at Harvard than Professor Gilbert. He is absolutely incredible. On the last day, we applauded him for like, 5 minutes straight. Even though his exams are extremely difficult and the course set-up is such that nobody cares about the individual students, you completely forget about that while you're in lecture... because Gilbert is an awesome person.
Do the readings ahead of time (they pile up) and go to section, it helps in preparing for the exams. However, if you haven't done the reading, section isn't going to help/
Professor Gilbert's lectures make this course even more amazing than it would be otherwise. Not only is the material incredibly interesting and well presented, but his lectures are like comedy shows and you will never want to miss them.
This class is fun and you will learn a lot but it will be hard to get an A.
Very enjoyable lectures, but also very challenging/frustrating exams that don't necessarily reflect your enjoyment of the class.
The exams are incredibly hard. Even if you know a lot, you have no guarantee that it will reflect your performance on the exam.
Gilbert was super-famous/infamous and really good at what he did, but I'm not even sure he teaches the course anymore. Overall, as a class though, it pretty much blows
Do the readings when you're supposed to do them and team up with people.
The only thing that you are graded on is the tests and writing assignments and study participation can only hurt you if you don't do it.
The lectures are one of a kind.
You must take Dan Gilbert's SLS 20 before graduating from Harvard to truly understand human life.
The lecture are very entertaining and the textbook provides a nice overview of psychology, but the tests are ridiculous.
It is an excellent course, but a large part of that is due to Gilbert.
It's a great class to take if you are not too concerned about grades, for there is little correlation between the amount of work you put in and the grad you get.
This course can change the way you look at life.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard
This a great class! Gilbert is one of my favorite lecturer and he's available just to chat with after class if you have more questions. The only thing:  Just hope that 500 people don't sign up and that there is no lottery... that's the worst and it makes lectures everything and then only three midterms as your whole grade.
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer.  I recommend you take this course just to hear him speak twice a week.
The lecturer, Daniel Gilbert was great and engaging. He really makes the course.
Exams are difficult.
Be prepared for excellent lectures, easy & fun textbook readings, and difficult exams.
Great course! But keep in mind that Pinker's class isn't exactly the same.
Watch out for the exams, but Professor Gilbert (if he is teaching - be sure to check) is totally worth it. The lectures are amazing, and you will truly be captivated by Professor Gilbert, even if the chances to speak with him are rather abysmal.
Gilbert is AMAZING.  take this class if you want an amazing lecture twice a week.  he keeps your attention the whole time and you learn so much.
Take this class, you won't regret it.
I took this class with gilbert, who is amazing. Unfortunately he is retiring, so I can't comment on pinker.
This class has almost no work and extremely entertaining lectures. Also, participating in the studies is enjoyable.
this was by far the best class i have ever taken at harvard
Take if Gilbert is teaching.
This course is really great and the lectures are amazing, but you won't get a deep understanding of psychology. Its a great intro course though that gives you a good overview of psychology.
The tests are hard and intentionally tricky but the material and Gilbert are awesome.
The course is very interesting and stimulating but the exams are very difficult and worded in a confusing fashion.
Super fun course but not super easy.
Just forgo your GPA this once and take the course if Daniel Gilbert is teaching it.
This course is important and very interesting, I feel like everyone would enjoy it, when taken with Gilbert.
Fantastic lectures, great SLS course.
Realize that the grading is tough, so make sure midterms go well because they count a lot. The material is very interesting, and definitely opened my eyes to new things in psychology and everyday life! A lot to learn!
Gilbert is a great teacher and the hour and a half flies by. I was actually kind of sad to go to the last lecture.
the class is very interesting, but the exams are really hard and difficult to study for.
The exams are very difficult and they should take them seriously. The questions are confusing and, far too often, unclear. Most students were unsatisfied with the exams, and very few found them to be a fair assessment. Professor Gilbert is a very good lecturer, but if you cannot make a lesson, have someone from whom you can get notes - the lectures are not taped.
Amazing course, as good as a GenEd is going to get, enjoy the multiple choice!
The tests are a killer, but Gilbert's the most entertaining lecturer on campus.
Lectures are awesome.  Daniel Gilbert is makes the class worthwhile.  The tests are really hard and tricky.  If you like Psych, take it, but be prepared for the awful midterms.
Prepare to be blown away by Professor Gilbert but also by the difficulty of the three exams.
This is an amazing class introducing one to the field of psychology. Professor Gilbert always has interesting, and humorous, lectures to teach the material. Definitely recommend it. The reading can be a bit too much, but just start on it ahead of time (not the night before the test!). The exams are a bit difficult, but in the end what matters is your interest and enjoyment of the course.
Be a very good guesser and memorize even the tiniest details.
great material but be prepared to try hard in order to do well.
The tests are supremely tricky, but the course is fun, engaging, educational, and very worthwhile to take.
GILBERT IS THE BEST!!! :D
The class is wonderful but the tests are tricky.
If you want to spend entire nights reading the redundant textbook, please go ahead and take this pointless course. But if you want to have a life, either A) FAIL or B) DON'T TAKE IT. Do yourself a favor and don't take it.
Despite the hit-or-miss nature of the sections, the lectures alone and the chance to learn from Professor Gilbert definitely make this a class worth taking.
Don't take this course if you care about your grades. The lectures are amazing, though.
SLS-20 is amazing. Glibert does a great job of making psychology accessible and interesting, and he also does a great job of making it clear why psychology is a useful science.
The material is really interesting, though a lot of it is probably old news if you've studied the area before.  Gilbert is an amazing lecturer.  The multiple choice tests are great in that there is no big final project, less so in that they are tricky and pretty steeply curved.
Big, impersonal, multiple choice exams - the worst stereotypes of Harvard confirmed...
yeah, okay, the exams are a bit insane but it is a really interesting class applicable to all sorts of other areas and, of course, Gilbert is a god
Take it no matter in what department you concentrate. It will change your life.
This is a fun class that makes you look forward to attending lecture. While the exams are tough, if you do the reading and think carefully about the material, you will do well.
This class was one of the two or three best I've taken at Harvard. Not only is it unbelievably well taught, but the material is fascinating and feels relevant to my life.
The lectures by Daniel Gilbert are truly the gem of this class. However, he is one talent man for making multiple choice exams extremely difficult.
The material is very interesting. The reading goes by very quickly and the workload is incredibly light. Professor Gilbert made the course very worth taking (I don't think the course would be as good with anyone else).
This lectures are INCREDIBLE and definitely worth attending!
It is well worth the challenge. It's absolutely necessary that every college student get a good grasp on this subject matter. To be able to learn psychology from Daniel Gilbert and with Priya was a blessing!
It's an extremely interesting class, but the test are difficult.  Take it only if you have an interest in psychology.
Take it! This is one of the classes you must take while at Harvard, for you edification as a human being and your own enjoyment.
I LOVED THIS CLASS!!!!!!!!! The lectures are amazing (better than a TV show) and Prof. Gilbert is a phenomenal lecturer. I learned so much in this class. If Gilbert teaches this class again, it is a sin not to take it.
Difficult tests but INCREDIBLE lectures make the class worthwhile. No final, which is great.
Great course. Take it.
This class is an enjoyable way to fulfill the science requirement, especially if you're not big on math/science. The lectures are actually interesting and Gilbert is so enthusiastic about the subject matter.
lectures are sweet... like a movie
fascinating, but the exams are hard
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer!  If you are slightly interested in psychology, he will most likely make you very interested in it.  I was actually a little sad for the course to end so that definitely says something.
Daniel Gilbert was amazing! I liked the material that we learned but it took me a long time to get used to his style of asking questions on the multiple choice.
The tests are very difficult, and it is imperative to go to all of the lectures.
The class is great but the exams are very tough.
I would recommend this course because the subject matter was interesting and engaging, and Professor Gilbert managed to conduct his lectures in an engrossing manner. However, I really think it is a mistake to test the material using three multiple choice tests. The tests are extremely difficult and don't seem to pertain to the key concepts that the lectures or the book deals with. I understand that the questions concern applied knowledge, but the test format only caters to a specific type of thinking.
Great class, but the exams may not adequately reflect the effort you put into the class.
Material is extremely interesting and fun to learn.
This was the best class I took all year! Even if you don't plan on concentrating in psychology this class gives you a new perspective on yourself, others, and the world.
Gilbert is the bomb. I looked forward to his classes very week. I also ENJOYED reading his textbook.
The lectures are incredible; it was a joy to come to class. The tests, however, were, by nature, tricky.
The course is great, especially if Professor Gilbert is teaching it. However, the course grade is based on an average of 3 exams, all of which are very difficult. There are no other grades averaged in, so your grades on the tests are all that determine your course grade and that can be detrimental to your GPA.
Probably the best lectures you will attend in your four years here
READ, READ, READ!!! Trust me, I didn't read for the first test and did badly. I read for the second and third and my grades improved dramatically. Gilbert tests you on things that are in that textbook but not mentioned in lecture. You'll do yourself a favor by simply reading.
Do not miss a single lecture. You'll be missing out.
The material is fascinating, the lectures are fantastic.  Just study a lot for the exams!
Everyone should take this class
Don't take this course. I was choosing between Pinker and Gilbert because Pinker's lectures were just mind-numbing. I made a big mistake. Gilbert is entertaining, but I paid the price because the multiple choice exams are difficult even for the Ph.D graduate students. Stay far, far away from this course. The entire structure of the course needs an overhaul. I have never taken a course that based its entire grading system on one type of evaluation--multiple choice exams. I'll admit that this structure makes life a lot easier for the teachers, but for the students, it's terrible and unfair system. The multiple choice questions were VERY tricky and tested a lot of minute details, and section participation, research participation and the research papers were never taken into consideration. Completing them gave only prevented you from getting punished with a grade reduction. I think this just encouraged students to half-ass research participation, section attendance and the research papers. Student demonstration of a strong interest in the course and material through assignments and participation in section was never taken into account in final grades. Shouldn't it matter that some students actually CARE? In this course, caring about the material does not translate necessarily translate into doing well in the course. I don't even understand how the structure of this year's course could be even argued to be "fair". If you weren't good at the multiple choice exams, life sucked for you, and that was it. There was absolutely nothing you could do about it.  This needs to be fixed. Also, Daniel Gilbert has huge ego. Yeah, like Beyonce says, I guess he can back it up because he is a GREAT lecturer and entertainer, but his ego makes him really unresponsive to student feedback. Like when A LOT of students asked questions during the first exam about clarifications, etc. in the second exam, he instated a new rule: no questions. Instead, there was  a section where you "explained" your answer and any concerns.
great lectures, very entertaining and interesting
Professor Gilbert is an amazing lecturer. The tests, however, not so much.
Awesome class. Horrible tests.
The professor is an incredible lecturer. He is worth every second of your time, and I have never phased out once during his lectures. All I wish for was for the class to have lasted longer!
Lectures are incredible, but the tests not so much. I recommend auditing the course lectures. They are INCREDIBLE. the BEST lectures I've ever heard.
The overall experience is great, but the exams were really hard. Go talk to your TF before the first exam. Overall, I recommend it, because the material is very interesting and the professor is amazing.
Gilbert is an amazing professor. If he is the one teaching it again, I would recommend it for everyone. Psych is one of those things that everyone can relate to whatever they choose to do so it seems like a great core for anyone and everyone.
Great for SC LIV SYS requirement. Definitely more useful on a day to day basis than the other options.
Great course, make sure to keep up with readings.
this is an AWESOME class, hands-down best i've taken so far at Harvard. most of this was due to Professor Gilbert who was amazing, so the course might not be quite as good with a different professor... but the material is super interesting and cool too - my friends & roommates basically took psych through me, because i was always so excited about what we were learning in class! the exams can be frustrating, but the class is DEFINITELY worth taking.
Take it for the lectures, hope you guess right on the exams
Gilbert is a seriously boss lecturer. However, the tests can kind of screw you over, so if you're super concerned with your GPA you might want to be careful.
get prepared for multiple choice tests like middle school
Tests are tricky.  I believe they test a combination of your IQ score and your ability to study hard.  They are more IQ reliant than most Harvard exams.
Professor Gilbert gives excellent lectures
This course is fairly interesting, but many of the things you learn early on can be extrapolated to later topics. Lecture is good, the midterms are bad, the research participation is bad, section isn't great. Psychology is a very young discipline, so you often are unsatisfied because you learn many theories without ever reaching a conclusion.
Gilbert is AMAZING.
Professor Gilbert's lectures are the best I've encountered at Harvard.  It is clear he prepares extensively for the lectures to "deliver the best lecture humanly possible," as he put it.  I respect him for that.  However, he is not accessible.  He does not have office hours, and he ends his class emails often with "Please direct any questions to your TF."Even though I did well on the exams, I recognize they are difficult.  Memorize every detail of bold terms in textbook.  A general command of the material will get you nowhere in assessment; you must know the details in order to do well on the exams.  The class is graded on a curve.  I recommend the course, but keep in mind the exams are difficult and contact with Professor Gilbert is not encouraged.
The tests are impossible. Really. Unless you're incredibly good at knowing when someone is subtly trying to screw you over, you're GPA will suffer because of this class.
I don't think Gilbert is teaching next year, so it's difficult to say whether you should take this course since the main reason why I loved this course so much was because of Gilbert's awesome lectures. I could see another drier professor making the course material very boring. That said though, psych is a very interesting and relevant course!
READ YOUR TEXTBOOK before the lectures to truly understand the information.
Awesome course, so interesting, but be prepared to be dominated by the exams. It's quite depressing.
If Gilbert is teaching this course again, you should definitely take it. However, do be warned: your grades may not reflect your mastery of the concepts covered in class. The lectures are the best I have received at Harvard, and it is obvious that Professor Gilbert is extremely enthusiastic and passionate about this topic. However, the tests are extremely hard, and often students are frustrated by their performances on one or more tests.
Relatively easy class in terms of workload, but difficult to do well. Amazing lectures, but tests are tricky (don't be fooled by multiple choice!).
The subject matter is very interesting, but the testing is not pleasant and it is difficult to do well in the course.
Don't take it unless Gilbert is teaching
This was one of the few courses I've taken here where I can honestly say I enjoyed almost all of the lectures and readings.  Professor Gilbert is fabulous and entertaining and generates massive enthusiasm.
Lectures are great, but the tests are really hard and tricky
You guys missed out! It was Gilbert's last year teaching the class and he was amazing.  The material is sure to be less interesting and more difficult to understand without him being at the helm.
Very engaging lectures. Good stuff to know.
Best class I've taken at Harvard so far.
The class was very interesting and you will learn lots of helpful information.
For non-science concentrators looking to satisfy a General Education requirement, this course is about as good as it gets.  It is not overly technical, but it also feels as if it is a satisfying and demanding science course.
Gilbert is awesome; take his course.
I would tell them that Professor Gilbert makes the class, and that if he is still teaching it they should definitely take it.
Do all the reading very carefully.
The best preparation for the exams is to study all the book examples and lecture examples thoroughly.
Beware of the three midterm setup because it can be hard to bounce back with only three tests counted as part of the grade! Daniel Gilbert is an amazing speaker and makes class awesome!
This class was definitely a joy to take; the material is fascinating and essential for everyone to be exposed to. It's nothing "out of this world" or about "digging into the depths of the mysterious brain" as the word psychology might suggest to some; it is gaining an understanding of the complex dynamics of human thinking, emotion, and behavior-- in a scientific and evidence-based manner. Everyone will get something out of this class. Also, Professor Gilbert played a huge role in making the material interesting, so look out to see if he is teaching it or not in the future. Negatives were section (not helpful, though not stressful at all) and to some degree the exams (the multiple choice were quite tricky). The best advice for exams is to read all of the book material, take good notes, and study those notes; though this is a very light class for most of the semester, exams should be taken very seriously.
Its legit.
It was a great class! I learned a lot about my social interactions and how I work as a person.
Gilbert is no longer teaching it so I can't tell you exactly how it's going to be but he was a fantastic lecturer and made less interesting material fascinating. It also helped that the majority of the material is extremelying interesting already too.
Daniel Gilbert is an amazing lecturer - take SLS20 just for the chance to experience his teaching style.
Go to the lectures! Don't take notes during them just enjoy the performance.
The lectures were extremely interesting,, but the tests did not seem to test how well you studied.
Tests are a bit confusing so get ready to study up
This class was terrible in nearly every aspect. The apathetic and careless attitude conveyed throughout the course were testament to the irresponsibility of its instructors.
Don't let the exams keep you from being excited about learning. Whether or not you actually get a good grade in the class or not, you will have learned a lot in TRYING to pass the tests, even if you don't actually succeed at acing them.
It teaches you some important life skills...
The professor made this course.  Browse through the book and listen to the lecturer before you take this course because I can see how it can be made super boring.  I genuinely enjoyed this course and would take it again in a second
Daniel Gilbert is an awesome lecturer, and who doesn't like to learn about human actions and thoughts?  Take this course.
If you want to succeed, do the reading!
The test are very hard
Awesome lectures. A great course.
The lectures are very exciting and engaging but don't let that make you think that you don't actually have to read the book...really, read the book.
GIlbert is a superb lecturer, and the workload he assigns is minimal.  The curve is not too forgiving, but it's not as bad as it might sound.  The textbook (by GIlbert and others) is very accessible and interesting.
Watch out for the tests.
This class is really interesting and fun, but you should understand that this is not an easy A.
Do not take this class - it is poorly structured and the tests are completely arbitrary. I regret taking this class a lot.
Professor Gilbert is absolutely incredible and makes lectures amazing every week - the class would be really damaged if it didn't have him. There isn't much work each week besides moderate textbook readings, but the exams are pretty tough.
Material is interesting; tests are hard!
The lecture are great and the material is very interesting, just beware of the exams they are very tricky and count for your entire grade. It is a great way to fulfill a SLS requirement or to simply have an introduction to a really interesting subject.
This course has a reputation for a bad curve, but if any class will convince you to learn for learning's sake and intrinsic enjoyment, this class will. Professor Gilbert's lectures alone justify anyone's decision to take this class. They are informative, effective, and mad funny!
One of the best classes you will take here. Gilbert is the best lecturer ever
Awesome class, but tests are wicked hard.
I really liked the lectures, but I didn't like how the grades were based almost entirely on 99 multiple choices. Also the sections were not helpful.
Make sure you keep up with the readings and form good study groups.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard; Gilbert is one of the best professors I've had. My biggest regret is that I waited until senior year to take it - if I had taken it earlier, I probably would have majored in psychology. You'll learn a lot of really interesting stuff from a really dynamic lecturer. Yes, the tests are difficult, but they're not unfair, and if you put in the effort to know all the details, you can answer all the questions correctly. Strongly recommend to anyone remotely interested in psychology, or just in good courses.
Daniel Gilbert is extremely charismatic. Go to lectures. But do not be fooled- tests are very tricky.
Great overview of psychology but exams are overly harsh and test very specific bits of knowledge from lectures and the reading. The course rewards rigor more than creativity and original thought.
This course is incredibly engaging and taught by an enthusiastic genuis. The material is fascinating, but the exams are challenging. Definitely take notes in lecture and read the book!
Awesome class.  Professor Gilbert is incredible, though I'm not sure if he's teaching it anymore.  Class is very well run and fair.  One of the best I've taken.  Don't go to section.
Daniel Gilbert is an incredible lecturer--he's animated, engaging, excited about what he's teaching, and hilarious.  If you can afford to wait, take this course with Gilbert.  Beware the exams--he will trick you on purpose.  But you will never be bored in class; more often, you'll be laughing.  It's totally worth it.
People need to be aware that the quizzes are absolutely brutal if you're either not naturally predisposed towards that sort of test-taking or are not willing to put in a ton of time studying.
This is a very interesting and engaging class. Lectures are excellent. The exam questions are often ambiguous and tricky though.
audit it
Thrilling lectures.  The tests are very frustrating but fair.
The tests are difficult but the lectures make it worth it! Gilbert is so funny and charismatic and I really learned a lot in this course. I found the material constantly coming up in my everyday conversations and it really changed the way I look at normal activities.
Read the textbook; if a chapter is assigned you must read it, because it may have something that won't be mentioned during lecture. Know the concepts inside and out.  The exams are extremely tough -you won't be able to wing them. Don't expect any help or conversation time with Gilbert, because you won't get any.
Professor Gilbert is one of the most awesome lecturers at Harvard; if you have the chance, take this course; it's interesting and lectures are a lot of fun.
The lectures are great. Professor Gilbert will make you curious about every aspect of psychology and you will look forward to going to class every time.
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer, and his presentations are some of the best I've ever seen. The textbook readings are pretty interesting as well. The tests are unnecessarily difficult, but otherwise, it's a great class that everyone should take, especially if Gilbert is teaching it again.
Lectures are interesting, Gilbert is great, but its very difficult to do well.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard!! Prof. Gilbert is really entertaining and the material is really interesting. The tests are really tricky and can make your head spin but if you study it's not that hard to do well.
Dan Gilbert gives awesome lectures and the course material is interesting, but there is a lot of reading and the tests are difficult.
This class was one of my favorites. Lectures are absolutely amazing and I always looked forward to going to them. Professor Gilbert is a dynamic and entertaining speaker, and his textbook is written in the same style. I highly recommend this class, even if you do not plan to concentrate in psychology, because the course is applicable to every aspect of daily life, and you will be surprised by how much you learn about the way your mind works.
The tests are so frustrating that they ruin how fun the lectures are. The class is large because his lectures are fantastic, but at the end of the semester the general sentiment amongst students was regret at having taken this course. You're better off with Pinker or some other professor: although Gilbert is a good lecturer, as he said himself, it's hard to make psychology boring, so go with the semester with reasonable tests.
If you are not interesting in psychology, but curious about humans in general and why we are the way we are, this course will be interesting for you.
Yes, the exams are a pain. But the course is phenomenal: I loved going to lecture, and Gilbert's enthusiasm and energy are contagious. Take SLS 20 with Gilbert.
If you are even slightly interested in psychology, take Gilbert's class. I had no prior experience in the subject, but now I feel as though I have a thorough understanding of the basics of psychology. This course has inspired me to pursue a secondary in psychology, and I recommend it with enthusiasm!
You better really love psychology if you want to take this course. It is interesting, but the hardest class I've taken at Harvard. It wasn't worth it for me.
Take it when Gilbert is the professor! He is an amazing lecturer, and, although his tests are quite tricky, the lectures make it worthwhile.
This was the most interesting class that I have taken so far at Harvard.
Gilbert is amazing. I always looked forward to going to his incredibly funny yet very enlightening lectures. Even the textbook is witty and amusing. Psych is such a fascinating field and you think about what you learn in lecture as you  go  through every day life. Take this class with Gilbert because he is the bomb. Serrriously. Never in my life have I seen a better speaker. (oh, but study your butt off for the midterms... and sleep well the night before- they are tricky!).
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer but the tests are really hard.
The grading system kinda sucks.  It's just three multiple choices, so each question is basically worth one percent of your grade.
The tests are really difficult--if you're looking for an easy A, this isn't it. However, Gilbert's lectures are really interesting, and if you take the clss for the sole purpose of learning and don't worry about grades, you'll love it.
Gilbert was great.  Not sure if it was him and his lectures that made the course so enjoyable, or the course material itself.
Be prepared for tricky exams graded on a difficult curve!
This is a really well-run class. It's interesting and the lectures are great (and even the textbook is well done). You'll get a comprehensive and slick introduction to psychology. You might wish it weren't so big, but it's interesting, fun, and runs smoothly.
Take this class. The tests may be a bit frustrating, but the grade doesn't matter when the class is this great. Daniel Gilbert is an incredible lecturer and the material is equally engaging.
Daniel Gilbert was a fantastic lecturer and made the class worthwhile; every week, I would look forward to his lectures.  I'm so glad that I was able to take this class in his last term teaching it.
Amazing course. Take it with Dan Gilbert. Perfect lectures, funny, and very approachable professor. Easy course if you actually do the reading and go to every class.
THIS WAS THE BEST COURSE EVER!!!!!!!!!! You have to take it.  It's just absolutely fantastic.  The lectures were unbelievably engaging and informative, I savored every chapter of the textbook, and enjoyed immersing myself in the material for the exams.  It was literally so fascinating, so relevant, so exciting, and so mind-opening, I was extremely sad when it had to end.  I truly looked forward to every lecture, and the textbook is both hilarious and really informative.  What an awesome course.  Professor Gilbert's lectures are true performances - carefully rehearsed, meticulously planned, with hilarious examples, funny images, lots of cool video clips, and they are full of questions and examples that engage you and make you think about your own mind and your own world.  The subject matter of this course could not be more interesting - memory, learning, social psychology, mental disorders, sleep and dreams, behaviorism - and so much more!  This might be the most amazing lecture course you ever take - be sure to take it with Professor Gilbert!  He's the best and such a great explainer as well as entertainer.
Just do it! Everyone should have general knowledge about people in general.
Tests are impossible and more of a measure of your test-taking ability than how well you know psychology, so thus, your grade is unrepresentative of your grasp of the material. But take the course anyway, because Gilbert is absolutely amazing at what he does.
AUDIT instead of taking this class. Gilbert's multiple choice tests = unnecessarily tricky.
AMAZING CLASS! Gilbert is the best professor I have ever had and you will learn so much. Beware of the tests, you should be good at multiple choice exams if you want to take this class. That being said, don't let it deter you because you will learn so much and have fun doing it!
Gilbert is the most entertaining Harvard Prof. ever AND a really good teacher!
The lectures are what makes this class incredible. Don't take it if you think you'll get a good grade without work, but definitely take it if the material is foreign, but interesting to you.
This was by far the best course I've yet taken at Harvard.
This class is not demanding in terms of daily work, but it is mentally draining in preparing for such an unpredictable exam.
this course was amazing with gilbert...must take!!
Make sure that you learn from the first test, and don't let your reading slip behind. Remember that the tests are testing you on how you think, not what you know, and you won't get as frustrated.
The tests are legitimately hard but lectures are awesome
The lectures are great. Daniel Gilbert is by far the BEST lecturer I've ever had. He is not only very funny and engaging and charismatic, but also makes the subject material SO interesting. The class is not a lot of work and is really fun. It covers similar topics to AP Psych, but in more detail, so it's OK to take it if you've already taken AP Psych.
Be prepared to have fun but also work really hard.
This class was insanely interesting and professor Gilbert's lectures are incredible, but it is such a big class that you get lost in the sheer numbers of it.
Definitely a good class, but challenging
(The good) The lectures and textbook are both really interesting, and they contain different information, so you have to do both to do well on the midterms (The bad) which are, by the way, the only grades you'll get so if you don't do well on all three you're in trouble! Lowest grade I've ever gotten in my life...can't say I regret taking the course but that's a huge negative.
I heard that SLS20 in the fall was absolute rubbish and that they had a 15 page research paper, so I was hesitant to take the class. But I was curious about majoring in Psychology, so I felt obligated to take this course. I took it in the spring, slightly apprehensive. But as soon as Gilbert started lecturing on the first day, I was hooked. He really is a fantastic individual--the material was fascinating, but his lectures made the class seem more like entertainment than work. I loved every second of this class. The exams are graded on a curve and pretty tricky, but the sections are optional and the only other work are 3 psych study experiment write-ups. It's my favorite Harvard class so far; it's a shame Gilbert won't be teaching it in the next few semesters to come. Sorry, that's all folks.
Gilbert is an amazing lecturer! He is probably one of the best at Harvard. Gilbert's lectures are 1.5 hours of pure entertainment and learning. I looked forward to each of his lectures, and I'm sad that the class is over. Also, multiple choice may sound easy, but Gilbert's tests are not.
Gilbert is a great lecturer, but the tests are fairly absurd and overly picky. The statistics say that 60 percent of course gets a B or higher but I sure don't know where they were because everyone I could find was doing poorly. If your only curious about the topic take it pass/fail so that it doesn't crush your GPA.
Daniel Gilbert is the best lecturer I have ever heard. He is so funny and smart it's ridiculous. Please take this course if it is offered!!
Taking this course was the best decision of my freshmen year. I thoroughly enjoyed the subject and Dan Gilbert is a phenomenal lecturer. He is engaging and teaches the material in a way that everyone can understand. Psychology is something that is applicable to anything and so I wholeheartedly recommend this course for every student at Harvard.
This class actually did change the way I viewed the world. Even as a gov concentrator, this was still by far my favorite class. The evolutionary perspective of psychology is really unique to this class, over an intro psych course you would take elsewhere. Pinker is a star, one of the most brilliant and precise individuals I've ever met,  and he really cares about the student experience. If you're going to go to any professor's office hours, it should be his. Take this class.
I think about things I learned in SLS 20 in my daily life more than any other course I took in my freshman year.  A worthwhile, relevant introductory class.
If you are planning to take this class as a science of living systems requirement, it is helpful to note that this not a class with an easy workload and you have to prepared to keep up with the weekly reading material and assignments and want to do well.
Go to lecture! Read the textbook! And spend a lot of time on your term paper, it is worth a lot.
Review the notes after each lecture and stay on top of things
Only take it if you aren't going to worry about your grade. Impossible to study for the tests.
The course is interesting, but the lectures can be a bit dry, and the class structure/support system is non-existant.  With that said, you will learn a lot, and Pinker is an enthusiastic lecturer.  You really need to stay on top of the readings.
This provides a great introduction to psychology. It's not extremely engaging because it is a gigantic lecture course.
Pinker is a good (if slightly wooden and rehearsed) lecturer. Don't let the first couple of weeks fool you - the class gets boring quickly and the joy of the little psychological gimmicks wears off. Section is mostly useless as you end up going over the same material as in class without much added. I found I left this class more with a collection of semi-interesting facts about psychology to tell at parties rather than a clear idea of what psychology as a field actually is.
The lectures are interesting and well organized. I haven't hear Gilbert lecture, but Pinker was great!
This course is hard and can be boring.  Also, very importantly, Pinker does not teach it like intro to psych, but intro to psych AND neuroscience.
Pinker is a legend in Psychology and also an incredibly efective lecturer. The class is very difficult The exams include tricky questions and the research paper is a pain. Section needs some work, and more handouts would help. During the class, I must say I hated the course. But in retrospect (like most things at Harvard), it was definitely worth it. I learned a lot and somehow, some way to complete Pinker's Exploration into the mind.
SLS20 is an interesting class if you like social sciences; I prefer hard sciences so for me it was a little bit difficult to believe the validity of what we were learning. With that being said, Pinker is a really great lecturer and does make you think and question things that happen in our everyday lives. I think if you think you might have some interest in psych, this is a good class to take.
The class has a lot of interesting content, and Dr. Pinker is a leader in his field.  This shows through his enthusiasm in lecture and about the material he teaches.  I think that, like many large survey courses, there are some drawbacks in that it is often difficult to review all the material in section.  I felt that some of the early material was also not necessary  to learn about in such detail.  Overall, the work load was not bad; however the exams were difficult and often focused on things that were not emphasized throughout the course.  The combination of the large exams and the lengthy term paper is a big drawback in the course.
Not taped so pay attention in lecture. 15 page essays seem to vary in grading difficulty and rigor depending on section tf. Exam questions can be confusingly worded.
enjoy, but definitely be ready to read a lot
The course is a very solid introduction into psychology. Regardless of whether you're going to concentrate in psych, the material is very relevant to anything you do. Professor Pinker is a fantastic lecturer- very eloquent and very good at delivering the content. I found the material very interesting, which made studying for the midterm/final easier.
Try to do the readings during the semester rather than saving everything for right before the midterm/final!
The material is really interesting and makes you want to learn more about psychology, but there is so much material that the exams become overwhelming quickly.
Taking this class has been my greatest regret of my college career so far. Seriously, if you have to take it for some reason, do yourself a favor and take it in the fall. Section is useless but mandatory. The lectures are disconnected and often have more to do with Pinker's personal interest in evolution than psychology itself. The class is horribly organized: I've never seen a class before that tells you nothing about what will be on exams and provides no review sessions. Admittedly, for the midterm they gave us sample multiple choice questions, but there were about 12 of these and they were completely different than the types of questions on the exam. Basically, if you're doing this for a general education requirement, do yourself a favor and take an easier and more interesting class.
You will likely be better off taking SLS in the fall with Professor Gilbert. I found spring SLS to be a frustrating experience given the lack of student support (review materials and sessions, information about exams, etc.). I don't know if those aspects are any better in the fall, but I think Professor Gilbert's lecture style may make up for other shortcomings. Professor Pinker is an acceptable lecturer, but I only found one or two of the lectures out-and-out enjoyable.
Be sure to study well for the tests.
Definitely a course that you should take at Harvard.  Pinker is a great lecturer and he is extremely passionate about what he's teaching.  That said, it is still a relatively challenging course, but the coursework is definitely manageable even for those taking other more difficult courses.
Professor Pinker's lectures were always entertaining, well-structured, and informative.  Although a massive amount of material was covered throughout the semester, the concepts were taught so effectively that the course never seemed to pile on too much information.  The research paper at the end of the course was manageable and graded fairly.  Although the exams require extensive revising, it is extremely rewarding to have acquired such a vast amount of knowledge in one course.  Do not hesitate to take SLS 20 with Professor Pinker.
It's not very difficult but it's also hard to motivate yourself to keep up with the work--so that can end up hurting you.
This class is really interesting in content, but if you're looking for an easy way to fulfill a gen ed this isn't the best course for that. It was definitely more difficult than people made it out to be and it's one of the harder introductory courses.
Good intro to psych for someone who had never taken a psych class ever (like me). The lectures were interesting and held my attention for the full 1.5 hours. Pinker covered a lot of material quickly to provide insight into different pathways of psychology one could go into. However, the exams were extremely hard and I didn't feel like they allowed me the chance to show what I had learned over the semester. Section was somewhat boring -- just reiterating what we learned in lecture and talking about the in-section quizzes that were based off of lectures and just covered general theories.
It's interesting, but not well enough taught to warrant the hours of memorization it takes to learn the material. Take it in the fall so you can at least get more interesting lectures.
Horrible. Now, before you skip my comment as just another angry customer, do know that I base my opinion on valid points. This class applies theory to the class itself. How? They offer no practice exams. They let you out there swimming in the big blue ocean. Now, they know some points are more important than others. Yet, they will never tell you this; they want you (or at least it feels like they want you to) study every little single detail. This class offers no guidance whatsoever, and for a general education course (supposed to introduce students to a new topic) this is unacceptable.
Steve Pinker runs the class like a military, but it's interesting!
Fantastic class, especially for an intro course!
Keep up with the readings
It's interesting stuff, although obviously the exact same lectures year after year.
Class would be better without essay, Pinker focuses mkre in the cool stuff doesn't seem to care much for the logistics
Pay a lot of attention in the lectures, participate in section
Be willing to put in the work. Though the exams are pretty straightforward, the papers require work. But they're not bad! Pinker is a good lecturer, and section is helpful. It was helpful to think categorically about ways that people think, as observed in science. A good introductory course, though being of faith and believing that people's minds are more than what presented in class, I did not always agree with Pinker.
If you have ever wondered about why the world is the way it is, there may be no better place to find answers than in SLS 20. Pinker is a true master of the material and understands psychology's deep ties to all of human culture and society.
Pinker's a pretty good lecturer, and you'll cover a lot of things in a small period of time, none of it in detail. What can I say? It's an intro course. Great for random trivia.
SLS 20 is a great class. The material is just so interesting, and, in spite of what they say, Pinker is a good lecturer. Moreover, and this comes from comparing with students who have taken it with Gilbert, Pinker's assignments are more relevant than Gilbert's. Also, the exam (Pinker's class has an actual 3-hour cumulative final exam) is not just multiple choice (as Gilbert's is) but also short answers, which I generally find a more rewarding way to show what I learn.
The course material was very interesting, but the class could have been constructed better. Pinker is not a horrible lecturer, but he didn't capture my attention every time like I would expect a psychology lecturer to. The written portion of the class is 40% of the grade and pretty straightforward, but the testing portion (one 15% midterm and a 35% final) is difficult and frustrating. If you are genuinely interested in the course, I would take Gilbert's class. If you want an easier (as in easier than Gilbert's) psychology class and could care less about the actual material, this could be your class.
Steven Pinker is the Isaac Newton of cognitive science, straight up. It's amazing to be able to talk to him in person, so if you want to go to his office hours you'll make the most of it if you read some of his stuff beforehand so you have good questions. He is scientificly minded to the max, it's amazing. He's very cool and collected and precise but polite and willing to talk to you. The lectures reflect this precision, and aren't super exciting but still fascinating.Much of the beginning of this course focuses on how the brain processes visual information, so it's kind of slog if you're not interested in that.But unfortunately this class is poorly structured in that aside from the sparse written assignments, there is virtually no work required on a regular basis(except reading, which I fell behind on), and then there is a very challenging midterm and final for which you must be creative about preparing for because there are no practice materials.
For a good time, take this course.
Pinker is an excellent lecturer; it's worth taking the course just for that.  Besides the 15-page term paper (which honestly isn't a huge deal), the class is barely any work.
The material is very interesting, so if you take this class and you like psychology, you will definitely learn something in this class that fascinates you!
From what I've heard, it seems like Professor Gilbert is the better lecturer, but Professor Pinker's class is still interesting and well-taught. The one thing I would mention is that the class does have a strong bias towards evolutionary psych. As a feminist, I found some of the conclusions that Pinker draws about gender, sexuality, etc. to be overly simplistic and not fully supported by current research, but I still thought it was worthwhile to hear his views, if only to better understand a major trend in modern thought. All in all, a pretty good class.
I enjoyed SLS 20 with Pinker. I thought Pinker was a perfectly good lecturer; sure, he wasn't amazing and incredibly engaging at all times, but, hey, he's still Steven Pinker! Pick a topic you like for the 15 page paper--I actually had fun writing it since it was on a topic I really enjoyed learning about. Sometimes Pinker doesn't really say which ideas he's teaching you are things he's come up with and which ideas are core concepts of psychology that have been researched for decades, and that was a bit...interesting. Liuba Papeo's section was great (even if it was at 8AM); she's an awesome/very helpful TF and really nice!
Pinker is a really good lecturer and sections are helpful. Exams are hard, but writing assignments are pretty manageable. You should actually attend lecture and do the textbook readings. Pinker definitely emphasizes neuroscience and looks at EVERYTHING from an evolutionary psych perspective, so it seemed more like an evolutionary bio class than a psych class at times.
People say that you should only take SLS20 with Gilbert in the fall because he is such a great lecturer. It's true he is a good lecturer (I should know, I sat in on his lectures in the fall) but SO IS PINKER. I enjoyed Pinker's lectures, plus it is cool to learn from him because you know that even though he is such a big name in the field, he is happy teaching undergrads and helping us learn. Every time he had office hours he had a bunch of kids following him back to his office and you could just tell that he loved discussing with undergrads as we learned from him and bounced ideas around.
This class taught me many useful concepts and facts that I did not know before. It is a class that can help one in any concentration they are choosing.
I loved this class! The information is fascinating, relevant, and taught in a way that is accessible and interesting. Learning from someone as famous as Professor Pinker is an honor. I was a bit reluctant to take this class since everyone told me to take it with Gilbert in the fall, but I am SO glad I took it in the spring! Professor Pinker's lectures were still extremely well done and interesting, and the course requirements are a lot more reasonable (especially the exams, or so I hear). This class was one of my favorites and has even gotten me to finally decide to concentrate in psychology!
It is a good intro to psychology, but the exams are really difficult and meant to trick you. Also, a huge part of how well you understand the material depends on who your TF is.
Very well organized and run class
The paper is a huge pain and its debatable whether the sense of accomplishment upon finishing it is worth the struggle of producing it. The exam short answer questions are pretty random and difficult to study for. Gilbert's tests are all multiple choice...I wish I had waited to take the course in the fall with him.
Pinker's a fantastic lecturer, very approachable, and conscientious concerning his students.  He remembers names and is eager and friendly about answering questions.  The material is all fascinating and makes you think about yourself and your interactions differently and more thoughtfully.  A great way to fulfill the gen ed.  I found that the readings and lectures overlapped enough that I only needed to go to lecture, but the readings are much more thorough and really interesting and I highly recommend them.  If you do badly on written exams, though, be careful.
Good intro to psychology. I would say it's probably not worth your time to actually read the book, just read sections you don't really understand (and the chapter about the scientific method and stats, they like to ask questions about that. I think it's chapter 2). Pick a paper topic you're interested in, it'll make it a lot less painful. Not a ton of work outside of class. If you've already taken MCB80, you might not learn that much (but it will be pretty easy).
the grading process is annoying, the section participation requirement did not lead to useful discussion. With that in mind, the material covered is very engaging as is Prof. Pinker's lecture style.
This course is a great introduction to Psychology.
Professor Pinker is awesome! Incredibly smart and also really funny. The material is pretty easy to stay caught up with and the tests aren't too bad as long as you study.
Good introduction to psychology, but nothing more. Due to the introductory nature of the course, I felt unsatisfied with the material presented in lecture as there was very little depth to each topic. The book does a decent job at remedying this.Pinker is definitely a good lecturer and a fantastic psychologist. Someone told me that he focuses more on cognitive psych than social psych, which I could totally believe from the lectures.
Professor Pinker is a great lecturer! Anybody who says he is a bad lecturer must've been sleeping during class. He is very articulate, engaging, and he colors each lecture with jokes and humor to keep us engaged. Even though people say Gilbert is a "fantastic" lecturer, Pinker is equally an engaging lecturer. I am always very impressed at how he never seems to rush or run out of time; if you've ever taught something, unless you practice it a lot beforehand, it's often kind of hard to perfectly time your presentation (then again, he has been teaching some variant of this course for years). I learned so much from this course, and I had no background in psychology before enrolling in the class. Definitely a very enjoyable way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement! I am now thinking of pursuing a secondary in psychology :)
Taking this in concordance with LS1b is really interesting. Both classes intersect in interesting ways. I haven't been to a Gilbert lecture, but Pinker is terrific from what I saw.
Do the readings... and NEVER skip lecture.
Absolutely fantastic and very interesting!
Pinker's teaching will either really entice you or turn you off. shopping the class will hopefully give you a good idea of his style.
This class is harder than I anticipated, but possible to do well in if you work hard. Steven Pinker is a very cool person who has a lot of interesting ideas.
Lectures: entertaining enough, where you learn everything of the class, lecture notes are crucial for studyingSection: where you review and "quiz" major concepts of the preceding lectures, very helpfulPapers: mini assignments are easy and inflate your grades, larger paper is a hassle and seems kind of an arbitrary assignment, but not too difficultExams: neither hard nor easy, but the curve is almost nonexistent, so it's hard to get a really good grade unless you study the lecture notes intenselyOffice Hours: go to your TF's any time you have difficulty understanding a concept
It's not really the best psychology class that could be, but it doesn't require that much work outside of the term paper. Its ok as far as a gen ed goes, but I can't say I really recommend it all that much...I expected more out of such a famous professor.
study hard!
Pinker is a great lecturer but the course itself has some flaws.  Hopefully they'll be worked out in the future.
SLS is a fairly fun, low-work gen ed course.  As an introduction to psychology, it is okay, but not very rigorous.  The class isn't disorganized, but it isn't a well-run machine, either.  Lectures are usually amusing because they hit on popular topics, particularly towards the end of the course, but this can make you feel like you didn't get much science out of it.  All in all, it's a fine course that you won't regret taking, but it's not a must-take.
They say Pinker isn't as good as Gilbert, and maybe that's true, but his lectures are still very engaging and entertaining. His exams are also much more straightforward (from what I've heard about Gilbert) because they utilize (straightforward) short response problems instead of focusing on tricky multiple choice problems. I was debating whether or not to wait until the fall, but I'm glad I took it now.
At first, this course can seem difficult to do well in. Once you get the hang of it though this course isn't too difficult. There's still a ton of material to review for the midterm and final though. And it would have been nice if this course could have offered a little more help and resources through the TFs.
If you prefer writing, take SLS 20 spring semester. If not, stick with fall. You'll have more exams but it'll be less stressful.
Great course! Pinker is an awesome lecturer and the breadth of topics covered is astounding. The topics are very approachable for someone who isn't studying psychology (I'm Applied Math) and the material is interesting and applicable. The lessons learned from this class will keep coming up as you watch people interact in your daily life, and you'll find yourself able to explain a lot of different phenomenon. Paper copies of the lecture slides are distributed before each class (he goes WAY too fast for you to write everything down in my opinion) so I'd recommend taking notes on them rather than in a notebook. But it's up to you.The exams are fair but they test a significant amount of material, so be prepared to memorize quite a few terms and facts. Don't start the day before unless you have most of the day or a photographic memory.The research paper was not as painful as I expected it to be. The draft was 10 pages and the final draft 15. Since I started doing research earlier rather than later, writing the paper was generally a painless process. I never felt too stressed out about it and learned a lot about how psychology research is done. Interestingly enough, I kept seeing the same names popping up over and over again, and I felt like I was witnessing an academic debate between different psychologists.So, in all, take this class! I don't know how good Gilbert is (everyone seems to think he's better), but Pinker was awesome. Definitely glad I took this one.
I'm sure most people take this course prior to taking MCB 80, but in many ways, this course is just a watered down version of MCB 80. Not really worth taking if you've taken the other.
Be wary of the big faceless lecture. I wish I hadn't taken it, but that's just me. I'm sure it was great for many people.
This course is an interesting introduction to the basics of Psychology. Professor Pinker is not as bad a lecturer as everyone says, he is funny and relatively engaging. However, I found it to be very basic--a lot of it was a mixture of common sense/knowledge and high school biology. There is a lot of material and I felt that the course was made more difficult than it needed to be by extraneous reading assignments. Section is often redundant but sometimes helps to clarify concepts. Overall not too difficult, but harder than it should be for a Gen Ed with relatively basic content.
If you're concentrating in psychology, obviously you'll have to take this class. If you're looking to fill the SLS requirement, choose wisely. If you like science, there may be other courses that you could potentially find more interesting/less work. If you hate science, like me, take this! It's not scientific beyond a few brain parts, some evolution and a neurotransmitter here or there.
The class is difficult and takes much of your time. The material, however, is really interesting. If you think this is an easy gened, think again. Personally, it is preferable to any of the other sls classes that do not deal with psych.
This class is very interesting, and it touches on some really cool psychological topics. However, it can also be a pretty stressful class, and you need to know a lot of material if you want to do well
This is a great class and you'll be learning from one of the world's most famous psychologists, which is always a plus. The TFs are excellent for this class, but be ready to sit through long PowerPoint presentations (although Pinker is an excellent lecturer) and difficult exams.
SLS 20 is a painless way to fulfill the Life-Sci requirement and Pinker is a very engaging lecturer. Lectures were usually fascinating and often a highlight of my day. Lots of hands on material and make use of Pinkers very personalized office hours as well.
Be prepared for the final paper; don't save it for the last minute.
SLS 20 is a gentle introduction to psychology taught by an engaging, articulate professor, touching on the highlights of a broad range of topics.
Everyone says that Gilbert is the better lecturer, but they are totally wrong. Pinker's lectures are extremely funny, and Pinker is helpful and friendly in his office hours. You would also be learning psychology from the best in the field.
i would tell them to take this class
I would highly recommend this class to anyone remotely interested in how the mind works. Although most people advise taking the class with Dan Gilbert instead of Pinker, I think Pinker is also an incredible lecturer. It is clear that he has put a lot of effort into choosing the most relevant and interesting material and preparing his lectures. He also cares a lot about his students and is very accessible - definitely try to go to office hours and get to know him more personally if you have the chance.
The overall organization of the course was incredibly poor. Unlike Pinker and my section TF, who put a lot of time into the course, the head preceptor or head TF provide virtually no materials for review, practice, or concept mastery. It surprises me that SLS20, a large intro course, has such a dearth of resources outside of the lectures and textbook. Ive taken numerous large courses at Harvard thus far, and all of them had ample opportunities for students to practice and review through practice problems, practice exams, review sessions held my TFs, and more. SLS20 provided none of the above, leaving students with a very poor understanding of what the exams would entail.
Learn from Pinker and attend lecture. It is a fun course, and you only have a few chances to listen to a professor like him.
This class is so, so interesting. It really gets you thinking about things you've never noticed before but (as you will find) apply tremendously to our everyday interactions with people. Doing the assignments never felt like work because I was genuinely curious about the things I was learning!
Pinker is a good lecturer and the material is awesome. Unfortunately, the grading is kind of unpredictable, there is A LOT of reading and they make the tests very hard.
If you are a hard sciences person, this is a nice class to end your undergraduate with. Soft science is engaging!
This course is a great introduction to psychology. It provides an overview of various psychological concepts, from the psychology of language to love and sex, optical illusions to aggression. It is a challenging course and requires a lot of time and effort.
Choose carefully between fall and spring because they are different!
A thorough intro psychology course
I feel that this course focuses really heavily on the science aspect of psychology, with an entire semester basically dedicated to neurons and parts of the brain and such. That makes sense since this class does fulfill a gen ed for science, but it was disappointing to me.
It's an awesome class! I learned a lot about psychology and even though it is a lot of material and a lot of reading, it's worth it.
A great overview of lots of different psychological concepts. Pay attention in lecture and you should do fine.
If you're not familiar with biology, then don't take this course as an introduction to psychology.
Stay on top of reading and lectures. It might be difficult but it will be beneficial in the long run.
Go to lecture, the tests have a lot of lecture material in them. And yeah, read the textbook.
Not really what I expected, but I'd probably recommend it anyways. Boring towards the beginning, learning about how the eye works and such, but definitely gets more interesting towards the end.
Textbook is awful. Lectures are boring. Sections are not that interesting and hard to reinforce 1 week of lectures. Over 100 slides into 1 hour.
Take this course! It was the most organized course I have taken at Harvard and one of the best taught. Keep up with the material, though, because there is a lot to memorize.
It's a great class, but there is a lot of studying to be done. Don't skimp on it!
This is a SLS that is really relevant to lots of disciplines. That being said, it is quite difficult.
Pinker is a great lecturer. If you are looking for a gen-ed, and you are even tiny bit interested in psychology I enthusiastically recommend taking this class; the topics are interesting, and useful in many areas. The workload is not bad at all (midterm + final paper + final exam).
Definitely one of those courses every undergrad should take. Applicable in so many ways, a gen ed, and fairly easy.
If you like psych and linguistics, tell future students that Harvard has a lot to offer them, but you have to approach Harvard with the night mentality.
This class could be good. But it's not. The lectures are sometimes interesting, and Pinker is really smart, but the tests don't really reflect anything but random stuff Pinker/head TF feels like pulling from lecture. The midterm was ridiculous. There seemed to be more questions from the optional reading (Pinker's Book) than the required reading (the textbook). Lots of issues to work out here. TF matter a lot. If you get a bad one, you should try to switch out.
The class was interesting, not a ton of work, mostly a freshman intro to science class
The amount of material covered can be overwhelming but paying attention during lectures and reading the assigned pages in the textbook will definitely help. The exams are fair and the material that is covered during section shows you what to pay extra attention to!
It is a class that orients you to the theories and a little of the history. Take it if that's what you're interested in.
Amazing class! Great way to fulfill the SLS requirement. I loved the assignments and I feel like the information I learned from this class is applicable to everyday life. It also arms you with knowledge you can talk about with your roommates and friends (unlike some concentration classes)!
Its a very interesting class, but very detailed and requires a great amount of attention and commitment.
Pinker is an excellent lecturer, and the exams and paper are not that bad.
This class is a great beginning to studying the brain for potential Psych concentrators, MBB track students, or anyone curious about how we humans think.  Professor Pinker may be a less charismatic lecturer than Gilbert, but he is still quite effective at conveying his ideas with a good dose of humor. Sections are a great way to review and clarify concepts, especially if you look over lecture slides beforehand. I found the two exams, made up of both multiple choice and essay questions, tough but fair.  It is essential to keep up with regular readings if you wish to do well, so don't set aside your textbook until the week before a test!  The topics focus on Professor Pinker's research from his books, but they are fascinating, with a particular emphasis on optical illusions and language.  Give the spring semester of SLS 20 a try - you won't be disappointed, and you will likely be intrigued.
The one great thing about this course is Steven Pinker and his lectures- he is one of the few psychologists that makes a sincere effort to understand the neuroscience an biology behind certain principles. Aside from Pinker, the course itself is extremely disorganized. The same exam/practice questions are reused from year to year and there is hardly any practice material for exams. The incompetence is clear during exam administration when Pinker is not present and the rest of the teaching staff is basically clueless about where to write your name and students' complaints about questions that are vague or silly. During the final exam, the teaching staff said something every 15 minutes or so with a clarification, request, etc. If you want to learn from Pinker and understand some basic psychology, this class is useful, but it is definitely not run or structured well.
Steven Pinker is a great lecturer.  He strikes a wonderful balance between relating to his audience and still keeping the subject academic, and he's very funny.  He could be a bit too generalizing and indoctrinating, however, particularly in matters of politics and religion that I didn't really consider to be too pertinent to our course.  Other than that, great course!
Pinker's exams may be relatively easier than Gilbert's, but the lectures are very boring and long-winded, and the material is not presented in an engaging manner.
Wonderful course! Take it with Pinker, he's amazing!
Don't take it. Just don't. At least not in the spring. I have a love for learning but this course was just plain terrible.
This is a decent class, it is not the most exciting but I found the material to be very interesting. If you have taken AP psych, you may consider trying to place out of this class because a lot of the material is repeated, but there is some new material as well. It does not take much time and is very manageable.
A bit boring, and unnecessary for future psychology classes.
Prof. Pinker is awesome, and a very engaging lecturer who covers a lot of fascinating material. As a non-science concentrator, I found this class challenging but also very rewarding. There is a lot of content to cover, and there was more nuero-bio content than I expected, but it was worth it because the second half is all super-interesting social psych!
This a great way to fulfill a Gen Ed.
Pinker is a famous professor, but that doesn't mean he isn't down-to-earth and caring. He seems to be very available, and though this course has a somewhat heavy workload it's completely doable.
Dr. Pinker is awesome! I know people say that Dr. Gilbert's more entertaining, but honestly, I loved Dr. Pinker's sense of humor. Plus, he's just baller.Also, the exams were fairly straightforward, and the course covered a broad range of concepts in a manageable but engaging level of detail. Tips: keep up reading, study actively for exams by drawing out concept maps and making flashcards guided by Dr. Pinker's ending "key concepts" slides, answer questions in section (it's much better if your TF likes you!).
Professor Pinker's lectures were always engaging. Even though most matters referred to some phenomenons that I was already aware of - I was still always surprised by many of the things I learned.
The material is interesting and engaging and Pinker has a very organized approach. However, expect him to place a large emphasis on the biological science aspect of psychology, which can be really interesting if you have an interest in neurobiology and evolutionary science, and it's definitely pertinent. It's important to have a very thorough understanding of every slide that is presented in lecture, but section helps a lot with this. Readings and assignments are very manageable and overall it's a course worth taking.
Take it with Gilbert
Though the assignments were interesting, they weren't particularly useful for the exam.  Though the material was not terribly hard to understand throughout the semester, I found both the exam and the midterm fairly difficult.
Gilbert's class is easier...take his.
This class is generally very enjoyable.  Be sure to keep on top of the readings, and read the relevant excerpts from Pinker's HOW THE MIND WORKS, even though these are not required.
SLS 20 is a class that can translate to anything- other courses, college in general and all of life.  This is stuff that everyone should know.  Take this class!
It's a fine class. You will neither be extremely bored nor extremely excited. Psychology has a serious case of physics envy (Wikipedia it if you don't know the term).
If you're curious about psychology, take this class! The book and the lectures are great!
Steven Pinker is an unbelievable teacher, I felt so lucky to be in these lectures.
It is just as important to anticipate quirks in the testing as it is to be well-studied. Take speed before exams!
Super interesting, made me think a lot about how it relates to everyday life.  There is a midterm, final, and a big research paper, as well as a few little assignments throughout the year. I would recommend this as a class anyone should take if they want to thin more about the human mind.
It is a good introduction to most of the Psychology you will be exposed to at Harvard, and Pinker has some very interesting points to make about the field. Not the best class, but a good semester to fill the requirement!
This is a good class. That said, it is a lot of work with prof. Pinker and the exams are challenging. If you are looking into satisfying a GenEd requirement AND are certain you'd like to learn more about psychology, this is a class for you. If you are not so sure about psychology, but still need a GenEd, look into other classes as well. You can always take more specific psych classes after you had knocked down GenEd with something less demanding.
This is a great intro psych course. No matter who teaches it you will be happy. The amount of information you have to learn is a lot but not hard.
Pinker is awesome, and this class is applicable to literally EVERYBODY.  You get to learn about the mind, which will always be relevant to you no matter what you end up doing in life.  I would say the most excellent part of the class is learning about sex, love and romance - absolutely the highlight of the class for me, though I still enjoyed coming to lecture every time.  Do not miss this opportunity to get a Gen Ed requirement out of the way with an awesome class.
Prof Pinker is AMAZING and I think everyone should take intro psych before graduating from Harvard.  The exams can be tricky, but the subject matter is fascinating and I felt like I understood more about myself and other people by taking this course.  Definitely recommend with enthusiasm!!
Professor Pinker is a nice guy, and is entertaining sometimes, but I don't think his lecture style is that effective. You'll probably end up learning a lot more in section, which isn't really a problem, but that's mostly how it is. And don't buy "How the Mind Works" unless you like seeing all of the diagrams and examples from the lectures in book form.
Professor Pinker, despite all rumors, is a great lecturer. (Professor Gilbert being a fantastic lecturer does not make Professor Pinker a bad one...) If you have any interest in how the human mind works, take this course! Professor Pinker speaks brilliantly, and the assignments in this class really attempt to make you think critically and not believe everything you read.
Do not miss a single lecture! They are the best part about this course and the exams are also mostly based on lecture material. Steven Pinker is an amazing professor and you should take advantage of his office hours or ask him questions after class. Keep up with the textbook readings because it would be overwhelming to try to catch up on readings only during the few days of preparation before an exam.
It's tough work but the material is interesting. Also choose your lecturer wisely.
Professor Pinker is amazing and the subject material of the course is fascinating
Steven Pinker is a great lecturer and a genius. This class makes learning Psychology so much fun.
Take this course! Psychology is fundamental to anyone's understanding of the world. People may say that Gilbert is more engaging than Pinker, but I really enjoyed learning from Pinker. They just have very different teaching styles. There is no denying that Pinker is extremely knowledgable about the subject, and he really cares about the students. Some advice: Read the textbook and go to his office hours!
I would recommend taking this class if you are interested in psychology and science. If you do not like science classes, this may not be the class for you.
Pinker is an extremely intelligent and thorough lecturer. Though his lectures may be "boring" they cover everything, are very interesting, and are taught by one of the most prestigious and seminal psychologists of the day.
I would suggest you only take this class if you ACTUALLY want to write a 15-page paper. In my case, I actually wanted to get that writing experience in but otherwise I would have taken it in the fall as I heard Gilbert is a much more engaging lecturer. However, Pinker teaches well and everything is on the slides. The midterm was somewhat rough and so was the final but if you do all your readings, pay attention in class, enjoy writing the paper, you should do well.
Be prepared for fascinating subject matter, but challenging exams.
I hated this class. The lectures are interesting but long, and the tests are really hard and there is a ton of reading. Also the essays are a huge pain. I would not recommend you take this class unless you are really interested in pursuing psychology.
The lectures are amazing. The information you will learn is not only interesting in and of itself, but you will find yourself applying concepts you learned in lecture and section to real-world problems and situations.
The material is interesting a lot of the time (esp. at the ed of the course) but the exams are horrible, not because the materialis hard, but because they dont make sense. Assignments also seem like they are arbitrary ways to separate people into grades, not due to actual knowledge, but due to random things like grammar and answering questions they didn't ask.
This is a really good class if you want to know the basics of psychology. It has an emphasis on neuroscience, especially in the first half of the semester, which might be off-putting to people who don't like biological science, but turns out to be very useful.
Pinker is an extraordinary lecturer and delivers a very good course.  It should not be discredited as the "second-best" intro psychology at Harvard.  Definitely take Pinker's course if you are interested in the philosophy of mind, the evolutionary origins of social behavior, optical illusions, or language development.  Only thing I didn't love was the somewhat difficult paper assignment for an introductory science class and the time-crunched exams.
This class will provide you with valuable information concerning a fundamental part of all human life, teaching you a great deal about both your world and yourself.
This is one of the best intro classes you can take at Harvard. The breadth and depth of the material covered is stunning, but at the end of each lecture you understand it quite well, even if you don't think so or you can't articulate it perfectly. Steven Pinker, beyond being a great individual and a great academic, is also a great lecturer; previous Q scores had me worried, but it turned out to be a pleasure to hear from him twice a week. He's also extremely accessible; there's usually a line of students asking him questions at the end of lecture, and he takes the time to talk to everyone who waits; office hours occur immediately afterward, so students can also visit him as/after he walks back to William James Hall. And outside of that, he's extremely receptive to emails. Overall, the course was phenomenal.
This class has a lot of reading. Don't expect an easy class. you have to keep up with it. And the exams are difficult. Take it with Gilbert instead apparently he is a way better lecturer.
This is the best class in the SLS department by a long shot.  You'll learn a lot about an interesting subject, and you won't have to put in very much work.  Take it to fulfill the SLS requirement.
Keeping up with the readings is a good idea, and it makes you more prepared in sections, and therefore more engaged in the material
Be aware that this class feels a lot like an evolutionary biology class at times. If that's not your thing, or if you've already taken an evolutionary bio class, maybe you should stay away from this.
It is definitely science based for the first half of the sememster.
Great intro to psychology. Pinker is a highly engaging lecturer, the workload is not bad, section is helpful, and I learned a lot. A solid intro to psych for students of all concentrations.
SLS20 is a great introductory class.  It covers a range of topics, all of which fit together nicely and are extremely interesting.  This is a great course to take if you're interested in psychology, but also generally, you don't have to be thinking about concentrating in psychology to have a great experience in the class.
I hadn't heard great things about Pinker's version of the course, but I honestly thought it was absolutely fantastic. I had never taken any psychology courses before, and I really learned a lot from this class. Overall, a great introductory course.
It was a great experience. With no previous background in the material it was still an amazing class.
Go to the lectures! Don't make the same mistake I did.
I kept falling asleep to Pinker's lectures, but the material itself was very interesting, so I definitely feel that everyone should take this class at some point during their four years here. Beware, though: the exams can be very arbitrary and preparation for them can be extremely frustrating because the course heads give us very little to work with (for example, they would give you sample questions without answers).
This will be a very rewarding class if you keep on top of your reading.
Professor Pinker is a great lecturer -- very engaging, funny, and informative. His lectures are highly organized and he is skilled at explaining complicated topics. The material is varied and difficult, and requires a lot of energy, effort, and review to master them for tests. The best approach would be to review your notes and lecture slides at the end of each week to make sure you understand the concepts.
It's harder than you'd expect it to be!!
This is a fun class if you're interested in psych, a nice easy overview with a pleasant evolutionary/neurobio spin. Go to steve's office hours as much as you can, he's really nice!
It's very interesting and enjoyable!
Read the book
Midterm and final are hard, but overall is worth it.
Professor Pinker is a fantastic and brilliant lecturer. If you're deciding between taking SLS20 with either Pinker or Gilbert (though I haven't taken the class with Gilbert), I would strongly recommend Pinker. His lectures are engaging and informative and I enjoyed all of them.
Light in terms of workload but extremely interesting in terms of content. If you're interested in learning about the subconscious factors that make people behave the way they do, definitely try out this course!
Psychology's a great topic, especially for anyone who takes a moment every so often to think about how they think. And the course is a great, broad introduction. Pinker has great style as a lecturer, though he gives a very evolutionary presentation of the material (with an underemphasis sometimes on culture and even occasionally of the basic phenomena).
a lot of science, not enough preparation for the midterm or final, it was literally "anything from the lectures or million page textbook is fair game," no practice tests, no past tests no review session. however, it is nevertheless and interesting course and Pinker was a pretty good, funny lecturer, he knows what he is doing and you can see why he is famous for it
This is an entertaining and easy class. Take it if you're looking for something that's fun but not too demanding.
Professor Pinker is an excellent lecturer and the course is very informative and well organized. If you have any interest in psychology or any related fields, or simply want to complete your life science requirement, definitely consider this course.
Professor Pinker is fantastic - a great, dynamic lecturer.  Definitely take the class with him!
SLS 20 was a great course. There was not too much work, just a few very short assignments, and a term paper. Exams now have free response and multiple choice, which made the grading much more reasonable than I had expected from past years. The paper can be interesting, although there is a lack of clarity with grading. Pinker gave good lectures and was approachable. Overall, a very good introduction to psychology.
This is a great class, and anyone with any interest at all in psychology should take it! It serves as a great intro to psych, from one of the leaders in the field. Lectures are really interesting - they aren't taped though, so it is really important to go, since most of the midterm and exam material is from lecture.
Pinker's lectures are awesome! This class should almost be mandatory for everyone.
It's not an easy class, but you will learn so much about a wide range of topics.
Overall, the class is fun...pretty laid back and the lectures are interesting - Pinker is an amazing guy and we're very lucky as undergraduates to have the opportunity to learn from him! The only things you should keep in mind are: a)Most people don't do the readings in between lectures since it's not enforced at all...everyone crams right before the midterm and final, which is really bad because no one likes losing sleep, and no one likes forgetting everything the second after you finish the test. If you are going to take this class, make sure you're serious about learning psychology and commit yourself to reading between lectures and making an effort to do a lot independently to help you master the material, since sooo much is covered in the course.  b) There is a 15 page final research paper that is kind of a bitch. But the topic is flexible so if you pick something you're super interested in it can be enjoyable.
Pinker has his own style of teaching, but I find that it works pretty well. You will learn quite a lot about nature of the brain.
Excellent intro to psychology. Similar to AP Psych but more in-depth, more interesting, and less emphasis on vocabulary and memorization.
The tests are difficult, sections vary widely depending on your TF, but you learn genuinely interesting stuff that you can apply to real life. Pinker is a very entertaining and engaging lecturer.
Beware that Pinker will heavily emphasize the biology aspects of Psych- don't be surprised that the eye and the ear are considered to be psychology. You will have to work hard, especially for midterm and finally, but it's rewarding.
Fun!
SLS 20 is a tough class. The lectures are interesting but the exams are difficult. There is a good amount of work, particularly because of the final paper. However, you learn a lot and I would recommend this if you are interested in the field of psychology.
Be ready to keep up with the readings, it's really helpful not to cram. This is an excellent overview of psychology and you will learn a LOT about psychology, human nature, and yourself.
This is a good introductory psychology course. It goes over all of the basic concepts, and allows you to see if you want to continue with psychology. I would suggest not taking this class with Pinker. He can be a little imperious sometimes, and every single question on his tests are tricks, even if he says he doesn't want to trick you. The lectures are kind of boring, and the readings are long, but if you skim the readings and pay attention in lecture you should be fine.
Watch out for the research paper
Extremely interesting introduction to major psychological concepts, but be prepared to take on a large amount of material and understand it deeply (and prove it in exams).
It is mostly common sense, and it does not seem required, even if you want to concentrate in Psychology. It appears that all of this can be learnt, picked up, or just quickly covered at the beginning of a harder class in the concentration. It was not rewarding
Overall a great intro to psychology and interesting class. The section component was great and all assignments were fair and helped solidify concepts talked in section/lectures. Lectures were too long and often difficult to stay awake/focussed in (especially as they were at 2:30 PM). Lectures somewhat unclear at many points. Exams difficult as questions are worded oddly sometimes and not straightforwardly but mostly manageable.
Very interesting course, but difficult exams.
This course can be a lot of work for exams if you don't have a background in psych or biological studies. However, the information is really interesting and applies well to real life.
Pinker is an extremely interesting and knowledgeable lecturer.
This course is extremely interesting and extremely well taught. I would definitely recommend taking it if you want to go into psych or if you want to fill your SLS requirement.
You learn a lot of interesting information in the class but the material is very unorganized.
Testing is a bit poor.
This is a wonderful course with an engaging and exceptional professor. I highly recommend it to anyone, even if you have no interest in psychology, as it is relevant and highly applicable to every day life.
This is by far the BEST class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Pinker is the most engaging and entertaining lecturer at this school. He may have a reputation for being "worse" than Gilbert.. I've never heard Gilbert speak, but I know that Pinker is definitely an amazing professor in his own right.  Each of the lectures felt like a TED talk and I always left class having learned something new. Never a dull moment! Also, when else will you be able to learn from the most famous psychologist of the modern age?
Relatively chill class, but very interesting material. I started out auditing for the first month, but was impressed by Pinker's lecturing, and was engaged enough by the subject matter to switch in, and didn't regret that decision at all. Not a heavy lift, especially week to week, but the midterm and final require some preparation. Don't really need to do all the textbook readings, but it can offer an alternate way of learning the material, and is good for reviewing before exams.
Find out what each prof. teaches and which you are most interested in. My understanding is that all the sls20 profs are pretty good but have different focus fields. Pinker did a lot with neuro that was more sciency than i expected. apparently mitchell does more social stuff. They also have different balance between exams and papers. Pick what you like! Pinker's lectures are sometimes a little slow (he runs over) but other times are really good! Be ready to have some good and not so good days. Overall positive experience though.
I really liked this class. Lectures were great, section was fun. The material is interesting. And it was kind of nice to have a class where all you have to do is just kind of memorize things-- obviously you don't want every class to be like that, but when you're learning interesting material like this, it was fun to read the textbook and go to lecture and section. The one thing I would advise people who take this class to do is to interrogate the discipline-- why do we spend so much of the lecture on beauty looking at white people? How is the class extremely heteronormative? Look at and criticize why "science" is maybe a little biased...
If you don't have much of an advanced biology background, you'll really enjoy this course. If you do, a lot of Pinker's simplifications will irritate you during lecture. That said, his lectures were fairly engaging, and the exams, while hard, were fair. Start early on your paper!
Try your darnedest to get Ken Allen as a TF
The course is definitely interesting, but it leaves a lot to be desired in terms of structure and organization. For instance, readings are assigned every week but are never discussed in section. Furthermore, the TFs did not count the number of multiple choice sheets that would be needed for the final exam and found that they did not have enough during the exam, something that I find unacceptable.
Lectures are awesome and you will learn a lot, but exams can be miserable. Grade will depend mostly on your exams, as well as your final paper
A fun way to fulfill your SLS requirement.
Contrary to previous Q guides, the tests were not designed to trick you and were completely manageable if you studied. Professor Pinker is an entertaining lecturer, and the workload is completely manageable.
I took this class as a junior and was hesitant at first because I was scared it would be too introductory, but I found that this class did a great job at synthesizing a lot of important concepts.
Not as in depth of a course as I had hoped. A good introduction, but if you're well read outside of the field, you probably already have a general understanding of a lot of the material. That said, Pinker's lectures are interesting, the material is important, and I would highly recommend this class if you have zero knowledge of psychology. I'd suggest attending lecture and doing the readings. Not very time-consuming and it will make the exams feel pretty casual.
It is difficult and the exams are tough. There is a lot of material but the lectures are very interesting.
The class, with Pinker, is very interesting and fun, for he uses his wit in various situations to present the material in its full truth and implications. I loved this class, but I'm not a huge fan of the curve.
It's useful and interesting, and necessary to take for any other psych courses, but it's not well organised, which takes away a ton from enjoyment of the class.
Relatively easy, relatively interesting. The midterm/exam are annoying but not terribly difficult. The material was interesting.
A basic understanding of Psych is important for everyone. Take this class with Pinker if you're interested in a more evolutionary and cognitive take on things.
SLS 20 is a really great introduction to psychology. It covers a wide breadth of material and Pinker's lectures are well done and interesting. The exams are decently challenging but certainly doable. The class works very well as a gen ed class, because a lot of the highlights of psychology are hit in this class, and many of these highlights have entered modern culture. You also learn things about yourself, and learn the psychology behind your actions. SLS 20 was a well worthwhile class!
Great general overview of psychology from a distinguished professor.
This class is very interesting and the lectures are fantastic, but you actually do need to pay attention to the lectures and preferably do the reading. Although its optional, I think reading Professor Pinker's book would perhaps be even more helpful that the textbook.
Steven Pinker is one of the most intelligent, witty, and engaging professors you will have. Some might complain that, to an extent, he skews the course towards his own view of psychology, but this is actually a good thing. Not only does it allow for him to share with us those parts of psychology he is most passionate about, but anyone can learn a generic view of psychology from reading a book on the subject. The whole point of coming to a place like Harvard is to have access to world-class leaders of their field, like Professor Pinker, and to learn their particular idiosyncratic views on the subject. So it is good that he shares a good deal of his particular view of psychology.The subject material is both fascinating and important, and, for those who actively engage in the class and in section, it is not particularly difficult.
Take this course in the fall with Gilbert or Mitchell instead. Pinker is not very inspiring. The content is presented in an insipid manner. If you do take the course with Pinker, pray you have a great TF to make this course worth your while. Also, be prepared for very little initial direction/guidance when writing the big term research paper.
Even if you're not interested in concentrating in anything related to psychology, this course is valuable because it teaches you how to understand people's motivations, as well as yourself. If you're interested in what makes people "tick", this is the course for you. Good course for a Gen Ed credit.
SLS 20 with Steven Pinker was a great class. The material was very interesting and the workload was light. Good way to fulfill SLS if you are not a biology concentrator.
Pretty heavy biological emphasis with Pinker, Gilbert focuses more on social psychology.
Stephen Pinker is a fascinating lecturer and I'd recommend waiting to take this class until he teaches it again.
If you're at all interesting in people and how they work, take this class. It's not too difficult and it will really help you see the world differently.
i.	This class is an interesting and engaging introduction to psychology. The weighting of the grading is pretty harsh and unforgiving; a lot of emphasis is placed on the midterm and the final exam. However, if you keep up with the reading all along (most people dont do it, but if you do it, it only ends up being around 15 pages a night/per lecture) and keep good notes for yourself, the exams will not be unreasonably difficult, though they are tricky. Professor Pinker is a little bit set in his ways, and as a result can come across as insensitive at times, but he is also wants the students to learn at the end of the day. Section was the best part of this class, and Nicole is an absolutely fantastic TF!
The midterm was on Housing Day and according to some people that's something that happens a lot, if not always. Other than that, Pinker is a fun lecturer and it's a really interesting class that's not too much work. Good class to fulfill the gen ed requirement for people who aren't that into science
I really liked the course, but I found it frustrating and uninteresting. Overall it covers a lot of material, but it is a sometimes cursory.
I loved this class. It is a very good intro to psychology and really really interesting. It includes many different aspects of psych and can be a really good indication to carry on with Psych if you like it. I liked Pinker a lot, I thought he was funny and it was honor to have him as my professor.
It was meh, I do not know if it is worth taking.
I enjoyed taking this course, and think that it did a great job at introducing me to various topics in psychology. Taking this course alongside LS1b was a cool decision, as the two courses shared interesting moments (ex. heritability lectures). Coming into the course, it is easy to tell that readings are not truly necessary to have a basic grasp of the material. That being said, the midterm and final both require that you truly understand what has been taught, and I would highly recommend keeping up with the course. Pinker is a dynamic lecturer, and truly makes the subject matter come alive. A note about the timings - lectures often ran past 4pm, so I would avoid scheduling a class/section immediately after SLS20 lectures.
Though some may say that the lectures in the fall version of this class are superior, Pinker is an absolute joy to listen to. He does his best to entertain everyday and has a great stage presence. The reading is never overwhelming if you break it up, there are not too many assignments overall, and the research paper is manageable if you give it enough time and get guidance from your TF. If you do not have much formal teaching in psychology, this will get you hooked.
If you must take sls20 for a psych requirement...take it in the fall. If you just need a gen ed fulfilled, take literally anything else. I can't think of a class at Harvard I regret taking more than this class. It's far too much work (4 papers, one of which is 15 pages, plus midterm and final) and the teaching is not great. Somehow the class takes a fascinating subject and makes it absolutely insufferable. Spring athletes are you listening? Tons of work, not interesting, the lecture is 2:30-4 and not taped... I'm telling you, not worth it.
I wouldn't take this course if I didn't have to take psychology for pre-med. From what I have heard, this course varies greatly with the professor. Having taken it with Pinker, the course was rarely as interesting as I thought it would be. The lectures are long and boring, and one minute stretch breaks really don't do anything. The assignments are annoying at best. There were no practice materials for the final and minimal materials for the midterm. I found it interesting that we learned in class about the best ways to study for an exam, highlighting practicing with problems and analysis, and were even reminded of this fact in an email (two days before the final exam). Despite this we received no practice problems. If you do take this course, you can get away with not going to lecture and instead going to section (which is a repeat of lecture in only an hour), reading How the Mind Works, and reading the Gray textbook.
This is a great introduction to psychology and Steven Pinker is an excellent and engaging professor. However, this is a very science-based class and the exams require a lot of memorization of a lot of info so be prepared if you are an arts student taking this as a gen-ed requirement.
The weekly section quizzes were not very fun and made section kind of dull, though they were helpful for reviewing the material. The lectures were the highlight of my week; I especially loved how Pinker would give us a minute to get up and stretch about an hour after class started. I learned so much through this course. The human mind is truly amazing. And whatever you think you know about psychology is probably wrong, so take this class to learn the truth about yourself and the people around you!
If you're looking for an SLS Gen Ed, look elsewhere. Professor Pinker is flashy, but at his core a terrible professor who doesn't care one iota about undergrads. The work is steady but manageable. But don't expect to get any feedback on your work throughout the semester.
Doing the reading for this course will make learning the material much easier. Also, for the exams make sure to study in advance. Without practice exams the midterm and final exam will need more studying. Lastly, take advantage of office hours, both from Professor Pinker and your TF. The staff is always happy to help!
I have a background in CS and physics and I thought I wasn't going to enjoy the SLS requirement at all, but I was very pleasantly surprised! Prof Pinker is an excellent lecturer who will summarize the important finding of psychology (which I think is fascinating) in a clear yet rigorous way. The course isn't terribly hard, but sometimes Prof Pinker assigns a lot of reading (you can get by with not reading most of them imo, if you go to lecture consistently).
This is a great course and in addition to being famous, Steven Pinker is also a very entertaining and informative lecturer.
At least with Stephen Pinker as a lecturer, this course is a good balance of both assignments and material and is definitely an interesting and reasonable way to fulfill a gen Ed
Everyone should learn this material  and will from the lectures  but the assignments are boring, the exams are competitive, and the sections are useless.
The material presented in the course is incredibly interesting and will likely change the way that you think about the mind and behavior of yourself and others. It is a true pleasure to have been lectured by Professor Pinker. The textbook reading each week can be time-consuming, so take that into consideration before deciding to enroll in this course; do not take the course if you have two or more other time-consuming classes, particularly science classes. The format of the section component of the course was not as interesting/engaging as the lectures and did not particularly clarify any of the material presented in the lectures.
This class is a great way to fulfill the SLS requirement! You learn a lot about human behavior that can be applied to pretty much any situation in your life or field of study. Also, Pinker is a great lecturer, so lectures are engaging and easy to understand. And it doesn't required a whole lot of work, making it a great gen. ed. class.
Do not take this class under any circumstances. You will not learn how to think critically and will be made uncomfortable by Steven Pinker's blatant sexism and disregard for women, queer, and transgender individuals. He is incredibly arrogant and sees no problem with not citing his pop science concerning the fact that gay men are inherently promiscuous, women are naturally less inclined towards math/science and don't enjoy sex as much as men, and that men are naturally violent towards women. He makes comments about women's bodies and seems to particularly enjoy discussing sex and making sexual jokes in a way that makes the classroom environment hostile and uncomfortable. The course is designed to trick you - trick questions on exams, little preparation or feedback for assignments, and is more an exercise in Professor Pinker's massive ego than it is in introductory psychology. I encourage you to take Psych 15 or any other course but this one, particularly for a gen ed. This course was a waste of my time and I have never regretted taking any other course besides this one.
This material was the only saving grace of this class. The lectures were long but occasionally interesting. However, be prepared to spend a lot of time every few weeks doing some seemingly pointless assignment for this class.
The tests are hard and the paper Pinker requires allows you to explore interesting topics but ultimately is very challenging
If you keep up with readings you will be fine. Interesting lectures, but felt limiting at times that TFs could not provide us with more resources as a rule. Full of many very interesting topics that are looked at general. Good course overall but did not inspire me to want to major in psych
This course was super interesting, and Pinker was fantastic. Be prepared for a lot of reading and some fairly difficult exams.
Great knowledge and definitely recommend taking this if you haven't taken a psych class before, but not the easiest to understand material.
I am not sure about how this class is with other professors, but my experience with Professor Pinker was harrowing. Because there are almost only really three assignments for the whole class, there is almost no way to practice applying the new information you learn in two lectures every week. I suppose the class would be more enjoyable if you have a good TF, but if you do not you are doomed to hour long sessions of filling out confusing handouts with your confused classmates and a useless TF. Finally, if you are unlucky enough to get a TF of the caliber that I had, you risk writing a research paper proposal, having it approved, and then getting a bad grade on it and having to literally restart the whole assignment from scratch because your TF was too incompetent to give you good feedback on your proposal. Clearly I'm not mad about having taken this course.
Make sure you take it with Pinker, my roommates took it with Mitchell and it was hard
Good introduction to psychology. A focus on the cognitive neuroscience side of psychology.
Expect to do a decent amount of work and have difficult exams. Outside of that however the course material is extremely interesting.
If you're interested in psychology, this is a pretty good course. It requires a lot of reading which actually needs to be done (unlike other classes where you can get away with not reading). Review lecture slides before exams. There's a large research paper at the end, but besides that and the assigned readings there is basically no other homework.
It is not an 'easy gen ed' but you will learn interesting topics. Pinker has strong opinions, which seemed to bother some people.
This was one of the most interesting classes I've taken in my 3 years at Harvard! Pinker's lectures and the course content were very well organized, and the assignments/exams were completely manageable and fair. I would highly recommend that pre-meds concerned about learning psych for the new MCAT take this class-- it's really interesting and also covers a lot of the high yield MCAT content.
it was eye opening and i think its a course everyone should take just to learn the material whether its for a requirement or not. there's some really basic information and material that I think everyone would benefit from knowing.
The tests will challenge you, and you may not get an A in the class as it is a difficult course. But it is an incredibly rewarding experience.
everyone should take intro psych. very applicable to life and any career.
Steven Pinker was an amazing lecturer. He was engaging and truly passionate about what he was teaching. The course material is interesting, but not too involved, making this class fun and relaxing to take.
Awesome course but challenging
Although introductory to psychology sounds like a great introductory course, the curve is extremely difficult and even has curve grading downwards of lowering your grade. If you took psychology in high school and can place out into a higher level SLS, I strongly recommend doing that. The materiel was extremely broad, making it hard for students to focus on a specific aspect of psych and instead having them extremely stressed about catching up every week. The final and midterm are also very hard in that no preparation throughout the course is given for it.
Steven Pinker is not a show man nor a crowd pleaser, but he is a brilliant man and an amazing teacher. Take SLS20 with him if you want your introduction to Psychology to be a science class.
The course does require effort, but is interesting and not too difficult. The more you put in, the more you get out of it, and the material is truly very interesting.
A great way to fulfill your SLS requirement. A very reasonable workload that is helpfully broken up into a number of small grades rather than just a few large assignments. Fair exams, despite what you may have heard.
I enjoyed the class. This class will test your ability to take good notes during a long 2 hour lecture.
Class was interesting but MUCH more difficult than I imagine it.
This is a class which is perfect for your super-busy semester. It doesn't require a lot, and it's surprisingly interesting throughout. Generally a really positive experience.
If you don't mind having to write a few papers, definitely take Pinker's class over the fall class.
Pinker rocks, course rocks. Don't have to do all the readings but need to skim them for big points before exam. The research paper is a lot of work so be prepared, but there's only one and they grade it very easily.
This is a fabulous introduction to psychological science, and a great way to fulfill the gen ed requirement. Professor Pinker gives really articulate lectures, and the concepts you learn are applicable to many facets of life.
This class had made me change my decision about my concentration.  I cannot speak highly enough of Professor Pinker and the structure of the class in general. It is thorough and comprehensive, but covers everything that someone could need to know in the real world about psychology.
the assignments are pretty boring
Dr. Pinker is a wonderful lecturer and a very approachable person. His enthusiasm and wit make for very engaging lectures and seed a deep interest. I am more oriented towards the 'hard sciences', so Pinker's approach with emphasis on Neurobiology and evolution spoke directly to me. I also really enjoyed writing the paper, it may seem like a tedious task, but it is an important skill to learn and you will certainly be the better for it having accomplished something like this. The exams were challenging, but completely fair. if you were in lecture and section, there is no reason you can do very well. Overall a great course, I would certainly take it again.
SLS20 with Prof. Pinker was my favorite class this semester. It provides a broad overview of topics in modern psychology, but does a great job of conveying a few key themes throughout. The lectures were uniformly fun and engaging, and I loved having an excuse to go chat up one of the world's most prominent popular scientists. The tests were extremely fair and I got a lot out of the experience of writing the research paper. SLS20 is fun, painless, and it changes the way that you see the world on a daily basis!
The course is so relevant to our everyday lives that the course textbook was the only one I could read for hours without being distracted. I love Pinker's style of teaching.
The lectures for this class can be pretty boring but still try to go because it helps to hear some real life examples rather than read them out of the book. Sections can be helpful but Pinker likes to ask tricky questions and gets caught up in minute details of psychological processes which then causes students to fall asleep. Take this class only if you are interested in psych and are ready to put the work in
Large volume of material but is interesting
It's very cool to take a class by Steven Pinker. That being said, my excitement wore off after the first few lectures. Class was entertaining but contained so much material that it was difficult to keep up after a while. Also, most of the assignments require a lot of concentrated time/knowledge.
PINKER IS AWESOME
This is your standard intro to psychology class, but slightly more interesting and more difficult. Pinker provides interesting studies and examples to supplement the core ideas of psychology, so it is not as boring as the Intro class you maybe took in high school. However, this class has a bigger emphasis on evolutionary psychology and cognitive psychology than social psychology. The assignments for the class are quite fair and so are the tests, though Pinker does get you with a few questions that are super specific and require reading the textbook.
The tests are very hard, but the material is interesting
It's a decent intro to psych. Like any intro class, it's pretty simple, but if you've never taken psych before, then I think it's pretty educational.
This is a good way to fulfill the SLS requirement, especially if you are into the social sciences. Professor Pinker is very smart, and the lecture materials are interesting. However, section time was usually spent covering material which was already in lecture, which seemed to be an inefficient usage of time. Furthermore, the exams and writing assignments were unclear at times.
Professor Pinker is a very interesting lecturer, and the material is quite interesting, but I thought the grading was somewhat harsh, especially because of how the class is curved, and I think that if you want an "easy" Gen Ed, this is not the course for you. But if you are willing to put the work in, it is probably worth the effort because of the amount of material you can learn.
Good lectures, slightly disconnected material, easy to fall behind on the work
Lecturers are quite a bit of fun, but it's important that you pay pretty close attention during them. Read the textbook, as the exams are pretty tricky. Overall, the class was just okay. I'm not really sure how much I took away from it, but it definitely wasn't a complete waste of time. Some of the material was very dry, and it might take some effort just to get yourself to be interested in what you're learning.
This is a very interesting class but it can be a lot of work and very challenging at times.
It's a good class, by all standards, but also quite a pain. The material can be fascinating, but lectures are overly scientific. Don't take it if you're looking for an equivalent of Social Psychology, or something that's more of a human science than actual science, because you'll be thoroughly unsatisfied. Not the most constructive organization of the material...
Pretty fun. Gotta put in some work, but it's worth it and a lot of the learning you do is fun and applicable to real life.
Great class, covers a lot of psych concepts that are applicable to daily life.  Decently low workload.
SLS 20 would not make a great elective, but it's a solid way of fulfilling a Gen Ed and getting exposure into the psychology concentration. Also, Pinker is brilliant, but be prepared for some pretty dense, rambly lectures.
It's great!
This class is incredibly interesting. All you need is a basic understanding of biology to start off in this course. Pinker is an incredibly accomplished and kind person who puts a lot of effort into his lectures and the class in general.
A lot of what you learn is common knowledge or stuff you may have picked up in a previous bio course. Great gen-ed for non-science types though.
This course is a good introduction to psychology. While it isn't the most interesting course at Harvard, it is necessary if you want to take an higher level psych courses. I would not take this class if you are simply looking to fulfill your SLS requirement--there are definitely easier and more interesting SLS courses out there.
Pinker is a great lecturer and the material is very interesting and mostly accessible. The paper isn't impossible, though it certainly isn't fun, and the tests are challenging but again not impossible.
The lectures are engaging and thought provoking, and the class will peak your interest in one or more areas of psychology.
At least with Pinker, the tests were not that difficult but the material (course subject, lectures, readings) was interesting and you get to hear a famous psychologist speak. Good deal
The way this class is taught makes it hard to keep track of material and to understand exactly what you are supposed to be learning.  However, the subject of this material is fantastic and will make you think differently about the world, and psychology is definitely a must-take for every undergrad.  However, you will probably find the 15 page paper frustrating and detached from the rest of the class.
Steven Pinker's lectures are always worth the hour and a half chunk out of the afternoon.
The content is pretty interesting but Pinker's version of the course wasn't a very good presentation of the material and I found that skimming the lecture slides was just as effective as sitting through lecture every day for helping me to learn
It's incredibly lecture-heavy, with only one large assignment throughout the entire semester (the research paper).
This class is definitely worth taking. Pinker is an engaging, clear lecturer,and the concepts are presented in bite-sized, easily digestible slides. You're going to find yourself learning things that will prove very, very useful later on. You get to become more aware of how you process the world, better informed on why we do what we do, and able to recognize common fallacies in reasoning and hopefully at avoiding them. (This is psychology, after all. It's applicable to everything.)
Really evaluate your compatibility with the professor because the course is run very differently by the different professors.
Sls 20 is a pretty good class, however it requires a lot of work. If you do not do the weekly readings and take notes during class you will probably fall behind and not do as well on the midterm or final.
It is very low commitment until the exams and the research paper. Then it's A LOT of work. I'd tell you to keep up with the readings but lets be real who does that. Just be ready to read a lot before the exams..
i personally don't like pinker's teaching style. doesn't seem like he really likes to teach. more so likes the attention. but interesting material. section isn't as interesting as i heard the one in the fall was though. but cool class
Do not take this class unless you are looking for a very fluffy yet boring course. Pinker lectures are mostly fluff, and he comes across as narcissistic. Meanwhile, tests have abstruse questions forcing you to apply knowledge in a subjective way.
This course is probably more work than you think it is--but if you are interested in psychology, do not let that deter you. Be warned that getting an A is not as easy in this course as it is in other gen eds. It's a very interesting course with a lot of material, but it is a great class. Pinker is a great lecturer and keeps things interesting.
Take the class with Pinker. He's awesome <3
Take this class if Pinker is the lecture professor. You won't find a more engaging lecturer who truly loves his work. Keep up with the essay deadlines, though.
Week-to-week work is easy enough, tests are quite hard (with Pinker). Lectures are interesting but long. Buy Pinker's book; most of the exam questions come from there.
It's an interesting gen ed, but it has a lot of work involved with it. So if you have an easy load and you're looking for a difficult gen ed, take this course.
It's a great course, and Pinker's a great guy to take it with.
If you're interested in psych at all, this a great class to start with.
This is a really fun class with fascinating material. Definitely go to all the lectures, and try to do the readings if you can.
Pinker is the classic eccentric-yet-brilliant college professor. Incredible class.
This was an excellent course and very interesting. It is, at times, difficult for those who are not experienced with taking science courses. However, work with other students and the TF's keeps this course manageable and important.
I can't speak about the other professors who teach this course, so I suppose this isn't fair, but if given the opportunity, I would highly recommend taking the class with Professor Pinker. He is the unbeatable combo of brilliant and a wonderful teacher.
Prepare to take unnecessarily difficult tests and to work a LOT for a core.
While Professor Pinker and TFs claim that his best-seller "How the Mind Works" is not required, you'd have to be a fool to expect to do well on midterms or the final exam without reading every word of "suggested reading."  Just own up to it-- your intellectual property is required to teach your own class!
The final is difficult, but the course material is really interesting.
Review the lectures and make use of your TF!
It's a good class. Just keep up with the readings and try to pay attention in lecture. It can get boring sometimes but I think that's more material related. The latter half of the course improves significantly.
Pinker's lectures are a well-rehearsed performance -- but they are generally entertaining and well-done, so I have no objections to that.  I found most of the subject matter interesting, but there is definitely a lot of biological science at the beginning.
The material is very interesting but the lectures could have been more engaging.
This class is engaging and provides a new perspective on how to approach questions about anything from love to religion to genetics; it is comprehensive but at the same time very in depth: the tests were difficult and tricky but overall a rewarding class!
Get jacked up on caffeine before you go to class, and you'll probably stay awake.
You can sleep through lectures, probably will, skip sections, and do minimal work for a decent grade if you keep up with the course material.
The class is a great introduction to psychology. Steven Pinker is an enthusiastic lecturer, but while the first few mini-assignments are relatively painless, the final paper is tough if you haven't had previous experience.
An interesting class, but a good deal of reading and a challenging paper.
Be prepared to need to do a lot of reading.
go to the shopping period class. If you are not impressed do not register for the class.
Midterms were very difficult. A lot of material to cover. Helps if you are dual-enrolled in MCB 80. Its interesting to learn from someone as prolific at Stephen Pinker, but I don't think that should be your major reason for taking the class. You should be interested in the topic matter (as it moves quickly, and covers many various fields of psychology, evolution, and biology).
Really interesting class.
Again, one of the best courses ever!
Professor Pinker and the Teaching Fellows are wonderful and helpful. Having said that, the material is tough. This class is a broad overview of the many facets of psychological science. The wide span of what this course covers means that you'll learn many interesting things, but you'll have a lot of material to retain for the challenging exams. Take this class once you've eased into college; it's not for a first semester freshman who is still adjusting.
The course is well taught, but presents a different standard for work than courses in many other fields: its expectations with regard to analytic procedure are high, but its expectations with regard to analytic content are not necessarily so.
This is a good class for someone with more of a social science background looking to fulfill their science requirement. The first half of the class covers more technical science material but the second half deals more with human nature such as aggression, love, etc.
Don't take the class with Professor Pinker. He may be well published, but his lectures are boring and put you right to sleep.
If you've already taken AP psych it's probably pointless, but it's a very cumulative introduction to a variety of soft sciences (psych, linguistics, etc).
Be aware that a lot of the class is devoted to more science oriented material.
The first half of the course is very interesting and informative, mostly about the mechanics of the brain. The second half is largely intuitive and a bit speculative. One gets the feeling that Pinker is feeding you his own theories. It felt wishy-washy, but I suppose one expects a lot of Pinker going into the course.
It is really boring because the professor just reads off power point.
Great lectures and a good intro into Psych at Harvard.
some of the material is offensive.
This is a fascinating class taught by a dedicated Professor who truly loves to teach.  The material is interesting, and even if you aren't interested in a certain aspect we cover, the lessons are so diverse and cover so many different areas that everyone is bound to find something that captivates them.  This class made me want to become a Psychology major.
Multiple choice midterm and final take some of the edge off
don't choose this class because it seems like an "easy" science core. As a student retarded in science, I find this class hard as psychology contains a lot of biology.
If you are not very interested in science but need to fulfill a Core or Gen-Ed requirement, there are much easier science courses to take. That being said, you do come out of this with a better understanding of the human mind, a very useful skill.
Take the course with another teacher if you can avoid Pinker. Faison is a better teacher and has a love for teaching.
Lecture for this class is always interesting and Professor Pinker often includes multiple media so as to keep lecture interesting. He is engaging and funny and really makes difficult concepts very very clear. Also, the lecture slides are printed out and distributed every class which makes it a lot easier to pay attention, as you are not busy copying down the lecture slides.
there is a lot of reading, but if you stay on top of the schedule, it is definitely manageable
If you have taken a psych class in high school of have taken a neurobio class you may find this class boring or uninformative.  Depending on whether or not you want an easy class this could be a good or bad thing.  I don't feel I got all that much out of the course.  Think about which professor you want to take this course from.  You may not like one's teaching style and it does matter because SLS 20 is essentially a different class each semester depending on who is teaching it.  Don't bother buying "how the mind works," it is essentially his lectures word for word.  paper isn't bad and not much work
Great for those interested in psychology, or those wanting to explore the MBB field
I feel as if I wasted one of my classes this semester on this course. If you do take it, take it in the spring with Gilbert. From what I have heard, it is actually fun and not as unnecessarily difficult.The class spent too much time on vision and neurobiology, while what (I think) is really cool about psychology - behavior and social psych - was not covered as much. Pinker is smart, but his lectures can get really boring because, while they are informative, he just reads off the slides. The TFs for this class are TERRIBLE. While there is not too much work, the paper is ridiculously hard (I pulled 2 all-nighters, one for each draft) and the exams are full of trick questions. Please listen to me when I tell you to avoid this course: I do it for your own good. I wish I had listened to all the responses that said not to.
The grade isn't what is important, the subject matter is.
Everyone keeps telling me that Daniel Gilbert's course in the spring should be better...Steven Pinker is famous and that's the big draw to this course. Generally though, psychology just seems like a lot of reading on things that should be interesting but Paine Hall makes you to tired to care about.
Keep up with the readings, that's the most important part. If you do that, the class shouldn't be too difficult. It is challenging, but not impossible if you study and keep up with the readings week to week. I actually found Pinker's lectures interesting.
Although the lectures were long and it was sometimes hard for me to stay awake, I think this class is one of the Harvard classics that every student should try to take before they graduate. The material is interesting and there are not a lot of assignments. I loved how each lecture had a different focus and am very satisfied with everything I learned in this class.
Keep up to date with the readings because it is easy to fall behind. The readings can pile up very quickly if you procrastinate.
Its a good idea to pay attention during lecture - doing so makes cramming alot easier.
Great class, before the first midterm when we covered the basics some parts were boring but that was normal given the nature of the subjects. After the midterm things were much more interesting. Pinker does a great job. Don't leave the readings until the last minute because the midterm has a tendency to sneak up on people...
Interesting course, but a bit dry at times. Professor Pinker has clearly given these lectures before, and once you realize that it becomes far, far less interesting.
Prof. Pinker is a fantastic lecturer who clearly has a passion for psychology and is adept at concisely conveying his knowledge in lecture.  This course is a great introduction, even for people with no intention of continuing in the field.  Expect to work hard on the final paper.
This class was great! I had always had an interest in psychology and wanted a thorough introduction to its many concepts without too much boring detail on any given one. This class makes you look at how you think humans behave in a new way each class.
The class is difficult, but it is definitely quite rewarding.
This is a really interesting class - especially the social psychology material. Stick through it and you'll learn some really useful things.
Although the subject matter itself is interesting, Steven Pinker is a poor lecturer and very little assistance in the way of reviews is offered during midterm and exam period.
take it! it will be a harvard experience that you will remember for the rest of your life!
This is a great introduction to psychology.  Pinker is fascinating and approachable, despite the fact that he is not the best lecturer (though he is still very good).
Enjoy! This class is the best when you really dig into the material.
If you are looking for a painless way to fulfill the Science B, do not take this class. If instead you are willing to plow through some extremely difficult exams and some not so good grades in order to learn some fascinating stuff that you'll likely reference in future conversations, this is your class.
Solid way to fulfill science requirement with no psets or labs.  It will be boring at times, and writing the paper stinks.  It is manageable, but glad to have it behind me.
The lectures are a bit dull, and most of the material covered in the course is fairly basic, obvious psychology, but some of the competing theories begin to get more interesting. Pinker is very excited about his own work, but if you can sit through his waxing eloquent about the cornea, and 10 lectures on optical illusions, finally getting to his interesting theories on sex, the self, and aggression is more or less worthwhile.
It's a great way to learn about psychology, but don't expect an easy A.
This is a great core/Gen Ed class. Pinker is well rehearsed and well prepared. However, if you are thinking of majoring in Psychology (as I am), especially social psychology, I would consider taking the course with a different teacher. Pinker is a little set in his ways about the omnipotence of the evolutionary explanation to psychology, and fails to consider that you can acknowledge the reality of evolution without explaining every concept in terms of evolution.
It is very easy to fall asleep. The ideas presented in this class are very liberal and are easy to disagree with. Section can be helpful if you have a good TF. It has a weird grading system...it doesn't make much sense that the final paper is worth the same amount as the final rough draft.
The class is full of engaging material and the reading is quite enjoyable.
Fascinating material! Pinker is something of a wooden lecturer but the material makes up for it
The later lectures and subjects are interesting but I found the initial introductory material to be tedious.
This class is excellent - a bit tough, because after all, introductory psychology does require that you earn A LOT of material in just one semester. But nonetheless what you learn in this class is very applicable to many aspects of real life and taking the course alone, regardless of whether you pursue psychology or not, will be a rewarding experience.
I have found myself quoting statistics from this course at the past few holiday get-togethers that I have gone to.
Interesting material - but the afternoon timing of this course is pretty killer when it comes to staying awake. Professor Pinker is a wonderful lecturer - but for some reason it was very easy to find yourself falling asleep - even though the subect is SO fascinating.
difficult, dense readings, but interesting lectures.
This course has a lot of material that is covered. The readings in the textbook are really broad and specific and do not need to be read thoroughly in order to understand concepts. Professor Pinker gives good lectures but, at times, fails to coherently explain the subject discussed that lecture which leads to confusion that is not necessarily further answered by the textbook.
SLS 20 is a great class, but the exams are difficult because of the breadth of the material that you have to remember.
If you think you might be interested in psychology, take this course.  The material is interesting, so the less-than-thrilling lectures do not detract much from the course.
I think that the content is interesting, but the exams are frustrating enough that I'd recommend taking another course.  It is just incredibly upsetting to study hours for an exam and then be hung up on questions, not because I don't understand the content, but because I don't understand what the author of the exam is saying.
Pinker is a genius, the lectures are fascinating, take it even if you think you're not interested in psych
This class quickly becomes tedious -- especially if you have ever taken a psychology class before.  The lectures are always power-points and therefore it can be difficult to pay attention through the entire lecture.  It is a requirement for many higher level psychology classes, so do not take it unless you are looking to get into higher level classes!
If you're only thinking about taking this course to fill a Gen Ed requirement or because you think it would be a fun elective, you might want to consider taking something else--or at least consider taking the course in the spring.  Lectures can feel very boring.
This is a really interesting class, and it's not very hard.  I recommend keeping up with the textbook reading.  The lectures are usually very engaging and the material is cool.  Brains!
extremely interesting and intriguing. I took psychology in high school and thought it was the most boring subject ever. After this class I think the total opposite.
Very broad exposure to many aspects of psychology. An excellent introduction to the field and worth taking if you have any interest in the area.
If you can place out of this course I would, especially if you are concentrating in psychology because there are more interesting courses to take. This course is a very broad overview of psychology.
The class is very interesting, but the tests are difficult.
Professor Pinker is a great lecturer, and most students that I've talked to prefer this course over Gilbert's.
The class was interesting, but I was disappointed at how often Prof. Pinker would dismiss some of the other theories about, for example, differences between men and women, and other controversial subjects.
It seems like something everyone should have a basic understanding of, but at the same time if you are not really interested in psychology it is unlikely to be a class you really enjoy.
prof. Pinker is not the best lecturer, although he knows his material well
The course requires a lot of study time. The final paper is very difficult and little direction is given on what is expected and how to write this type of paper.
Time consuming reading that has to be done well because even more new material may be introduced in lecture without covering the reading, and both are on the exams.
Steven Pinker is a brilliant and famous man. This does not mean he is a good lecturer. If you have taken psychology or want a more interesting class where most people do not fall asleep in lecture, go elsewhere because this class will fall vastly short of your expectations. If all you want is a basic intro class and your tolerance for monotone is fantastic, by all means take the class; you'll love it.
Great way to get your Science-B (or SLS) requirement out of the way! The material is very interesting. However, though it is interesting, it is also a little depressing.
Very interesting, take it if you want an easy and fun elective.
a bit more work than expected, but very interesting!
The majority of the course is composed of large lectures, which are interesting in subject matter, but not interactive.  Take this course if you're interested in being a psych or brain sciences concentrator, but not otherwise.
This course was very interesting, and Professor Pinker is one of the most engaging professors at Harvard. However, the material can seem dense--depending on your interests. For students who are more fascinated by pop psychology, say with emotions and personality and attraction, the latter half of the course will be more captivating. However, for those who enjoy learning about the brain, the first part of the course will capture your attention. It is very comprehensive, but the material is very thorough and the tests are difficult. The assignments prepare you well for thinking in the mindset of a psychologist, though.
If you took AP psych in high school, this class might seem a little boring and repetitive. If you haven't taken psych before, I highly recommend taking it at some point in time if just as a fun elective. Also, there are two professors who teach SLS 20, which professor is better seems to be subjective, so if you're sure you want to take it, I'd shop first and if you don't like Pinker, try to wait until next semester.
Its a great class, prepare to learn a lot.
If you have taken AP Biology and/or AP Psych, take this course if you want an easy class. You won't learn much new material, so expect lecture to be dull. I would recommend without reservations to students who have not taken these high school courses.
I would say that this is a great course for learning more about the human mind and for understanding the people around you. However, be prepared for a bit of course-wide disorganization.
There is a lot of reading
if you took AP Psych, skip this and choose a higher-level psych course if you're looking for a secondary field... although the paper component was actually useful to learn about the style, but it's not hard to pick up.
Its a decent Gen Ed course...educational and not too much work.  I am not interested in studying more psychology but I thought this course was worthwhile.
sls20 is a great introduction to psychology for any interested, it envelops not just the typical material, but many examples of the broad scope of topics included and/or related to psychology
The course provides a solid introduction to psychology. A fifteen-page paper is required, but it is completed in steps so that is it not too intimidating. Aside from this, the course load is not difficult. Lectures are long, but always very interesting. This is worth taking for anyone who might consider further studying psychology or just wants to get a gen. ed out of the way.
I would tell them that its an interesting course, especially if one is looking for a deviation from hard science.
It is a lot of hard work and you will be doing many hours of reading and taking notes but it is very interesting and is not a particularly hard science class to follow as long as you do the readings. BUT MAKE SURE TO DO THE READINGS!
Great professor, good readings/lectures. Very interesting subject matter and great core/gen ed if you are interested in the human mind.
ATTEND LECTURES. Most of them are intriguing.
The midterm is tricky and the research paper is a drag. With a few very amusing exceptions, class is somewhat dry. Take this class with Gilbert; he's a much better lecturer.
It is very interesting but the research paper isn't very fun.
You may want to shop it in the spring also.
It's a good class, but there's a lot of reading.
This course covers a wide range of subjects related to psychology, so chances are at some point a series of lectures will be interesting to most people.  If the neurobiology section does not interest someone, for example, the llectures on love and sex might do the trick.  However, it is a fair amount of work for an elective course if it is not being taken for concentration or Gen-Ed requirements.
This is a class to take if you want to expose yourself to the most basic aspects of psychology. This class often covers topics in evolutionary biology.
The subject matter is very interesting, but the class itself can get a bit boring at times.
This was one of my favorite classes. Perhaps the only class I had this semester where I actually LOOKED FORWARD to lecture. I think Pinker is engaging, funny, and knowledgeable. Some people are hellbent on dissing him, and I think I know why: most people expect this class to be very social psych / child psych oriented, where you learn a lot about studies done about how and why people socialize and engage in certain behaviors, etc. In other words, they expect this class to be like Gilbert or Mitchell teaching it (from what I hear).Pinker's approach is vastly different (and, in my estimation, vastly superior). He approaches the material from an unabashedly evolutionary psychology perspective, as well as a computational/neuroscience perspective.
take this as a freshmen or sophomore.
This is a great intro to psychology!
Great introduction to different topics in psychology. Painless science core.
This course teaches you about women' inferior mathematical ability, ebonics, and ideal beauty. It provides evolutionary justification for rape and violence towards women. It was insulting and I was shocked it was a Harvard course.
Steven Pinker, while being a knowledgeable and humorous professor, did not run lectures efficiently. If you've read the book for class, the lectures often stated the same material over again or discussed subjects in such a haphazard matter that it was confusing to process it. The midterm and final exams were absurdly created: multiple choice has to be the least efficient way of assessing a student's knowledge, but it was used for this course. I studied with meticulous notes for the midterm and scored below the mean and for the final, dispensed with notetaking and actually scored slightly above the mean. Section was also disheartening, being poorly run overall with little relevancy to the class. Overall, this class was a disappointment. If you're interested in psychology, do get Peter Gray's psychology book: it's fascinating!
SLS-20 is a great overview of psychology-related material.  Be prepared to learn a lot in a small amount of time, but it is worth it.
If it comes down to how you prioritize your time between the readings and lectures, you should go to the lectures - they are very interesting and if you take notes throughout they provide you with valuable study guides come exam time.  The readings also definitely help though.
take it
if you get rebecca, switch sections. she is a really hard grader.
The lectures are incredibly boring.  All the videos go up before the final.
Take this class (only with Gilbert)!!
I would recommend that students think about how much reading they will have over the semester before taking this course.
I would not recommend it for hard science concentrators who are interested in learning what psychology is like.  I would warn them that it is likely to bore and frustrate them.  Freshmen who have not taken many college classes yet may be less bored and frustrated.
The subject matter is interesting, but Pinker is a very poor lecturer.  I would recommend that they take it from the other professor, or that they should be interested enough in the topics to study it on their own.
I actually like learning about psychology as a subject and enjoy the topic. But I just didn't like the structure of this course. I would have enjoyed it more if it was more interactive like my high school psychology course, but I realize that is difficult with a lecture. The presentations can sometimes be tiring because the professor will say basically what is on the slides and the paper was a horrible experience. Some of what is in the lecture is not in the textbook reading but you still have to learn it, though. Pinker is an engaging lecturer, though. I will caution you that Paine Hall, where the class was held, is dark and the seats are comfortable and high backed, so the room is very conducive to napping.
If you've had biology it should be fine. Pinker is not the most amusing lecturer, which together with the time the lectures were given at, may help explain why so many people were asleep during lectures.
Don't take this class if you've already taken AP psychology. It is a repeat. You can always talk to the higher level psych classes' professors if you want to skip this prerequisite. Chances are, they'll let you in.
Really general. Take a more specific class if you want something more interesting.
If you are planning on concentrating in psychology and have no background, it is advisable to take this course. It doesn't hurt that your teacher is Steven Pinker. You can get more or less the same information from the texts, though.
Try and find the textbook cheap or do without it.
It's hard.
Pinker is a great thinker and it can be valuable to speak with him. However, the course isn't structured well, with section revolving around a limited set of questions, textbook readings never being discussed, and lecture feeling like an overflowing mishmosh of information.
This class is funny because I realized while I was studying for the FINAL that I actually really appreciated this class; you learn SO much. Although part of me regrets not taking the AP exam and surpassing this class (and the tough curve), I realized that there was a lot that I learned that I had not seen before (although there definitely is overlap). Pinker is great, and he REALLY knows what he is teaching. On the Pinker vs. Gilbert debate, I really do think that Pinker is fair game and brings a lot to the table. He is also just a really kind and approachable person; take advantage of the fact that you have him as a teacher-- it really is something special, even if it doesn't always seem like it when you are sitting in lecture. Section is great for really remembering the material and breaking it into things that you will need to know. My only problem with this class is the curve; the people who do really well, in my opinion, are the ones who have this class as a tougher class or those who are committed to studying psychology or who are so interested because they have never seen it (which in a way is worse for people who did take AP Psych). The first half of this class can often be a bit boring and too I took this class because I was definitely considering concentrating in psych, and after this whole experience, I am definitely continuing with that consideration.
Professor Pinker is a cool and witty guy, but his lectures can be quite boring. If you're not into the material to start, he probably won't make you really into it. If you are into the material, it's a darn good class
Great class, but take it in the fall. Gilbert's class is basically the same except there's no research paper. If Pinker cuts the research paper then take it with Pinker because he's a good lecturer and cool dude.
Super interesting
Good if you love research.
This is a great introductory psychology course. Steven Pinker is an incredible professor and scholar, and it is really cool to hear his lectures twice a week. Much of the course material is interesting, and section discussions provide a great way to solidify one's knowledge of the material. However, some aspects of the course make it challenging. First, the course is graded on a strict curve, creating somewhat of an underlying competition among students, as only 30% of all students can receive As, regardless of the level of the entire class. Second, it is difficult to prepare for the midterm and final, as--aside from a short "midterm preview"--no practice problems that could mirror exam format are released (and you do not receive your midterm back). In summary, if you are most interested in the material and learning from an incredible scholar--and can accept the strict curve and unpredictability of the exams--I recommend this course and believe that you will find it to be a rewarding experience.
Probably the most intense GenEd I've taken at Harvard. Serious, rigorous thinking is taken seriously. Excellent survey class about psychology.
SLS20 has great lectures with Professor Pinker. I really enjoyed them. It is not a lot of work throughout the semester, but you do have to put in time to study hard before the midterm and final. The research paper is also not too bad. It's a great course to take Pass/Fail so you can just enjoy the lectures without the stress of the grading or the curve.
It's a lot of material so stay up to date with textbook readings or else studying for the exams will be really annoying.
No matter what field of study you decide upon, the lessons learned here will carry through both to your personal as well as professional endeavors.  It is a way to power-boost your life kit!
Interesting course with minimal workload. Exams are fair.
Get ready for some difficulties.
It is a satisfactory introductory course if you are interested in psychology.
pinker gilbert pinker gilbert pinker gilbert AAAHHHH. theyre both great guys. Whoever you decide on will give you a great experience
If you like neuroscience and psychology, take this class! It is great, the material is extremely interesting and some of lectures will fascinate you beyond what you might think possible. It is also quite easy; people make a lot out of the whole research assignment thing, but overall, I think the whole thing took me less than 10 hours to finish, and that is for something that is 30% of your grade!
TAKE THIS CLASS! I took this course without any desire to study psych, but now I am thinking of w switching my major! It's very interesting and applicable to your everyday life - you will learn how to manipulate people, get laid and get into final clubs.
This class covers a lot of interesting material. I learned a lot about many different subjects in psychology. I really enjoyed section.
The course material is interesting, but I found the lectures absolutely draining because of a lack of class participation and the unfortunate 2:30 PM start.
SLS20 is a surprisingly good class. I had hesitated to take it because so many people had said bad things, but I've actually learned a lot throughout the semester. Pinker is one of the friendliest professors I've ever met, and was always so enthusiastic about meeting individually with me. He also responds to emails and takes a genuine interest in your life. You'll cover a huge breadth of material in SLS20. The lectures can be a bit dry at times (as are any 1.5 hour lectures, though), but you cover pretty much every major sub-field of psychology (social, clinical, developmental, cognitive). This breadth very helpful if you have any passing interest in psychology, because after SLS20, you'll know enough about each sub-field to choose more classes which address that interest. I highly recommend taking. It can be quite a bit of work at times (especially if you read the book, which I didn't). The exams are a bit tricky and the grading seems relatively harsh (graded on a curve), but still a really good class!
I learned a lot in this class. It is an efficient way to figure out if psychology is for you. Additionally, learning about human behavior helps you better understand situations in your own life. I think Pinker is an exceptionally clear lecturer and psychologically on-point person, and his lectures were entertaining and informative. I did not find some of the units particularly inspiring but the material was still good to learn. One thing I did not like in this course was the research paper. I did not feel academically prepared to critique scientific theories I was learning for the first time.  At some point during the assignment, I felt that I had to accept that I was not going to write a paper that I fully "agreed" with. It was an assignment that felt like just that: an assignment with requirements to fulfill. It was not an intellectually meaningful assignment to me. A more focused and purposeful assignment (not a "pick any topic you'd like" paper) would have lended itself to a more fulfilling experience.
From the information I have gathered, the course is both easier and more effective when taught by Gilbert.
I absolutely loved this class! I have learned so much and found the material very interesting. Pinker is engaging in lectures and I highly recommend this course.
The course is very well-taught by Professor Pinker. I enjoyed attending his lecturers as they were educative and entertaining. Also, your section is paramount to your experience in this class. I had a great section leader and ended up enjoying the class overall.
I loved this class, one of my favorite classes at harvard. Learned something new every time I went to lecture.
Take this course only if you've never taken a psych course before, or if you want to learn more about cognitive psych. This is a writing course so if you hate writing, even if is just a little, then this is a no no
Take it during the Fall semester.
There are a lot of readings, and the textbook is not quick to read.
SLS 20 with Pinker is a fabulous course. It really changed my view of the world and myself. Enthusiastically recommend this course to anyone interested in psychology! Work load was very manageable (I think less unnecessary work than SLS 20 with other professors, and more learning).
Be ready to read, but understand that the course is so informative that it is totally worth it! For the small sacrifice of moderately boring lecture techniques and a reading load, you'll get a really well-rounded basis to build a psych education off of.
There's a lot of information to keep track of. You have to give the course a lot of attention to do well in it.
The exams in the spring are hard, but not as insane as people tell you about the fall. The research paper and the study participation outside is a lot of work that you wouldn't have in the fall (at least not both).
It's amazing. Even if you don't have much of a mind for science, it's still a very interesting class.
I signed up for this course to fulfill the SLS requirement, and I'm so, so happy with the experience that I had. SLS20 may not be an "easy GenEd", but the material is so cool and it has honestly changed the way I think about the world and interpersonal relationships.
Pinker's lectures waver from excellent and engaging to boring and seemingly irrelevant. Some of the ways in which he presents material can be seen as controversial.
This class was a bit bland, with a rather pointless section and very tough grading. I would recommend taking this course in the Fall, not the Spring.
Fascinating course about why we behave, think, and learn in the way we do. Opened up a whole new maybe of understanding human behavior.
Good class for a traditional style of learning about psychology; readings, section, and papers. Most of learning is done through lectures.
It's really not a hard class if you stay on top of things and follow directions
There are a lot of readings.
Hard
Interesting material. Good luck trying to keep up with Pinker during lecture. He flies through things. Also, don't expect the exams to actually test your knowledge of the material. They just require rote memorization. The grading scale Pinker uses is just bad though, as you have to get a 96 or higher to get a flat A. Could be a bad choice if you're a pre-Med student concerned with your GPA.
I really enjoyed this class. The content was very interesting and applicable to real life, certainly fulfilling the mandate of the Gen Ed program.  I would definitely recommend it to anyone wanting to fulfill the SLS requirement and who wants an introductory course in psychology.
This class is good for a topical survey of the available fields of psychology. It's useful (and required) if you plan to concentrate in psychology, but not a good class if you're looking for an interesting intro-level psych class and AWFUL if you're trying to prepare for the MCAT, as they specify early on in the course. Pinker is an engaging lecturer, but clearly has priorities that are above an intro undergraduate course.
I think this course is what a Harvard course should embody. It is certainly challenging - you are asked to produce a research paper with quite in-depth knowledge of your topic, the exams require very good understanding of the topics covered, and the course is very fast paced with a lot of material being covered. But it is also very interesting and enjoyable - the lectures are engaging, the sections are really helpful, and I at least found the material very interesting too. You also receive a lot of support. I've really enjoyed this class and would definitely recommend it.
you learn SO much about the world and how people think and it's really really interesting and rewarding, but lectures are often boring,  textbook readings are so dense, and tests are very hard.
Take Psy15 if you want to take a psychology class on how people interact with one another. If you're interested some of the biology behind psych, then sure, take this class, but prepare for some seriously frustrating experience.
This class is difficult but definitely worth it even if you are just a little bit interested in psychology.
It was a very interesting course. It covers a lot of material however and is thus quite hectic.
This course is very interesting, and offers a good framework with which one can analyze the world around him or herself, as well as oneself. The material is applicable to life, and Professor Pinker is a wonderful authority to have as a lecturer.
The class, while interesting, is very tough when it comes to grading. I felt like tests and essays were harshly graded, expecting a level of psychology understanding I did not have.
I think this course could be more honestly titled "The World According to Stephen Pinker." I don't necessarily mean that as a bad thing, but I think it more accurately reflects what you'll get. The content of this course is interesting, but an unfortunate amount of it is shaped by Professor Pinker's desire to inculcate a particular worldview that is inexplicably hostile and ungenerous to those who disagree with him -- in practice, mostly other academics working in the humanities or social sciences. Putting aside the fact that it sometimes turns into an intellectual/political circus, all of the topics you will study -- perception, obedience, neural circuitry, etc. -- are super interesting. You are just advised to draw your own conclusions from them.
Pinker is a good lecturer apart from his anachronistic anecdotes. The section component, readings and coursework are extremely time-consuming.
It's a great class but it's also a demanding class with readings that have many details. You definitely need to take time to study topics carefully.
Read the book. Go to lectures. Do everything on time because there will be a lot of material to cover and very little of it selected for testing.
If you're at all interested in how the mind works or would like to learn explanations for strange human behavior, you'll enjoy this course.
Take this class! The exams are easier than in the fall, and Pinker is a great lecturer. No psych background required, and you won't regret it. Easy workload.
I would not get carried away with Pinker's name. Don't get me wrong, he is really smart. But Pinker is an ineffective course head. The lectures are poorly planned at an hour and a half during the late afternoon, and everyone is asleep. The midterm is unfairly placed on housing day, and there are essentially no review materials. Also, the research essay is pretty random and the questions are vague. If you're taking it to fill out the SLS requirement, take something else.
It's a good gen ed if you're trying to get SLS out of the way, and also a good introduction to various aspects of the field of psychology for those interested in pursuing psychology further (which doesn't apply to me, but I imagine this is the case). Pinker is a great lecturer.
If you are at all interested in Psychology, take this class, but be warned it is not a good class. It does its job in weeding out those who really aren't interested in psych, since the class is boring, the lectures are infuriating, and the assignments are annoying. The one great thing about this class is the content, which had its work cut out for it in making up for the other deficiencies of the course.
The readings are important but not essential. Midterm and exam require memorization. Grading on research paper is relatively lenient.
Take it! Be prepared to dedicate time to the research paper and make sure you read the book and review notes well in advance-- otherwise, exam prep will be very daunting.
Professor Pinker is not the greatest of teachers. His lectures were dull, and he did not always explain the material well. The class also felt more like a biology class than a psychology class (which, given the GenEd credit it satisfies, is explainable): I did not feel like I learned that much about psychology as much as I learned about the biological workings of human and nonhuman brains. The second half of the course was more interesting and shed light on human nature, but the first half felt like AP Bio all over again. The exams were weird -- some questions were wonderful at testing the big concepts, but some just felt like they required rote memorization of arcane concepts -- and the research paper was stressful. If you're looking for a chill SLS GenEd, don't take this course.
The subject material is fascinating and Professor Pinker is an engaging lecturer. However, the sections are not very engaging. Professor Pinker does discuss a fair amount of neuroanatomy, so if students would rather avoid that material, they should take in the fall with Professor Gilbert.
This course is a requirement for higher Psychology classes, so if you are sure that you want to take those higher level courses then take it.  It's a great chance to dip your feet into psychology so if you think that's what you are into, then go for it.  However, if you are looking to fulfill the gen ed, I'm not sure this is the best option.
Take this course if you want to know what makes us tick.
This class was information overload and depending on your TF your section may or not be helpful. Start working on the final paper and the psyc studies early because that I will come back and haunt you later. The exams asked about minute details from the many readings there were.
Don't bother with the text book. Watch the lectures very closely, and do the optional/recommended readings.
SLS20 is a great course that helps you understand your own behavior and that of others!
Tests are very difficult and there is a LOT of content
SLS20 is perhaps more for people who are very interested in psychology or neuroscience. Social science students may also like it, depending on the student.
Don't take the course because of Pinker, but because of the course content.
It's not an easy class. The exams are tricky.
SLS 20 is a pretty good introduction to psychology. I was initially very excited to be learning about psychology, but I was somewhat disillusioned after taking SLS 20 - I don't think this has to do with the class, just my own thoughts on what I thought I would be learning about. I would say this course has incredibly interesting and engaging moments, but I won't be taking more classes in this subject in the future.
If you are a junior or a senior, the essay portion of this course will be very easy, and the exams will be unreasonably tough. The essay just requires you to be able to write a good 10 page paper - many upperclassmen are already experienced with this. The exams, on the other hand, almost test you on memorization of what feels like "cool facts," especially on the second half of the course. Not much real discussion of how any experiments were set-up, just findings. I'm a pre-med junior, took this course to prepare for the MCAT, I recommend that you look into taking a different course or just reading a book for the MCAT.
This class is required - if it weren't I doubt people would take it.
This course is enlightening and interesting. I have a great new perspective on a ton of human behaviour. Steven Pinker is incredibly articulate and interesting. The course is well-structured and the exams are challenging but fair. You can't slack off, but you can certainly do well if you put in a solid effort. Take this class!!!
It may move very quickly, but if you pay attention and dedicate yourself you will find that you have a better sense of psychology once you finish the class
Take this class with Gilbert, and not Pinker. Pinker is an ineffective lecturer, and his assignments are much more rigorous. Pinker will tell you himself that he does not believe in giving out many A's; he grades the course on a bell curve. If you are taking this because of the life sciences Gen Ed, I urge you to reconsider. If you are taking this because you are one of the unfortunate people who wants to concentrate in psych/cog. neuro, take it with a professor other than Pinker.
be prepared to get lessons on pinker's ideas
I love psychology so the material was interesting, but you do have to put in a decent amount of time to make sure you understand the concepts. Also, the research paper is important and weighted heavily (30% of the final grade). You have to be willing to give that time and seek out help to make it strong from the start. Psychology papers are interesting but there is a certain style to follow. The class is enjoyable overall.
You're going to be expected to read a lot of the textbook for this class, and it's a very good textbook, but if that sounds very unappealing to you it might be hard to get by without doing so.
It was very difficult to juggle the work of a 15-page final paper and a final exam.
SLS20 is a phenomenal course, albeit a very difficult one. It's greatest strength is the vast diversity of engaging, relevant information it manages to cover in a reasonably short amount of time. I've never walked away from a lecture thinking that I've wasted my time; you will look at yourself and others differently after taking this course since it's effectively a handbook on what it means to be human. Professor Pinker's lectures are engaging and integrate many audience-based experiments, discussions, and videos, so there's never a dull moment, although 90 minutes does drag on for a while sometimes. However, if you take SLS20, understand that it is a huge time commitment. This is not a casual course for those who just want to knock out an SLS credit. You MUST show up to lecture as missing a single day can be fatal for certain exam questions; lecture slides, while available online, do not do an adequate job of outlining all the details (in fact, they're mostly pictures or ambiguous text). The research essay takes a lot of time and effort, and the mini-write ups (there are three) and experiment participation take time. But your effort is worth every second since what you learn is so engaging.My biggest complaint about this course is not about how the material is taught, but rather tested. Midterms are full of "gotcha" questions that force you to think of lecture concepts in ways that you might never have initially thought of because they were never presented that way, and when there's SO much material, it almost seems unfair to ask student to not only absorb, but also morph and transform that information to an infinite number of possibilities. A lot of test questions involve analyzing everyday situations that leave no clues as to which material you are necessarily supposed to apply, so even if you know your stuff cold, you might apply it in a way that the grader wasn't trained to consider through the test rubric and you'll lose points. Tests need to be more cohesive and forgiving, with more hints as to which chunks of information you are required to apply, as open ended questions just leave too much possibility for error. It's like asking a physicist to name every law applicable in any random circumstance, however minor, without any context of what the person asking the question is looking for.So, if you want to take this course - especially if you are a freshman relatively new to Harvard - buckle up and be prepared to put in time. Take the time to go to lecture. Do the readings. And most of all, REWRITE the lecture slides in YOUR OWN cohesive format so that you can group ideas together for recalling on the exam to be sure you don't miss anything. Can't emphasize enough how important this is; it may take like an hour per lecture, but it's an hour SO well spent.
Pinker was a good lecturer and a cool dude, but other than that the class was pretty useless. Psych isn't a real science, I knew this going in but decided to give it a try- huge mistake. Get ready to bs a whole bunch of random assignments and read through an incredibly boring textbook. Course had very few redeeming qualities and section was not one of them. My section was absolutely awful and from what I heard many of the other section leaders were as unprepared and ignorant as mine was. Have fun!
Would recommend only if you want to concentrate in psych or a related field. I took the class because it sounded like an interesting gened, but the first lecture is as satisfying as the course will get. It's not much work (the only strenuous work is the research paper and studying for the tests) but the material is all over the place and so many different topics are covered in one semester. It's a lot of memorization. Start reviewing and studying for the midterm EARLY. Pinker really does know what he's talking about, but his lectures are hit-or-miss; it's easy to zone out and miss half an hour of material.
This class was a really great introduction to psychology and Steven Pinker is a really famous psychologist. It didn't require too much work - basically all you do is read the textbook every week, take a midterm and a final, participate in some psych studies and write about one of them, and write a research paper which isn't even that bad. That being said, there wasn't a lot of guidance and I still sometimes left lecture and section feeling unclear about some things.
If you are unsure about taking psychology, take this course; you will complete a gen ed.
It can be harder than you think and there are two big essays and a midterm and a final. I did not enjoy this class but a good way to do well is to do ALL the readings.
This is an awesome class! People might say Gilbert is a better lecturer, but Pinker is great in his own right! The material is so interesting, and he presents it quite well. Helen Jing is the best TF in the entire school--get into her section. Do beware of the 10-15 page research paper--that's a killer. The midterm and final aren't really that hard at all, provided you study because there's a ton of information to know. Oh, and every year the midterm is on Housing Day. Dick move.
Great class. Pr Pinker is a great lecturer, the TF are really accessible and nice! If you are interested in understanding where you come from, why humans behave in certain ways and what is behind the brain, definitively take this class! It is not a lot of work expect for the exams + paper (and the exams are pretty hard and really specific)  Careful though, there is a paper to write! The writing in itself is not too hard but the research process was a struggle for me. But TF are super helpful!! I still recommend taking this class as it is a great intro to psychology and as the material is fascinating!
This is a fun class, and the workload is manageable. Psych is really interesting and can be applied to so many other fields. However, watch out for the second half of the semester--it does get a lot tougher to manage the work when you're writing the paper and during finals week.
This class is really interesting.  There is very little work weekly, however the exams are very difficult.
Great introduction to psychology. Pinker is an excellent lecturer and actually really funny too. Really great if you're just interested in learning some basic psychology like me.
Great course. The material is highly interesting; the assignments are reasonable; section is great; Pinker is a wonderful lecturer; and so on. I can't really say anything negative about the course, except that the final research paper is a hassle (but really not that bad considering how little work the class is on the whole). Pinker is the only teacher I've seen get applause after every lecture--he's a truly articulate and engaging human being (don't listen to the haters). Awesome way to fulfill the SLS requirement--take it!
There is a lot of information but it is all interesting which makes it better.
more neuro-science material in the beginning. more interesting in the second half of the course, but relatively difficult throughout
Great class, lectures are effective and well organized. Pinker is a great lecturer and clearly very intelligent.
This is a great intro course. However, make sure you do the readings. Sometimes you are tested more on the conceptual aspect and other times on the very specific terminology. You will be assigned a large essay paper- DO NOT PROCRASTINATE ON IT!! Also, go to office hours.
Pinker focuses on cognitive psychology a lot. I found the first half of the course (all material before the first midterm) uninspiring. If you care to study or pay attention, you'll learn some stuff about optical illusions and how sight, the brain, etc. work. The second half of the course had more social psych and other interesting topics. I usually found myself getting tired or spacing out about an 45 to 60 min into lecture. Gilbert's focus and lecture ability would have been much more my style, but spring was better timing for me, and I do not have any regrets in that regard. The two exams are based on lecture. His one book is basically exactly what he says in lecture. The research paper felt like a pain at times but honestly wasn't extremely horrible to write. It's a learning experience. Finally, get a good TF. Nicole Noll's section is fun. You will actually learn from her.
If you want a gen ed that actually teaches you relevant stuff that will help you understand life and people in general, you should take this class.
If you want to do psych or get your SLS done then take this but know that it is very different from the fall version. While Pinker is very smart, his lectures are much more prepared and robotic than what I hear Gilbert's are. It seems like Pinker crearted these lectures many years ago and has not changed them since. They are much more like a public lecture than a classroom discussion. He never asks questions or takes questions and every single line down to the last word sounds prepared. The Pinker version is also much more focused on biology things like the brain, ear, and eye than gilbert so if you like science take this but if you do not consider the fall. Overall though Pinker gives good lectures and it is an interesting class.
Try to get a good TF, the TFs really make the class. You'll learn the most from the TFs.
This class contains decent samples of cognitive, clinical, and social psych.
SLS20 with Prof. Pinker is extremely well-organized, and he is a phenomenal lecturer. Definitely take the course with him if you can his expertise in the field really shows. The course gives a very comprehensive introduction to psychology, and as long as keep up with the readings and lectures, you will learn the material and do well in the class.
This class requires your engagement but is interesting and useful enough to be worth it.
The class was fine, but fell below my expectations for a psychology class. It is by no means the easiest option for the Science of Living Systems General Education requirement. It is graded on a curve, so only 30% of kids are even allowed to get As in the course.
Lectures are straightforward but long and boring at times. Try to keep up with the textbook readings, as you can fall behind easily. Start studying for the exams well in advance, as there is a great deal of material to memorize.
Go to lecture and do not get behind on the readings.
Pinker's lectures are incredible, and I'm pretty sure that every undergraduate should take this course. A foundation in psychology is essential to understanding people. Don't let the curve discourage you; college is about learning, not grades.
Lots of essays, lots of content, long lectures. Occasionally fun.
Pinker is a specific professor who teaches you what he thinks about psychology and not exactly the psychology itself. He is a genius and a renown psychologist but if you're looking to just get an introduction to psychology, you might want to take it first semester with Gilbert. Unless you want to learn Pinker's thoughts, in which case you should take this course!
Prof. Pinker is an incomparable lecturer, indeed one of the beats Harvard. The material is heavy, but manageable. Do not repeat past mistakes and do the readings every week if possible. You will get a deeper understanding of the human condition
Lots of great examples, good structure and interesting material
I was really excited to take this class with Steven Pinker. While it was a treat to be taught by a renowned scholar, his lectures were rather boring and confusing. Walking away from lecture I would think I learned some cool fun facts, but I honestly can't explain any of them to you which becomes problematic for the exam. I don't feel like I'm walking away from the course with anymore knowledge than I came in with. Also, I had the expectation that we would have examined some more social psychology, but Pinker takes great care to approach psychology from a cognitive and scientific standpoint, which I think takes away all the fun and things that I would have found interesting. We did not talk about personality, development, or abnormal psychology as I expected.
The content that had to do with human behavior, motives, and emotions was fascinating. The sections were excellent. The lectures were at times a bit dry. Make sure to start the research paper early!
Be careful. Pinker talks more about the brain and evolution, which is frankly boring. Also, his lectures don't align with the book.
I think Pinker is a very good lecturer. He knows what he wants to teach, his slides are effective, and he keeps up an engaging tone throughout. He is very focused on the biology side of psychology, so teaches through that lens as much as possible (ie what are the brain mechanisms that lead to this behavior. Where is the brain does that processing occur? What neurotransmitters are involved? What brain-damage corresponds to a loss in function? etc) I have heard that in the fall there is less focus on neurons and more on the kind of social drivers of psychology phenomenon. Reading the book is not needed, but is helpful to doing well in the class and covers interesting things Pinker sometimes skips in his lecture. Unless you are really interested, don't buy his book as supplemental reading. You won't have time for it once the semester starts.
The assignments are really inconvenient, and Pinker's fast lecture style makes it hard to really engage with and learn the material.
One of the best classes you will take here. It will definitely open your eyes to the real world of psychology.
This course changed the way I see the world, to some extent at least. The assignments aren't overwhelming and really do help you learn
The course is overall pretty chill but the work comes in chunks, and oftentimes they're heavy chunks. There's no one to make sure you're keeping up with the readings so oftentimes people don't do them and then end up cramming for exams. Also the same thing tends to happen with the research paper assigned.
This class is difficult and not an easy way to check off the SLS gen ed. I do think it was interesting, but had I known it would focus so much on cognitive psych, I likely would have chosen a different class to fulfill the SLS requirement. It is, however, nice that there are no p-sets (yay!).
This course is a pretty solid intro to the major branches of psychology. There's a little bit of everything.
Take Gilbert's course instead. Out of everyone that I have spoken to, a large majority regrets taking Pinker's course. People do not know what is expected, what they need to study, and what they are taking out of the course.
Psychology is a very interesting subject, but the lectures for this class can be tedious at times. Still, Pinker is a leader in the field and a worthwhile professor to have.
It's a great class to learn a little bit about everything in psychology. Not a hard class either.
SLS 20 is a solid course, which will give you a broad overview of the discipline of psychology. It's a fairly low time commitment and has a few basic assignments, none of which are that hard. If you do the work, getting a good grade should be easy. That said, most students do not do the work, nor as rigorously as they ought to... It can get a little dull, especially in the first half the semester, and you may already be familiar with some of the material such that you do not feel as if you're learning that much.
I enjoyed this class overall. The topics were interesting and it was so cool taking it with one of the foremost experts. Lectures did at times get convoluted and/or boring, but it was fun once I actually learned the material.
Hands down, this class is hard. I made a gross error. I thought I was taking a Gen ED but this class took most of my time and I still was average. Its a cool class but plan your schedule accordingly
It is a great class to take whether you plan on concentrating or going for secondary because it gives you great insight into how people think.
This is a good introduction to Psychology, and Professor Pinker is quite a good lecturer. My section leader was also very good. The work is very much not trivial, but generally interesting to learn.
As a math/CS kid, this course gave me a respect for psychology that I (naively) didn't have before. Prof. Pinker's focus on cognitive psychology, his discussions touching on neural nets to the organization of the visual hierarchy, helped me move past my view of psychology as "trite observations." The later parts on evolutionary and social psychology were a bit more (necessarily) hand-wavy. The main research paper was a fun excursion. Going to lecture and actively paying attention / annotating the handouts puts you ahead of many in the class, making sections and tests a breeze.
There's a lot to learn from SLS 20, and it can be really fascinating at times. It's also a decent amount of work; the final paper and exam are no joke, and there's smaller things you have to keep up with along to way. More taxing for me, though, was biting my tongue through lectures where gender and racial bias peppered through and weren't really talked about. I get the sense that Professor Pinker was hoping to acknowledge other viewpoints apart from sex essentialism, but it's clear that the perspective he presents (and the understanding of psychology that he upholds as a prominent member of the field) is one that doesn't really take feminist or intersectional critiques of psychology into account. From casual slut jokes to routine erasure of queer people, this class wasn't always all that pleasant to be in. Proceed with caution.
Basic intro psych class; material is similar to that in an AP Psych class
It's a heavy workload (lots of weekly reading, regular assignments, research papers, exams). The class is interesting, but the scope os so broad that the pace often seems rushed.
