This course does not demand a lot of you - there are no readings outside of class, and no final exam - but the large amount of diverse information thrown at you in lecture does require a lot of studying before each evaluation. It's sometimes hard to know what, exactly, will be on the tests.
I would only recommend this class to an ESPP concentrator. The professors are not interested in students' learning, only in administering unnecessarily difficult exams. They don't prepare the TFs to prepare the students for exams. Lab section is also entirely unrelated to lecture. Do not take this class, it's terrible.
The course was extremely good at covering both breadth and depth, and it was fast paced and well-constructed in a way that attendance to lectures was simply necessary. It shed light on topics and relationships in today's world that would otherwise have remained obscure, and it provided a wealth of information one would not know without taking this course. Seriously, I couldn't even find most of these things on Google, without delving deep into high-level scientific literature, and yet it is clearly made available to us in this course. Want to know how to argue back when someone is repeating absurd things about how we are not impacting the environment and how climate change isn't real? Take this class, and spew scientific evidence and simple, inarguable logic back at them. Best class I have ever taken in my entire life.
This is one of the worst classes I've taken at Harvard. Labs are incredibly tedious and unconnected to the lecture material. The Professors are superstars in their fields, and some of the lectures were very interesting, especially the ones by Woollacott. However, the TFs know almost nothing about the course material.
This was the worst course I have taken in three and a half years at Harvard. The professors do not know how to teach: during lectures, they recite a long list of hyper-specific facts without any indication of which of these facts are important or how they fit together. The midterms tested us on a different set of hyper-specific facts not covered in the lectures. The professors were unwilling to provide any review materials for the exams. The course assumed background knowledge in science, and did nothing to help students who did not have that knowledge. There was no connection between the lectures and the sections. This course left me astonished that, even at a place like Harvard that prides itself on academic excellence, downright awful teaching exists.
If you have a genuine, passionate interest in the subject matter, you may enjoy this class. However, if you're just taking this as an "easy" gen-ed, you will regret it. I definitely depended on information I had gotten from other environmental science and biology classes for the exams in this course because many of the questions centered on material that was not explicitly touched on in lecture. Also the labs were pretty irrelevant to the material, which was frustrating given the amount of time they required. In the end, I'm glad I took this course, but I am probably an anomaly.
a bit winding, not always optimistic (though very interesting), workload goes from very light to very heavy randomly
This is the bomb and you'll feel really up to date on all the latest environmental challenges and conditions.
Good class, the labs are tricky so you have to find a way to get the lab report done early and take it to your TF to get tips so you can revise it before submitting it.
You are relatively likely to get a decent grade in the class, but the meaningless effort that you put in along with the extreme frustration of such poor administration does not make the class worth it at all.  I am sure there are much better SLS options out there where the TFs are significantly more useful, it is clear what will be on exams, and the lab reports actually feel interesting, worth doing, and are related to the class.  While the professors were the only bright spot of the class (they are both interesting individuals that are clearly very intelligent and I am sure would be great outside of the context of the class) terrible administration and TFs that were quite confused really bogged down the class and made grading a complete mess.
An insightful class that everyone should take to understand the sensitivity of our planet.
This class is a great balance between social and natural sciences. It's a great introductory class to oceans and the lives dependent on them, but it also has in-depth information.
This course does not have problem sets or daily/weekly homework. However, there are three lab reports that require a lot of time. As long as you dedicate a great deal of time as well as approach the teacher fellows for questions and feedback on your lab report, you will do well. Make sure to take strong notes because the lecture PDFs often lack explanations for some of the slides that the professors talk about. Often times, the questions on the midterms are based on explanations of the slides so make sure to pay attention. The professors also have a very nice curve that helps every student!
The professors, Jim McCarthy and Robert Woollacott, are fantastic! They lecture well, and are at the top of their fields, so it's always very interesting to hear their perspective on things. Jim really shed light on climate change, and was probably my favorite aspect of the course.THe course is structured in a rather interesting manner. You just need to show up to lecture with listening ears! THere isn't any reading, other than the lecture slides. I really liked this format, I actually thought I learned more, because there is less cramming, since you effectively have to come to lecture. There isn't a lot of out-of-class homework, which worked out great. Honestly, too much hw can detract from the learning, and this course struck the right balance.Go with Kira's section if she's still around - she's fantastic!
Topics are pretty interesting and applicable to real world.  Relatively low courseload in terms of assignments but you need to pay attention very closely in class as there are many things mentioned briefly that will be tested on exams.  Exams are relavtively difficult and a lot of preparation is necessary to do well on them.
This is an incredibly valuable and fun course, but can be a bit disorganized at times.
Take this class. It's not easy, but it's all so interesting and such a delight to study.
It is a straightforward, solid class that teaches you a ton about very important current events. Topics are interesting and there is not a lot of work hours needed to be put into this course.
This course requires a lot of consistent studying in preparation for the exams, which are difficult and cover a lot of information. The lab section is confusing, and the lab reports are time-consuming and require the use of complicated statistics. The subject matter is wonderful and worthwhile, and the professors are great.
This course was interesting and may seem like a gem, but, as they say, looks are deceiving yo. There was little to no communication between the instructors and the teaching staff, and the class really suffered because of it. The lab reports were brutally long (many requirements on the rubric) and felt very pointless, and the exams were inconsistent (i.e. certain ones were way harder than others).
I think this class needs to narrow its focus or better organize the material taught.  While I was interested in the course material, there was often so much information that it is impossible to remember all of it.  You will be tested on the details of the case studies, but the lecture slides are so overwhelming and often unhelpful that you need to write it down when you hear it or you may never know it.  Don't expect lab to be more than tangentially related to the course material, but they are super fun and interesting!  Lab reports are really time consuming, this is not some easy gen ed,  The lab reports and the exams are definitely difficult, so go to class, listen well, and take notes.  Go to office hours if you have any questions.  Kira was very helpful for labs and she will guide you through the process and what they want you to focus on.  I like this class, but I think it has some organizational flaws.  I am a science concentrator so I didn't take this for gen ed, but don't take this as a gen ed if you don't expect to do work and engage in this material.
write down more than you think you need to in lecture, go to office hours, start labs early.
If you have a strong interest in the course material, you will get a lot out of this class. Definitely do not take the class if you are trying to take an "easy" gen ed.
This is a great class. It requires very little of you except to show up and pay attention, and the content is fascinating if you do choose to engage during lectures. Would recommend.
The laboratory reports are quite an amount of work. Be prepared. But then again, there are only three.
There is no homework and the subject matter is interesting but it is hard to study for the test from just slides and your class notes.  It is hard to tell what information they give you is important and what is not important.
This class is a real gem.  If you are interested in the marine realm at all definitely take this class.  The work load is not demanding at all as it offers the perfect amount of work that is necessary to qualify this class as a Gen Ed.  Also the lectures are very interesting and this is due to the extensive experience that both professors have in the field.
This was a very interesting course, with cool labs and sections. I enjoyed the material, but the way it was presented in lecture was a little difficult to understand sometimes, so in order to be successful you need to take full advantage of asking questions.
This is a good GenEd to take for SLS if you want to avoid math/chem and are interested in the effects of climate change. It will take quite a bit of studying outside of class, but the TF and the professors are always willing to explain the material outside of class if you need help. The assignments are definitely do-able, and the labs are often shorter than the two-hour blocks allotted for them.
Terrible class and not at all the easy, interesting science GenEd that I was hoping for. Was miserable the entire time: not only were the assignments tediously graded but also just totally worthless feeling and a waste of my time. It was infuriating to spend so many hours on the lab reports, not knowing what I was shooting for, and then to get a bad grade.
This is a good class, the topic is important and while not all lectures are super interesting some are.  There is no weekly reading and the assignments are graded pretty easily so I'd say its a good SLS gen ed.
This course was a great introduction to the global ocean systems and how humans are changing them. Lectures cover a wide range of topics, and provide interesting case studies. Some topics are certainly more interesting than others, but overall a good understanding of the basics of the oceans and their relationship to climate change is provided.
It's not easy, but if you like the material you will love the class.
If you're passionate about environmentalism and the oceans, this class is a great introduction to the subject matter.  The professors are both talented and accessible, and the workload is relatively manageable.  Be prepared to sift through a large volume of material when preparing for tests, however; the course covers a lot of seemingly random subjects and it can be difficult to determine what you'll be expected to know.  Make sure to attend review sessions, because Shelbi (the TF) does a great job of dissecting lectures and getting to the concepts that really matter. In general, the course really emphasizes applying knowledge to real world problems, which is great for those interested in climate issues but also requires a decent amount of preparation.  Overall, though, it's not difficult to do well in this course if you utilize the resources available, and you'll come away with a much better understanding of climate science and policy!
This is a great class and very much worthwhile. Definitely one of the better classes I've taken so far at Harvard.
No work outside of class except for a lab report every few weeks, just showing up to lecture will get you pretty far in this class. Exams can be a bit challenging, but review sessions are available.
This class is interesting if you have any fascination (or love) for the sea. It teaches the effects of climate change on the sea and the impact of fishing. It also goes into topics like global tourism in the sea and the population dynamics of all the species of sea turtles. So you really get a wide range of information about the sea and the professors do a good job making it all connect. Additionally, there is hardly any homework.
With class being taught as is, it's a combo of very interesting material and demanding grading that is hard to pull off without prior knowledge in bio. I loved the lectures, but could not get good grades ever. Grading is harsh and detailed - make sure you study every single slide and expect tricky detailed questions that could be mentioned on one slide only. If they tell you that they are not going to test on Latin names of species, you might still get a question on Latin names of... families. That aside, I came out significantly more aware of the ecological situation of the surrounding planet.
Manageable course in terms of workload, but be prepared very, very dry lectures.
This is not an easy gen ed.
My favorite course at Harvard.  Lectures were amazing and a fantastic opportunity to listen to these amazing professors.  I love this topic so maybe I'm biased because I know a lot of my peers didn't like it, but I looked forward to class and lab each week.
I expect this course to get some bad reviews simply because it was not what was expected.  (Last year, there were only 8 students; this year there were 80.  There were bound to be changes.)  That said, I really learned a lot in this class and enjoyed every hour spent on it.  The tests were a little tough, but the professors certainly take care of you grade-wise if you actually put in the time studying and writing your lab reports.
Overall, the material in this course was very interesting. However, material was not presented in the most clear, straightforward way. There are no supplementary reading that are tested, so the exams are strictly on lecture. Since the lecture slides are almost all just pictures you end up relying on your class notes to study. The problem is that sometimes the Professors would explain a concept very poorly. The TFs wouldn't know the answer sometimes or they would give conflicting answers because they were also confused by the lectures.
This was probably my least favorite class at Harvard. It seems easy because there are only labs/lab reports and exams, but the exams rely on you paying attention to every single detail in lecture (the slides they post on the course site are no help). That would be all right if the lectures weren't an hour and a half and not always engaging.
This class has no textbook and very little homework on a weekly basis. Be prepared to spend a significant amount of time on lab reports and studying for exams, and be sure not to procrastinate on those things! The lectures were occasionally boring, but mostly had very interesting information that I found relevant to my own life. The professors are clearly enthusiastic about the oceans, and they make a good team. I'm glad I took this class.
Be prepared to work hard in lab and on your lab reports. I turned in a 15 page lab report that I spend a solid 10 hours on and got a B-. The exams are also more difficult than you expect.
Do not take this class. It sounds like a gem, but it really isn't. There is too much work at times and the material just is not worth learning and the information is not applicable. Also the grades are really odd. The professor said that everyone should get an A. But I'm pretty sure half of the class failed. You are just left in the dark in terms of grades.
If you need an SLS requirement and don't consider yourself a "bio/pre-med" type person, then consider this class. The workload and difficulty isn't too bad, especially compared to a lot of other SLS classes. Otherwise, there really isn't a reason to take it.
This is a good course for sls. There are very interesting lectures, but the exams and lab reports are a pain in the ass. There are no readings or videos so it is easy to get lost. Both professors are great!
It wasn't nearly as fun or interesting as it looked and it is terribly organized.
Once I reached out to the profs they were very accommodating, but I really struggled on the first two exams.
If you have an interested in the subject, this class will be very fun and not too difficult.
I would STRONGLY discourage anyone from taking this class. It was very disorganized and a very frustrating class to be in. I took this because I am a humanities concentrator and thought that this would be a productive/interesting way to fulfill my SLS gened requirement. I was so wrong! Lectures were very boring and hard to follow. It was a huge disadvantage to have just a few big assignments throughout the semester because they graded everything so harshly. The grading was soo SO SO harsh and all the grades that were given did not reflect alll the work that was put into studying/completing a lab report. Exams were very extremely difficult and impossible to prepare for! It is hands down the worst class, and least rewarding class, that has ever been offered at Harvard. It should not be offered again.
Take it if it's a small class only, if it's a large class--go somewhere else
Very informative, professors and TF were great, labs were a pain though
This class is all about examples. It covers a lot of material, but not in great depth. Take good notes in lecture and learn all the examples given in class because this is precisely what exams will test. The lab reports are time-consuming but were interesting because they require you to read and synthesise scientific articles. This class provides an introduction to a variety of different aspects of marine science.
This class will get a bad rap, but don't be discouraged. I'm sure it will be far better next year, after the professors adapt to an enrollment that was several times larger than they had expected. This class gives you a very high return for not a lot of work outside the classroom. Three midterms, three lab reports, and no final = pretty laid back. The midterms were difficult, I'm not going to lie, and the grading did feel a little arbitrary at times. This will change, I am sure. The lab reports weren't the greatest, but you do them and that's basically all the work you ever do for this course outside the classroom. If you are genuinely interested in learning about the oceans, if you have genuine intellectual curiosity and want to be introduced to a new field of study, if you want a pretty laid back class where you can just sit back and learn, take SLS 22.
The exams are hard and hard to study for. The labs are hard and do not really fit in with the rest of the material. Overall the lectures are good and my section leader was great but a lot of the stuff covered does not really seem to fit into the class as a whole.
This class unfortunately had very interesting material, however labs were so long and exams were so difficult that I didn't really get to soak it in and enjoy the class because I spent too much time worrying about taking complete notes
This class was a waste of interesting material. The lectures were poorly structured, lectures didn't even have an outline slide. The expectations were never clear. Take care; the course may improve, I think an issue is that the class got much bigger this year.
Pretty boring, with not a lot of work for the most part but lab reports take forever.  Tests are extremely difficult and not really based on the material focused on in class.
If you have a keen interest in the ocean, then sure, take it. You will have very knowledgeable professors that are talking about their specialties which is, of course, quite cool. HOWEVER, if you do not have any burning desire to learn more about oceans, stay far far away.
If you like science and the sea, you will love this course.
Unfair tests. Professors are not very welcoming to students with questions.
Test are really hard.
Interesting material and good professors. If the exams weren't so awful I would've given this class 5 stars. A lack of guidance for reviewing and lecture slides that had mostly pictures and not text. If you missed a lecture, it was really difficult to make it up for the exam.
Incredibly interesting and stimulating course, but tests are difficult.
If you find science and the seas interesting, definitely take this class. However, if you are not genuinely interested in the oceans, do not take this class.
The professors are great. The midterm exams were often more challenging than anticipated, so be prepared to study a lot heading into each exam.
Great introductory course for the SLS department. However, being attentive in lecture and be able to discern what material is important and what can be dismissed is important.
There are much better gen eds to pick for sls and this course did not prepare students well for midterms.
No work most of the time and then a ton of work to study for the midterms and doing the three labs took forever.
There are not a lot of courses to choose from when it comes to the SLS requirement, so, in the end, this is probably going to be one of the better options for non-science concentrators. That being said, it is by no means an "easy" or "blow-off" class. Perhaps the most frustrating part was that the tests are not as straightforward as one might hope--they are actually extremely tricky in a way that is very frustrating when trying to prepare. Also, lectures throw a lot of information at you, and only the most nit-picky details seem to be the ones you are tested on. In other words, take this class, but don't assume you will get an A if you don't put in any effort.
So, this is a really good class. However, the subject matter is rather specific. If you can't get yourself pumped for learning about whales, oceanic currents, and the trophic levels of Salmon, this ain't for you. But that even so much as lifts an eyebrow, take this class!
don't take the class if you don't know how to write a lab report
This is not a good course. The professors seemed very out of touch with the TFs. Although the TFs tried to help the students and prepare them for lab reports and exams, there always seemed to be a disconnect between what was taught and reviewed and everyone thought would be on exams, and what ended up being on exams. There was also too much focus on specifics and case studies as opposed to general trends and principles in exams, much to many students' detriment. The lectures were dry at best and off-topic at worst.
This course is low key and I found it interesting. It was really small, also. The professors are very engaged, there is no final, three lab reports (which are a lot of work but you get great feedback), and three midterms. Everything is straight forward and it was great to learn about current environmental problems.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. If you enjoy spending time at the ocean or have any interest in fishing, you must take this class. Professors are awesome. The course material is very interesting and applicable in our world today.
This is a great opportunity to be taught by two outstanding professors. If you have any interest in the ocean, take this course!
