The teaching staff is extremely passionate about the subject matter, and they're always there to offer guidance anytime you need it. Undoubtedly the BEST Gen-Ed course for the Science of Living Systems.
If you're looking for a SLS gen-ed that's actually fun and creative and not at all boring, definitely take this! I come from a non-science background and really enjoyed how the teaching staff presented the information in such non-conventional ways. Watching movies, doing simulations, etc made the class fun, and it really wasn't too much work either!
This class is a hidden gem at Harvard. If you get a spot through the lottery, you shouldn't pass up this chance to work alongside an incredibly dedicated teaching team as you navigate important questions of public health, global development, and modern inequities. The integration of history and literature into the course makes this a true liberal arts experience that is accessible to a broad range of students.
This course is a gem.
Kind of a random class in a way, because it covers so many different fields. A fairly chill, fun way to fill SLS, but the quizzes are way harder than you'll expect.
Mixed feelings about this class definitely. On one hand, the subject matter has the potential to be interesting and Don and Ken have put a lot of thought and effort into this. It covers a wide range of intersectional topics and probably not the worst gen ed you could take. Readings are very interesting (if you have time to read entire books). On the other, the reading logs and assigned readings are a pain. Too many. Too much science too - until you realize you didn't need ANY of it for the final and that the quizzes - which are science heavy - are open book. This is very deceiving and had I known about this difference, would have greatly reduced stress and strife. Don and Ken also do a lot of helicopter teaching i.e. they show up to every section and have mandatory office hours (which I understand but honestly didn't exactly boost my experience in the class). Not the most engaging or audible lecturers. Grading for midterm - and midterm topics and presentation times - are subjective so beware. If you get a good TF, this should be an okay class.
This class was an excellent SLS class for a humanities major.
This is a nice SLS because there is no lab component and it was easy, but it was really boring.
This course is a good example of what's wrong with the Gen Ed program. It tries to do a lot of different things at once and ends up doing none of them very well. The biology swings between being really basic and pretty in-depth. Most of the attempts at history, anthropology, sociology, etc. left something to be desired.
If you have an interest in the material, this is a course well worth taking. Be prepared to suffer through a lot of busy work, though.
If for no other reason, do it for the teaching team because they are just that good. The course material is incredibly interesting and sections are probably the best part because they're really interactive. Definitely something that people from a non-science background can take without much difficulty (if any). I'd say it's one of those courses that really fulfils the Gen Ed requirements where I could round out my knowledge. The workload isn't incredibly heavy, mostly just readings which are actually pretty interesting, so it's definitely a course that I would recommend taking.
The science in this course is pretty heavy, and the lectures can get boring. Not the best SLS to take if you're just looking for a gen ed requirement, but if you're into disease it might be fun.
Great way to satisfy SLS requirement. Parts of the class are science heavy, but you get to tackle the science component through take-home, open-book quizzes. Really enjoyed the intersection of humanities and the sciences
This class covers a lot of information across many subjects. It was perfect for someone like me who is more humanities driven because the main focus is on social impact of disease. Some days when we would focus on the science of disease I felt a little lost but when you are quizzed on the science its an open notes online quiz, very manageable. Lots of reading that you don't necessarily have to do for lecture, but you will get more out of section if you somewhat keep up with the readings.
If you are a humanities student and dread the prospect of having to take a science-geared Gen Ed, then you might want to give this course a look. It presents science through the lens of history and at the end of the day, was pretty accessible.
This course was amazing. You will learn a lot! Truly an eye opening course with regards to global health issues and healthcare inequities!
This class is really great if you're interested in the epidemiology of diseases. It does contain a lot of biology, which I wasn't expected, but you only have to know it for a few of the out-of-class open notebook quizzes. Class participation is a major component of the class and we do a lot of fun role play activities to better understand how to solve epidemics.
This course was absolutely incredible. The professors and TFs are so great. They work with you and really want you to be engaged. I seriously cannot express to you what a gem this class is. It's not just that it's "easy"...it's literally something to look forward to. It's the kind of interdisciplinary course you search for in the course list. They do a great job of taking feedback and getting the course to be what the students will respond the best to. This was my overall #1 favorite course at Harvard. Even the exams were fun. I recommend with major enthusiasm.
This course is everything that a Gen Ed should be. As a non-science concentrator, I was highly concerned about fulfilling my science-based Gen Eds. I was pleasantly surprised though when this course not only presented the material in a way that didn't require me to have a glossary of medical and sciencey terms on hand constantly, but actively worked to integrate history, art, literature, and effective visuals into both lectures and section to enrich understanding. I very much enjoyed this course, and found myself looking forward to it every day. I can't recommend it enough.
This was literally one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, and I am a seriously hardcore humanities concentrator. This is a science class for humanities concentrators, you really should take this class.
This class has some really racist moments. Also The Professors are in every single section which made it really hard to feel comfortable
Quizzes are the toughest part of the class/science-heavy. Everything else is manageable.
Take this course especially if you need an SLS credit! Very interesting and good teaching staff with minimal work requirement.
This was a fantastic Gen-Ed course. As a history concentrator and someone whose high school had a deficient science department, I wanted a course that taught me science in an understandable way--this is that course. It combines science and the humanities, which is its greatest strength. Not only do you learn about many diseases on a scientific/medical level, but you learn about all the moral and cultural problems that come along with those diseases. Ken and Don are great professors and make an effort to get to know every student and come to every section. The quizzes are open-book and generally fair. Even if you don't do very well on them, there are plenty of other assignments in which to bring up your grade. This is one of the best Gen-Ed classes I have taken and offers something interesting for science and humanities concentrators alike.
A great way to fulfill the SLS requirement. The combined focus on science and social dimensions made the material much more relevant to those that don't have a specific interest in science.
This course was interesting insofar as the material was captivating, but the way it is delivered is less so. Take this if you're really interested in the material, but not otherwise.
This is a really interesting course and worth taking. The staff is very accessible and genuinely interested in making the course the best it can be. It's interdisciplinary, which means there will be a portion of the course you may not be too fond of. If you're nervous about your science background this is an easy way to fulfill SLS. The only times you're tested on science is at 4 take-home, open book exams. Don't be fooled, they're still pretty difficult but if you refer to the relevant readings and remember lecture (and get good at googling) you'll be set. The subject is really relevant and it's a pretty rare course for focusing on it.
Heads up for a lot more science than you might have thought
This was an amazing class.  The teaching staff all work raelly hard to be engaging and to present the material in interesting ways.  Sections were actually great and added to the class in a way that most sections don't.  There was a ton of reading but I didn't do most of it and still got a lot out of the class.
This is a fun and enjoyable Gen-Ed. Though the frequent small assignments are a bit of a bother, the teaching staff is amazing and fully dedicated to making the course work. You'll learn a ton about a variety of diseases both scientifically and otherwise. Whether your angle is art, ethics, development, history, or english this course has something to offer you.
The class effectively bridges science and the humanities, and the professors and TFs are really understanding and want you to do well. They care about you as people and not simply as students.
helpful to have science/medicine background but not necessary.  you are expected to be engaged and interested in the material and participation is necessary
This course has good material, but the teaching is hit-or-miss. Don's a good lecturer, but not everyone is quite so great.
SLS26 is new class with great ideas. It needs a little fine tuning (the readings can be long, but you don't have to finish them all; the lectures were sometimes an awkward mix of discussion and lecture) but in general it is a fascinating class that is great for non-science-y people, bolstered by a great teaching staff who really care about you. The quizzes may be a little hard if you aren't science inclined, but make sure to use all the resources you're provided (open book). The professors, and especially the TFs, really care about how you're doing, and are proactive about reaching out to you. The exam is really fair, and just requires general knowledge on the readings. I learned a lot from the this class, and would especially recommend it now that it's going into its second year.
It's a good SLS class for those who are not scientifically inclined as it doesn't have weekly PSets or anything like that, but there is still a good amount of science, so be prepared to deal with that. The teaching staff is very enthusiastic and works hard to make the class interesting, and they have a ton of experience on the subject. Not the most difficult class, but switching between hard science and looking at plague art can be taxing.
This class was everything that a humanities concentrator would want out of a science class. At moments, I felt myself leaning towards premed again but was always well supported by the teaching staff for not being premed. They truly welcomed individuals from all backgrounds, concentrations, and points of view.
The science portion of the course is great, but although the professors are very enthusiastic they have problems teaching the humanities/social science aspect of it. The science is also fairly difficult, not sure I would take it without some sort of background in science - I did not have any background and found it hard going for the first few weeks.
Class is pretty easy but can be interesting if you take advantage of all of the readings (which you don't actually ever have to do).
Definitely take this because the professors are willing to work with you and help you learn.
I learned to like this class by the end. It is more science-heavy than humanities. During lecture it was basically all about the science behind the disease, until the last few lectures where it was pretty integrative. I often wished section were longer because only during section did we discuss the humanities aspects of the class and one hour is not enough. The Professors are very passionate about the material, though the science can be confusing and sometimes pretty dry, and the TFs are great. It was a little disorganized, but it is the first time being taught.
really interesting, engaging, and fun. plus excellent teaching staff.
This course provides a good science class for students who either think they are not "science people" or are not sure whether or not they are "science people." The professors and TFs make the class a great experience.
The teaching staff are AMAZING and you should definitely take this course!!!
This class was a little disorganized, which makes sense seeing as this was the first year. I still had a lot of fun, though. I think tailoring the objectives of the course to maybe include a little less science and more humanities or finding some way to construct the curriculum to establish a clearer pattern of how the scientific element affects the humanities element or vice versa would help the course immensely. Lots of cool roleplaying activities, which was fun, but I'm uncertain as to how some of the roleplaying contributed to the integration of science and the humanities in the context of epidemics.
Hard to take the class seriously
A great way to fulfill SLS!  The teaching staff is some of the most enthusiastic you'll ever see, and the professors have a long line of experience in health fields.  It's a great survey of all the major diseases and their impacts on society.  Sometimes it can get a bit bogged down in the science (without much motivation to remember it since the basic science is only tested in open notebook quizzes) but usually the material is engaging and interesting.  Plenty of guest lecturers too!  Section is great and fun, the TF's are amazing, and you'll look forward to it!  My only major complaint is that the reading assignments were extremely variable in length and sometimes felt unfocused or completely unnecessary.
Despite being a fairly new course, this class is very well-structured, with a highly knowledgeable and accessible teaching staff and a well-chosen, though vast, set of readings and materials. Though occasionally quite challenging in the area of the science studied, this class is great at providing you with the support you need, and encouraging you to appreciate how amazing the material is. This class has a lot of guest lecturers, all of which who bring diverse and fascinating perspectives to the material; it was wonderful, for example, to listen to Dr. Richard Cash lecture on his experiences developing ORS in Bangladesh.
