This is more of an information regurgitation class, not an infomation application class.
be sure to have a background in immunology- other wise, you'll be lost for the first few weeks
take it if your dissertation topic is likely to be related
If you do your reading, you will be fine.
This is a really good course where you will acquire a good base of immunology knowledge and will be taught by many of the researchers who are the authority in their particular field.
I would tell them to focus on the basics of immunology, and not get too hampered by the novel techniques that the class introduces.
Great course. Recommend to those interested in immunology.
You have to spend a lot of time understanding this class, especially if you've never taken Immunology before. But the material is interesting and you do leave the class with a lot of knowledge, provided that you spend time teasing apart all of the important information from the lectures and papers.
Exposes you to diverse areas of immunology, allowing you to pursue narrower interests on your own.
Good course for a basic understanding of immunology with some insight into the active areas of research. The discussion sections are helpful for analysing and discussing papers.
This is a great course to take if you are curious about the immune system and how it responds under different conditions. It is great if you are interested in medical research of any kind.
Huge time commitment if not taken in first year (class time takes up 5 hrs/week alone!), but worth it if you don't already know the topic. Lots of novel insights into novel biology and disease that I have already used in my non-related field of work, and an important requirement for becoming a well-rounded biologist.
Embrace memorization.
It is excellent for immunology students. But for people who wants to know the basic idea not the detail about this field, it may be difficult.
This is a great class to gain exposure to a lot of interesting topics in immunology and to learn about many basic immunological processes. This class is perfect for someone with at least some background in Immunology (either classwork or lab experience), but it is not required.
it's hard so be prepared
Take this class if you want to learn about adaptive immunity.
It was irrelevant to my field
It will be so much easier to read immunology and even general biology papers after this class. You will be amazed by how much information you absorb.
Make sure you have an understanding of basic immunology before entering the lectures.  The details will overwhelm you if you can't place them into a pre-established framework. Flip through the diagrams of your old undergrad  textbook to review the basics, and you will not regret it.
The lectures will vary considerably in their quality/understandability and the difficulty of section is very dependent on your TA.
Immunology 201 is a fantastic way to hear about some of the central concepts within the field from individuals who have made some of the seminal discoveries.
This course provides an in-dept perspective regarding some of the fundamental principles of immunology.
This is a good class to take if you already have a background in immunology.
Make sure you know the fundamentals of both immunology theory as well as laboratory knowledge (techniques, jargon, current events in literature)
This is a great course in which you learn a lot about immunology principles and history. In the discussion sections, you can see how the things you learned are put into practice by real scientists of today.
It is a good in-depth introductory immunology course if you've had some exposure to the material before.
If you are considering to take this course for elective and you have no prior exposure to immunology, consider taking undergraduate course.
Do not take this class if you haven't taken any immunology class before and if you haven't done immunology coursework before.
great for a deeper exploration of topics in immunology without going into too much molecular/signaling.
This class was very difficult, mostly because it was not presented in any sort of logical manner and nothing was put into context.
Great class but needs some immunology background for best learning benefit.
Make sure you devote the time needed for this course.
This is a great course that covers a broad range of immunology topics in great detail. Be prepared to spend quite a bit of time outside of class reading review papers on the discussed topics and be prepared to memorize a lot of different pathways and receptors.
Not very organized and catered to the immunology students (their schedule seeing that they don't have rotations yet and the material)
If you haven't taken some form of immunology before then the undergraduate immunology course would be a better choice.
I would recommend this course only if you've already taken in intro immunology course.
The class does require a very basic understanding of immunology to begin with and goes into much more detail than anyone studying topics outside of the field might require.
The course is geared towards Immunology graduate students; students in other fields may not be well served by taking it.
The lectures do not really tie into eachother.
Great class, but not for immunology novices
If you really want to learn about the cutting edge and important questions in immunology, you should take 201. The lecturers are the leaders in their respective fields and the lectures are thought-provoking, albeit at times overwhelming, but generally thorough and interesting. You need an existing foundation in immunology, or at least an idea of broad concepts in immunology, and generally how the immune system works.
It is a great course for those who think they understood immunology, because after it you will realize just how little you do.
This course is very thorough.  The lectures are valuable for the amount of information.  Discussions are in depth and a good amount of time is needed to read the assigned papers to understand them enough to discuss them.
You should read from textbooks in addition to the topics presented in the class as they are not presented in an organized fashion.
A little disconnected, but good introductory information.
It is a great overview of the basic concepts in immunology that one should be familiar with. The lectures are interesting and definitely taught me a lot.
This class will give you guidance to establish a good base in immunology if you methodically follow their outline and apply steady effort on your own to keep all the pieces together. Yes, it's a lot of memorization, but there is plenty of direct logic and good storytelling here too.
the material is interesting if you like immunology, but if you're just looking for an overview and main concepts, this class isn't for you. It can be tedious at times and many of the lectures aren't that interesting
