This is for G1 immunology students only.
Awesome class for becoming familiar with current happenings in broad subfields of immunology. It was also amazing practice for reviewing papers in a peer-review fashion, with an emphasis on "important" (rather than "interesting") critiques of studies.
Favorite class
Take advantage of the lunches with the speaker because it is a great opportunity to meet the professors that you will undoubtedly meet at meetings and conferences.
the seminars are excellent!
Really focus on evaluating the science in the required papers as opposed to regurgitating what was done.
Great course to learn how to analyse papers. The sessions with the speaker is highly valuable for developing our scientific mindset.
Helps you gain experience in evaluating immunology literature.
If you really want to understand what is presented during Immunology seminars, this is the class to take.
This course represents why most of us came to Harvard University: interactions with world-class faculty, frequent lectures from scientists at the forefront of their fields, and discussions with some of the most talented students around.
Start reading far in advance of the discussion so the information has time to sink in a few days before. Definitely helped to re-read the paper a few times before the discussion as well.
Great class for learning how to critique an immunology paper
I really enjoyed this class- you get to delve deeper into a wide variety of current topics in immunology and you get to discuss these with the visiting scholars, many different faculty, and your fellow peers.
I think the class is a great way to get us prepped for the immunology seminar.  However, some faculty are better than others at facilitating discussion and helping us learn the necessary background information in order to follow the lecture.
You get exposed to many different areas of immunology, but the write-up gets redundant by the end.
Don't gripe about the write-ups. See it as a break from the monotony of reading paper after paper, and an opportunity to practice organizing your thoughts and putting them to paper.
Spend enough time to read the papers -- it will be worth it for understanding the significance of the seminar itself.
Take full advantage of the background of the faculty members leading discussion to make sure you are clear on the material, concepts, and history of the topic/speaker.
It definitely deserves your time
This useful course gets you thinking like an immunologist
This is a great course that covers the latest breakthroughs in various areas of immunology. The broad range of topics that are covered creates times where the papers that are being presented could be a bit boring for students with different interests.
The class is structured so that you will get the most out of it if you are reading previous work from the author and the field so that you can ask insightful questions.
The different professors come in to lead our discussions is a great way for you to interact in an academic setting. It's usually a lively discussion, but you've absolutely got to read the paper in advance and in depth to appreciate the discussion.
It's a good supplement to the initial introductory immunology course we had to take, but it would've been nice to get some more advice for how people like to read these kinds of articles.
A valuable component of the immunology program. Great chances to meet with various well-known leaders in the field. Does require regular commitment in the write-ups.
It's a great opportunity to engage with the cutting edge of immunology, and to get to think about extending new fields in different directions, grantwriting, and how to generate feasible and exciting research ideas.
