This class will help you understand what observers do.  Nice overview for observers, and good for theorists since it demystifies a lot of observer jargon (e.g. bootstrapping, MCMC analysis, etc.)
You will learn all you need about the subject.
This is a great class that will teach you a lot of practical statistics and data analysis topics that you need for observational astronomy and may not have formally learned anywhere else. Definitely take this class if you plan to do any kind of observational astrophysics project.
It is a good course where you will learn a lot about analyzing data, but the lectures can leave something to be desired, and the homework assignments are challenging.
I found the course fantastic and enjoyable.  I felt I learned a lot of useful material, and the problem sets were insightful while (usually) manageable.  Moran is a great professor and Ian was an amazing TF.
Do you want to learn about probability, scientific computing, fitting data, or Fourier transforms? If yes, this is your class! You will learn all you ever wanted to know about these topics and more.
The course is work-intensive but the effort is worth it. You will come out of this class armed with many tools.
The material you will learn will be very useful. But the lecturing format and assignment style are not always the most exciting, so you will need a good dose of coffee.
You will learn a lots, but the homework volume can be overwhelming sometimes.
Extremely useful subject material, explained well.  Workload is reasonable, similar to other courses.
great class but be prepared to work more than you might expect!
On the one hand, it's really cool. You spend weeks on Fourier theory, and it feels like you've really understood something. Almost in your bones. And you're introduced to numerical tools that you code yourself. You get the theory and practice. On the other hand, as an undergrad I found it incredibly difficult. I had to tell myself at one point that it was okay not to understand everything. The most important thing is to put the time into the psets. That's where the learning happens. Jim was a really cool teacher. I appreciated that he would share the tricks of the trade that he's a part of. And Ian was a fantastic TF. Great at explaining concepts and so generous with his time.
This class will serve as a basic/intermediate introduction to Bayesian statistics and time series analysis.  You will learn a lot of useful Fourier analysis, signal processing, and statistical methods.  With Professor Moran, it runs a lot like a college-level applied math class, which I thought was extremely refreshing. However, if you are looking for a very advanced course on Bayesian analysis in Astrophysics, you might decide to pass on this and look elsewhere (summer schools, reading Numerical Recipes, etc).  Overall, a highly recommended elective.
This year, the instructors (Aneta and Vinay) were teaching a class for the first time, and didn't seem to be on the same page with the students about the course goals. They focused much more on stats theory than applications. If they teach it next time, encourage them to really focus on applications and examples.
Focus on the homework problem sets. They are your best opportunity to learn the material.
Interesting class that will allow you to design your own programs to tackle real world statistical problems.
This class seems to work best if you are a very independent learner.
This course means well and has a lot of potential. The content is very useful and immediately applicable to anybody working in observational astrophysics. However, in practice, the lectures ought to be much more organized and pedagogical for students to get the most out of it. The pool of resources recommended by the instructors serve nicely for future reference. However, they are too numerous and not focused and mandatory enough for students to capitalize fully on them through the course of the course.
This course is difficult and perhaps not very useful to some undergraduates.
I would not recommend this class in its current iteration. If you are interested in learning more about data science or statistical methods, this is not the class to take. In fact, there is arguably very little to get out of taking this class. The lectures are very disjointed and unclear. The homework assignments vary in difficulty, but are always difficult to interpret, and don't seem to help develop any semblance of statistical/data analysis skills. I took this class despite a number of bad reviews from the previous year, thinking that the material would be useful and that it would probably be fine. I was wrong. It honestly felt like a waste of a semester. There are a ton of classes that cover this material in a much more efficient manner. Do not take this class unless it is seriously revamped/offered by new instructors.
Do not take this class if taught by the current instructors. You will not learn anything about astrostatistics and you will only leave more confused about topics you thought you already knew. This class is not anywhere near the level I would expect from a Harvard graduate course, and it was the least worthwhile of all the courses I have taken thus far. It is an embarrassment to the astronomy graduate curriculum.  I read the lukewarm reviews for this course last time around and ignored them. Do not make the same mistake I did or you will be sorely regretting it the entire semester.
Not well taught course at all. If it wouldnt have been for the TF, I would not have learned anything. Lectures follow no coherent schedule, and since its co taught, they sometimes contradict each other. I would take a course in a different department.
The organization of this course may need to be altered before giving a recommendation. Many topics were covered but a narrative tying the topics together was lacking. Although the skills learned were useful, topics covered at the beginning of the course did not always feel relevant to the discussion in later parts. The topics felt disjointed.A good textbook will help; I felt the biggest weakness may have been a lack of a central source where the course material is summarized and organized in a sequential and self-referencing way. We relied mainly on slides, notes, and a list of books/papers to sort through, which was not always convenient.
