Almost definitely the best course I've ever taken.  Professor Charbonneau is a fantastic teacher, which is hard to come by in Harvard science departments, and he obviously cares to make his students understand the material and become excited about it -- without killing them with more work than is necessary.  The work is as hard as in other courses -- this is no science core -- but the payoff is higher.  You learn about the wonders of the galaxy and, personally, this course answered questions about the stars and planets that I'd had since I was a little kid.  Fascinating.  And in the labs, you get to do REAL science -- I measured the distance from the earth to the sun to within 1%.  I can't recommend this course highly enough.  If you have any interest in the stars, or if you've always wondered about life on other planets, TAKE IT.  Take it.
This class was one of the most fun and interesting classes I took all year.  The professor is enthusiastic about the subject and about having students understand the material, and the material covered is given relavence to astrophysics happening right now.  The most valuable experience this past year for me was the exoplanet lab in this class, in which we got to try to detect an exoplanet using the Clay telescope.
Professor Charbonneau is one of the best profs you'll have here, and the class is interesting for people of all levels of astronomical backgrounds (including none at all).  Despite the labs sometimes lasting till 3am or later, they're one of the most rewarding parts of the class and you'll be glad to have done it.
I recommend this class to anyone who has an interest in learning some real astronomy.
Very interesting, provides a great introduction to astronomy, research and actual observational actronomy.
A very good course though the whole exoplanet lab at the end can be really confusing with regards to grading and where you should put your time.
not an easy class in terms of difficulty or time, but you can learn a lot. the class is more astrophysics than astronomy. if you are interested in science's answer to the 'big questions' - where did it all come from, where is it all going, how did we get here- and want it presented in a rigorous way, then this class is for you.
Best course at Harvard
If you are interested in Astronomy, this class is an incredible introduction, and Professor Charbonneau alone makes the class worth taking.
It makes astronomy so fun that work doesn't seem like work. But you still have to work.
very interesting.
I loved this class but found it incredibly challenging. Problem sets and midterms were very difficult for me, but in terms of day-to-day work it is very manageable. The material is very interesting but also very dense for an introductory class.
The instructor is absolutely excellent - he delivers the material in a very interesting way, and effectively conveys the fact that there is much room for research and new discoveries in the field. The material covered was very good as well, and an excellent introduction to the subject.
The best part about this class is the professor, who in addition to being internationally recognized for his incredible talent and skill in the field, is also one of the best teachers you will ever have. This course can get anyone excited about astronomy and astrophysics.
If you have little astronomy background this course is an ideal introduction to the subject.
This class has good potential, but it was pretty disorganized at points and as a result was sometimes quite frustrating. The best parts: the labs are quite cool, as is the prospect of finding an exoplanet, there are only 4 psets, and the teaching staff is incredibly nice and usually helpful. The downsides: the psets are disproportionately harder from anything we ever discuss in class, the guidelines for the lab reports are unclear and confusing, and the lectures are essentially a retelling of the textbook reading. The material is not too difficult, but unfortunately the way it was presented often made it seem much more obtuse than it actually was. Prof. Finkbeiner is really nice, though, as are Yucong and Ellie especially, so don't let any of this discourage you - I have high hopes for the class in later years :)
This is a very interesting course, in terms of material, but the lectures are not very engaging. If you have a true interest in astronomy, you'll get a lot out of this course, especially from the hands-on telescope labs.
Amazing course. If you are interested in universe this course is for you.
Do not take the course thinking it will be an easy A. The professor is not really aware about what is going on in lab's or how students are doing on homework. Also, the syllabus states that homework will be assigned two weeks in advance from the due date. That never happened.
The labs are the best part of the course. You get to use the science center telescope and make actual astronomical measurements.
Do the exoplanet lab!
Take this class if you are comfortable with physics -- the material is interesting and the course is challenging without being unfair.  However, it is more difficult than it is advertised as a general education option.  You will have to remember a lot of difficult concepts and a lot of general things about chemistry and physics.
Take Astronomy 16 when Charbonneau teaches it. Under Finkbiener, the class is disorganized - run entirely by TFs, who are either awesome or atrocious - and lectures are absurdly easy compared to the homework. The material is interesting, but read a book or wait for Charbonneau. It's not worth it.
Take the course, but prepared to do learning on your own.  The lectures follow the textbook exactly, and don't prepare you in the slightest for the problem sets, which often are on topics barely coveredin class.  The labs are great, however, and make the course well worth it (especially the exoplanet lab)
Lectures were fun and you get to use telescopes!  Definitely try the extra-credit lab.  It was one of the best parts and you could get an automatic A.  The problem sets were stressful but there were only four, so you can deal with them.  Don't try to do the lab reports the night before, and there are a lot of frustrating error calculations and things ... it's helpful if you have some experience with writing lab reports.  Also, I don't know if you can do this, but try to get a good TF.  Ask around.
There is a big learning curve at the beginning. Make sure you go to the review sessions because they are the only thing that are helpful in knowing exactly what you need to know (there's a lot of info).
Interesting and comprehensive introduction to Astronomy. Not too difficult. Take!
Astronomy 16 provides a fairly low-key introduction to astrophysics that is accessible to everyone with a basic math and physics background.  I would only caution that this the course became very dull in the second half of the semester, and those looking for a fun science elective should look elsewhere.
The methodology of the course is interesting, and the concepts it teaches are valuable. It engages with a lot of information about the physical universe, and it does so with fairly great depth. Aspects of the pedagogy (problem sets, grading, and expectations) are a bit hard to demystify, but it is nonetheless a highly worthwhile class.
Fun course. Pretty easy. You should love stars though.
It is a good class and gives one an accurate and fun picture of Astrophysics. That said, be prepared to work: it's not fourth class material. If you want to study an interesting subfield of physics, though, worth taking. Oh, and Doug Finkbeiner is pretty much the man.
This class was much harder than I expected.  The professor and TF's seemed very disconnected from undergraduate life here at Harvard and this made it incredibly frustrating and difficult to succeed.  Assignments were graded very hard.  The lecture material is not emphasized on problem sets.  Instead most of the problem sets require knowledge from other classes.  Much of it was never done in lecture.  The exams were a strange mix of random things from lecture and physics problems we had never seen before.  This was not a good class to take and was very frustrating.  I wish I had taken something else.
If you have an interest in astronomy this course will be great.  It explores a ton of topics and can blow your mind sometimes.
It's a bit more work than it seems, even though there are only 4 PSets readings take time and the labs take quite a bit of time as well. But the lectures are really interesting and he tells you cool things about astronomy research. Charbonneau is cool.
Great class, but the physics and problem solving can get a bit confusing.  And a lot of material is covered.
This class is a great introduction to astronomy.  If you've never taken astronomy before and are curious, this is the class to take.  This class is an introduction to astronomy and astrophysics and so it is challenging.  There's a lot of material that can be confusing if you haven't had physics, but it's not impossible to understand.
this is the most amazing class you will ever take at harvard. It is an EXCELLENT course but the workload is pretty heavy though, so make sure you are able to handle all the material before committing to this course, especially if you do not have such a good background in physics.
Know what to you're in for.  It's sometimes a lot of work, and it's not incredibly well-structured in terms of when assignments are due.  Labs are cool, but the binary lab goes until 2am for no good reason.  The class could work out a few kinks--it was still designed for a relatively small group of physics concentrators, as opposed to the Gen Ed type course (with 50+ students) it is trying to be.
The most fun class I've taken in a long time.  The material's fairly difficult and psets are time-consuming, but I loved it anyway.  Take it because it's the kind of class you've dreamed of taking since you were little, where you learn about what lies beyond our atmosphere.
I think you'll probably like it more than me--I have more of a problem with the subject matter than the subject. Professor Charbonneau is good. I bet he's great on the Discovery Channel.
One of my favorite courses, excellent professor, but will definitely be a moderate challenge.
The course can be a lot of work, but it's extremely rewarding. Charbonneau is awesome. Getting to use the Clay telescope is also the experience of a lifetime!
This is definitely a well taught class that is very interesting and if you have the quantitative background for the class you should definitely take it. One of the best science classes I've taken at Harvard.
Open your mind to the wonders of the universe!
Don't take this course for Gen Ed. It is too much work. It doesn't seem like it will be from the syllabus, but the homeworks and labs are all real pains in the butt. If you're an astrophysics concentrator then this is the course for you. Professor Charbonneau is great. It is a good class, but I took it for Gen Ed and would have really preferred a class that didn't require all-nighters. If you do take it, work on the homeworks and labs long before they're due and in groups. The material is interesting but the class requires too much work to really be enjoyable.
The coursework is difficult, but TFs are helpful and fairly lenient, and you get to accomplish things you'd normally only read about. Take it with a buddy.
Really Cool
I loved this course!! David Charbonneau is a fantastic lecturer, and genuinely cares about teaching the material and generating excitement about astronomy. The material itself is really cool as well. The TFs are great. There aren't bad things about this class. You should take it.
It's great, and definitely manageable for non-science concentrators.
This class woke up my dormant inner science nerd after engineering almost killed it. There are planets around other stars that are nearby, and we can look at them. So cool! Also, Professor Charbonneau is awesome.
Excellent class. Great professor and ambitious scope in course content. A very good mixture of theoretical and practical knowledge of astronomy gained through this course.
If you're a math/science person, you want to take this class. It won't be as hard as your other classes but it'll be a lot more fun. You'll learn plenty and work with recent discoveries in astronomy. This is the kind of class that you can only get at Harvard, and you shouldn't miss the opportunity to take it.
Amazing interesting, but a little too much work.
The TFs are an invaluable resource!
This course is the best course at Harvard.  Dave Charbonneau is awesome (but Finkbeiner, who might teach the course in spring 2011, is awesome, too.)  But the course isn't just awesome because of the professor; it's awesome because of the material.
Take this course, especially if Professor Charbonneau teaches it. You learn about the universe, and more specifically how our solar system formed. An eye opening experience, and you only need the level of Physics 15a to do it.
If you meet all the pre-requisites, this class will be a blast.
Take this class, seriously.
astronomy is awsome!
The problem sets will take over your life for about 10 hours of your time, depending on how good you are at application problems and typing in large numbers in your calculator without error. But Professor Charbonneau's lectures are definitely worth the grueling hours. A lot of bonding goes on during lab, especially the awesome exoplanet lab, and during group work on p-sets.
Good lectures, but the course does not cover enough physics and math.  Expect to be bored for a while if you know physics already.
Great stuff, but too much work for a Gen Ed.  Definitely worth auditing or pass/failing
Each lecture was mind blowing.  I don't consider myself a science person, but despite a steep initial learning curve the class proved incredibly relatable and infinitely rewarding.  Expect to be the first people to know when Professor Charbonneau's team discovers life on an exoplanet.
This has been the most fascinating class I've taken so far.  If you're interested in Astronomy, this will probably solidify your interest, while providing you with the basic mathematical background to understand some fascinating phenomena. Overall, the math seemed secondary to the big, inspiring ideas.
This class is excellent. If you like astronomy, or if you are curious about concentrating, or if you just want to learn some really cool material, take this class!
It's slightly more work than you would like from an elective, but it's worth it.
While this class was interesting and informative, it was much more difficult than I'd bargained for. While there's virtually no work on most weeks, the weeks with problem sets and labs are extremely, extremely tiring. The tests are also extremely difficult, since practice problems to prepare are few and far between. However, lecture is taught very well by professor Charbonneau, and you really do get the feeling that what you're studying is at the forefront of astronomy.
Astro 16 will be a lot of fun and very interesting if you take it as an elective, and not as a core.  The class is much more difficult than other science cores but you will subsequently get much more out of it.  Make sure to pay close attention to Professor Charbonneau's lectures, because you won't really find explanation of the material anywhere else; Charbonneau has been instrumental in inventing parts of this scientific area, so a lot of the material is straight from his own techniques.  This class was a lot of fun and you will learn a lot.  Just don't underestimate it!
Work with people! Go to lecture. They're great.
Finding an exo-planet is not as easy as it sounds.
The class is fascinating, and Charbonneau's lectures are great. Strongly recommended for anyone with any sort of interest in the topic. Do be warned that, while it is not very work intensive, the first few weeks are misleading. When problem sets and labs come around, the work load amps up considerably.
Give yourself more time for the problem set (ie, more than the night before the deadline.
This is a great class for someone with even a casual interest in the subject.  There is a good chunk of work, but it is manageable and definitely rewarding.  I took the class as a senior and I was glad I did--you get the opportunity to use the Clay Telescope and Dave Charbonneau is one of the better lecturers at the school.
Charbonneau is stellar.
It's a very rewarding class.
Stick with it beyond the first few lectures.
You should take this class if you are interested in taking a class that looks a planetary astrophysics with a strong emphasis on math and basic to intermediate physics concepts.
This is a great class that teaches you a lot of astronomy. Many people were caught off guard by how quantitative the material was. This is really and Astrophysics course so you need to know how to do physics to do well in this class. Aside from that Dave Charbonneau is an amazing lecturer and makes the material, which is already quite cool, even cooler. If he's teaching it again definitely look into this class.
Here's everything you need to know about this course: The professor, David Charbonneau, is awesome. Funny, engaging, helpful, and he's working on some really cool stuff. The course itself is really interesting - it gives you a really great look into astronomy and its many considerations. It is also partially structured around exoplanets and how to detect them and find out about their properties (this is Charbonneau's field of expertise). The problem sets are difficult (perhaps on the level of Physics 15a, but more conceptual and interesting). The computations are generally not to difficult (some algebra, some calculus). This is sort of random, but make sure you don't eat too big of a lunch because I sometimes fell asleep in class despite the material being really interesting. The midterm and final were manageable if you studied well, and they were actually quite helpful in synthesizing my astronomy knowledge. Also, if you want to get some observing experience as well as an automatic A, you can go for the exoplanet challenge - you need to detect an exoplanet through the transit method (it can be one that has already been found) using the Clay telescope on the Science Center. My group was able to get pretty solid data on an exoplanet. Make sure you choose to observe an exoplanet with a solid depth magnitude and good reference stars (such as TrES-3) to get optimal data. After that, you should pray for good weather during those nights. You will really love this class once you get engaged in the material!
If you like astronomy, take this class.
Stay on top of the work and get started on the psets.  Enjoy the fabulous teaching!
This is a class that was unused to its size and will more likely be better organized and structured next year. The lectures are superb and, if you put in time and effort, you will learn more about the way the universe works.
An exceptional class! Professor Charbonneau is an excellent lecturer and has an avid passion for the material, too bad he is on a sabbatical for 2013-2014.
Astronomy 16 is a fantastic way to take a look into Astronomy at Harvard.  Lectures are fantastic, and every class leaves you with that "I just learned something really awesome today" feeling.  If you are a science/math person, the difficulty is very fair, and the workload isn't too bad (usually about 5 hours or so per week on the p-sets, but labs may be more).  Occasionally some of the p-sets are a bit tedious with number-crunching and units, but the results are usually very interesting.  Labs (though sometimes very tiring) are quite fun, especially the night-time labs using the Clay Telescope.  Prof. Charbonneau is amazing and loves to teach the course and try to get students in the course involved with the Department and research as well.  The TF's are very helpful, and there is always plenty of support if you're having trouble with p-sets or lab write-ups.  If you are thinking about Astronomy in any way, try this course out!  It's a great way to learn a lot of cool topics without devoting too much time to coursework.  That being said, if you're a humanities/social sciences person, the pace might seem a bit fast but it's fun regardless!
Be comfortable with math and problem solving.  Knowing planet facts is not what this class is about.
This is a perfect Harvard intro course. In one semester, you will learn all of the basics of the subject at a level that is difficult but by no means impossible for someone with AP-level math and physics background. Professor Charbonneau is funny, brilliant, and a worldwide leader in the field. If he's on sabbatical, wait to take it until he returns.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. The assignments are interesting, the exams are fair, and Prof. Charbonneau is an amazing lecturer. I highly recommend this course to anyone with an interest in astronomy or astrophysics.
Astronomy 16 is a good way to see some planetary and stellar astrophysics, but don't expect topics to feel well connected or even well explained! Explanations often involve hand-wavy mathematics and justifications.
This is a great class regardless of whether you are interested in Astronomy. Professor Charbonneau is incredible, and if he teaches it your year, definitely consider taking this class.
The class is difficult but rewarding. You will attain a good intuition regarding stellar physics at the very least, if you enrol in the course.
If (and only if) you can retain a sense of awe at space and how everything is cool and big and fiery and old and cosmic and cool, then you'll love this class. Otherwise, it will fall short. There's a bit too much tedious algebra. It's taught like a fast paced derivational science class (somewhat like physics 15), but the material is inherently too complex to be completely understood computationally at an introductory level. People with little science background may find it too computational, and people used to taking physics/math classes may find the computations tedious and unnecessary. But still, space is super cool. You get to use a research grade telescope to look at planets and star clusters and galaxies, and you directly measure the distance to the sun. Charbonneau is great, and works hard to keep you interested, but you have to actively try to maintain an appreciation for the awesomeness that is space.
This course definitely does take time and commitment. The lecture's can often be boring, but the exams are pretty straightforward if you have a good grasp on the material covered on homework and in lecture.
A very difficult class that I did not enjoy. Charbonneau teaches well, but if you don't enjoy the first weeks of the class, just switch to another one.
Even if you're not sure you want to pursue astro, this course will be well worth your time. The lectures and labs are enjoyable and you come out with a pretty good idea of a lot of different astro topics. Sometimes the depth of material could be better, but I think for how much it covers the course gives an adequate understanding.
I think as someone very into cosmology prior to this class, I was somewhat disappointed by how much of this class turned out to be tedious calculations and memorizations. Nevertheless, Charbonneau is a fantastic teacher, the material is interesting, and the class isn't terribly difficult. I think my biggest problem was that this class is easy, but not trivially easy. Don't put things off, definitely study for the midterms/final, and ask your TF's lots of questions, because they're fantastic. I personally don't think the Exoplanet Challenge was worth my time/effort because I could've easily used that time to study more for the final, but the labs overall are a great experience and a lot of fun. Overall, I highly recommend this course. It's a good introduction to Astronomy, and it's not terribly time-consuming.
Great class - Charbonneau is a great lecturer, and the material is pretty cool. Exoplanets!! The psets weren't as fun as I expected, and the grading was a little hard. Tests were not bad at all.
If you have any interest in astronomy/astrophysics, I would recommend this class. Astronomy 16 focuses on planet and star formation, while Astronomy 17 focus on black holes and early universe formation. If you aren't interested in planet and star formation, you'll still learn a lot from this class but a good portion of the lectures are dedicated to in-depth study of the processes. I found it helpful to take Astronomy 17 before Astronomy 16, though order doesn't necessarily matter.
It's interesting and not too hard. I might wait for Charbonneau to come back to take it, since he does a good job with it, but maybe whoever replaces him will too.
Astro 16 is a great elective for science concentrators, as you learn about awesome and relevant topics in astrophysics like stellar structure and the formation of the solar system.  The class is relatively difficult and most of the people taking it are intense Math 25 freshmen, so think about taking it pass/fail if you're not a hardcore math/science person.
Looking back on the semester, it's crazy to think how much we covered in this class. If you are interested in Astrophysics, it is a great course taught by a fantastic Professor!
This class is one of the best things you will ever do.  You will learn so much - about our solar system, about the history of the study of the skies, about modern developments in a growing and changing field.  This is an exciting time for astronomy and planetary science research, and this class is an excellent portal to that research.
A lot of people love astro 16 but I thought it was just an average course. As an introduction to astronomy it serves very nicely but it feels more like a high school class. There's no explicit curve so the grades you get on tests are the grades you get. The labs and problem sets are all reasonable. Lectures tend to be boring and the lack of posted lecture notes is a real problem since the textbook is not very comprehensive. If you're definitely into astronomy, take the class and you'll enjoy it but if you're more into pure physics, you'd be better off taking something offered in the physics department.
This class is great, and the lectures are incredible. Charbonneau is a fantastic lecturer. Although the course topics are fairly straightforward and easy, the exams can be killer.
This is a wonderful class for science-background students and non-science students alike. As long as you have an interest in the course material, it's an amazing class!
Unlike most physics classes, this course involves less theory and a lot of number crunching.  The labs are fun and very interesting, but the lab reports also involve quite a lot of tedious work.  That said, the labs may be the best part of the course, since they involve doing real astrophysics.
Perhaps less interesting than Astro 17. The subject matter is becoming increasingly important, though. Not difficult.
Great class, fascinating topic, awesome professor, and a much more academically adventurous way to fill your SPU requirement.
Its a great class, super interesting and fun labs. The professor's great, really enthusiastic. It is challenging though (HW and exams) so don't take this thinking its an easy class, but if you do take it be prepared for a great semester!
This class is FASCINATING. Charbonneau has so much enthusiasm for the subject matter that it is contagious. Also, as a member of this class you get access to incredible technology and historic documents & discoveries. The problem sets are not discouragingly hard, although they do take effort. Definitely not a blow off class, but DEFINITELY worth the moderate amount of work.
One of my favorite courses! The subject matter is really interesting and the amount of work is reasonable. The night lab runs pretty late, but it is definitely worth it.
If you at all have any interest in astronomy, then take this class! Prof. Charbonneau really shows enthusiasm for the topics and the TFs are always willing to help. If you decide to do the exoplanet challenge, try not to place all your hopes for a successful grade in the lab. We are in Boston and so often times the weather is not favorable for the precise measurements we need for a proper light curve. I still recommend trying it just because the lab is a great chance to use the Clay telescope.
Talk to the professor! He's got upcoming research in the field of exoplanets and will leak just enough for you to figure out where the good stuff's going to be; if you press him on it it gets awkward and hilarious.I SAW THAT DATAPOINT, PROFESSOR CHARBONNEAU. It was purple, and it was way the hell in the habitable zone, don't you try to hide it from me. Publish or perish, Charbonneau. It's an expression for a reason, and I'm the reason.No, much love. You guys are all wonderful.
Astro 16 was a really fun course with a comparatively light workload. Also, Charbonneau is the man.
interesting and rewarding course.
This class is a really fabulous intro to astrophysics. I was really pleased by how much ground we covered in a semester. Take it if you are thinking about astronomy and want to know what it's like. I haven't taken physics for a long time (3+ years) and some of the calculus parts were tricky, but the homework is always manageable and the TFs are very willing to help out - they run a weekly problem session to help explain problems on the problem set.
do the work so you don't need to rely on exoplanet lab working out
This is a hard class, but it's a fun one to take if you're looking for an introduction to astronomy. It will take a lot of time. I took it pass/fail, and I really enjoyed it - I'd recommend thinking about doing that if you want to learn some stuff on this topic but not to put tons of time into it.
The problem sessions can be on the long end but it is a very interesting class and you will definitely learn a lot.
The best Gen Ed at Harvard. Period. Charbonneau is a fantastic teacher and the team of TFs are very, very helpful.
A great course to take if you are interested in studying astronomy.
Sometimes the material we cover would be stuff that was just published a few months ago, hence the class is not only a comprehensive introduction to stars and planets, it is extremely relevant as well.
Very fun course that isn't too much work but still leaves you feeling like you learned something.
This class is amazing. It's a difficult at times, but completely worth it.
I took this class unsure about how it would go given that I didn't do too well in previous Harvard classes and I was absolutely amazed! Prof. Charbonneau is so enthusiastic about the subject that you'll get into this too. The TFs are amazing and very nice people. Make sure you do the psets on your own before working in a group. Go to the problem sessions and do it yourself first- I learned that mid-way in the semester!Try your hand at the exoplanet challenege. Even if you don't succeed, it's a good learning experience!
A great introductory class into the Astrophysics Department. You will discover a lot about the relatively new history of astrophysics and even answer some of the more elusive questions about our universe, such as how to detect life on other planets.
Astro 16 is well-taught with an incredible professor (Charbonneau) and fantastic teaching fellows. I will say, however, if you have not taken any physics/astro before, this class proves rather difficult. Most students in this class seem to be very dedicated to astrophysics to the point of intimidation. If you want to take this course because you're interested in stars and planets and want to learn from a leading researcher in the field, then take this course but be sure to have a solid math background, at least, and prepare to make friends to do the problem sets with.
This class is a good course - but don't be fooled by the good Q score! It's INCREDIBLY time consuming and challenging, especially if you're not a physics/math whiz.  And trust me, almost everyone else WILL be physics/math, so be ready to be way out of your element if you're any other science or - God forbid - humanities.  I know people take this P/F as seniors, but if you're interested in it you're better off auditing it - even P/F its a lot of work.  Don't be tricked by Charbonneau!! He's a great professor, but he's really into convincing people to take this class, and especially to NOT take it P/F.  He'll even offer this dream extra credit lab for an A - uh, yeah, don't believe that!!! First off, its really a matter of luck whether or not you'll even be able to observe and get valid data. Second, even if your data is pretty good, they won't tell you whether it's A worthy or not - seriously, I don't even know right now, as I'm writing this, and I won't know until I get my grades. Kind of unfortunate. CONCLUSION: you like math? physics? super good at both? do it!  You're not? Well then expect to work your but off if you take this... but I'd advise you not to.
First of all, lectures are amazing. Dave Charbonneau is extremely knowledgeable and enthusiastic, and best of all, is an expert in his field; it's really fantastic that such a prominent research scientist teaches an introductory course.  The small class size is a huge asset--this is the rare introductory science course where you can actually ask your professor lots of questions in class.  Lecture in Astro 16 feels like section in other classes, except that you're taught by a professor rather than a TF.  And of course the content is fascinating, particularly the exoplanet part of the course, which is taught exceptionally well, since it's Charbonneau's area of expertise.
This is one of the best classes you'll take at Harvard, and if it's taught by Charbonneau, you're taking it with one of the lead researchers in the field. Recommended to even those that aren't planning on majoring in Astrophysics, or even Physics!
Lectures are great! If you go and take good notes, the problem sets and tests shouldn't be difficult at all. The readings are ok, but are not nearly as useful as the lectures. Also the labs are a lot of fun and really teach you a lot about astronomy.
As a math/science person, this class was really great. I learned a lot and had a lot of fun learning it. However, do not just take this as a gen-ed unless you are really willing to work. The problem sets are not too bad if you work with other people but the labs and tests are pretty difficult. Don't come in expecting to just skate by.
Take this class!!! Dave Charbonneau is a fantastic lecturer. He has so much enthusiasm and is always able to keep the material interesting (plus it is interesting material to begin with, the universe, c'mon it's so cool). Be prepared to do a lot of work on the problem sets, but it pays off because you will come away from this class having a really good knowledge of basic astrophysics. There is an extra credit project at the end where you do independent research using the Clay telescope on top of the science center. Do this lab, it is a really cool experience. Overall this is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard and I highly recommend it.
If you are looking for a gen ed class that isn't math heavy, this probably isn't the course for you.  If you are more in my boat, and want a fun, science elective, this is a wonderful class.  The laboratory experience with operating the telescopes is very cool, and it really helps bring the course content together.  Professor Charbonneau is a great lecturer; everybody consistently showed up to lecture.  P-sets and tests are reasonable.
This class was enjoyable, and would be a good choice for an elective, but as an intro Astro course, I feel like it failed to teach the material as fully as it could have. However, as it is required for an Astro concentration, there's really no way to get around it
This class is fun, the workload is not stressful, best way for anyone with a decent mathematical background to fulfil the SPU requirement and learn some interesting astronomy.
This class was by far my favorite class this semester. The teaching style is different from most classes (Groups working together to complete worksheets each class), but you learn to love it. Additionally, you have the opportunity to use the Clay Telescope which is very interesting. The class can be tricky at times and certain worksheets may seem overly difficult, but it is worth it. Definitely recommend taking it.
This is a great course, that is challenging but very interesting. Most classes felt like a really cool TED talk where we would learn about some awesome part of the universe, and then we would go do a bunch of math, which was at times challenging, but the teaching staff did a great job helping everyone out and making the material accessible.
I really enjoyed this class. Professor Johnson is great delivering short lectures, and I liked the collaborative aspect of working on the p-sets for the majority of class time. The labs were fun and interesting, overall a great class where you can learn a bunch.
This class teaches interesting material and does so in such a way as to ensure a deep understanding. However, the time spent writing blog posts seemed inefficient since it was a rewriting of the problems already done during class. Also, I felt that (other than time spent writing the blogs), the class was not very challenging. It was geared more towards people who were taking the class out of interest in astronomy with little background in physics or astro than for students intending to concentrate in the field. The eclipsing binary lab, however, was interesting and I enjoyed the experience doing the exoplanet challenge.
This class will change the way that you think about the Universe. Additionally, the inverted classroom model worked very well with this course.
This course is very helpful if you would like to explore astronomy as a potential interest. However, if you already know you enjoy astronomy, or you have the requisite physics/astro background, I would encourage you to jump ahead and take higher level courses. Furthermore, if you do take this course, be sure to do blog posts early every week!
This class is amazing for people whoa re interested or think they might be interested in astronomy. The teaching staff is great and will help you through the material even though it may be hard. It is worth it though and you should take this class because you have a passion to learn and for the stars.
I really enjoyed this class. The material and reverse classroom teahing is great, if an adjustment at first. It can be a little unorganized and the confusing wording in some worksheets can be frustrating. But these are little things in comparison to the whole class.
This is an awesome course. The format is very different than any other course I've taken at Harvard, which was very enjoyable. I learned a LOT of material in a challenging, but not stressful environment. Also, be sure to do the exoplanet challenge! If you successfully detect an exoplanet, you get an automatic "A" in the course!
This is a great class! Very nice lecture setup (10-minute lecture and solving  problems in groups). Prof. Johnson is very enthusiastic and engaging. Teaching staff was excellent. Does not take too much time outside of class.
Professor Johnson is very enthusiastic about astronomy. Classes are spent solving problems in groups using the many blackboards in the room. You will get to use the Clay Telescope on top of the Science Center for night labs!
There is little to no lecture at all.  Most of this course is working through worksheets with classmates on blackboards.  The derivations are tedious, but if you learn best in a group "do it yourself" environment, you will enjoy this.  If you can record the transit of an exoplanet, you can get an automatic A in the course.  This si legit, and I did it after spending 7 nights in the telescope.
This class addressed fundamental questions about the enormous place we live in and where we came from.
This a low-stress, LOT-OF-LEARNING class and you should definitely take it. You will get most of the PSETS done DURING CLASS!! but make sure you save time to write posts.
While the content was interesting, if you like astronomy but don't want to be an astronomer, you might be happier in a different class. Additionally, if you do the exoplanet challenge, your sleep schedule will get screwed up pretty badly at a busy time in the semester. However, if you have some science/math background and want to take a more legit class to fill your SPU requirement, or if you actually might want to do astrophysics, then this is your class.
This class is very fun and rewarding, even if you are not interested in astronomy.  Being able to use the Clay Telescope was awesome.
This course is taught in a flipped classroom style with no lecture component. The material is taught through the completion of worksheets during class; in place of problem sets, blog posts about some portions of the worksheets are due online. Additionally, if you interested in higher level physics or astronomy, you will likely find the material in this class far too simplistic and as a result, uninteresting.
It's amazing if you're interested about stars and space, but it's definitely difficult.
This class is necessary if you plan to concentrate or get a secondary in astronomy in astrophysics. I was very excited to take this class because I had heard really good reviews of it and I wanted to try out the astrophysics concentration. I was extremely disappointed. Past Q guide reviews raved about the Professor Johnson's group work class model, but I did not like it all that much. This may have been because it did not work as well in my class of 50 students than in past years when it was closer to 20 students. I did enjoy getting to know my group mates and lab mates very well. The major downside to the group-work model is that we were expected to teach ourselves everything. If Professor Johnson did teach anything to us directly, it was only after the entire class had failed to understand something (after the homework had been turned in and lots of people got it wrong). Most of the class felt more like an applied math class than an astronomy class. The exception to this, and in my opinion, the class's redeeming quality, was the labs. The labs were fun and seemed to be representative of what real observational astronomers do. I loved using the telescope and seeing the data analysis produce results. Without the labs, I would probably not still be considering concentrating in astrophysics.
This was an excellent class, I highly recommend it.  You will learn more than just astronomy - in this class you will learn how to solve problems that you have no idea how to approach initially.  The blog posts force you to really dive into the homework problems and demonstrate your understanding of the material, and although they were a little intimidating at first, I learned a lot from them.  I would suggest either taking Physics 15a or Math 21a before taking this class (I only took Math 21a).
The teaching staff is amazing! John Johnson was the best teacher I had this year.  Also, astronomy is just such an eye-opening and awe-inspiring subject. I think it can be extremely interesting for anyone, not JUST scientists/STEM concentrators
Astronomy 16 is a great course for learning the basics of astronomy.  The lab portions of the class entail using the Clay Telescope on the top of the Science Center and analyzing the data, an experience that I found to be very interesting and enjoyable.
Very good class if you're someone who is interested in learning some astro or just trying something new. If you're an astro concentrator, you don't really have a choice but to take this class, but be prepared for some frustration wit shady derivations and drastic simplifications of the topics. However, take advantage of having an awesome professor. John Johnson is an amazing professor with a lot of experience in meeting people and advising students.
Really fun, fascinating principles, very unique format that works really well. Most interesting, engaging, and all around best course I have taken at Harvard.
Take this class! The teaching staff is incredible and they have a unique style focused on learning, so you will learn tons and be a much better problem solver by the end, no matter what you plan to study. If you have a strong math/physics background this class will be very painless, otherwise, you might have to put in a little more work to really understand things, but either way, there is so much help available and getting a good grade is quite straightforward, but you do need to put some work into it. Not really a class you can skip because of the group work. They had some really cool guest speakers come in, and I learned so much about the scientific process and what it takes to be good at science.
Best course I have EVER taken at Harvard! I have always been a space nerd, and this course made me realize how I shouldn't waste my undergraduate career doing something that I am just marginally interested in. I realized I had a strong passion for astronomy, and now I feel like I want to utilize every resource Harvard's Astronomy department has. Also, John Johnson is awesome!
This is an excellent class taught by an excellent professor, Prof. Johnson. The class requires very few prerequisites; a high school calculus course is sufficient. The classes are highly collaborative; after a short 15-20 minute lecture by Prof. Johnson, the remainder of the class time is given to students in order to solve worksheet problems in small groups. The professor and TFs are there to assist with any problems the students encounter with the worksheets. Each week, students are required to write up the solutions to some or all of the worksheet problems in a blog, in order to improve the students' writing and presentation skills. This is very effective, since making your own blog engenders a sense of ownership and pride over each blogpost and encourages the students to spend time making their posts look good. At the end of the year, students have the opportunity to partake in the Exoplanet Challenge, in which participating students form groups and are given a number of nights on which they can attempt to detect an exoplanet with the transit method. Our year, we were given 4 half nights on the Clay Telescope, and one full night on one of the Minerva telescopes, located in Arizona and operated by us remotely. Individuals in groups that have successfully complete the Exoplanet Challenge can then write up a paper on their results. After the final exam, Prof. Johnson determines which of the students who submitted papers did in fact successfully complete the challenge (the large majority are given the thumbs up), and those students are automatically given an A for the class (assuming they showed effort throughout the class and on the final). The class also consists of a day lab, in which students determine the length of the astronomical unit (distance from the Earth to the Sun), through observations of the Sun. And there is also a night lab, in which students observe the transit of an eclipsing binary star system in order to determine the key parameters of the binary system. I highly recommend this class; for concentrators in astrophysics, the class is essential. For all other students, it makes for a fun, educational, and accessible Gen. Ed. and introduction to astronomy.
This class is fantastic because the TFs, Marion, Luke, Zack, and John, as well as professor Johnson, are fantastic. While the hands-on, complete-the-problem-sets-in-class format might seem off-putting, it is key to understanding the more complicated concepts as you get immediate help from TFs, and can work through issues with your partners. Definitely take this class if you are interested in the material, and learning about some seriously cool things. I loved it. Nevertheless, it is not an easy A, and significant work is necessary to make sure you integrate the concepts once class is over.
The topics covered are really interested, but the way the class is taught is quite different - you have to find a way that make it works for you. I found that it works for some, and really doesn't for others. Put time into finishing the assignments ahead of time.
I loved this class! Working on problems during class instead of listening to lectures really helped me learn the material, and the TFs are amazing. Using the telescope was also a really cool experience. Definitely take this class if you are interested in astronomy at all!
This class is an interesting and fun way to be introduced to astronomy. Its unusual inverted lecture format is an acquired taste: shop it and decide for yourself if you find it alright. I had a lot of fun taking this class, and rarely felt like I was working because my hardest problem-solving was done in class with a support network of the professor and TFs.
This is a fun class where you learn a lot. There is a steady stream of work but the workload is never unreasonable. Take this class if Professor Johnson is teaching it!
Great class, very informative, would love to have many classes like this.
I'm not sure if John Johnson will be teaching 16 again next year, but if he is, take it. There are a very few classes out there that I genuinely believe will change your life and the way you approach learning in general, and this is absolutely one of them. Regardless of your level of interest in astronomy, I think this class would be beneficial, but if you even have the most tangential interest in astronomy, physics, or outer space, you will absolutely adore this class. There were a few issues with the "inverted classroom" model that was implemented this year (pacing was really the only significant one), but the teaching staff (all of which was downright incredible) all were aware of them and I think next year the class will be even better. I couldn't recommend a course more highly.
You'll get frustrated with the systemic parts of the class, sometimes homework is ambiguous and there is poor communication. However, class itself is remarkably enjoyable, it's presented in a novel way, and you walk away knowing some really wonderful things about the universe. As a student taking this class purely as an elective, I absolutely enjoyed my time in the course.
The format of the class definitely made coming to class worthwhile (I never fell asleep!). I really enjoyed working in small groups and solving problems at the board. I think this format works really well with this class. But, sometimes the TF's would give conflicting advice while solving a problem. This was very frustrating because we would start solving a problem one way, under the advisement of one TF, and then another would come over and tell us it was wrong. Also the take home assessments sucked because they took forever. The teaching staff way underestimated the time it would us to solve the problems because I have talked to many people and it took everyone forever. Overall this class was super cool and I really enjoyed the format. Just start your blog posts early as they take longer than you may think.
The staff in this class truly care a lot about teaching it and helping you learn and the small class and unusual method of teaching are really great. That said, the course was run quite poorly this semester (REALLY late grading, poor worksheets). I think this will be fixed in future iterations of the class as the first time is always one of the hardest.
The structure of the course this year focused on team-based problem solving instead of lecture. That is, Prof. Johnson would lecture for at most 30 minutes, and the rest of the time would be dedicated to working on the pset while TFs walked around and helped anyone who needed it. I love this structure and think it should be more widely applied, so you should totally take this course. However, this is not an "easy gen-ed" and the psets can sometimes take a lot of time.
This class has a groupwork-based format, that makes things easier but less satisfying if you prefer digging into physics and problems alone. However, the class is set up with care and the teaching staff is super nice/helpful. Also, if you are interested in stellar and planetary physics, you HAVE to take this course. If you are interested in "bigger scale" cosmological or extra-galactic stuff, that is not covered in the course. Overall, it's an interesting experience at Harvard--a break from the norm of classes here. It's also fairly easy.
If you like learning about the stars and planets, take the class!!
This class has changed a lot from previous years. Professor Johnson has introduced a completely new teaching style, where you get into groups and work through worksheets on blackboards situated around the classroom, instead of listening to lectures. Professor Johnson and the (very helpful) TFs circulate the room and help whenever your group gets stuck. At first, it seems really odd and you may feel a bit nervous and put on the spot, but it is an effective way to learn as long as you buy into it. You and your group will feel very connected by the end of the year, and the TFs are always there to help when you get stuck (and you will get stuck... a lot). I was surprised by how much I actually learned, and the exams were a great way to demonstrate this. The material is so interesting, and the night labs are super cool. Using the Clay Telescope (the REAL telescope on the roof of the Science Center... not the crappy one that anyone can get swipe access to) was definitely a highlight of the course for me, and it was great to learn how to operate a professional-grade telescope and all the companion software. Instead of handing in problem sets, you will make blog posts every week of the problems on the worksheets and some 'freeform' posts about whatever you find interesting about astrophysics in the news or in general. This was the first year of the new version of Astro 16, so there were some kinks in the process, but overall it was very good and I learned a lot. Definitely recommend this course!
This class is awesome even if you're not a physics/astro concentrator
This class is a great introduction to astronomy. The setup of the course itself is quite unconventional -- in class you work through problems in groups, and for homework you write blog posts on these problems, on labs, and on topics of your choice. Class time feels well spent, and writing blog posts can be fun if you enjoy putting effort into the presentation of your work. However, this course also has take home examinations that do not allow the use of a calculator. These exams were tedious and excessively time consuming, albeit reasonable in difficultly. Overall, this is an excellent course and highly recommended for those with even a casual interest in astronomy.
The labs are awesome, and it's a great gateway to astronomy if that's a field you're interested in; if you're not sure about astronomy though, take this course anyway! The work was done in groups, which was a new style to me, so if you don't understand something, it's easy to get help from someone who does. I feel that I learned a lot about the universe, but I also feel that I still don't quite fully grasp everything that I learned. The course would be better with a stronger lecture component, which it will hopefully have next year.
If you're looking for a very, very general introduction to astronomy, this course will probably suit your interests. That being said, while some of the material had the potential to be really interesting, the course does not go as in depth as I personally would have liked (it sometimes felt a bit popular science-y). However, even if the classroom material is dry, the night lab and especially the exoplanet lab are really interesting and unique and you should definitely make the most of them (you get to use a real telescope!).
I am hopeful that this class will fix it's problems, many of us gave full feedback. I also think that this coming year is a better time to take it, as the class was compiled by Karin Oberg and she is the teacher next year. I've talked to her personally and given feedback from writing, and she seems to have a better plan for next year, but the way that it was run this year was incredibly frustrating as we never knew what we were supposed to learn, what would be on exams, or why we were just typing up problems that we'd already done for work. Still, the material is cool, and I have faith that the class will get better, so I don't want to totally recommend against this.
Astrophysics is really cool, and this class is a really mellow way to expose yourself to the subject. Not too much work, and it's really fascinating to learn about what we know and don't know about the life cycles of stars.
This is an excellent class. It covers a very wide range of "nearby" astronomy (stars, planets, etc.) and has a fun format that uses worksheets and blog posts. Except for the lab reports, I never felt overwhelmed by the work in this class.
If you like astro, this class will be great!
If you plan on doing astrophysics, this course is required. It is always offered in the spring, after Astro 17 in the fall. This is stupid, because most freshmen interested in astrophysics will take Astro 17 their freshmen fall, after which literally all of the material in Astro 16 is irrelevant. The course would be more useful if offered in the fall as an introduction to the more difficult material in 17. Expect an easy semester.
The workload for this class is surprisingly small since you do most of your homework in class. The difficulty then lies in preparing for the midterm and final; if you've been slacking with the assignments or have been doing just the easier set of problems, you may struggle with the exams. These comments are subject to change if Professor Conroy (excellent and motivated lecturer!) isn't teaching again.
interesting subject matter, cool labs, but lecture style doesn't facilitate learning the material - make sure you know physics and calc
This class is a great introduction for anyone who wants to study, or is just interesting in, astrophysics. You can really dig as deeply into the material as you want, and there is bound to be at least one topic per week which is absolutely mind-blowing.
Very chill class, but you get what you put in. Probably learning how to operate the Clay by ourselves was the most rewarding aspect.
Take this course if you want to do cool astronomy labs, but if you're looking to really learn about the universe it's not that great.
Have a solid basis in physics and know calculus. Other than that, the course is not that much work outside of class and getting to use Harvard's fancy telescope is really fun.
Don't take this class unless you have to. I took it because I wanted to see if I would like Astro as a potential concentration, and I think this class was a poor litmus test and really a waste of time. You don't learn much or enjoy it much. But if you have to take it, take it with friends! You spend around half the period working on problem sets, and it's nice to be able to work on them with friends.
Go to TALC
This course covers some very interesting material, as an example, I thought learning about exoplanets and then getting the chance to observe one (for a very generous final grade boost), was super cool. However, the flipped classroom format is terrible - you won't learn anything. The "flipped" sessions always end up devolving into sitting at a blackboard until a TF comes around to explain things, at that rate it should just be taught as a lecture. Unless you're really into this flipped classroom stuff, I'd recommend being wary.
The subject matter is super interesting, and though the class sometimes lacks structure there is lots of support available from the teaching staff.
This class is a LOT of fun and made me want to concentrate in Astro. If you take it, don't be discouraged if somewhere in the middle of the semester you have very little idea what's going on, just go to office hours and everything will clear up, and hold on tight because the end of the semester is SO MUCH FUN (once you've got all the physics down, you get to the really interesting things like how did our solar system form, what planets are potentially habitable). Do BEWARE, there are labs in this class, and some of them are night labs, and theres a challenge for extra credit at the end of the semester that if you decide to take up will also require you to go to the telescope at night, so if you have a lot of over-night extracurriculars this semester, or other classes that force you to pull a lot of all nighters, you're gonna have a tight end-of-semester.
Astro 16 was an amazing course! The TF's were amazing and really made the class. The blog post format was fantastic and fun. Labs were awesome, albeit quite challenging and a lot of work. I do however recommend only taking this class if you really have a strong interest in astronomy and a pretty good foundation in mechanics.
Buckle up. This is quite a good amount of work waiting for you.
I really loved this class! If you're interested in majoring in astrophysics, definitely take this class. Don't be scared away by Physics 15a, like I almost was. This class is pretty easy, and you get a 1/3 grade boost if you attempt the exoplanet lab and write a report on it. Honestly, if you do the work in this class you'll see it in your grades. Word of caution, however: don't take this class as a cool astronomy Gen ed, that's not what it's for. This is an intro astronomy class and you'll be biting off much more than you can chew!
The TFs and Karin make the class great. They are very helpful and really walk you through the learning process.
Do the exoplanet challenge! Even though it would take a lot of time and the Clay Telescope could be unpredictable, it's an awesome feeling when you finally observe one; plus you learn a lot about doing empirical fieldwork.
The observational component is awesome! Telescopes are so cool!
It's a relaxed and low workload course that focuses on problem-solving in groups during class. Good as an elective. However, if you have a serious interest in astrophysics, you won't find the course sufficient or thorough.
This was my favorite class that I took this semester and possibly one of my favorite classes at Harvard so far. I don't have much of a physics background, but all the material was manageable and the course staff was really supportive when I had questions. The blog posts might seem a little overwhelming, but a lot of them were actually pretty fun to write--just don't put them all off until the night before they're due (like I did several times). The combination lecture-worksheet format of the class really worked and I think I learned a lot from each of the components. Dr. berg is awesome and super nice so if you're interested at all in astronomy I highly highly recommend this class.
TAKE THIS CLASS! PROFESSOR OBERG IS AN INCREDIBLE HUMAN BEING AND SO ARE ALL THE TF'S
Strongly recommend to take this class, but expect that its grading curve will be harder than in previous years.
This course will expose you to the amazing world beyond ours, and give you the opportunity to prove it for yourself.
Great class.  The content is cool, the group work / blog post format of the class makes the workload super manageable, and the teaching staff is wonderful.
This is a really awesome class, and if you want something that's science-y but not SUPER science-y (mostly math-based) to fulfill your SPU Gen Ed, definitely take Astro 16. Really awesome professor and TFs, reasonable workload, and very interesting material.
lab times are lots of fun
This class is a great break from the traditional classroom experience at Harvard. It really challenges you to think in new ways that are more conceptual and less exact, which is a skill that I felt I hadn't practiced enough.Note, however, that although there doesn't seem to be a lab component in the course description on my.harvard, there are in fact quite a few lab sessions over the course of the semester. Not a reason to not take the course, but something to keep in mind.
The class as a whole is definitely doable whether or not you have a background. There's an extra credit project you can do to automatically get an A. Take it.
