This course provides a great introduction to cosmology at a level that is appropriate for a motivated physics or astrophysics concentrator.
This course is good. The problem sets are pretty significantly easier than the midterm and final, which can throw you off a little bit, but at the end of the day its a good course.
This class covers a lot of interesting topics in a way that is accessible to those coming in with no background in astronomy/astrophysics.  Lectures rarely strayed from the textbook, but were still interesting and worth attending.
Finkbeiner is great, he really knows what he's talking about.  This is like Astro 17 but done very well and at a more rewarding depth.You're guaranteed to learn things about the universe you didn't know before, I definitely recommend this class.
If you're interested in cosmology, this class gives you a great foundation for our understanding of the universe.
Cosmology is one of the most interesting topics I have found at Harvard, and Professor Finkbeiner really cares about teaching it well and making it interesting.
If you want to learn the topic, this class will do it. Professor knows his stuff.
Doug makes everything accessible; the start of the universe is a very quirky place-- have fun visiting.
Cosmology is a very intriguing subject.  I would recommend the class to physics and astrophysics students interested in the physics of the early universe and how astronomical observations inform the models that describe the evolution of the universe as a whole.
This is a great course that I feel gave me a fairly thorough insight into the history of the Universe as we currently understand it.
This is an interesting course. It's very cool to learn about the the behavior and structure of our universe. It can be tricky though so make sure to do all the readings slowly.
Overall a really interesting course! The problem sets can be frustrating sometimes, but the textbook is fantastic and Finkbeiner is a good lecturer. If you've taken some physics (up to 15c at least), you'll be fine in this course even without prior astronomy experience.
I think you would get more out of this class if you have taken another Astronomy course first.  We followed the Ryden textbook closely.  I think that there was a little less commitment to the course this year than in previous years.
The material in the course is really interesting and Finkbeiner is an excellent lecturer, so you'll definitely learn a lot about different models for the universe and large-scale structure.  It's probably best to have an astro background when you take the class.
The material is very interesting and Finkbeiner is funny and down-to-earth, but I didn't particularly enjoy the homeworks. It's not too heavy of a workload though, so take it if you think you'd really enjoy the subject matter. It also helps tie many astro concepts together pretty neatly.
Professor Finkbeiner is reason enough to take this class. Great textbook, great assignments, fair assessments, and they really care about you here. And if you're like me, cosmology is half the reason you care about physics in the first place; this class will not disappoint!
Read the book! Lectures are almost identical!
This is a very interesting course. If you can handle the problem sets and pay attention in lecture, you will enjoy the course a lot. Prof. Finkbeiner is a great guy to talk to; he was my favorite part of the course.
This is a really fun course. It is usually very small so there's lots of opportunity for interaction with the professor and TF. Psets are not time consuming at all but I still learned a lot of cosmology. You don't need to know GR for this course but it teaches a lot of the exciting phenomena that result from GR. Lectures are engaging. Definitely take this course.
This is a really great course. It has really interesting material that you'll be thinking about outside of class. The homeworks were the right difficulty and we covered a lot of really interesting material. I highly recommend this over another plain physics course. You'll learn so much more interesting material and it's really fun to learn about things like dark energy that we have little to no idea about what they actually are.
Definitely take this class! Doug is great!
This is definitely a worthwhile class to take! The material covered gives a good introduction to cosmology as a whole, following Ryden's textbook (which is very good) pretty closely. Professor Finkbeiner does a lot of numerical calculations and order of magnitude estimates throughout lecture, which is great for building numerical intuition in astrophysical contexts. The work was fairly easy, and most problems were taken directly from Ryden, but you will definitely come out of the class with a solid foundation in cosmology. Stephen and Zach are both great TFs, and although Zach will not be coming back to TF as he finished his PhD, definitely take note if Stephen is!
I would recommend this class if you are interested in the physics-side of astronomy, as 95% of the coursework is math and physics.
This was a solid class. Psets were manageable and book is interesting.
The material of this class is very interesting! But sometimes the method can be frustrating and sometimes it feels like the material in class doesn't quite match psets. That having been said, learning about the universe is well, learning about the universe - amazing! Finkbeiner is a great prof and the lectures are enjoyable.
Cosmology is so cool! What I liked most about this class is that it made the topic accessible, in a way that many popular science textbooks make it seem obscure. Professor Finkbeiner is also really funny and surprisingly sassy.
This course has some very interesting material, that you definitely don't want to miss out as an astro concentrator (or physics, etc.)  The workload is very manageable.  Professor Finkbeiner is also a great teacher.  The only downside is that, towards the end of the course, you get a lot of topics thrown at you that don't really get time to digest properly.
This is a fun class and the material is very interesting. Prof. Finkbeiner is a great and very funny. The lectures are a little unorganized and can be hard to follow, though close reading (and taking notes- they will be very helpful later for exam preparation, believe me) helps make the lectures clearer. The workload is relatively light compared to many physics courses, though this is not to say that it is easy.
This is a hard class. It is definitely not an elective to take if you aren't a physics or astrophysics concentrator or have taken a bunch of math and physics classes. Professor Finkbeiner is not the most knowledgable about cosmology but he is a very entertaining lecturer and you will learn things.
I found this class pretty enjoyable. Professor Finkbeiner is an engaging lecturer, and the material was very interesting. Lectures suffered a bit, though, from following the structure of the textbook a bit too rigidly, making them often feel like just a rehash of the textbook.
The class covers interesting material in an accessible way. Doug is a fun lecturer and the textbook is pretty easy to understand and is tied closely to the course material. Problem sets aren't too time-consuming.
