To have a decent background on galaxies, you need to learn on your own.
Read Binney & Tremaine and Padmanabhan.
It's not about galaxies and has little observational stuff.
Don't miss Prof. Zaldarriaga's lectures- they are often the most methodical and clear (he doesn't skip any steps). Honestly, a lot of the time this class was an exercise in frustration (particularly being assigned difficult problems on material we covered only briefly in lecture, or hearing the same topic multiple times while other important topics were never covered). Even the final had a question about the probability of observing a lensed galaxy that seemed to have nothing to do with galaxies at all- they were treated like test particles for the sake of the problem.
Your time would be better spent working through Binney and Tremaine and reading a good observational book and review papers.
Even though Avi and Matias tend to start the semester with enthusiasm, it is pretty evident that they loose interest during the semester. As with Cosmology Ay202b, the first month is very interesting and well lectured and with time the lectures seem to become completely disconnected from each other consisting of many random topics of astrophysics.
This is a great class; Prof. Eisenstein is a great lecturer and you will learn a lot.
This course is great with Eisenstein. He is a master at explaining concepts in a clear way and makes it seem so easy. The course should be mandatory like it used to be. Any astronomy grad student should have cosmology under her/his belt.
Daniel Eisenstein's lectures are top-notch.  Paper in lieu of final.
Prof Eisenstein, as everybody has already known, is great in teaching. This is a must-take course.
If you've struggled with this material before (like me), then this class will help you understand things in a much clearer way.
The course provides the cosmological foundation for understanding the origin and evolution of galaxies. Strong connections between observation and theory are made in lecture and assignments. References and motivations for further exploration of topics and open questions are supplied. The galaxies component could be more extensive. Nevertheless, the coverage they did receive will lead naturally into the companion course (Cosmology) in the winter semester. An ideal course for observers and theorists alike.
I think this would be a great course for someone interested in galaxies and is either doing research in this field or planning to.
An example of the utter failure of powerpoint lectures in physics classes.
As taught by Professor Huchra, this class is an excellent exposition of the history and present state of extragalactic astronomy.  If you want a deep understanding of the theory behind galaxy dynamics and evolution/formation, you may be somewhat disappointed, but do not let that deter you, because that topic requires it's own course(s)..
Go in without expecting to learn anything. Try to - but good luck!
You'll get a taste of a range of research topics related to galaxies, but you won't go into particular depth on any one topic.
Great purview into the relevant topics of galaxies today
I was able to pay attention without much effort.
This course is by far the best course I've taken at Harvard.
This class provides a very comprehensive overview of the theory and observations involved in galaxies and galactic dynamics. I learned a ton!
professor eisenstein is a great lecturer and really knows what he's talking about...he is a great resource to learn from in order to get a sense for the present state of research in astrophysics
Eisenstein is a great lecturer for this course, giving a good grounding on the open questions in various subfields of galaxy formation/dynamics.  Made me excited to explore more areas of galaxy research
A great overview of the current state of the field, with enormous breadth.  Prof. Eisenstein chooses topics that are very relevant to current work.
Good course, even if you aren't interested in galaxies all that much.
The course spends a brief amount of time introducing basic cosmology before delving into a survey galactic dynamics and evolution. It is rather fast-paced, and I found myself focusing on topics that I found relevant and ignoring the rest once the psets were done.
Only a small portion of the course covers galaxies in and of themselves.
Astro 202a is an odd mix of large-scale cosmology with small-scale galaxy formation and evolution. Prof. Conroy is incredibly knowledgeable, patient, and helpful. He occasionally goes a bit fast during math-y lectures, so ask him to slow down and he will.
Parts of it were hard to follow, but ultimately a very rich course. I think I could have gotten more out of it if I'd had some undergrad-level preparation.
