This course is special. You learn a great deal, taking observations and reductions, building a mental model of how the heavens work through the day and the year, but it's so different than most any other course at Harvard that it's almost therapeutic to work on this one.  Professor Sadler is fantastic--he really cares about the class and the students. To stretch a metaphor to its breaking point, the class is heavenly, but it's still grounded in practical skills and real learning.
Celestial navigation is a fun class-- not easy, but fun. It is incredibly hands-on and you get to use a lot of tools and instruments. It teaches practical skills and a basic understanding of the observable universe that I would highly recommend.
If you have a spare slot in your schedule, take this course: it is a hundred-year-old Harvard tradition, and after it you'll take a lot of pleasure in noticing all the things about the sky that you took for granted before.
Please take this class.  It is the ideal Harvard course.  More fun and hands on than any other course you will take.  You will be sad when it's over, but you will have learned more than you will anywhere.
This is my favorite class I've taken. Looking back, the amount you learn is incredible. Not only that, but it turns you into a more curious person about the world around you. I can't look up at the sky without noticing a constellation or thinking about where the sun/ moon are relative to the earth. You should note that this is not an easy class -- there is a pretty steady flow of work, but none of it feels like busy work. Prof. Sadler is also a really cool guy who has done some really interesting things in his life and cares about your understanding the material.
The professor is very enthusiastic about the content of this course.  I learned a great amount about navigation from this course, and also added some knowledge of the night sky.
This is an absolutely delightful class with a wonderful professor. It's a perfect elective at any point in your time at Harvard, and you'll leave with real skills that can be tough to come by in a liberal arts education. It's not difficult but it's very rewarding, and I recommend it very very highly.
It is time consuming, but not too difficult.  Take it if you are interested in learning more about celestial motion as viewed from earth.
As I said earlier, I felt like this class was one that taught me something concrete. Not only did I learn how to use the reduction forms for navigation I learned why and how these systems were developed. Students should keep in mind that there is a lot of fairly rote work to be done for this course and it is not something that will be spoon fed to you. You cannot fall behind.
It's very chill; there's not too much homework and the labs are interesting.  You do things like measure the height of stars, learn how they move in the sky, and learn how to navigate.
This is the single best class I have taken at Harvard, beyond any doubt.
This class is amazing if you take it pass-fail.  If you take it as an elective understand it will be as much work as a math/science class.  I loved the content but it was such a pain because it sucked 11+ hours of my week including lab time.
That this is super awesome... Life Skills Learnt: Celestial and Ocean Navigation and Romance
Phil really cares about how you do in this class and he will go above and beyond to make sure you do well. I have never seen as much effort from a professor in that realm, even in other small classes that I have taken at Harvard. This class is great and you will learn a lot of things if you put your time and heart into it. That speaking, you will have to put a lot of time into the psets, some times, they are repetitive and they take up a lot of time. You will get super frustrated with the psets, but they will help a lot on the tests, unlike other classes you may have taken at Harvard. I definitely recommend taking the class. It's not a simple "take as a 5th class" class either.  It's doable to take it as a 5th, but you have to put time into it if you want a lot out of it.
This is the best class you haven't heard of. Phil and Eliza are the most amazing, engaging, passionate, and knowledgable instructors. I put off my pset to do on Tuesdays between morning clas and evening lab which meant my entire Tuesday(11am-10pm) was dedicated to this class so be warned. However I do not regret taking this class a single bit. You will be a better more knowledge human after. Take this class!
Very different from average Harvard classes. Definitely more fun, definitely interesting material but perhaps also more useful than a lot of other classes. Better understanding of the world around you. Also great lessons in teaching from Prof. Sadler.
The class is not demanding in terms of work load, but you do learn to reevaluate your models of the Earth and the stars. Eliza in particular really emphasizes understanding the concepts so you can reconstruct the knowledge needed to do navigation from that. You also get to work with cool instruments like sextants, and by the end, everything comes together in a cohesive picture. You learn enough to actually go across the Atlantic, as evident in Eliza's celestial-only trip plots. Overall a fantastic course that, if you can afford to lose most your Tuesdays, I would recommend as an elective (but I think Phil is pushing for it to fulfill SPU for next year).
This class is amazing!  It is A LOT of work though, and can be quite difficult if, like me, you don't have a strong science/math background.  But the concepts will stay with you for life, and Captain Phil and Eliza are amazing!  Also, the work makes for a small and very close class...everyone in the class was wonderful and I made some great friends!  Highly recommended for anyone who wants to try something new and dedicate time!  ALSO, THIS CLASS IS GREAT IF YOU LIVE IN THE QUAD.
This class is an excellent experience to learn celestial navigation in an interactive, hands-on way. It does take a fair amount of time, mainly due to the 5 hours of class in the quad on Tuesdays. However, psets and exams are reasonable, and the teaching staff is very good.
You get out of this class what you out into it, so work hard and ask questions.
This course teaches you how to learn science. It also teaches you to appreciate, understand, and use facts about the way the earth is and relates to surrounding objects. The teachers are knowledgeable, caring, and helpful, and the students are diverse and committed. This class will probably in the long-run be the one that means the most to my life and that I remember most clearly.
This was the best class I have ever taken, by far. I doubt anything I ever do academically will be as fun as Celestial Navigation. The teaching is incredible, and you come away with a cool set of skills and a really enormously widened perception of the universe.
This class is great in that it is incredibly engaging and unlike many other courses at Harvard. It strength comes from the hands-on activities such as taking star sights (measuring the altitude of stars), learning to use a variety of common place tools in a new manner, and replicating actual sea voyages in labs/p-sets. The best part about the course is that with only eleven students this year and three teachers/T.F's you almost always had an expert to guide you through anything with which you were struggling.However, the course is deceptively difficult. It challenges your previous beliefs and since so much of the material is novel there is a sharp learning curve. Also, unlike other classes, it is not memorization based. It is concept based. If you do not understand the concepts as you go along, you will have a difficult time.Summary:- While it is a great class, do not think it will be an easy fifth class.- If you are looking for a class in which you will actually get to know and bond with your peers this would be a good class for you.- If you are looking for something engaging, fun, and sometimes quite challenging then you should definitely take this course.
This is a great course if you are willing to put in the work. Don't expect this class to be an easy elective. It requires a lot of mental effort and if you don't like the material, it is very frustrating. It is also very easy to procrastinate in this course, which will come back to bite you on exams.
Sensational class.  I had my doubts initially, but it was terrific.  Fascinating material, always practical, always well and enthusiastically taught...Maybe the best class I've taken at Harvard.
A great course, but be prepared to do the work. The workload is not trivial and this class takes up most of Tuesday. Phil Sadler is a great teacher who cares about his students and how they do.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. There is quite a bit of work, but it is absolutely worth the effort.
If you're looking for a class to coast and get an A, don't take this class. The work isn't necessarily difficult, but it takes a good deal of time and effort to master the material. If you're looking to learn a lot about navigating without GPS, the course is invaluable.
It is a really fun and engaging class, and you will learn so much that is applicable to understanding many aspects of the world around you and how they work!
My roommates remarked that this was definitely the class I talked about the most. It was a huge departure from the traditional lecture-hall type class and so engaging because everything was hands-on! Being able to bring home instruments that were used during WWII was really cool! The journals, however, were a little annoying because collecting the necessary data was a repetitive process.
It's very interesting and relevanr but a very time consuming class.
This class is AMAZING!!!  You learn how to tell where you are anywhere on Earth.. cool right?  Plus, it's unlike any class you'll take at Harvard.  You get to know the other kids in the class, professor and TFs really well because you work together.  Class is not lecture at all, it's really interactive and fun to go to.  The class is definitely challenging- not only is there a hefty amount of work but you'll have to wrestle with the concepts at times.  But in my opinion, hands down worth it.  One of my favorite classes here!
Very useful, hands-on and applicable information.  Great course.
This is a great, great course. I learned so much and it was a group effort and experience. It wasn't hard but requires a lot of work and concentration during labs and preparing for exams. It's so rewarding to learn about the moon phases and the stars. Life is short, don't put that off!
This really is an incredible class, and one you won't find elsewhere. You really do learn how to navigate, as well as how the sun, moon, stars, and planets move through the sky at night. I would definitely take the class if I were you, but be aware that it is a significant time commitment. The problem sets and journal (you only have to do the journal for the first half, but can continue it through the second half if you want to improve your grade on it) are time-consuming so it is not a course to just think is a fluff course. That being said, it was an incredible course, and Professor Sadler and Eliza are incredible. They make your day, are extremely knowledgeable having both academic and real-life experience with the material (Eliza has crossed the Atlantic using celestial navigation), and you will get to learn something hands-on. you also get to work a lot with people and you form friendships because classes are pretty much exclusively labs and working together rather than lectures.
Lots of work, so you have to want to learn it and use it.
Takes up a lot of time, but easily the most interesting class I've taken at Harvard.  Worth it!
BE PREPARED FOR WORK OUTSIDE OF CLASS. They're not joking! The more you put in, the more you get out of it.
Take this course. The hours aren't the greatest, but its really enjoyable and rewarding.
Really fun, but a lot more work than you'd expect.  Your whole Tuesday disappears, and while you will enjoy the classes (I was never bored and waiting for the end of the 3-hour evening lab), it can hurt to spend that much time on one class if you have other assignments due the next day.  Problem sets and test questions are very simple, but one simple addition mistake or wrong number from a table, and you have to redo an hour's worth of work.  Journal also takes a good bit of time.  Definitely take it, but only if you can afford the time to do so.
This class was frustrating at first but eventually everything made sense in the end and was definitely worth the work (it's a lot). The journal work was annoying but you only have to do it for the first semester. If you want to learn an interesting skill this class is for you! It's also cool to not be reliant on technology.
take is pass/fail!  the grades are harsh and the material you're graded on can be hard to grasp. Since study materials are not easy to come by (pay close attention in class), studying a lot is not even a fail-safe solution (pun intended).
This class was easily the BEST class I have ever taken at Harvard. While there is a fair amount of workload, much of it isn't conceptually difficult and with practice, you will definitely do well in class. The course is taught in many ways, from labs to field trips, psets, research projects, etc. and is never boring. While a lot of the navigational techniques taught in this class apply mainly to navigation at sea, the concepts learned are easily applied to various areas. If you have any interest in the sky and want to go beyond just seeing it - and actually KNOWING the sky, you should definitely take this course! The professor and TFs are very helpful and engaging, and it is fun working with fellow students on the various assignments. Do be wary not to fall behind on coursework, though!
Be prepared to put in the work...but you will be rewarded
Do not take this class. It's not worth it, and though it might seem cool in the course catalogue, it's a trap.
I took this as a fifth class and it took up a lot of time. It is definitely worth taking, but if you do already have a lot on your plate, I recommend taking it pass/fail.
You know that question about what three things you'd bring with you if you got lost in the middle of the ocean and had to camp out on a dessert island? Well, this course totally made me change my answers...
The class is great and very rewarding if you're willing to put out the effort and time. The class eats up your Tuesday. Plus, walking to Quad and back twice on Tuesdays is a pain.
This is an amazing class- one of the best I have taken here. Really fun, interesting, not too hard, and you actually learn things that have the potential to be useful in the real world.
Great class, but seriously be prepared to spend a lot of time on it.
I found the class extremely useful, but the work load that was associated with it made me despise it over the course of the semester.
The amount of work you need to do is not trivial, but it's soooo worth it.
If you love the concept of learning to navigate this class is for you.  It will change how you think of the world around you.
when assignments beyond psets come, be prepared to spend a lot of time.
This course requires a great deal of work - it is amazing, but you can't do it without putting the time in...
You'll learn a ton, but you will also sometimes feel like a guinnea pig in a learning experiment.
Please take this class!
It's a very different experience from what you will get in your normal classes. The skillset required is also very different - it's a lot of working with details and making very precise measurements. One mistake will screw up your whole reduction. The math itself isn't that hard but the material is hard in it's own way because of all the details you must keep track of. Phil and Eliza are really great and totally make the class. Can be a really cool experience if you want to try something new.
This courses provides a fun, instructive, and exciting way to delve into a field of study that may not have even previously crossed your mind. The enthusiastic and unique styles of teaching masterfully blend theoretical study and practical application into the perfect course.
This is undeniably a course at Harvard you must take before you graduate.
This course is not easy, but it absolutely changed how I look at the world. I love being able to actually understand the night sky and predict what will happen based on (really counter-intuitive) models that we developed in class. Really an amazing experience.
Astro 2 is an unique course that's unlike anything you've probably taken so far at Harvard - there's very little lecture and class is spent primarily on lab-like activities helping you learn navigation techniques based on the position of the sun, moon, and stars. I definitely see the sky a lot differently after this class - it really challenges your preconceptions about, for instance, where the sun and moon are in the sky at any given date. Phil and Eliza are great and help to create an engaging learning environment, and psets and exams are reasonable and fairly graded. However, I would note that this class absolutely eats your Tuesdays. 5 hours of class in one day is tough, and I often left at 10 feeling exhausted even though I didn't have any other commitments that day. This goes twice if you live in the Yard or on the river, as it's quite a trek up to class (on the other hand, it's one of the most Quad-friendly classes in terms of location that you can take).
This is an amazing class. The subject is very interesting and you learn not only about astronomy and navigation but also about how to learn. Phil and Eliza are wonderful teachers who truly care about your success in the class. They will go out of their way to make sure you understand the material. The class will consume your Tuesdays and sometimes more time than you expect but it is worth it. (That time will go into whale-watching trips and museum visits that are definitely worth your time).
