how much you learn is largely up to you and how much work you put in
You have to take it so just do it?
Read the journal articles.  You'll benefit more from the discussions and you'll be able to see how the techniques presented in class are applied to actual data.
An interesting course with a novel teaching method that fosters interaction and a broad overview of all the topics involved. However, this comes at the cost of any physics rigor - i.e., a complete lack of from first principles derivations or microphysics.
Read Bruce Draine's textbook.
There's so much to the ISM, that this class can (and does) only really scratch the surface.  I came out of the class knowing a lot more names and terms of ISM things/processes, but very little physical insight into how they work.
You can take a lot from this class if you read the journal articles, as well as doing some research on your own.
We spent most of our time producing outreach materials (modules) instead of learning the science. We learn very little about the actual ISM physics, especially on the quantitative level.
This class should be mandatory. You'll gain a paradigm shifting picture of the ISM by taking this class. The assignments are fun.
The more often this course is taught, the better it will get. Kinks are still being worked out, but the potential is very high.
The best part of this class was working on the final project. Many classes ask for a final research project, but few give you the opportunity to create something with lasting value.
Unorganized lectures and not worth going to. Didn't learn much.
Do the readings to get the most out of the course- don't depend on lectures to get the bulk of the material. They were often conversational, which was nice sometimes, but they weren't delivered in the structured way that's necessary to actually learn that much material.
Waste of time
This course covers a broad range of theory and observations about the ISM and various processes that drive its physical state. The work load is fairly light, with the exception of a couple time-consuming (but very rewarding) projects.
This was a really neat class, taught by an awesome professor.
