Do not take this course, if at all possible.  While the small size and close proximity to researchers make for interesting exposure to live material, you will be disappointed (the same researchers do not want to put time into teaching, lecturing, grading, etc).
Fun and cool class--especially the CMB experiment. The instructors are all great.
This class teaches you a lot about astronomy research. If you are interested in doing astro research at any point I would recommend this class. Try to take this in a semester in which you will have a lot of free time; the more time you can put into your project the more you will learn from it. Also don't be afraid to ask your instructors questions or tell them when you don't understand. They want you to learn and in my experience they were always more than willing to explain something.
For the first two thirds of this course, you will struggle to understand the specifics of all the material that is thrown at you. You will feel like a young narwhal all alone in the immense ocean, with danger lurking everywhere just beyond where the eye can see. You will find that you know you have to swim north to meet your kind, but above, below, forward and backward, to the left and to the right, an ocean of knowledge extends forever. You could spend the whole of your natural lifetime (the length of the course) exploring along just one direction, but to succeed you must move on, toward your goal. Eventually, after reaching the northernmost latitudes, with home just beyond the horizon, you will have a sudden realization: you are no longer the young narwhal calf you thought you were. Your tusk is now long and sharp, your fins quick and strong; you will swim toward the surface and jump with pride over the waters, the setting sun illuminating your beautiful narwhal body. Then as you submerge back into the waters, at first so strange to you, but now your home, you will see it. You will see that your kind, older and wiser narwhals (your professors), were there along side you all along. Guiding you and teaching you the ways of the ocean (astronomy research). You will smile as you swim along side them towards the north pole (your final paper), understanding for the first time, what is feels like to be a narwhal (a scientist).TL.DR This class is awesome, it will make you feel like a scientist.
Be prepared to work extremely hard if you want to make your experiments successful.
It is exciting, but it has a frustratingly, invariably heavy workload.  There is always more to be done.
It's very easy to go through the astronomy concentration without even touching a telescope, so I highly recommend the opportunity to build one and then use it.
This course will require a lot of time; assume at least six hours on an easy week and upwards of 25 hours on a difficult week. Plan accordingly. What you get out of this course is directly proportional to how much effort you are willing/able to put in to the course. Radio astronomy is also really cool.
You'll learn more in this class than you can ever learn in a lecture-style class. But, not all experiments are created equal, so choose wisely (the CMB experiment . . . always a good choice).
The course is not easy because you have to assimilate lots of material that you are completely unfamiliar with in a short period of time. Also because you need to put in a lot of time. But you will learn a lot!
Take this class.  How many people get to say they detected the CMB?
This course is a very unusual class, because it consists entirely of two half-semester research projects conducted with researchers at the CfA who often have no other teaching commitments. Individual attention is plentiful, but the workload and expectations vary widely among the various experiments to choose from.This is an intense class, and it's difficult to balance alongside a senior thesis and graduate school applications, so you may be doing yourself a favor by skipping it. That said, I think it's a much better course than Physics 191 for anyone interested in astro (and it's therefore a requirement if you want the Physics joint concentration).Put careful thought into who you choose to work with for your sub-projects, because they will dictate what kind of work you put into the class. I'd recommend emailing all of the ones with projects who sound interesting and make your selections based on whoever gives thoughtful, timely comments, given that there's no other real way to discriminate between the projects. The CMB lab is probably the most difficult in terms of time commitment, but it's also one of the main reasons why the class is worthwhile.
You should, absolutely, definitely, work on the CMB detection experiment if it is available. It goes far beyond any other opportunities in lab courses - rather than working on a prescribed system and following directions, you get to design your own experiment and get results that were, honestly, extremely exciting.
I thoroughly enjoyed this class and learned a ton in it.  The projects were fascinating and a great way to try a completely new research topic.  However, the course is A LOT of work.  It is definitely a commitment to take this during your senior year.
Unlike any other class at Harvard! In a good way!
This is a great class to take if you are an astrophysics concentrator. You get to work closely with a mentor on two astrophysics-related projects for the semester. Most projects focus on radio astronomy.
This is a great course!  Regardless of whether you're into physics, astro, or some other science, this is an awesome way to get a feel for what real research is like.  You learn great practical skills, but the material stays interesting (I mean it's astro, so that's not hard!).  I chose this course over Physics 191 for honors physics since the topics seem far more interesting. and I was right!  The galactic rotation and CMB labs are both really cool, but I'm sure the others are too.  At times with the experimental parts, it felt like we had to watch while the TF did a lot of stuff, but there's only so much time we have to do the labs, so it makes sense.   Also, the TF is amazing, and so are the staff.  They're always ready to give feedback and discuss the work with great enthusiasm.  You're also working with famous astrophysicists the whole time, which I feel like you start to forget by the time you're done with the course, and then you look back and you're like "Oh yeah... I just determined the mass structure of the Milky Way / observed the cosmic microwave background with the guidance of X famous professor.. that was cool."
Pick your adviser carefully, and have fun.
Compared to its physics counterpart, AY191 is by far the superior course. Although you don't really get to do as much research as, say, a junior/senior thesis course (by construction), the course does an excellent job of teaching you the basic methods involved in taking/analyzing data as well as leading you through the process of understanding how the actual data gets from apparatus to things you manipulate. It's well worth the time.Two important caveats though: 1) This course assumes you don't really have a significant background in computation/statistics/research, and you'll get more out of it if you take it earlier in your Harvard career (say, junior year) than at the end of it. This is especially true if you've already done more than 1-2 research projects either during the year or over the summer.2) The time spent during this course is really skewed, and you'll find the work really piles on over a short burst of ~1-2 weeks at the end of a project. This is especially true with the final reports (particularly so if you haven't had much experience writing scientific-oriented papers). So be aware that you'll probably lose a week somewhere during the semester where this course is pretty much everything you'll do in your free time.
This class is awesome, especially the CMB experiment. You will learn a ton and undertake real astrophysics research. The experiments seem to vary a lot in terms of time commitment. The CMB experiment in my opinion is one of the most exciting but takes a lot of time (>10 hours a week in the lab for some weeks). From what I've heard about Physics 191, Astro 191 is probably a better alternative for meeting the physics honors requirement. In any case, if you've had some physics and astronomy classes, you should just take this class!
Astro 191 is a pretty significant time commitment, but it is well worth it due to the skills you gain and the fun you have. Your professor also might become famous halfway though!
The professors and support are wonderful. The amount of awesome information you will learn is huge. Do expect it to take time.
Great chance to familiarize with actual research projects and great academic training.
This class is very time-consuming, but enjoyable for anyone interested in astronomy/astrophysics.
This is an awesome class to take as an astrophysics or physics concentrator. This class gave me more confidence in my knowledge of what experimental work entails, along with a lot of standard experimental techniques in astrophysics. Getting to do two projects was really enjoyable, though I think I would have really enjoyed following one project through as well. Make sure to take this class with people you know!
This course is a great opportunity to learn about astronomy while designing and implementing your own experiments! All the instructors I worked with were very knowledgeable and helpful, and I found the experiments I worked on very rewarding. I recommend to anyone interested in astronomy!
Choose the labs wisely, as some are more difficult than others. Overall this class is an exciting foray into modern topics in astrophysics, but expect to work hard. Students should have a willingness to learn and work hard on exciting new labs.
This is a really great class. The diversity of experiments to choose from the many knowledgeable mentors really make this course great. Make sure you choose projects that interest you, because they will take over your life for a bit. That said, choose something you're not particularly familiar with, as it will make the experience more (delightfully) challenging and rewarding.
It's a great way to have close engagement with faculty who are experts on the experiments they run and begin to understand the logistics/difficulties of running experiments.
This class is an excellent way to expose yourself to different research fields in astrophysics, and get some hands-on experience. It can be very time consuming, but this depends a lot on what projects you end up doing.
I wouldn't take this course unless you need to fulfill a lab requirement. Too much time spent "simulating" the scientific life (e.g., mock proposal, writing a paper, doing presentations) and too little time understanding the actual physics of the experiment. Kovac is just a step away from making us apply for mock grants. If you know how to code or have experience with statistics, then you won't learn much doing data analysis. If you don't already have these skills, this class is not very good at teaching them.
The course, while work and time intensive, allows you to pursue two research projects with professional scientists. It is a great experience for those looking to pursue a career in astrophysical research.
I would certainly recommend this course. This is one of the courses at Harvard where I have learned the most about what it really means to be a scientist. With that said I do have some advide/reservations. I think I would tell students to make sure they:1 - have A LOT of time to dedicate to this course. 2- are willing to work on any of the projects in the class and 3 - are willing to produce 40+ pages of scientific writing throughout the semester. This course is a lot of work and at times I felt like there was no consideration for the fact that this is not the only class we take.
This is a great course to get more experience in research in different fields. It is also really geared towards understanding the statistics involved in research and the determination of uncertainties. The class is a lot of fun and you get to meet really nice astrophysicists. It is a lot of time and work though, and the papers are extremely time consuming, but it is certainly rewarding and you learn a lot.
Phenomenal class! Fairly difficult but worth the effort! Do the CMB project with Kovac!
This course was a useful introduction to laboratory work and its format in small lab groups was great. The experiments were interesting. However, too little support in understanding experimental background and putting together final papers was provided b y the course staff. Papers are long, hard, and come with little direction: be prepared.
This course took up an unrealistic amount of time. I ended up slacking in some of my other classes and not fully understanding all that I wanted to in this class because I was stretched so thin. This class has made me seriously consider taking time off, because I feel so burnt out at the end of it. It was a lot. It was however really fun to work on projects with the advisors. I just wish that there had been more time in the semester because it ended up being really rushed.
