Good for stars from a theory perspective.  Not too much connection to observations.  The larger context felt lost sometimes, but still a good course.
Take this course if you are after a holistic and theoretical understanding of a variety of fundamental topics in stellar astrophysics. The coursework is reasonable in quantity and difficulty. You can really learn a lot about a particular topic from the project, too.
Lectures are not useful. It's interesting to have modern planetary science results presented in lecture, and that's Prof. Sasselov's style, but rarely was material in the course presented clearly enough for me to feel like I had a solid understanding. The material is just not presented in a systematic and clear way- you have to pick it up in pieces over many lectures, and it's unclear whether topics relate to one another.
A good class that covers a wide range of interesting topics.
Make sure you keep up with the correlating chapters in Stellar Interiors.
This is a good class and will provide students with a solid understanding of a major subfield of astronomical research. Prof. Cranmer's obvious enthusiasm for the subject and the effort he put into the course make me confident that if he teaches it again, it will continue to improve.
I recommend this course based both on the content and on the lecture style.
It's a bit all over the place, so it's best to do all the reading to get a coherent picture.
You will need to pay close attention in class in order to follow, and make sure you take good notes as the textbooks are not great.
The lecture component needs significant improvement.
You'll learn a lot about stellar structure and evolution if you take this course. Dr. Cranmer generates a lot of enthusiasm for the subjects. The homework assignments are very reasonable and do not take up too much time.
A great overview of stellar physics (something that you should absolutely know as a graduate student in astrophysics)!
I didn't find the lectures to be very useful at all; I went to 3 or 4 total. I was still able to do all of the problem sets and final by looking up stuff from the textbooks.  Stellar interiors, though not required, was crucial for the problem sets.Sadly, I didn't get much out of the class, but at least it was easy
The lectures are replete with anecdotes and digressions, and paced very slowly.  This gives a disorganized feeling to the lectures, which makes it hard to learn the important concepts.
Be sure to read Hansen's Stellar Interiors, Imke de Pater, and Carroll and Ostlie to provide some structure to the course. Otherwise, it is to wandering to absorb much of the material presented.
The course material is very useful, and problem sets bond the class together.
The material is useful, but the course is very lax and unguided.
This course had interesting components but lacked organization. For those required to take it, you'll get something out of it, but if you aren't required to take it, I don't recommend it.
