Great class, one of the best in the department. I don't even really like cosmology, but I found this class fascinating and now have much more of an appreciation for the discipline.
A very nice survey of Cosmology that will teach you a lot of material very efficiently.  Lectures are very useful.  Professor Loeb is a good lecturer.  Would definitely recommend to anyone with an interest in Cosmology or a research-based need to know these topics.
It's strong point is Newtonian linear perturbation theory. It's weak point is that it exclusively takes the Newtonian picture, even though Cosmology derives almost entirely from General Relativity. The course was sometimes badly structured, and lacked cohesion. This was perhaps because it was taught by three separate people.
I had a bad experience with the course structure that does not necessarily reflect the abilities of any one of the three lecturers on the topic.
The instructor may write-off this course, in which case you should do the same.
Good blackboard course with focus on details. Homework sets greatly help understanding. Pieces might not fall together to form a big picture.
Keep in mind that this is a course more about large-scale structure formation.
Don't expect the instructor to be there very often.
Do most of the learning on your own
This class is pretty low-key, and the numerical project at the end is interesting.
Cosmology is a fascinating subject. We are now in the era of the most precise constraints on the nature of the universe, and it is necessary to learn cosmology to be well-rounded in astrophysics.
Don't expect to understand a lot of lecture. Problem sets are tough, but can be instructive. Invest in another textbook other than the ones recommended.
The course material is interesting, but the lectures can be hard to follow.
The course talks about the origin and destiny of the Universe. However, it is highly mathematical, so I would not recommend to take it out of curiosity.
If you wish to learn something from this course, it is good to have already taken a cosmology course. Otherwise you will need to work hard to fill in the gaps on your own.
I learned the basics of cosmology and some about current areas of research.
This is a good class to take on basic cosmology. It was very exciting this year with John Kovac discovering the B-modes!
Useful way to learn what Daniel knows, which is a lot---but be prepared to take notes and be okay with lots of facts as opposed to a clear theoretical framework unifying the whole course.
I definitely recommend this course to astronomy students interested in extragalactic astronomy or cosmology, as I came away with a better understanding of the current outstanding problems in the field. However, for students whose main research interests lie elsewhere who just want a general overview, Ay 202a is sufficient.
Daniel is an excellent lecturer and teacher. Not a class to be missed!
Great class! You'll learn a lot about the cutting-edge research currently going on in the many subfields of cosmology.
Fantastic Cosmology class! Take it irrespective of your background - the lectures are great at emphasizing the key concepts!
