Get a good advisor!
Make sure you dedicate those 8-10 hours per week as though you were doing a PSET every week.
This course is a great way to get involved in astrophysical research. The weekly dinner meetings with scientists lets you learn about many aspects of current astronomy research.
This class is excellent and should be taken by everyone interested in astronomy or astrophysics (and at least considered by those doing just physics). In this class, I had the opportunity to do original research with a research scientist at the Center for Astrophysics (the one by the quad). The research was interesting, the final paper on my research was fulfilling (though time-consuming), and a final hard copy of my research paper was put in the Wolbach Library at the Center for Astrophysics for all of posterity (or, you know, probably just me if I want to brag to friends). Each week we also had dinner in the quad with a new research scientist from the Center for Astrophysics, who discussed their research, gave us advice, and talked about how they got to be where they are. It may seem like a cliche, but you get as much out of this class as you put into it. It takes self-discipline to set aside an appropriate amount of time each week to work on research, but it's excellent practice if you plan on writing a thesis.
This class was one of the best I've taken at Harvard. It's a wonderful way to build community among astrophysics concentrators/secondaries/people and the weekly dinner talks were overall informative and often inspiring. The structure of research presentations and deadlines embedded in the class helps students keep on track with their projects. I feel much more connected to astrophysics at Harvard and the CfA having taken this.
It was a lot of fun, a great environment to do research that pushes you to continue making progress. We were introduced to many interesting fields of astrophysics. Also, the class is very small, which allows for a casual and friendly atmosphere.
Amazing course, very fun, learned a lot
This course was an amazing experience.  The discussions with Dr. Charbonneau and other students were always interesting, you get to meet extremely famous and brilliant astrophysicists, and most importantly, you get real world research experience in an especially supportive environment.  It felt like a real job, in the best way possible.  Once you take a course like this, you won't look at traditional problem set courses the same way again - and as long as you choose a good advisor/project, you'll probably find yourself wanting to stick with them after this course.  Dr. Charbonneau is a great teacher and facilitator of discussion, and you end up getting to know others in the Astro concentration very well.  The chance to take this course was actually what got my switching from Physics to Astro.
This class is fantastic!  It provides the incredible opportunity to do semester-long independent research with a professor of one's choosing.   Professor Charbonneau structured the class in such a way that we received a significant amount of feedback on our work from not only our project mentors but also our peers and other professors at the CfA.  Furthermore, this class provided the opportunity to meet with professors for dinner every week, allowing us to engage with many professors interested in different fields of research.  This class is great for providing a way to explore academic astrophysics in a way that is not possible in a normal classroom setting.  This course is the best that I have taken at Harvard, and I highly recommend it!
I loved this class! So far, it is definitely my favorite Harvard course. I really enjoyed the combination of individual research and group seminar/discussions, and the dinner meetings were unbelievable. What other class lets you have dinner once a week with a really small class and a scientist? In addition, for someone who was a little nervous about doing independent research, this class was a very supportive, great introduction to working on an "actual" science project, getting results, etc.
If every department had a class like this, students would be able to figure out if they really want to pursue their current paths.  This is a fantastic course and perfect for those thinking about astronomy and astrophysics.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
The astronomy professors at Harvard are so smart, friendly, and nice. I think they do some of the best research, best teaching, and best advising of anyone on campus. Prof. Charbonneau is no exception. TAKE THIS COURSE!!!
Talk about astrophysics rock stars, then eat dinner with them? What more could you want?
Make sure you choose your advisor wisely and is someone you can work well with! I had a great experience with mine, she was so enthusiastic and helpful but some other students did not have the same experience with theirs.
Concentration requirement, but was painless, I do reckon. The schleps to the quad every week were annoying.
This is a great course that should be taken if you're interested in doing astrophysics research.
The course can be an amazing experience and introduction to research in the field, and certainly is a must if one is considering a senior thesis or graduate school. Carefully choose your research advisor, as the quality of your experience as well as your project will depend significantly on how much they are able to help and meet with you. The students with advisors that were 'too busy' had a much tougher time getting their projects done.
This class is a must for those students considering Astronomy Grad School. It is the best preview you could have in the field, which is why I highly recommend it.
This course was a lot of fun and very relaxed. It's a great way to do a research project in a structured environment that's designed for you to succeed. Your happiness in the course will really depend on your relationship with your research advisor, so take some time to really make sure the chemistry is there.
Choose a good advisor! My advisor was wonderful and made my experience really valuable, but others had entirely different stories. Ask students who have taken the class before and they will tell you who to go after and who to avoid. Generally, the more successful the scientist, the less time they have for you. Also, I didn't know this going in, but there are non-science research options, such as astronomy education and the visual representation of data, that you can work on if you'd like.
Start thinking about how you will write your paper early and make sure to demand individual time with your advisor.
Just make sure to stay on top of your project. Other than that, it's pretty laid back.
The highlight (thus far) of my Astrophysics classes.  This course is one of the unique and awesome features of the astrophysics concentration--I don't know of too many other science concentrations where you can get results on a research project in just one semester.  Be prepared to put a lot of work into this class, but the research paper and presentation at the end of the course are a truly excellent reward when you realize how much you've done and accomplished.  And last, picking a good advisor is as important as picking an interesting project--talk to students from previous years for advice.
A "Best Course at Harvard" category class. I chose this concentration SPECIFICALLY FOR this class. You get to do real research with any scientist of your choosing and meet world-renouned scientists over dinner each week!
This course is great if you have an interest in doing astronomy and learning a lot about a very specific topic in astronomy. it's not a trivial commitment, but it'll help you decide whether to do the whole graduate school thing later. Also working closely with a professor or researcher was cool so make sure you get one that's interested in working with you toothis matters so much more than your topic
Take this class.  It is a great introduction to the world of astro research, and teaches you how to be a good well-rounded scientist - researching, presenting, reading current literature with understanding, and meeting with people involved in astro to help you figure out how you want to keep astro in your life in the long run.  You get out what you put in for this class; be prepared to spend 15 or more hours per week and research and reading.
This is a great way to get into astronomy research and talk to all sorts of people in astronomy related fields.
Great class, time management may be difficult, choose your adviser wisely.
This class is fantastic. It's a great introduction to research if you haven't done it before, and if you're a junior, is a great indicator for whether or not you'd enjoy doing a thesis. Besides that component, the guest lecturers are great, and are particularly helpful for those considering non-academic careers still relating to Astrophysics, which is usually not something you can get a lot of advice on.
You are required to take this course for an astro concentration or secondary. This is a good thing, since I wouldn't have taken it otherwise, and would have missed out on this class. I would definitely do this junior year and not senior year, though.
This class is itself a wonderful opportunity to anyone interested in astronomy at all.  It may change your life.
Don't procrastinate!
Professor Charbonneau puts a lot of work into this course. The invited speakers are all really great and have very interesting and diverse stories to tell. Think very carefully when deciding what research project to take - if you're not very excited about the topic, it will be difficult to put substantive work into it.
A must take for all astrophysics concentrators. You'll have a chance to work on a real research problem and also meet many faculty members at the weekly dinners.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. It gives you an opportunity to do real research if you've never done it both, or to try something totally different if you have done research before. It's also a great chance to meet a lot of people at the CfA, and to get to know one CfA scientist really well. This class alone makes Astrophysics the best concentration at Harvard.
If you're considering this class, you've already discovered that astrophysics is an incredibly cool science -- it's the study of everything known to exist in the universe, and yet it's often neglected in schools.  This class is your chance to have low-pressure, friendly talks with some of the world's most important scientists, writers, teachers, and other professionals across fields that involve astronomy -- it's a very rare opportunity.  You will also complete a lab research project in astrophysics or a related study, which is nice because astro in many ways is less advanced than other sciences, allowing an undergraduate to make real scientific contributions.
This is a really great class. You get a chance to do real research and interact with many people who have chosen to pursue astrophysics as their career. It's definitely inspiring.
Most interesting class I've taken here. The ability to do structured research is really fun.
This is what makes the astrophysics concentration better than all the others.  Wednesday dinners are so much fun, and a great way to hear about really interesting ways to apply your degree besides grad school.  GOING to class will actually make your day and you'll be disappointed if you miss one.  Crazy right?  Welcome to the astrophysics concentration!
This class is time consuming (research always is) but it's an interesting and fairly laid back way to get an introduction into astronomy research! The speakers are great and give an intro into different fields of study even though the talks are late at night and it's hard to stay awake in a dark room.
Great course!  Remember to space your work on your project out throughout the semester, or the last week before the rough draft of the paper is due will be hell
This course is fantastic and if you have any interest in Astrophysics research I would definitely recommend it. The Tuesday night dinners are really fun and give you interesting insights into questions in current fields of astronomy. I would definitely recommend spending some time to pick a project you will like because you will be spending a lot of your time on it! This course will probably take up more time than any of your other courses if you are trying to do a good job on your project so budget accordingly. Also work really hard at the beginning! It is easy to slack on your project early but you can avoid a lot of stress if you start off working hard at the beginning of the semester so that your project doesn't take over your life at the end of the semester.
This is an excellent course. Look forward to it, and make it your top priority during your semester. You will get a lot out of it if you are willing to put a lot of work into it. Also, getting a good advisor has a HUGE impact on how much you enjoy the class, as well as the project. I really enjoyed working with my advisor, and I also enjoyed my project immensely. Make sure you get along with your advisor; if this is the case, you will have a good time if you work hard.
I found the research portion enjoyable - it was time-consuming, especially towards the end, but that's to be expected. Edo Berger is a really good professor.
This is a great class for getting involved in research. You need to be disciplined to spend plenty of your own time working on your project.
This was one of my favorite astronomy classes because of the way it was taught in small group (also dinner meetings save some time). Making time to work on research during the semester wasn't as bad as I thought it would be. This class helped me improve my time-management skills a bit.
Be careful who you choose to be your advisor
This is a great introduction to astronomy research and the field in general. Definitely take it to develop necessary skills and to see what research is like.
If you are interested in astronomy and are a concentrator or secondary, then lucky you--this class is the department's present to you. The discussions at lunch are genuinely some of the best experiences I've had at Harvard, with amazing conversations on all manner of subjects. Plus, if you're new to research this is a really helpful way to get you started in a relatively low-pressure way where there's a lot of support available. And if you have done research before then you can make this as serious of a project as you want. Really an incredible class.
This was one of the better courses I've taken at Harvard. I really enjoyed the weekly lunches with different professors in the department. In terms of the research project, it really is up to you to stay on top of your work. It helps to have an advisor that's engaged and available to meet frequently. If you manage your time well, the course is extremely manageable.
This is a great course for anyone interested in astronomy research. The best advice I can give is to choose a project that 1) you think is interesting and 2) is going to be supervised by someone you get along well with. It's so vital that you and your supervisor communicate well with one another. Because there are a lot of different projects to choose from, recognize that some projects are significantly harder than others and you only really have a very limited amount of time to work on them!
