The thesis is optional for astro concentrators, but essentially everyone writes one--and there's a reason. There is a ton of support from the department every step of the way, including with finding a thesis advisor (and it's worth noting that thesis proposals aren't actually due until a couple weeks into term), and it's honestly just a lot of fun. Even if you aren't planning to go to graduate school, it's a great experience to have.
A thesis is a big undertaking, but it was my favorite class
If you're writing a thesis you have to take this class so this comment won't sway you on that, but just know that your assignments won't be well-explained and you likely won't get any feedback on them.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time (15-20 or even more hours a week), but it's probably the most rewarding thing you'll do. Also, picking the project is key to make sure it is completable.
I would recommend writing a thesis to anyone considering graduate school in the future. However, with Professor Alcock, there wasn't much of a class at all. We met very intermittently and didn't even receive a syllabus until halfway through the semester. Despite what it seemed, there were actual assignments with actual due dates.
If you're a self-motivated astronomy lover then this is the class for you. It's very much up to you how much stress this class gives you!
Get started on your talks early.  If you are organized, and devote a set period of time every week to work on your project, then it really isn't so daunting, and you will feel much better at the end of the semester.  Be thinking about what you might want to do before the semester starts, so you don't waste too much time getting an advisor and a project topic.
It's hip, it's happening, it's an astro thesis!
This is a pretty standard thesis course, but the astronomy department does a very good job with it.  It really is better than any of the experiences that my fellow thesis writers in other departments seem to have.
Work hard early. Be prepared to spend more than 10 hours a week on research alone plus an extra two for meetings and talks. Don't take a difficult course load with your thesis because it's easy to see your thesis work slip away.
This is a great course if you're interested in doing anything in astronomy after college.  Make sure to pick not only a topic that you are interested in but an advisor who you get along with as well.
I'd suggest taking a full year of this course.
It's a standard thesis class, so you should have a pretty good idea what you're getting into.
A senior thesis in astrophysics is not easy and its a ton of work, but its worth it without a doubt. You'll learn far more actually doing research, then you can ever learn in a traditional class.
Senior thesis is a good chance to work on a research project in a relatively organized way during your senior year, and if you do well, the Hoopes prize carries a substantial monetary reward. Be sure not to overschedule your fall semester, though (as Charbonneau will warn) because there's not much time in the spring.
This class provides a wonderful opportunity for students to do real research astronomy for a semester.  It is a great class to take if you are planning on going on to graduate school in astrophysics.
Writing a thesis is very demanding and time consuming, but also very rewarding. If you are considering graduate school in astrophysics, you should definitely take this course!
If you're on the fence about writing a senior thesis, do it! Great rewarding experience.
Research is the best way to learn astro.
The senior thesis is a great experience.  It's a great way to do research during term, get a better feel for the way research functions, have a well-defined project with a well-defined deadline, and get an idea of how you might enjoy astronomy research going forward.  It was a much more useful experience than my summers spent researching and fantastically enjoyable.  Also, Professor Moran is fantastic.Judging by my senior compatriots, the astronomy department does a better job than pretty much every other department at Harvard with the senior thesis, and it is an opportunity not to be missed.
It's a senior thesis.  If you like research, this will be the most rewarding thing you do your senior year.  If you're applying to grad schools, do NOT take any other hard classes.  Grad school stuff + senior thesis = 2-3 regular classes.  Avoid other real work to focus on (presumably) the thesis that matters most anyway.
This course is the single best way to prepare for a graduate career in astrophysics. Thanks to this course, I gained hands on experience that actually put me at the cutting edge of my field, engaged me in a network of scientists I will be taking advantage of in graduate school, and gave me the material to publish a paper this summer.
If you want to do a senior thesis, you'll take this class. It's pretty well-organized, with midpoint milestones to keep you progressing throughout each semester, and plenty of chances to present partial results, get feedback on progress and on writing, and the deadline's before the Hoopes deadline so you can try for that.
Write a thesis. Its a ton of work and it will take over your life, but it will be worth it in the end.
If you are in astronomy and considering going to graduate school, you should definitely take this course.  An astronomy thesis gives you the opportunity to spend a full year on a research project, going into more depth than the one semester junior thesis.  Make sure you choose your advisor carefully - a student/advisor mismatch could make this experience very difficult.
It's like graduate school with training wheels; if you're planning on going to grad school, it'd be foolish not to write a thesis.
It was amazing! Sure at times it may seem as if the feedback is very pointed and critical but it helps you understand the parts of your thesis that really need to be fixed.
If you are thinking about writing a thesis, do it!  SUCH a rewarding experience.  Make sure to manage your time well from September, stick to your schedule, and it is relatively painless.  Start the writing early.  Moran is a great help but only if you have work/results to show him, so for your sake make sure you are not falling behind.
This course is a great opportunity to work for an entire year on an astronomy project you are very passionate about. Be careful to find out what type of support and schedule you can expect from your adviser; that will have a huge effect on your ability to produce a good final work.
I would avoid taking this class unless you are comfortable with a bit of public humiliation. I definitely realized how much astronomy I've learned throughout my college career and that was an invaluable experience but this class caused me a lot of stress when there are many other pressing stresses in your life. Even if you loved astro 98 you might have a hard time in this class.
