While this course may be a lot of work, it is extremely rewarding! The problem sets help explore and cement concepts about exoplanets. You get to write your own functional code for orbital elements and near the end of the course you get to run computational simulations of processes discussed in the course. The teaching staff is really involved with the students and they strive to ensure you understand. The presentations from CfA researchers is another great opportunity to learn about recent discoveries in the field. If you have any interest in exoplanets, Astro 189 will prove to be an amazing course.
This class is very difficult and will require a lot of your time. If you do put in the time you will certainly learn a lot about planet formation and orbital dynamics. This course covers most of this material in the context of the current questions in the exoplanets field which really helps you ground the topics you are learning in the science questions of the day. I've felt more like a scientist in this class than any other science class.
Good for people who like planets!
Professor Charbonneau's course demands much time commitment and one should be prepared to immerse oneself in the field. He has very high expectations, but also invests diligently and smartly to help everybody meet these expectations. For a survey course, the range of topics are both very broad and each explored in research-level depth. The homework assignments often involve reproducing results of impactful recent publications. The journal discussions involve modern classic articles delineating methodologies as well as the status of the subfield that is the theme of each week's instruction. Reading quizzes to mandate previewing the material prior to lecture encourages active learning and makes the classroom much more effective. 2 midterms and a term project on top of everything else may sound like a lot, but they serve their purpose exactly. That is: to reinforce knowledge and develop independent research skills. The The course bestows upon one with knowledge to critically evaluate the state of the field and identify promising directions. Meanwhile, it equips one with the means and tools to work at research problems.
This is a fantastic course that will expose you to a lot of topics. It's hard, but you get a lot out of it, especially if you're an undergraduate.
This course is extremely difficult and time consuming - but it is worth every sleepless night to understand this beautiful subject.
