Its challenging, but I learned to much. Great professor and content.
One of the best classes I've ever taken.
I would say that the course will provide enough of a challenge to make sure that its material is understood.Many concepts are covered, and extra effort will be needed to retain all of them. The lecture plan does a good job addressing most of the material in the book, and the topics covered are essential for a well-balanced tool set for careers in astronomy.I would warn that the course does have some programming components, and that if the student is uncomfortable with making plots or using languages like Mathematica or python, to be prepared for asking for additional help during the course. I would also relate that I had very flexible instructors in my experience with the course and that the help should not be hard to get.
If you're a first year graduate student in Astronomy, you have to take this class. So you should probably take it.
Approach the course with an intent to learn the material and not to score well on the problem sets because it can be distracting.
This class will teach you essential topics in Astronomy in the most clear and exciting way! I wish all my courses were this good!
This is a great class where you will learn many of the fundamental concepts used throughout astrophysics today.
This class is incredibly informative and very well-structured. It is likely to be useful to anyone in astrophysics, which is exactly why all the first-years are required to take it.
This course provides a good coverage of radiation processes that is useful for the other astronomy classes.
Don't miss it! This course clarified for me so many processes in astrophysics that I had never really understood.
This is a really useful class if you are going to be working with any kind of radiation or scattering theory.
There are two courses I have taken that are directly applicable to research: Instrumentation and Astrophysical Radiative Processes. The ability to utilize these courses' material to research is very helpful and provides a better understanding to conduct productive analysis.
This course will teach you everything you ever wanted to know about how radiation is produced and makes its way through space to your detector.  Along the way, you'll also get a thorough review of Special Relativity, E&M,  and Atomic Structure! Be prepared to put in a significant effort to fully grasp the content.
This is an important class.  If it's not your research area, it may not be the most compelling, but it is interesting nonetheless.
Read the book and ask for help from classmates and TF on the homework.
challenging course, but necessary and worthwhile
If you work hard on the problem sets, you will learn the material well and do well in the class.  Show up to lectures because they are excellent.  Don't stress too much about the exams because they are not excessively hard.
This course provides information fundamental to the study of astrophysics. Ramesh Narayan is a very good instructor who puts a lot of time into the classes he teaches, and it shows.
Obtain a secondary text for reference.
The material would only be interesting to an astronomy concentrator, but it's well worth it if you are!
It is a difficult class due to the fundamental nature of the material and the work load that must be undertaken to learn the material. However, the material is extremely important and the class is taught extremely well.
Great class covering important, useful physics.
I took the course with Ramesh Narayan, and if he's teaching it, you can be sure that the course is going to be amazing and extremely useful. I would take any course he teaches.
You will never find a more clear and effective lecturer than Professor Narayan. His mastery of the subject is only exceeded by his skill at communicating not only its rigorous theoretical underpinnings, but its conceptual framework.
A thorough overview of radiative processes, essential to any budding astronomer.  Prof. Narayan is a wonderful teacher.  Grad students have to take this course (unsurprisingly) and I would highly recommend it to undergraduates considering graduate school in astronomy.
The problem sets can be tough to work out on one's own and the exams are not easy, but the material is interesting and Ramesh Narayan is a fantastic teacher.
This is a fantastic course. Prof. Narayan is a phenomenal teacher and you will learn a lot of practical astrophysics by taking this course. I highly recommend senior undergraduate students majoring in astronomy to take this course as well.
The lectures and assignments are packed with information and insight, but it's not a course to be taken for fun.  Only should be taken if required or if you have plans to continue down astronomy/astrophysics career path.
The knowledge you gain from the work you put in will be useful. However, you might not have the time to appreciate this fact.
You will basically learn almost every possible way that radiation is produced.  I found the material to be useful, interesting, and quite varied
I learned things in lecture one day and they came up in talks the next: the material is both relevent and prevalent.
This course is essential for anyone thinking about research in Astronomy. You will likely use the material learned in this course daily.
Radiative Processes is a foundational course for study in astronomy. If it is as well taught in the future as it was this semester, then I highly recommend putting in the work towards learning the material thoroughly.
Jason collected the following quotes:"Stars are trainwrecks......in spectra""It's both a feature and a bug" - on how defining a pseudo-continuumin a spectrum causes the line strength to be coupled with the specificinstrument."Now you're really in the soup here" - referring to the part of thecurve of growth affected by temperature"One solution is to give up and go home.....it's not a very goodsolution" - again, disentangling the curve of growth dependencies"Jackson's E&M book is a good, if masochistic, reference""This isn't such a trivial statement when you look under the hood" -referring to making unpolarized light"I don't have any magical derivations for you....but Jackson does" -taking into account retarded times when doing stuff"If you're going 1/10 the speed of light....well that's still prettyfast, but it doesn't apply here" (in reference to relativistic beaming"Blue is hotter, unless you're in the faucet industry""I reread Chapter 1 [Rybicki and Lightman] about once per year, it's afun chapter to read""This is hard to calculate. However, the alternative - guessing - isalso ineffective" (with regards to oscillator strengths)."If you care, matrix elements can get you to oscillator strength, but it's hard""If someone says 'it's a magnetic dipole transition' just nod and say'ahh, it's forbidden'""The most obvious thing to note is this isn't simple" - referring tobound-free transitionsIn addition, Ian collected these:Avi, Day 1, on definitions of flux and intensity, "A high schooler cando this, better yet, an accountant."Avi's guest visitor, "Cosmology is the ultimate prison."Avi on talking about why mirrors are plasmas, "You might getdepressed, because it all boils down to physics. You might hope thereis something else, but no."Eisenstein in response to (Bence's?) question: "That's a nice way towrite it, but I just didn't want to work the chalk too hard."Eisenstein, "Hydrogen is abundant. We're taught that in our astro-womb."
Radiative processes is a fairly heavy amount of work but is well worth the time.
It is time-consuming - be prepared to work ahead of time on your problem set - give it several days to think through problems. You cannot do this class on your own!
The best book, taught by the best teacher! Take it!
A course on this textbook (R&L) is essential for a career in astrophysics, and would be very informative for any scientist with an interest in the field.
This class is great but requires work and should be taken only by those with a serious interest in astronomy.  If interested in a survey course of some depth, take 16 or 145.
This is a very useful, well-taught, and well-organized class.
A terrific course taught by a charismatic, knowledgeable and clear instructor, carefully thought-out problem sets and the freedom to ask questions to the students' hearts' desires - a fabulous combination!
You will learn everything advertised in the syllabus. It is sometimes extremely difficult but if you need to take this class (and you probably don't have a choice if you do) then it's worth doing. Professor is great.
Likely best professor in the astronomy department.
I would tell students that the material is interesting and the class is very well-taught, but it covers a great deal and moves very fast so I found it difficult to follow everything.
If Ramesh is teaching, do everything in your power to enroll in this course!
This is a wonderful class that covers a lot of material. Only take it if you are planning on pursuing a career in astrophysics, because the class is predominantly made up of graduate students.
The material is great, Ramesh Narayan is one of the best science teachers I've ever had, and the textbook is very good too.
