After taking Astronomy 16, this course was a bit of a disappointment. The course was disorganized, the teaching staff was often unsure of what was going on or how to do problems, and we never really learned much. We were often left to do problems for homework that we had no knowledge of how to start or no idea what they meant, because this course chooses not to use a lecture. As a result, we learned next to nothing, yet were responsible for knowing quite a bit of material. However, Prof. Johnson had to leave for medical reasons partway through the semester... then we actually started learning a bit of astronomy.Also, although Astronomy 16 is not a prerequisite, it should be. Many people who had not taken AY16 struggled at the beginning of this course, as the teaching staff assumed prior knowledge of topics covered in the spring course. Overall, AY16 was a much better course, so if you're looking to take one or the other--go with 16.
Prof Johnson's teaching method is very difficult to get used to. It can be great to learn on your own and in a group but this semester it was very disconnected. The ideas seemed very random and there was a poor execution of teaching. I loved astro 16 but this course needs some work from teaching staff to make the teaching method work.
Don't take this class unless you're concentrating/getting a secondary in astronomy or are really interested in the material and have a strong math/physics background. The way the class is run is aggravating and only worth it if you're really interested in the material and have enough knowledge so that it's not too hard. That being said, the teaching staff is extremely dedicated (they are the ones really running the class) and the labs are interesting. It is also easy to make friends in this class because of the group-work assignments.
I think that this class was awesome, but I do have reservations about the implementation of the reversed classroom style. The TFs were great and knowledgeable, but the worksheets sometimes felt like very shallow or busy treatments of incredibly complex ideas. Rather than have us push around equations, I wish better context was given for these ideas.
With Prof. Johnson teaching this course, lectures made up about 1/3 of class time, and the rest is spent working through problems in small groups on the board while TFs, Prof. Johnson, and sometimes guest faculty assist. I thought this was a great way to teach the material, and let groups work with much more individualized pacing. The laboratory portions of the course were interesting and fun. I would highly recommend taking the course during your freshman or sophomore year.
Great class for someone new to astronomy/physics.
Class is pretty easy -- some annoying lab write ups, but the material is interesting and worksheets can be good.
If you are interested in astronomy, by all means take the class, because the material is interesting. However, it is somewhat poorly taught, so I would hesitate to take the class as an elective unless you have a significant interest in astronomy.
If you are taking this class with Professor Johnson, you will be working on problem sets for the entirety of each class period - you find a group and work on the problem sets at a chalkboard while the TFs provide help if needed. If this is your style, you will love this class. I did not particularly enjoy this, as it was difficult to understand the context of what we supposed to be learning; I would have preferred at least a portion of the class to be a lecture component. Professor Johnson seems very interesting and experienced in his field, but unfortunately we were not able to hear about his work at all, since he rarely spends time in front of the class, or even in class.
This course has been through a lot of transitions and turmoil, through no fault of its own. Professors change, teaching styles change. So don't take the course because you expect it to be like anything else. Take it for the material, for the opportunity to think about big ideas, and for the exposure to the breadth of subjects being explored at the Center for Astrophysics.
A great class. Digging into the origins of the universe is really fun, especially doing so in a small group format. The reverse classroom style helps you learn things a little more deeply and the blog posts are a cool way to show your work. The teaching staff are great. The TFs are a very helpful and professor Johnson, if he comes back, is quite enthusiastic.
Definitely a step up from Astronomy 16.  Be prepared for longer labs and harder exams.
This class is one that I thought had a lot of potential, but which quickly proved otherwise. The learning style is different - when you go to class, there is no lecture. Instead, the professor hands you a worksheet, tells you to form groups of four people, and pick a chalkboard to work on. We have no idea how to do the problems (because we had no lecture to teach us), and thus the entire class is spent asking the TFs to explain how to do them. Thereafter, we do not get the correct solutions to the problem sets before the tests, so there is no real way to study the nature of these problems. Add also that the professor hasn't been here for two months and you get one big, unorganized disaster.
A very good course to take to learn some basic concepts of astrophysics. I don't feel super confident in my skills regarding some of the test problems, but it's a trade off for a low pressure course that makes concepts fun.
This course (under Professor Johnson) is nearly identical in structure to Astro 16 (under Professor Johnson), but with new material.  The material starts out pretty easy, but it gets pretty abstract as time goes on.  A qualitative understanding of general relativity (nothing drastic, and no math needed, just the general idea) is very helpful, as it previous enrollment in Physics 15a (or equivalent) and eat least co-enrollment in Math 21a are very helpful.   Astro 16 is VERY useful for this course, but not technically necessary.  The course is taught without any real lecture and consists entirely of working on worksheets in class with your fellow students.  Very little instruction is given.  2-3 of the worksheet problems will be due as homework each week. Homework consist of writing blog posts explaining and walking through each problem.  It's a bit weird at first, but it gets better over time.  I do not personally like the way the class was run at all, but others loved it.  It's a personal preference.  Disclaimer: If Professor Johnson is not teaching the class, then this entire review is not really applicable.  Labs are fun.
It will, most definitely, question what you know about the universe, and then you will fully understand the way we know what we know about the cosmos.
Astro 17 is an awesome class. Take this if you are at all interested in astronomy.
This class had the best overall teaching staff I've had at Harvard.  Our main professor, substitute professor, and all the TFs were knowledgable, patient, kind, and always readily available.  Twice a week for 2.5 hours, the TFs run a help session called TALC, which is incredibly helpful.  It's rare to find TFs who are willing to give that much of their time to a class.   The format of the class is a little unorthodox - lectures are short, problem sets are completed in class, and the homework is writing up the problem set solutions as blog posts.  I really loved the format, though, because it lightens the out-of-class workload and reinforces the concepts.  Overall, this class was low-stress, low-work, and I feel like I learned a lot.  The grading is easy and the concepts are incredibly interesting.  Take it.
This is a great course if you love astronomy. There is a lot of depth into galaxies and how we can tell the distance between us and objects that are unimaginably far away. That being said, you must be prepared to talk with TFs and/or the professor because many of the topics will not hit home the first time they are explained.
This class offered a reality to the fantasy that astrophysics was to me before I took it. I had only read books and non-scientific articles before this, and so, while there was  bit of a shock of how much math I had to do, I really loved the class, the professor and the TFs. I now have an idea of what astronomy is really like.
This class was really difficult for me (I don't have a very strong physics background and my calculus was super rusty), but the teaching staff was amazing. They were super supportive and helpful throughout the semester, and TALC was a lifesaver. The assignments in general were pretty fair (LaTex was much more painless than I had expected it to be) and I felt like I learned a lot. Overall I would recommend this class for sure--it's definitely doable, even for non-math/physics/astro concentrators like me.
Interesting class in which you learn about some pretty crazy, big picture astronomy. The flipped classroom/blog system is cool. The labs are interesting. TALCs are helpful.
If you're like me and have interest and enthusiasm in astrophysics, and would like that enthusiasm to be efficiently destroyed, take this class.  Unfortunately, only 20 minutes of class are reserved for teaching, the rest for doing worksheets. The problem with this is that teaching does not occur during those 20 minutes. Instead, Professor Johnson (and you are required to call him Professor) spends far more time patting himself on the back for his great teaching methods.
If you are advanced at physics and math (completed 21a, Phys 15a, understand waves), this class will probably be fairly trivial. If not, this class will be fairly difficult unless you work with people in the former group. Also, this class escalates very quickly near the end of the semester with lab reports stacking up with more difficult material, so be prepared for that.
This was a very thorough, and interesting introduction to astronomy. The book was relatively easy though contained a lot of information, but was well explained.
Overall this is a pretty solid course. If you are looking for the most introductory astronomy course, I recommend that you take 16, as it covers less material at a slower and more in depth pace. This course was neither too easy nor overwhelmingly difficult. Many concepts in cosmology are difficult to grasp, but the course material is nonetheless very interesting. Overall, the assignments and exams are pretty reasonable. I have definitely taken worse courses.
This class was pretty good! It is very well organized and well structured, but there is a lot of work, so keeping up is incredibly important. The textbook tends to change every time this class is taught, but generally they're smooth and informative reads. That said, as a very structured class, there isn't much room for deviation and/or creativity on homeworks and labs: grading and comments can be VERY nit-picky. However, all in all, this was an extremely interesting experience. Eisenstein's lectures are all fairly good and he answers questions extremely clearly and well. I recommend it highly!
If you are looking at this as an elective or gen-ed, there are more glam (and less mathematical) gen-ed astronomy courses.  If you are a concentrator or secondary or enjoy physics problems, the class is of appropriate difficulty and has great problem sets.
Its a good intro Astro class. Typical lecture and pset style. Prof. Eisenstein is a good lecturer and sometimes makes funny remarks (ie something about ancient dinosaur astronomers).
The class covers a wide range of very interesting topics, and in my opinion, Professor Eisenstein is an effective lecturer. As a physics concentrator with no background in Astronomy, I found that Eisenstein has very different methods of thinking about problems than the methods I have encountered in physics, which has definitely widened my perspective. I would recommend this class to anyone with an interest in Astronomy!
Unless you plan on concentrating in Astronomy, this course is probably not for you.  I took it hoping to explore a topic I had little background in just because I always thought that astronomy was a cool and interesting field.  However, the problem sets were very challenging and tedious, having more to do with equations and rearranging them than actual astronomical ideas.  Moreover, the two labs in the class, though fun and interesting to perform in the laboratory, required 10-page write-ups, which really weren't necessary given the simplicity of the actual lab results.
It's a necessary class for Astro concentrators and secondaries. That being said, I wouldn't really recommend this class to those who just have an interest in cosmology (which I venture to guess is a pretty uncommon interest). The course is very punishing scheduling wise, but the material is doable if you go to OH.
This is a fun, engaging, and informative class. It requires much less prerequisite knowledge than most people believe is needed. Anyone who has taken high school physics and high school calculus is more than prepared for the topics covered in Astro 17. The weekly p-sets are moderate in difficulty, and are usually full of interesting and concrete problems. There are two labs during the semester; this year the first involved observing the Perseus Galaxy cluster on the Clay telescope, and the second involved creating a galactic rotation curve using the radio telescope at the Center for Astrophysics (by the Quad). Both labs were very educational and interesting, though they required an 8-10 page lab writeup. Overall, I was amazed by how much I had learned about the universe by the end of this course. I encourage anyone with the slightest interest in astronomy to take Astro 17.
This class has a lot of great information, but is the worst-run class I've ever taken.  This course single-handedly convinced me to not be an astronomy concentrator.
I took this class hoping to gain an understanding of how the Universe works, and how we know what we know about it. The course taught exactly this. If you've ever seen figures like "the mass of the Sun is ____ kg" or "the Universe started with the Big Bang" and wondered how we could possibly know such a thing, this course is for you.

I took this course on top of a difficult schedule and found it fairly manageable. Don't let difficulty dissuade you from taking the course if you're interested (if you're good at high school calculus).
The material of the class is extremely interesting, and Professor Eisenstein is great! You get to use the Clay telescope on top of the Science Center, as well as the radio telescope at the CfA, which is really cool. However, I thought the different components of the class (i.e. lecture, readings, problem sets, labs) could have been more closely related.
Astronomy 17 is an excellent course!  It provides a very strong foundation for Astrophysics.  Professor Eisenstein is a superb professor!
This is a great course. If you want to have your mind blown consistently (almost every class), and are prepared to do some cool physics along the way, then you'll love this class. It explores some of the most conceptually interesting aspects of the entire field of physics - discussing dark matter, dark energy, pre-big bang conditions of the Universe, and everything in between. Professor Eisenstein is a great professor who is super enthusiastic about the material and who loves seeing people understand and succeed. The exams were quite tough, but not unfair. A lot of qualitative and also quantitative materials to study, but it's worth it because you'll walk away from this class feeling like you actually learned something! Not too much workload throughout the year either.
This course was a very nice and thorough introduction to galactic astronomy. The book was fairly easy but qualitatively useful and the math was supplemented in the lectures.
This is an awesome class! It was way better than Astro 16, and I feel like I learned an immense amount. I definitely still have questions, but I feel like I'm in a much better place in terms of actually understanding how the Universe works than I was at the beginning of the semester. Don't take this course just for the qualitative material, though. A few of the PSets were a bit tricky, though most were very straightforward, and overall the math/physics portion is the main focus of the course. The labs were pretty cool too, though definitely not as cool as the ones in Astro 16 were, which was a bit of a letdown. Overall, this class is super rewarding and should definitely be taken while you're at Harvard - don't miss out!
The class is very interesting, its a bit hard to grasp. If you understand the physics and math you will be gold cause you are learning such amazing stuff its just hard when the numbers and equations do not make sense. The lab reports are loooooooooong so do them in advanced, believe me! The homework is challenging, use the office hours. Read the book as much as you can, its long but easy to understand and really cool. This is NOT an easy A class so do not take it if that is what you want, take it if learning about space is interesting to you.
Pay attention and make sure you are awake fore every lecture. I found that going over notes after class was really helpful because sometimes it fells as though Prof. Eisenstein is going off in tangents but in reality he is explaining everything in a very detailed manner (so its is easy to loose track of what he is talking about).
Astro 17 really doesn't live up to Astro 16.  It's still not a bad course, just somewhat dry and not entirely interesting.  The textbook is very dry.  However, cosmology is VERY interesting, though a bit abstract for this level.  Also make sure that there is a good professor.  Eisenstein is great - can't go wrong with him, but the teachers seem to cycle in an out of the course pretty much every year.  The TF's do a consistently great job of helping students out and running session.  If you're taking astronomy for a Gen-Ed or elective, Astro 16 is definitely preferable, but 17 is bearable for concentrators.
If you are casually interested in astronomy, take Astronomy 16. If you like that course or have a deeper interest, this class is for you.
Do not take this course if it is taught by Alicia M. Soderberg. She was completely disorganized and distracted from the material needed to be taught.
Interesting topics. Some of the topics are only our knowledge at this point of understanding and may be change in the future and still this is graded, and I do not see a sense in this.
It's a great class and you learn a lot, but you should only take it if you already have some interest in astrophysics.
The difficulty level of this course fluctuates, and you may be frustrated by this and other aspects of the assignments.  But the material is fascinating and may change your perception of the world.
You have to take it for astro, and like all astro it's often interesting. But 16 is waaaay better. It gives what feels like a much more thorough treatment of its topic.
The material, at least the cosmology stuff, is very cool. If you really like astronomy/cosmology, it's probably worth taking (though check to make sure it's being taught by a cosmologist; Eisenstein is great). If you just want a cool elective on space or need to fill SPU, Astro 16 is a much better bet.
We had a really weird time in this class, since Prof. Eisenstein took over for Prof. Soderbergh halfway through the year. Up until then it was pretty shaky, but once things settled down it turned into one of the best science classes I've ever taken--one of the best classes overall, I've ever taken. I'd really encourage anyone who's the least bit interested to check Astro 17 out; it's some of the most interesting subject matter I've ever studied and the people who teach it really know their stuff and do an awesome job making it accessible and putting it in context. Fantastic class.
This course explores the fascinating subject of galaxies. You learn how they are much more than mere collections of stars, and in the problem sets you deduce cool things such as the mass of the black hole at the center of our Milky Way, and even the existence of dark matter and dark energy.In terms of workload (all of which I found quite enjoyable, although a bit tedious at times with all the integrals and calculations), the class is very easy. The psets never take more than 10 hours, and usually take only around 5 or 6 per week. The course even decreases the number of questions on the psets when the labs are underway. If you do the psets and have some basic knowledge of math and physics, you should do well in this class. The midterm was in-class and open-internet (yes, you read that right), and the final was take-home. Overall even the midterm and final were very enjoyable - on the final one of the questions involved calculating the number of dark matter particles inside yourself! And if you're planning to go into science, the feedback on your lab write-ups (which you write as if they were scientific papers) is infinitely more useful than Expos.
The topics in this class are fantastic. It is a whirlwind overview of everything that is awe-inspiring about our universe. However, logistically this class still has some issues that it needs to work out such as an unnecessarily long take home final and unrelated psets. Great class to take pass-fail as an elective since you get the cool topics without the stress about doing well on everything.
This course has the potential to be very good depending on who's teaching it. Make sure either Profs. Eisenstein or Johnson is teaching. Do not take it if Prof. Soderberg is teaching. You will be at a complete loss by the middle of the semester. Also, be prepared to go to office hours, which are very useful for problem set solving.
The professor for this class seems to change constantly.  I would say that you should base your decision on taking the class on the impression you get from shopping period, regardless of the Q-scores that the professor may have gotten from other classes.  I had heard good things from the professor in 2013, but found that being a good professor in a small class focusing on one particular area of astronomy does not mean that they will be a good professor in a general, introductory course.
I would really recommend taking Astro 17 with Professor Eisenstein. I think he is an awesome professor and really enjoyed his lectures. The material is cool and the workload is reasonable.
Try to work on the psets on your own or at least see them before going to the help session. Get hints and develop and intuition. Don't be intimidated by integration - let it be your friend. The readings from the Shneider book are a little cumbersome but you should make a nice little study guide for yourself for every chapter which answers Prof. Eisenstein's study questions. It'll make studying for the midterms easy. Try try try to do the pre- lab report and get feedback. Otherwise, you'll lose points you could have saved. Most of all, appreciate the scale of the universe and the beauty of the universe while you're at it!
This class is very well organized. If you're taking it for fun, be prepared to do a lot of work compared to other courses. I mean, a lot. But at the end of the day, this has been one of the most informative and most rewarding courses I've taken so far! YAY ASTRONOMY!
It was very difficult to stay interested and involved in this class. Professor Eisenstein was very helpful and seemed like he cared a about us a lot, but his lectures consistently lulled us all to sleep. Also, besides Meredith (who was awesome), the TF staff was one of the worst I have seen. On multiple occasions, my TF laughed when I said something that didn't make sense. He also happened to forget to include me in an email with vital information for one of our labs. Grading was very inconsistent. I would say that if you aren't an astro concentrator, you probably don't want to take this class.
Since the professor is clear in presenting the material, for the exams you just need to study the notes from the lectures. Also, there are very few freshmen in this course.
Big bang nucleosynthesis! Cosmic microwave background and anisotropies! Horizon problem/flatness problem! Warps! Galaxy Clusters!!! Black holes! How to measure the velocity of a galaxy as well as the fact that most contents of a cluster are elliptical galaxies; a little bit of how to actually perform astronomy. If all these send pleasant shivers down your back, then you'll enjoy the course! I took this course simply out of pure interest, and this was my first astro course here (while many of my peers come in after astro 16). The material was very enjoyable, the TFs were PHENOMENAL and helped simplify the course, but the course has some kinks that can be worked out. The book is a wonderful read, but nobody really has time to do all the reading. The lectures were sometimes informative, sometimes dry, but that is expected seeing that a lot of derivations were involved. The professor answered questions well, the TF experience was my best so far.
It was a great class in which I felt like I actually learned alot by the end of the semester. It's a challenging class but is definitely doable and is rewarding.
This class is generally pretty good.  I feel like I learned quite a bit.  The math/physics component of this class is pretty easy although the conceptual ideas and/or questions can be somewhat difficult.  While this class can sometimes be tedious (the lab reports were FAR too long), it is generally fair and not too time consuming.
Fantastic class.  Cosmology is a fascinating subject, and Eisenstein is a very engaging and knowledgeable lecturer.  The textbook can be dense, but reading it is quite rewarding, since it provides far more depth than lectures.
It's a very interesting course, but it's not easy.  The problem sessions are great to go to for working on the problem sets
It's a great introductory class in astronomy, the material covered in the course is very very interesting. I would recommend though to take it after you have some experience with astronomy, it will be much easier this way.
The material is pretty challenge and the textbook used can be quite hard to digest at certain points - but if you stick with the class to the end it will be a highly rewarding experience.
Astro 17 is an interesting course - who doesn't want to learn about the expanding universe and dark matter? - but as it's currently designed, this course is all about memorization. I feel like I didn't learn how to do any astrophysics, I just memorized cool facts about the universe. Which, although not a complete waste, (and it was relatively easy to be successful on the tests,) it was kind of frustrating and disappointing... it wasn't what I was looking for. If they make some adjustments in the future, it may become a more successful course, but that remains to be seen!
Professor Eisenstein is incredible. Harvard has many great researchers and scientists, but not quite as many great teachers. Eisenstein is the full package. The course assistants are also excellent, and the material, mind opening. Any educated person of the 21st century should be introduced to this stuff.
If you are at all interested in learning about our Universe and why it is the way it is, I suggest taking this course. It provides an exceptional and in-depth approach to the properties of galaxies, our Universe, and the implications of things such as dark matter and dark energy.
Pretty easy, although the lab reports took a fair amount of work. The unit on cosmology was super-awesome/fascinating.
Space is awesome.
You learn about a lot of really cool topics in astrophysics, and the professor and teaching staff were great.  The class does use a lot of calculus and physics, so it's a great elective for science majors, but it would probably be too much work and too difficult for someone who's just looking for an easy gen ed course.
The class feels like they are trying to introduce a subject that is too complex for us to actually delve into before taking linear algebra and general relativity (which are not prerequisites). Therefore, the textbook and the lectures have a huge disconnect where the textbook is full of confusing derivations and details and the lectures felt watered down. I often felt like I wasn't actually doing astronomy and was just doing integrals.
Interesting, but you'll have to work to really get into it.
It introduces really cool cosmological concepts and questions without destroying you with math.
I really enjoyed this class! Definitely take it if you are interested in astrophysics. The material will blow your mind. I recommend that you've done integrals and derivatives before. That's the most difficult math you'll have to do.
It was a good course. If you're interested in physics I would recommend it. If you're not physics oriented you might want to take something else.
The subject matter was a bit too mind-blowing for me to handle at times, so it got hard to grasp conceptually.
Fantastic course. Learning about the origin and fate of the universe. Mind boggling concepts. Definite math and physics is used so be ready for that, be be ready to do physics and math that is applied to something absolutely fascinating.
Figure out what you want to get out of the course, and what aspects of astronomy you want to learn - the expertise in the department and the teaching staff is extraordinary.  You'll get out what you put into it; if you just do the minimum work needed, you may not learn that deeply.
Accessible way to learn about some fascinating and mind-bending topics.
This class is an entertaining survey of large-scale astronomy concluding with an interesting look at cosmology.
This is actually a physics class (not just a science gen ed).  However, it is not too time consuming if you are familiar with physics, and it is certainly interesting.
This is an excellent class for anyone eager to think beyond what we experience here on Earth. Some of the things you will learn will certainly make you think; not only of celestial bodies, but our own earth-bound body and its place in the much greater scheme of things. Professor Stubbs and the TFs are amazing and helpful. Jason especially makes time to review course material with you. His input greatly helped my understanding of the subject.He is clear, concise and informative. He conveys often confusing, difficult concepts with ease.  Stellar teaching!
Stubbs is a good professor, and an incredibly nice guy. He's great at listening to his students and adjusting the course to help them learn.  Problem sets often ask for qualitative answers which could throw off some math/science concentrators but I found I learned how to craft better arguments and think critically about some of the issues at hand. Overall,
Take this class if you're interested in astronomy, particularly if you've taken Astronomy 16. The topics in extragalactic astronomy are all fascinating. In addition, new discoveries and relevant research going on in the contemporary astrophysics world is incorporated into the topics which makes the material even more interesting. Professor Stubbs is a great lecturer and really cares about his students and about making the course enjoyable for everyone. This was the first time he taught the course so I'm sure it will only get better in the future.
Chris Stubbs makes this course worth it!  To anyone interested in Astronomy, this class is a perfect way to see "cool astronomy" as well as the current topics of debate and big questions, without such a rigorous math or physics component.
This is a difficult, rewarding course. The unit on cosmology was particularly interesting.
The course is a lot different than physics.  So if you've done a lot of physics, it takes some time to get out of your standard mode of physics thinking to think about astronomy.
The teaching assistants and professors for this class are wonderful. They're really dedicated to the field of astronomy, and they would host problem set sessions in Leverett House the evening before due dates, which they definitely didn't have to do. If you're looking for an easy Gen Ed class, I wouldn't take this. And even though mechanics is a corequisite, it's something that you NEED before coming into the class. The course requires a lot of self-learning, and sometimes you'll be lost in lecture. The readings are rough, and homeworks are okay (sometimes confusing), but the exams are fair. Professor Stubbs is awesome.
Professor Stubbs is great, but not all topics were covered in the same detail. Sometimes he expects you to learn material on your own.
This class is a broad and interesting overview of galactic astronomy and cosmology.  It helped answer all the questions that I used to lie awake and night and wonder about the universe.  It has more work than a typical gen-ed so I would suggest taking it only if you are a science concentrator or if you are prepared to work hard.
It's tough, but class is cool because you're talking about space. The problem sets are totally manageable. The exams are pretty tough, though.
This is a tricky course but worth putting in the effort, you will learn some really interesting things.
Cool class
If you are really interested in Astronomy, then this might be an interesting course to take. However, even though this is an "introduction" course, it does not really fit that description. I would recommend having a very good math and physics background before trying to take this course.
Stubbs is an incredible lecturer and a very personable guy. Get to know him. The TFs do not help very much with understanding hw problems or concepts, but Stubbs usually goes to Leverett d hall to help which tells a lot about how dedicated he is and how much he loves the material. Seriously, Google him. Also, the TFs are no help in "review" sessions for the midterm or final, so be prepared to be frustrated. That being said, the material is extremely interesting and the class is still very new, so it has time to work the kinks out.
Excellent course with excellent course content; mind-blowing labs and concepts. The course was rather unorganized the year prior, and the faculty have made a conscious effort to revamp the 16/17 progression, and they are now very coherent.
Astro 17 is a good class if you enjoyed Astro 16 and have a taste for more. That said, it has a bunch of problems not present in the more smoothly run Astro 16. If you're just looking to take one Astro class for fun, stick with Astro 16: it's better organized and the material forms a complete picture. Astro 17 sometimes feels like "the stuff not covered in 16." Also, you might want to take 16 first; it makes the lectures in 17 easier to follow, especially at the beginning when the lectures are kind of all over the place. That being said, as long as you're okay with a somewhat disorganized class with sometimes hard-to-follow lectures, you'll learn a lot from Astro 17.
Be ready to sit through dreadful lectures. They are disorganized, and just plain confusing. All of what I learned came from the book or TFs.
This class has cool material but it is new and needs to be structured and taught better.
Wonderful material; much less wonderful lectures and organization.
This course really exposes you to what is out there in Astronomy.There's a ton of optional reading. Read them. It's helpful.The TFs are very helpful for doing problem sets.
If you are enthusiastic about extragalactic astronomy or want to operate a telescope to do some real astrophysics, you should definitely take this course!
be smart about what in the lectures you should spend a lot of mental energy understanding, and what is meant to just be there for the math-intensive students to examine
Shop the course and see what a lecture is like before enrolling!
the course was a bit disorganized to begin with, but it improved as time went on.
This class is probably not appropriate for humanities majors, or those without a solid math and physics background.
The material is just fantastic. Our educational system for some reason omits the study of the large-scale structure of the universe, so I think this is a class everyone should take.  Unfortunately, the year I took the course, it was poorly taught.  Maybe next year Julia Lee will be better.
I would only recommend this to another student if that student were interested in astronomy and the course was taught by a different professor.
Interesting but sometimes a little messy.
be prepared to do a lot of work on your own
Only take this class if you have a strong physics background or if you are willing to work hard to understand the concepts. It is a class with fun material, but it doesn't come without costly effort and time devoted!
The class material is very interesting but the teaching is poor. If you're only going to take one astronomy course, it should absolutely be Astronomy 16 with Prof Charbonneau. This class is still very useful for further astrophysics interest, and it will probably be better next year (as this was its first year). The four problem sets are interesting and not too hard; the two lab reports are challenging but extremely good learning experiences.
This was the first time it was taught, which excuses the poor lectures to some extent. I suspect it will improve significantly the by the next time it's taught.
A great course for those who are interested in astronomy and astrophysics.  The course is well taught and the material is really interesting.
The lectures were hard to follow- they were a bit disorganized.
Astronomy 17 is a great way to learn about some of the most exciting topics in extragalactic astrophysics today, from black holes to dark matter.
Give it a chance - Professor Lee is a new teacher but she tries very hard.
Hopefully the class will be organized next year, but if there not be prepared to spend the semester confused.
You should only take this class if you are really interested in the subject/need to take it and don't care that it's badly taught.
This class is absolutely fabulous.  The material is very interesting and the teaching staff is skilled.
If the class changes a bit in the future, I would definitely recommend it with more enthusiasm. I've heard amazing things about Astro 16, so I came in expecting a similar experience, but I'm sad to say that I was not amazed.
You've got to take. So just focus on the interesting material and realize it still needs tweaking on the organizational level.
I would recommend this class simply because it is a foundation for future cosmology classes.
Be cautious if this is your first Astro course.  Some background knowledge is helpful.
This class has the potential to be very interesting--but unless they improve the structure and change the way it was taught, I would not recommend it. However, be sure to go to the guest lectures, since they were great.
The professor is a terrible lecturer, but Joey is an excellent TF. Hopefully, the class will be better organized and taught in the future but until then I would not recommend this to anyone.
Very good course for students who want to get a basic understanding of what might going on in the universe. Great complement to Astronomy 16. You don't need too much math knowledge to succeed in this course. Although the lectures seemed a bit unstructured at the beginning of the semester, everything (the whole structure) made sense at the end. I really recommend to take it!
I'd wait a while for the staff to fine tune lectures, homeworks, and how they run the course before taking it.
Be prepared to work in spurts, and put enough time into the lab write-ups.
I wouldn't recommend taking this course unless you have to.
It has the potential to be a great class for astro and non-astro people alike.  Unfortunately the lectures made the material less interesting.  I'd give this class a year or two to sort itself out and figure out how to make the universe seem as interesting as it actually is.
