My thesis research has truly been the highlight of my time at Harvard!  The opportunity to pursue astrophysical research with a mentor at the CfA is an unparalleled experience.  I was fortunate enough to have had an incredible thesis advisor who devoted a significant portion of his time every week to mentoring me in all aspects of research.  The thesis class itself is a fantastic opportunity to learn how to convey research to others, as well as present research clearly.  Furthermore, this course gives students the opportunity to learn about different areas of astrophysical research, as well as meet others at the CfA, by attending various colloquia and talks.
Writing a thesis was one of the most difficult and fulfilling tasks I have undertaken at Harvard, or ever for that matter. It requires you to keep a (semblance of a) schedule throughout two semesters, communication and collaboration with peers and faculty, extensive writing, and deep understanding of your chosen topic (by the end, anyways). If you have tried research before and enjoyed it, I would strongly recommend this course. (Note that this is the second of two courses one takes in order to complete an astronomy thesis: Astro 99A in the fall and Astro 99B in the spring.)
If you like research and think you might want to do it as a career (or if you want to go to grad school), definitely do a thesis! The class, although demanding, does a good job of spreading the workload throughout the semester so that you aren't freaking out last minute trying to put things together.
The senior thesis in astrophysics is a great chance to get to work on a year long research project with wonderful faculty mentors.
It's a thesis. Know what you're getting into. Make sure you stay on track with getting work done--it's easy to slack off, particularly during winter break, but if you do that'll come back and bite you. Above all else, be intentional when choosing your project and advisor; that's going to have a bigger impact than anything else.
Writing a thesis in astro is a great experience. You have many advisors to choose from here at the CFA with so many different projects. My biggest advice would be to choose an advisor that you get along with well AND one who is available to meet regularly and give you good feedback, it makes all the difference.
