This class is great if you have any interest in teaching in the future or if you just want to understand how people learn science.
This class will encourage you to reflect on your teaching experiences, engage in new ways of thinking, and will make you eager for your next teaching opportunity to try it all out!
Takes a lot of time but is definitely worth it.
It's more work than you might think a weekly class might be, but it's very useful work. All the assignments give you a chance to reflect on your teaching or find resources for future endeavors.
This course gives you a jumping-off point for your future teaching experiences.  Prof. Sadler points you in the direction of further resources and demonstrates effective teaching styles rather than just telling you about them.
Unlike the teaching workshops/help offered by the Bok Center or through some academic departments, this course focuses less on nuts-and-bolts practical classroom suggestions and more on the broader questions of choosing what is worth teaching and understanding how students learn.  The practical workshops are certainly valuable, but if you are deeply interested in teaching and learning the "bigger-picture" approach of this course is an equally valuable one.
I found that this course used a lot more of my time than I initially expected. This was largely due to unfocused assignments which led me to wander around and burn a lot of time trying to figure out exactly what the professor was asking. There were enough positive assignments that made the experience worthwhile, however.
This is a great way to prepare for being a teaching fellow.
You learn a lot in this course, and it is incredibly helpful for anyone planning to teach at the college level or below. I recommend it, even though things seemed disorganized at times.
Spectacular. If you ever want to teach science, everything is applicable and it will make you think deeply about your style and what you can do to improve yourself as an educator. Could honestly suggest it as a requirement for any and all future science teachers.
This is a truly wonderful course.  I have had success teaching in the past, but this course has helped me to develop my teaching further.  I had never truly considered education literature or research prior to taking this class. Now, I have many ideas and new techniques to try out in my future teaching experiences!
This class is an essential complement to scientific training for aspiring college professors or those who are considering K-12 education.
I had always vaguely conceived of teaching ability as being an innate trait.  But this course showed me that teachers can improve greatly by understanding their students misconceptions and drawing on the findings/strengths of other educators and publicly available teaching resources.  Before taking the course, I had no idea such resources existed.  The course also helped me explore my personal philosophy of teaching, which I had never thought about previously.
For every science educator this hidden gem is awaiting.
This is an excellent class. Phil Sadler is an inspiration. Do not be afraid to enroll as an undergraduate; you will be able to keep pace. Don't be afraid to speak up in class! Professor Sadler is an excellent teacher who does a great job facilitating discussion, and the graduate students are very friendly, as well.
This class is AWESOME. If you want to learn a diverse array of pedagogical concepts in a completely stress-free environment, take this class. Also Phil Sadler ranks in the top 5 most badass humans ever.
Wonderful class for anyone interested in teaching or education in general. As a small class, it's very tailored to your own interests. Prof. Sadler is the best in the field! Highly recommended.
The class is what it claims to be: the science of teaching science.  It is not a practicum or student-teaching.  It is an introductory overview of the literature of misconception theory and other research in the teaching of science that pushes students to access the thinking of teachers, students, and scientists through interpersonal assignments like interviewing.
Good practical tools for learning to teach. Mostly focused on science. Phil is a great resource and the small class lends itself nicely to engaging discussions.
If you care a lot about teaching science, take this class.
Phil is a busy guy though is accessible if you really make point to get to know him. This course doesn't seem like his top priority
I think that anyone who wants to think critically about how to be an effective science educator should definitely take this course!
This is the only class offered at Harvard where you can learn about teaching science from the horse's mouth: the primary literature on the subject. The importance and relevance of this opportunity should not be undervalued.That being said, how much you get out of class time will depend on your peers. The majority of the course is discussion-based. If your peers do not have well-formed ideas or a background in teaching their insight will be limited making discussions shallow.
