The class is an excellent opportunity to feel like a real Astrophysicist.  The trip to Arizona is a wonderful opportunity and the final project is a good culmination of everything learned in the semester in a manageable way.
The class is an extremely low-stress (although the final project is a bit of a mammoth) chance to learn how to handle astronomical data. It consists mostly of projects guided every step of the way by Edo and Zach, who are amazing teachers. Also, the spring break trip to Arizona is great for learning how to cook. And how to use telescopes to take science-quality photometric and spectrographic data.
Be ready for a lot of computer work, but it's definitely worth it.  The trip to Arizona is one of the coolest academic opportunities in any course at Harvard.
This was a great course. Tons of fun. It was awesome to be able to go to Arizona to take your own data and then analyze it and give a presentation on it. It wasn't a whole lot of work. Some familiarity with Unix is useful but not at al essential.
A really great astronomy class. The Professor Berger gives good lectures and you learn a lot of useful stuff. The spring break trip is also really nice.
Very fun, interesting class, from which I learned a lot.
This was a great class, a wonderful, fun way to learn now to write a research paper!
I loved this course. Edo and Zach were both great. the class was an ideal size (and should not be made any larger). the trip was great and brought us together as a class. this should obviously be a required class for all concentrators; you get to know other students working in the concentration really well, and you collaborate on a project that feels like a real accomplishment.
Night lunch isn't a meal; it's a concept.
If you want to learn a lot while having fun, take this course.
Astronomy 100 is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  This class gives students the opportunity to do real astrophysics research with data taken by the students on an observing run in Arizona.
Its an incredible class that really teaches you applicable skills and gives you a good idea of what working in astronomy really is like.
Start your final projects as early as possible! It helps to get a hang of LATEX before you start writing. And other classes have finals and projects due at the same time, so plan accordingly!!!
This is unquestionably the best course at Harvard! You also get to visit and use professional telescopes at an observatory during Spring break!
This class is a spectacular way to connect the theoretical ideas learned in Astro 16 and 17 to the real-world work of taking and analyzing astronomical data. There can be a steep learning curve at the beginning but the course is forgiving, the results are very satisfying, and the chance to analyze data that you take yourself on the trip to Mt. Hopkins is a unique and excellent experience. (It's almost worth taking the class for the trip alone!) If you're curious as to what professional astronomy work is like, this course will give you a good taste of it.
Don't procrastinate.
The class is taught extremely well, the material is absolutely relevant, and the field trip is amazing.  Overall one of the best courses I've taken here.
Step carefully, this stuff will blow your mind.
It's a great course if you're considering doing astronomy.
is a lot of fun!
This class was fun, useful, and painless -- it's a rare combination. Professor Berger is a great lecturer and also a person that's really worth knowing. Zach (the TF) was *incredibly* helpful as well -- I hope he gets to assist the course next year also.Also, the trip to Arizona was so much fun. Two all-nighters at the telescopes that were actually enjoyable!
One of the best you can take
It is a fantastic course, and the Arizona Trip is definitely one of those college experiences to remember for years to come. I would recommend that future students make sure to start early on the final projects and avoid falling behind, as the work can creep up on you.
This course was really fun, and I felt I got a lot out of it too. You also get a free trip during Spring Break! Woohoo!
This class is great! The trip to Arizona was a lot of fun and it was great to experience observing. You have to put in quite a bit of work in this class, especially when working on final projects, but it's worth it.
This class was a lot of fun. Edo was awesome. We were provided with pizza every Wednesday and the trip to Arizona was one of the highlights of my year. But P.C. owners beware: you'll likely be spending a lot of time in computer labs. The course is design for the Mac population.
It is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Berger is SO nice and SO incredibly knowledgeable. The spring break trip to Arizona was so good that it made me decide I want to go to grad school (after being strictly against the idea before), and by the end of the semester I really felt like I had a grasp on how to analyze data like a professional astronomer.
Great hands-on course in astronomy. It's easy and fun, and the trip during spring break to Arizona is wonderful. Also, Edo and Maria are the coolest people ever.
This class is so much fun. You should take it. If you're reading this right now, you're deciding whether or not to take Astro 100, and you should. The trip to Arizona is great. The professor is great. You'll really get to be friends with your professor and everyone in your class. You'll learn a lot about the real programs and methods that astronomers use to do research. The workload is bearable and it's completely worth it.
An amazing class and an amazing experience. Take if you want to have fun and do some science. And make sure to start the final project early--the more time you put into it the more you'll get out of it!
This class is a fairly steep but completely worthwhile learning curve. I feel so much more prepared to apply for research positions in astronomy given the skills that this class has given me. Obviously the trip to Tucson was a highlight of the course. It was not only a lot of fun, but gave us an incredible insight into the work of astronomers. This allowed me to see the work that is actually involved in making these exciting discoveries we read about. This class made me feel much more secure about my decision to be an astrophysics concentrator.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. It's small sized, personal, and super hands-on and practical. Let's not forget the free trip to Arizona.
Take it, take it, take it! It's an incredible class, and you will have the great chance of becoming close to the other kids, and with the Professor and TF. Not to mention that you will have research experience after only one semester, as you will be more comfortable with programs such as IRAF or DS9. It's not as easy as reflected on the Q-Guide, but it is worth it! I enjoyed this class much more than CS50 last semester, and that says something by itself. I learned not only Astronomy, but I also developed stronger computer skills. This class was one of the highlights of my freshman year, and it helped me reflect on how wonderful Harvard is. We have so many amazing opportunities here at the College, and Astro100 is definitely one of them!
This is a really good class for people who want to/are considering pursuing astronomy, especially grad school.  You get a great knowledge of IRAF, which is essential for astronomy data reduction and simply running most telescope operating systems.  You also learn a lot about what "doing astronomy" actually entails.  The Arizona trip, too, is a great time and shouldn't be missed!
Spring break trip is awesome, and it'll be fun to hang out with everyone, but don't expect life long friendships or anything
The class is very laid back and the workload is very light. The trip to Arizona (or wherever else you go) is also a blast (and entirely paid for!). Just make sure you keep on top of your final project - it sneaks up on you.
The best part of the class (and really the only reason to take it) is the trip during spring break to Arizona.  But it really is an awesome trip
So awesome. Learned a ton. Had a a great time. Awesome trip. TF Jason is great.
The Arizona trip is great and the projects you do using the data from the trip are really the best part of the course. Choose a project that you know you will enjoy and be motivated to work on.
It is an awesome class. At first, it might feel overwhelming with all the information and assignments coming towards you, but once you get your hands on it, it is an amazing experience. Alicia, Jason and the Wednesday pizza made the class!
A very fun course. At the end you actually get our with applicable skills for future research. Definitely don't miss out on a trip to Arizona.
This class grows on you! Not too time consuming and veryyyy rewarding! Team Astro Sexy 4lyfe!
I cannot recommend this course highly enough. Astro 100 is an excellent course and Prof. Edo Berger is an excellent teacher. Kate Alexander and Allyson Bieryla are both wonderful TFs. The class is very small (usually 12-15, but our class was only 7), so everyone gets to know everyone else. The beginning of the class (the first few months) is where we learn how to use the Unix OS, IRAF (a data reduction program for astronomy), and DS9 (a program for viewing and working with FITS files, the standard astronomy image file). We also learn how telescopes and CCD cameras operate in this period. The highlight of the class is the Spring Break trip to Arizona, where we all travel to Mt. Hopkins at Whipple Observatory. We use the telescopes and take our own data, which is a really awesome experience (and the view is pretty great too). After the trip, the rest of the semester involves reducing the images, analyzing the data, and writing a paper on the results (in class and outside of class). There are a number of projects to choose from (roughly 6-8), so everyone can find a project to their liking. This class is excellent for anyone with an interest in astronomy. If you still don't believe how awesome this class is, take a look at the Spring Break 2015 Arizona Trip:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ffz2BDcotY
This is an awesome course. You will learn a ton and be surprised at the end of the class, when you hand in your final paper that you collected the data for, reduced it yourself, did all the analysis, and then wrote it up. It's a great and rewarding feeling to see a project through from the very beginning to the very end. The problem sets are not too time consuming, and there is ample help if you need it. Also the trip is amazing. And Edo is amazing. This video says it all: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ffz2BDcotY
https://youtu.be/6ffz2BDcotY
Just watch this --> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ffz2BDcotY
Edo is an awesome professor and really good person to know, so this class is worth taking just to meet Edo. I was really looking forward to the observation trip, but unfortunately there was bad weather the whole time and we couldn't observe much of anything. Regardless, the trip was a  ton of fun and the highlight of my semester! I can't imagine how incredible it'd have been if the weather was clearer. Take this class if you're gettig a secondary, or if you're concentrating in astrophysics - there's really no reason not to. Also, if you're curious who Edo is, here ya go: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ffz2BDcotY&Edo is an awesome professor and really good person to know, so this class is worth taking just to meet Edo. I was really looking forward to the observation trip, but unfortunately there was bad weather the whole time and we couldn't observe much of anything. Regardless, the trip was a  ton of fun and the highlight of my semester! I can't imagine how incredible it'd have been if the weather was clearer. Take this class if you're getting a secondary, or if you're concentrating in astrophysics - there's really no reason not to. Also, if you're curious who Edo is, here ya go: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ffz2BDcotY&spfreload=10spfreload=10
Amazing class. Really enjoyed Edo and his lectures, the trip to Arizona is just awesome, and I'm so glad I took this course.
Living up to its name, this course teaches you many of the practical skills that are required for observational astronomy, such as using image reduction software. The first half of the course consists of lectures and problem sets / learning how to reduce data, while the second half, after the trip to Arizona, consists primarily of working on a final presentation and lab report. To learn more about this course, watch the short informational video at the link below:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ffz2BDcotY
This class is amazing. The trip is about as much fun as you can possibly have as part of a class; I had as much fun on it as I have doing anything anywhere in my entire life. I feel like I learned an unbelievable amount about observational Astronomy, and Astronomy in general. Edo is a fantastic professor, as well, who clearly has a ton of fun teaching the class (which makes it a ton of fun to be in it, too). I couldn't recommend a course more highly.
Take it!! You get to take your own data, analyze it, and write a paper based on it, so you get to see all the steps that shape discoveries. Also the trip to Arizona is amazing!
This is an amazing experience for anyone with a genuine interest in astronomy.
The trip to the Whipple Observatory in Arizona is fun and rewarding, and gives you a good idea of the careers available in Astronomy.
Astro 100 reteaches material from Astro 16/17 at a very slow pace, then rushes through new lecture material in order to cover everything before the Arizona trip. Learning data reduction is very dull, and the instructions - delivered via hard copy packets - are often ambiguous to follow.  After the trip, the class is required-attendance work time on the final project, which I felt was wasted time - we could have done the projects outside of class and learned more astronomy material.
If you're grad-school bound, you NEED to take this class. This set of skills is too important for any budding astrophysicist. In fact, I would say take this class before you take Astro 98, since knowing your way around IRAF will give you a lot more options when it comes to selecting your junior thesis topic. For the non-grad school-bound, what you learn in this class will keep you a budding hobbyist for life, trust me.In short: take this class.
This is a CS course disguised as astronomy, useful for both astrophysics concentrators and students in other fields who want to learn some useful computer science and have an interest in astronomy. Overall a very good learning experience, especially if enrollment is low. Prof. Finkbeiner is one of the most knowledgeable (and funny!) people I have ever met.
Between a welcome trip to sunny Arizona after a Boston winter, and a great staff dedicated to teaching coding within Astronomy from the ground up, this class will challenge you to think about astronomy in concrete ways.
Utilize the department to get the most out of this class.
Great class, small group working closely with a lot of teaching. You get to pick your project and work on important issues
This class is a really good way to learn more about practical skills in astronomy. And the trip is really fun! The final project was also a highlight, as it was great to be able to take our data from the trip, and then turn that into a pretty substantial paper.
If you are interested in applying your knowledge from astronomy/physics and learning some of the basics in analyzing astronomical data, this is a great course to take. The first half of the class has some interesting lectures on telescopes/detectors/statistics, but sometimes the two hour block can feel like a lot. Nonetheless, Professor Berger and Peter are a great group to teach the course if they do it again, and we had a blast on the trip to Arizona during spring break (this is also a good class to take with friends). The second half of this course is the most rewarding in my opinion, as you become very familiar with a specific topic in astrophysics pertaining to your project. The class was a nice introduction for future astronomy classes and usually has most of the new astrophysics concentrators which is great.
This class is meant for astronomy concentrators and there's no real reason to take it if you aren't one. The software the class teaches you how to use is only applicable to astronomy. The trip to Arizona is awesome and you will feel like you are doing real science. Unfortunately, the final project using that data is a different story and is basically just so you can show that you learned how to use all the software and can write a scientific report.
The teaching is good, the trip is great, and the workload is light.  I can't really ask for much more.  It's a fantastic course, as a good preview of astro research.
The class is very rewarding, and the Spring Break trip was a great experience.
Astronomy 100 is essential for anyone hoping to do any kind of astronomy and/or remote sensing research in the future. You learn all of the technical skills you need and are given a really nurturing, supportive environment to practice in. It wasn't until the field trip, however, that I really appreciated the course in full. Being able to see how telescopes are made and operated, and to see the sky on a clear night at 9000 feet... It really reminds you WHY you decided to be a scientist in the first place. And you forget all the frustration of that long Unix tutorial as soon as you image your first spiral galaxy, I guarantee it.
This is a great class. You learn a lot about conducting an astronomy project from start to finish and I appreciated learning python. The trip to Arizona is amazingly fun and Edo, Peter, and Allyson make up a great teaching staff.
It's worth it for the trip to Arizona! Make sure you bring board games though.
