This is an amazing and very useful class. Professor Charbonneau is a very enthusiastic and fantastic teacher, with lots of expertise in the subject matter. You also learn IDL programming in this class, a useful skill to have if you want to be an astronomer or take part in astronomy summer research programs. The class is not hard, rather it is delightful.
This is a challenging, but really cool, class. Exoplanets are a neat topic, and the highlight of this class is how you'll learn to use computational tools to analyze data and run simulations as part of the homework assignments. I'm planning to do graduate school in astronomy, and the skills I learned in this class are invaluable.Taking a ride with Dave Charbonneau in his own field was quite an experience.
If you can take a class with Professor Charbonneau, do it. He is an excellent lecturer, is extremely well-versed in astronomy and exoplanets in particular, and is extremely congenial man to be around. I found the lecture material extremely engaging and interesting; we often went over our stated lecture time, but it was worth it.
This class needs to be completely revamped before its offered again. Professor Charbonneau is an amazing professor, but he honestly made this class way too difficult. There just isn't enough time in a week to devote to this class what he expects, plus 3 other classes and still have a life outside of classes.
Helps if you know how to code in IDL.
Charbonneau is a phenomenal lecturer, but his assignments are much more difficult than his cheery demeanor would belie.  You will learn virtually everything there is to know about the study of extrasolar planets, but the quantity of knowledge you will gain about IDL (interactive data language) will exceed that.
This class is very good for getting an idea of what an exoplanetary astronomer would do to solve various problems.  However, the workload is a bit heavy, so be prepared to spend a fair amount of time working on problem sets.
Tough if you don't know how to code, the exams are very long, a ton of material to memorize
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard.  The lectures are incredible, the psets are actually pretty fun, and you learn so much about exoplanets!  Basically Professor Charbonneau makes this class.  He is so enthusiastic about this topic - he makes you love exoplanets too.  Take it!!
I would just warn students to be wary of time commitments and consider whether they are well prepared. this class is difficult and can require a significant time commitment, making it very difficult to balance with other rigorous courses.
Make sure you have some programming experience heading in (CS50).  If you are good at CS and IDL, this is an amazing class.  The problem sets are really fun and give you a great understanding of the material.  Lectures are great as usual with Charbonneau classes.  Exoplanets are a really exciting topic and you get to learn from one of the best in the field.
