It's great. Once a week, you go hear an informal talk on research you can do at the CfA, and there's beer and food.
Go to journal club and take advantage of the opportunity to give talks and ask questions in a "safe" environment.
Take this course. Well, you have to, since it is a requirement anyway. But it is fun and easy!
Journal club is definitely an easy class, but you will benefit more if you take the time to write a decent talk and practice before class.
There are absolutely no negatives to taking this class.
Journal club is a great way to learn about current research in other areas of astronomy and to interact with SAO scientists.
It's such a small time commitment every week and one of the only ways to interact with professors on a regular basis. Also giving a talk is difficult, but only provides ~10-15 hours of preparation time and is rewarding since you learn about something you don't do research on in depth.
This is an excellent course that helps graduate students keep on top of current research in the field of astrophysics.
Fun, useful, easy
Very enjoyable.
Two parts of becoming a successful scientist are learning how to communicate and learning how to identify the important problems. Journal Club provides good training for both.
Free food/drinks and (usually) decent presentations on a wide range of topics at a level that is accessible to younger grad students.  I didn't end up going every week due to conflicts, but I generally enjoyed it.  I will say that it's much more useful if you haven't already decided on a project to work on.
As a second year, I found the talks devoted to journal articles interesting, especially when there were experts in the audience to give their perspective. First years might find the research recruitment talks interesting, but we second years had already heard most of the talks at least once before.
This course is fundamental during your first stages as a graduate student.
It's very worthwhile to go to Journal Club (and colloquium) to meet the other faculty and post-docs in the department, and to learn about their research. It's always good to broaden your horizons.
Tasty end of tuesday
Even though the professors don't take attendance, you should go to journal club to support your peers, learn about different areas of research, and gain practice asking questions at talks.
You should take this class.
Even when there is only one talk, let's try to keep talk+questions to 25 minutes.
Come for the cookies, stay for the presentations.
Enjoy!
Go to journal club. Many people skip, but attending is actually really useful for staying up to date in other areas of astronomy.
A fantastic course! A great way to learn about and discuss current research topics in astrophysics.
Try and read the paper in advance if you know what it is
You basically have to take this course if you are a grad student, but it's a lot of fun!
as a grad student you have to take this course
