The class is a good introduction to stellar physics, but is definitely an introduction, not a detailed class in stellar structure and evolution.
This course gets you a good survey of some of the more detailed parts of stellar physics; I'm glad to have a more in-depth knowledge of the subject now.
This was one of my favorite classes at college.  With a name like "Stellar Physics," how can it not be great?
The lectures need work, but the class is in general pretty good and not very time consuming.  Will likely get even better the second time around.  Not a very big step up from Astro 16.
This was the first offering of astro 120, so there were a few kinks to work out.  All in all a great course - the material was interesting, the professor was good, and the problem sets were fun to do.
This is a really great class. Professor Soderberg is a great person and a great lecturer, and really cares about her students. Also, if you can take a class where Max Moe is a TF, do it; he is incredibly in tune with his students' needs, more than I've ever seen in a TF.
The material is fascinating and the teaching staff skilled.  This was the first offering of the course, so I imagine it will only improve.
Professor Soderberg is a really great lecturer and has such enthusiasm for the topics. She really strives to ensure that every student understands the topics and concepts covered. The course provides a great survey of the major topics and astrophysics and the supernova project is a great way to learn how astronomers tackle recent discoveries. Overall a fun and engaging course that tries to produce a picture of the life of a star from birth to death.
A great course for astronomy or physics students.
TAKE IT!!!It was definitely my favorite class freshman year. The Professor is the best, she explains everything so clear, and makes things so much easier to understand. I loved the material taught in class, which is why I was always happy to study for this course, since I found the concepts challenging, but in the same time so interesting. The programming part was tricky in the beginning, but the TF is awesome and she will guide you through it. Also, the Office Hours scheduled right before the homework is due are perfect! We would always gather with other students enrolled in the class and work on the psets together. It was my hardest class this semester, but also the one I loved the most. The Professor will come with entertaining real life examples for most of the lectures - I particularly liked the one simulating a Black Hole. Also, if this is not enough as an incentive, there will be Ben and Jerry's!!!! As supernovae, but also as ice cream. This class is amazing from every single point of view. I loved it, and I hope as many people as possible will take it in the future, and enjoy it at least as much as I did.
Fun class where I learned a lot, without having to spend a long time learning material
1. Alicia is adorable. Take this class because she's the best.2. It's a very fair course that does exactly what it sets out to do. There's not too much homework, and at the same time it's not a joke.3. The supernova journal is actually a decent project that gives some insight into how observational astronomy works.4. Problem sets are very reasonable.
This class is really great! You learn so much about stellar astrophysics which is the basis of several different fields of astronomy! The lectures are great (everyone shows up and is really into it). The exams and homework are fair and Prof. Soderberg is THE BEST!!!! Absolutely take this class if you can! I wish that all of my upper level physics/astro classes were like this.
This was the worst course I have taken at my time at Harvard. I share this opinion with several graduating seniors. It made me never want to take another astrophysics course. The problem sets were time consuming in the worst ways: they mostly consisted of mindless coding exercises which involve little to no astrophysics. The questions that do involve astrophysics are plug and chug exercises, where a formula is presented and we are told to plug in the values of certain variables. Most of the challenge is fitting curves through data. To be fair, most of this was the fault of the TF, which probably changes from year to year. The TF was unhelpful and condescending, refusing to clarify lecture material because he thought that everybody was a grade-grubber. The instructor and the TF disagree on the lecture material and the TF seems to undermine the instructor's guidelines.  For example, the instructor has a policy that everyone gets bonus when the Red Sox wins. The TF during section said "I know that the Red Sox have been winning; don't worry I'll just grade the final extra hard." The TF is possibly somewhat sexist; similar questions posed by males and females via email yielded noticeably different responses. The instructor either lacks any physical intuition for the subject or is unable to convey it. She just repeats the sentence "I like to think like an observer" when questions are occasionally asked during class. The only redeeming feature of the instructor is that she does seem passionate about her subject and also clearly cares about her students, buying pizza every week. However, this does not make up for an unacceptable TF, horribly written problem sets, and poor lectures.
Don't take it. The lectures are incomprehensible, the professor doesn't know how to answer questions asked in class, the problem sets and exams will ask you about tons of material you were never taught, and overall it will be an unsatisfactory contribution to your education.
I usually don't bother with Q review-writing, but I'm taking the time to do it now because I think students need to get a better picture before plunging into this class than my classmates and I did from Q scores past.  I actually started drafting a review some three weeks ago, but now that the class and the struggle are over I'm feeling more charitable than I was then.  So this one will be fair in retrospect but much nicer than what I was feeling at the time I was taking the course.I'm not sure why it got as many positive reviews in the past (maybe it was drastically different before, I don't know), but Astro 120 is the only class that I've actually regretted taking here.  Lectures begin late with a long recap of the last lecture's material, and did little more than present with little real explanation the main equations that were given in the textbook.  Examples we did in class mainly consisted of plugging values in to these equations.Problem sets (and even the midterm!) covered material not yet taught in class.  This was frustrating because if I'm going to teach myself material from books and from the Internet, that can be done for a much lower cost than I'm paying to be here.Another thing that bothered many of us was the coding knowledge that was requisite to do almost every problem set but somehow not mentioned even as something that might be useful for students to know.  Some of us didn't even know where to download Python or what application to open it from, and only after people bombed (or at least had trouble with) the first problem set was a Python workshop held, in which the basic commands were introduced.  In the end, I spent enough time on coding that I had to sacrifice time that I could have spent on readings and the actual learning of material in order to make decent progress on the coding problems.Ben did a lot to pick up the slack, and his usefulness was generally appreciated.  I do think that the expectations were a bit out of touch with undergrad levels (on the high side), especially when not all the students were astronomy (or even science) concentrators, and it was sometimes hard to get an answer when we asked questions or requested clarifications on the problem sets.  However, sections were useful in getting a better sense of what was taught in lecture.The t-shirt that we received at the end was probably the only thing I enjoyed about the class.  I think Alicia does try, but that her efforts are misplaced.  (Too much emphasis on "fun" and not enough on learning material.)  I would urge anyone considering taking this course to make sure they know what they're getting into ahead of time.
I hope you have a good TF, because if this course is anything like it was when I took it, you're going to need a lot of help to get through the psets. I would take a different astro class if you can.
Take this course only if there is an entirely new teaching staff.
If you don't have experience with Python forget it. Also, don't think lecture will help you with the problem sets, rarely if ever do they cover the same material.
This was not a very good class. We hardly went over anything that wasn't taught in Astro 16 and it was explained better then. Alicia very clearly didn't fully understand or prepare most of the material she taught. She lectured directly from her notes and was unable to answer any clarifying questions. Overall, she was just really out of touch with the class.
My recommendation above (definitely not recommend) is conditional on Alicia teaching it. With a different instructor (or Alicia getting her act together), it could be a fine course. But I'll sure never know.
The material and the teaching staff are very good. However, the course is quite disorganized sometimes.
This course was one of the worst I've taken at Harvard. Nothing is really taught (lectures are extremely disorganized and we didn't really cover the material, and that made the PSets incredibly hard. If the TF had been willing to teach it might have made up for the other shortcomings of the course (as with many science courses at Harvard you really learn from the TF) , but unfortunately Ben was pretty mean. Definitely take a different course to fulfill your requirements. Also, if you don't have a strong coding background, this course definitely isn't for you as over half the points on PSets are essentially computer science problems.
Id like to preface the following comments by saying that Alicia and Ben are really nice and that my experience with the class is not indicative of how I feel about them as people. That said, this has been the worst class I have ever taken by far. I honestly dont know how the class got such good Q scores before because it was a complete disaster. Lectures were useless. They started 15-30 minutes late every day, and the first 30-45 minutes were spent reviewing (aka repeating) what we did the previous lecture. Sometimes the equations were different when we reviewed them so I didnt know which one to use. Other times, equations on the board were just plain wrong, so I had to cross-reference them with other sources just to make sure I could use them. Math was often wrong, even though Alicia was copying from her notes, and then we would spend 10 minutes trying to tell her where the mistake was. Half the time people asked questions, she answered a different question. We didnt get through all the material we were supposed to, and the material we did get through was explained using unhelpful metaphors that confused us even more. There was a huge disconnect between lectures and problem sets. At one point, I think we were 3 weeks behind in lecture, but our problem sets were still on schedule. So we started each pset without any of the knowledge we needed, relying on the book and the internet to get us through. Its pretty difficult to do a problem when you dont learn the equations you need until 3 weeks later. This happened with our take-home midterm too. There were a few problems that covered concepts we learned after the midterms were due, which makes no sense at all. I felt like I was being tested on how well I could google, rather than how well I understood the material. Problem sets were also ~35% coding on average, even though there were no CS prereqs for the class and the teaching staff made it seem like it was okay to have no coding experience at the beginning of the class. That was not true. Ben tried to compensate for how bad lectures were, but even still, we didnt have the tools we needed to really understand the material. Ill save you some time and money: just read the Wikipedia page for supernova. Youll learn way more than you ever will from Alicias lectures. Overall, this class was absolutely awful. DO NOT TAKE IT.
Please make sure you have previous knowledge of Python!! And are willing to work in a group for the psets!
