This is a one of a kind course for graduate students. You get a medical perspective that is absolutely useful to scientists, and clinical anecdotes that help connect research and actual patient outcomes in a way that most researchers never experience.
Don't expect much cognitive neuroscience if that's your interest
If you're a PiN student, fight tooth and nail to get out of this class. If you were a neuroscience undergrad, most of the material should be review. However, that doesn't mean your course load will be lighter. Furthermore, neuroanatomy can only be described as hazing by the Neurobiology department. Some old people claim it's necessary to consider oneself a well-rounded neuroscientist, but perhaps these are all MDs who don't realize that for some of us this is the last we'll ever care about human neuroscience. God willing, it will be replaced by comparative neuroanatomy as soon as Harvard is finally roused to fight its gigantic institutional and bureaucratic inertia.
The course work is difficult but an important survey of neuroscience and worth the work put into it
While the class was useful, it was not useful enough to justify the expenditure of time and effort.
If you have taken introductory courses in neuroscience before, you don't need to take this course.
It is a great survey course that covers a broad range of topics. You get to hear from many experts in the field about what they do, and I found that extremely valuable.
Students should know that they will hate themselves during neuroanatomy. I was incredibly depressed during October, partially from this class.
You get a broad overview of neuroscience in this class. I think you'd learn to appreciate this class for the sheer number of speakers invited to lecture. You won't be able to get this sort of exposure to Harvard scientists elsewhere. However, we don't go into topics in much depth so some may find this frustrating.
I would tell PiN students that it is definitely not worth their time and effort if they've taken even one or two basic neuroscience classes in college. 

If they haven't I would warn them that it's not going to be ideal, but is the only class of that breadth available to them as far as I know so it might be worth taking.
It's painful, but you'll learn a lot.  Many of the lectures are wonderful, so audit if you can.  If you can learn the neuroanatomy ahead of time from the old course materials, the rest of the course will be fine.
I think this is a good course, and ultimately I'm glad I took it; I learned crazy amounts of information, although some of it is definitely more useful/interesting/applicable than others. That being said, if it isn't a requirement for your program, I wouldn't necessarily recommend taking it, especially for someone who's simply interested in gaining a background understanding of neuroscience. This class *definitely* teaches breadth over depth, so if you're looking to acquire some specific, useful information it probably isn't a good choice, especially given the crazy time commitment. But if the class *is* a requirement for your program, enjoy! (And I only sort of mean that ironically. The class really does cover a lot of fascinating material, even though taking it is a little bit painful.)
This class is painful, but it does give you the background you need to delve more deeply into the field of neuroscience.
I would not recommend this course to someone with previous exposure to neuroscience through a few general intro courses. For someone looking for a survey course of neuroscience who is completely new to it, the lack of continuity (not a bad thing for people with background) for much of it I feel would be overwhelming and might not stick. So really if people fall somewhere in between one and three background courses or equivalent, it might be worth taking (i.e. someone who was  not a neuro major or equivalent in undergrad).
Pass out of it if you can. Too much information presented in too hastily a fashion makes this class an educational disaster, although all parties involved are very well-intentioned. Otherwise, don't do a lab rotation while you take this class.
Neuroanatomy was very difficult, but Matt Frosch was an amazing instructor. This section was the most rewarding part of the course for me. Also, Jean was a fantastic TA.
Keep up with the lectures and organize your notes BEFORE studying for the exams. Oh and take notes. Always take notes.
A great class for anyone.
The class is a ton of work, but it is one of the most effective and fastest ways to get up to speed on modern neuroscience.  I would mention that it is fairly medically bent, but that is both a good and a bad thing (for us scientists).
It's a lot of time and hard work, but you'll end up knowing a lot about the brain at different levels.
If you have never had any detailed primer for neuroscience before, this course would be great, provided you can spend the bulk of your time studying it (however, I believe that for many student taking this course, it is no more than 1/3rd and often times only 1/4th of their credit hours for the semester--and so this will be difficult). If someone was interested in learning neuroanatomy (with or without previous neuroscience courses), I would tell them to either audit that section of the course (because it is not worth struggling, stressing out, and/or ignoring your other commitments to get a handle on all that information in ~1 month, despite that the lectures are truly phenomenal) or to take a full neuroanatomy course where they will really have the time to learn it. I would tell them that the course is just not worth the trouble of learning so many details, especially during the last section of the course, that could instead be learned independently or through a more focused, comprehensive class as one's interest in these topics increases.
This is idiotic.
The neuroanatomy section is very difficult and time consuming (though rewarding); undergraduates should not take this course.
(My peers: PhD students, for what it's worth. You guys probably hear this from us every year.)This class will teach you things, but you will be endlessly frustrated with the way that knowledge is presented and evaluated. I would recommend it more to people without a previous neuroscience background.
This course is not easy; it is a lot of reading and memorization. Nonetheless, if you stick to it and try to digest the material, you will be surprised by how much you learned by the end of the semester, and by how your perspectives broadened.
If you were a neuro major in college and you're a PhD student, your time will probably be better spent in another course or in lab.
require lots of work
Take this course: you will walk away with the really important things in neurobiology that you need to know.
Start reading anatomy in advance - draw lots of pictures for practice. Keep up with reading the pdf.
Very useful, especially neuroanatomy section
it's overwhelming, and it meets has 3.5 times as many hours per week as a typical undergraduate course
You'll learn a lot, but it's a lot of work.  PhD students will be less interested by some of the very clinical lectures.
Good overall class as an introduction to neurobiology, but be prepared to have to keep up constantly otherwise you'll easily get behind.
Incredibly demanding requirements
This class is excellent if you need to learn neuroscience, but it is a lot of work.  They cover many, many topics, and you need to know a lot of detail for the exams.
This class covers a wide variety of topics providing the student with a broad overview of Neuroscience, which nevertheless manages to touch current research and unanswered questions. The quality of the lectures is extremely high, and the different topics are taught by professors who are leading researchers in the field. Everybody who plans to relate her/his research to the brain should take this class.
medical content maybe too much for our neuroscience students, although it's a good way to broaden our knowledge
a broad but integrative understanding on the field of neuroscience!
Plan to do nothing else during this course.  It requires a lot of attention just to keep up from day-to-day.
This has the potential to be a very helpful class if you have never taken a neurobiology course before. However if you have a strong background in neuroscience, you may find it slightly superfluous.
Be prepared, its a typical medical school course (A LOT of memorization)
If you know little to nothing at all about neurobiology, or are seriously interested in clinical aspects of neuroscience you can take this course.  Otherwise, if you are a person who likes to understand things deeply, you will likely be frustrated.
