materials learned in other neurobio courses are put into context by this course.
It seems really difficult at first but you end up realizing that critiqing other peopls's could help you with your own projects. Students should not take this class for granted.
Given a choice, the professors prefer that you be on time and say nothing than to be late and participate actively.  So make sure you're on time.Also, complete the assignments quickly since they're graded rather quickly as well.
well taught
This class has a lot of writing assignments and will take up your Sundays for the whole semester.
It's fun. Read the assigned papers carefully and show up to class ready to discuss. i think this class did the best job in nurturing interesting discussions about papers we read.
This course offers a couple of dedicated/enthusiastic lecturers and covers a huge swath of systems neuroscience.
This is a wonderful course. If you are interested in systems neuroscience but don't know what it really means, you should take it.
great overall introduction to systems neuroscience, with a broad range of topics that are investigated in good detail to understand concepts but not too intense to lose sight of big picture.
A lot of work, especially if you don't have a systems background, but ultimately rewarding if you put in the effort.
This course will blow your mind. But it doesn't matter what I think, you have to take it anyway.
Ask a lot of questions, Participate in discussion... its better that way
The course is good for getting some experience in reading, analyzing, and discussing papers in systems neuroscience. The assignments are helpful, but they get rather tedious since there are 12, which is pretty much once a week.
A well-run course that is worth taking as a neuroscience student, even if you will not go into systems neuroscience.
I'd like to comment on this course as a psychology grad student in an fMRI lab. This course  nicely complements psychology seminars in both content and skill development. In terms of content, the most valuable knowledge I gained from the course is how other measurements of brain function are carried out and analyzed. There is a much larger analysis toolkit used in neurobio that certainly can (and in some cases already does) inform fMRI data analysis. This course is certainly not about memorizing a textbook on neuroscience--rather, the course is really geared developing your skills in understanding and thinking about neurobiology papers. The structured and challenging assignments and in-class 'socratic method' discussion really forced me to do things I would never have otherwise attempted--that is, really try to understand the methods, figures and analyses in systems neuroscience papers; critically assess seemingly excellent papers; and reason about a totally different methodologies for studying the brain than I am accustomed to. Critical assessment skills were particularly emphasized because this was explicitly expected in the assignments (less so the case in the open-ended "responses papers" we get in psych seminars). Furthermore, getting feedback on one's critical assessments was really instrumental for developing the confidence that one really *can* understand neuroscience papers and even come up with valid critiques. Ultimately, if the goal is to learn how to read neurobiology papers independently and with a critical eye, this is an excellent course, and worth taking.
Take time to read the papers thoroughly and more than once
This course was the highlight of my graduate school courses. The reading was fascinating and the lecturers are highly knowledgeable and approachable.
Savor this course. The discussions will expand your horizons.
Do yourself and your classmates a favor by reading the paper and writing your summary/critique ahead of time.  This way, you will have enough time to process what you read and organize your thoughts before the discussion section. You can learn a lot from your classmates during the discussion section, so you should try to be as prepared as possible in order to benefit from your classmates' comments and contribute to their learning with your own comments.  You can get a lot out of the reading/writing/discussing exercise if you take the time to do it right.
This course is straightforward and engaging for those with the background to participate.  My impression was that the students in this course who did not have the recommended prerequisites struggled, which was a negative experience for both those students and the class as a whole.
n/a
This is a great seminar-format introduction to themes in systems neuroscience with great lectures, well chosen papers, and engaging issues to discuss.  If you're an (aspiring) professional systems neuroscientist you might be hungry for a bit more, but there's still plenty to chew on.
For me it has been one of the most applicable to graduate work class. All the other classes I have taken at Harvard have focused on a specific skill set, mainly problem solving or learning new material on a specific subject. The skill set acquired in this class is far broader and more beneficial than all other graduate level classes.
1. Fantastic exposure to the themes of systems neuroscience. 2. Great lectures. 3. Great opportunity to work on writing.
It's a great class even if you are not a systems person.  Just read the paper critically, put some thought into the assignments, and you will be fine!  It's nice to be lectured by experts in the field too.
Excellent introduction to systems neuro for people without much background. Will not be very challenging if you're already engaged with the material.
The course is a decent introduction to topics in systems neuroscience.
"It's fun, you'll probably gain useful knowledge, and it's easy to make it work around a rotation."
This course is primarily focused on how systems neuroscience relates to visual processing.
Excellent overview of interesting topics in systems neuroscience. Good literature-based learning.
you'll learn a lot about how to read a paper critically and the papers are really interesting
Brush up on high school grammar basics, and be ready to write!
If you're not familiar with any of the concepts, and/or have never taken statistics, it may be difficult to digest everything in one sitting. But it is definitely worth taking, and I recommend that you take extra steps to fully enjoy what is offered in the course (which I have not).
It is very specific to systems neuroscience. It should be helpful if you are interested in this field.
It's quite a bit of work to write the assessments each week.  The lectures vary in how engaging they are, but most are pretty good.
Provides a good foundation for understanding systems neuroscience, but isn't necessarily that useful (or worth the amount of time) if you are not in the field.
Amazing course. Response papers are a lot of work, but really help in understanding the material. The course seems designed to stimulate interest, prioritizing asking questions over memorizing facts. Background in neurobiology is very helpful, but lack of background knowledge can mostly be made up for with additional work.
Good introduction to how to think about systems neuroscience
Good introduction to the basic and necessary concepts of systems neuroscience
I'm a grad student and the fewer courses the better.
I think this course serves as a great introduction to systems neuroscience. However, seeing as I am not going to be doing any more systems in the foreseeable future, it's hard for me at this point to know how useful what I have learned in this course would be for my future research.
I feel that this class has given me a great foundation in systems neuroscience. Be ready to spend 9+ hours on homework each week - likely on Sunday afternoon/evening.
This is an excellent introduction to systems-level neuroscience. Both students with a background in this area and students who have never previously been exposed to this branch of neuroscience will learn a great deal about the field and about neuroscience in general. The faculty are all very good and seem quite invested in teaching the class and teaching it well.
It's effective at getting you thinking about systems neuroscience if you haven't before.
This is a fantastic course!  Take it if you want to learn about systems neuroscience and read really interesting papers.
This class is extremely well organized and carefully planner.
The lectures are really useful if you have no systems background, the assignments/feedback are really valuable if you do.
If interested in systems neuroscience it is great.
Get a refresher on your stats and math before starting this class.
Strongly recommended for those who want broad overview of systems and data science aspect of neuroscience.
Please be extremely careful with homework assigned by junior faculties.
Think about the implications of the papers you're reading in class, it really helps understanding the overarching concepts.
Worthwhile class that gives you a taste of what systems neuroscience is really about.
take it if you are interested in systems.
Interesting topics spanning a wide range of systems topics. This class was well balanced in terms of workload.
I like that we focused on thinking about, understanding, and summarizing papers rather than having to memorize random details for an exam.
The lecture topics are all really interesting. Many of them make you think about neuroscience in new ways (or at least were new to me)
What you put into the paper assignments is what you get out of them!
Good lectures and discussion by faculty members. A good general introduction to the current thinking in systems neuroscience from the leaders in this field.
Great course.  I learned a lot about an entire field of neuroscience I knew almost nothing about before.  I feel like this course broadened my neuroscience education.
As one of the few, if not only, non-PIN student who took this class, I would say that this course is fantastic for anyone with an interest in neurobiology/neuroscience. It was a very nice introduction into system neurobiology and more fundamentally on how to think about the brain in terms of circuits and information processing. The class can be conceptually challenging, but the amount of actual work required is not too bad. You don't need a crazy amount of math or neuro background, but the more comfortable you are with them, the more you would get out of this class. Even if you are not really into systems neurobiology, I would highly recommend at least auditing this class to learn what is about - the professors clearly care deeply about the class and what students get out of it.
Take the class if you want to know more about broad themes and outstanding questions in the field of systems neuroscience. Even if you have an extensive systems background, you will still learn from this class.
Half of neuroscience is biology of the brain and the other half is trying to understand what that outrageously complex piece of biology is doing. This class is a great introduction to what the brain might be doing, trying to do, or capable of doing.
Great, relatively small seminar
A great introduction to systems neuroscience with plenty of opportunities to dig deeper. If you've ever wondered what a "system" really is or why we care about them, this is for you. My friends with more systems experience seemed to enjoy it as much as I did.
