The material is interesting and the class teaches you how to read scientific papers critically.  Good for enhancing presentation and paper writing skills.
I think the instructor is changing next year, so I'm not sure how applicable this will be, but this was definitely one of the most useful courses I've taken.  The subject matter was really interesting (which leaves open a lot of great paper topics), and because the class was so small, we were able to receive individual attention (I think everyone met one-on-one with Alo several times over the course of the year).
THIS CLASS IS GREAT! The topic is fascinating and I learned so much. It's so applicable to life and I really recommend it highly. Do the readings every week, it will make class discussion so much better!
While interesting, structural class changes need to be made to make this a truly fulfilling class. That being said, Alo is super awesome: always provides good feedback, stimulates thought, and provides snacks during tutorial to boot. If next year the majority of the class is not spent on student presentations, then this class should be taken.
Great material, she was great but the student presentations lowered the quality.
Take the course. Learn a lot. Freak your friends with some crazy illusions!
take it!
Sensation and Perception works a lot with journal articles. We read one each week and discussed it in section. It seemed to be the most structured of the tutorials and needs the most work, but you will leave this class able to read and understand journal articles efficiently and able to present the information in easy to understand ways.
tutorials are great! and the readings are fun because you can sort of try out many of the illusions. and the experiment final paper for 1st semester was really fun and cool to write about (like you were a real scientist)
It's always a very good experience to be in a small class such as a tutorial where you can get a lot of our class discussion. The skills you learn in such an intimate setting are very different from a lecture-style class.
Sensations and perceptions is interesting and great. Because the class is so small we can get all our questions answered and Heather makes sure we understand all the info from the articles, she also draws info from past articles and makes new connections.
Great course. You will learn a lot. Take it.
Great especially if you don't have much experience with reading papers in depth.
Interesting material, fairly easy workload, but not particularly engaging
The expectations from this course are very high and it's very very hard. Be prepared to look for answers outside of the course material and to be lost most of the time. But, take this with a grain of salt since the professor is new and she may adjust her expectations after some experience.
Really interesting articles with a very relaxed course format.
So far, this course has been very applicable and engaging.  It's interesting to learn about stress when, as college students, we live in a very stressful environment.
