Research (with intent to write a thesis or without) is the cornerstone of academic endeavors and this is the ultimate method of creating new information. This is your opportunity to engage in the creation of knowledge that you benefit from everyday, whether in an academic or layman society.
Great way to get credit for research and have some flexibility in your schedule, especially in working on a thesis.
Do it!
98r is an incredible opportunity for thesis writing seniors! Once you find a good lab, you're all set.
The professor and tfs for this course all had good intentions and definitely wanted to make sure you learn a lot; that being said, the course lectures were a little too fast to pick up on every detail and the course sections were highly disorganized.
Great way to balance research with academics!
You must be able to pace yourself and work independently.
This is a great way to ease your workload a bit if you'd like to spend a little more time working on research. If you're doing a thesis, it's basically required as you'll be spending a fair amount of time on it. If you've never done research before, maybe try working with the lab on a volunteer basis first so that it's a bit easier to switch if the lab doesn't work for you.
Doing research is a very rewarding experience that really teaches you how to think critically and scientifically.
A great way to make enough time for research!
Since it's a research for credit, your experience depends on what lab you work in, but if you have a research project you're really interested in, and want to spend a substantial amount of time on it each week, this is a great option.
Great class to take if you're working on a thesis
Good way to get lab experience!
Do it! Research is big at Harvard -- don't shy away.
Try and get into a lab during the summer and then continue research with them in the semester via 98r!
Find a lab researching a topic you are GENUINELY passionate about, make sure you like the people, and then enjoy the rest!
Taking this during your senior fall to work on your thesis gives you some nice structured time that forces you to work.
Research for credit is a great, flexible way to get academic credit when you are already going into lab for several hours a week. If you are a senior writing a thesis, I HIGHLY recommend taking this course! The thesis intro you have to turn in to the department anyway counts as the final report for the class as well. The only thing that I would caution you to do is set up a meeting with your PI at the beginning of the semester to ascertain what exactly is expected of you so that you aren't surprised by your grade at the end of the semester! Overall, a great experience.
A great way to get involved in research and receive credit for it.  Definitely something every neuro concentrator should try.
This is a great opportunity to devote more time to research work and advance any projects.
Very flexible "class."  Just take the initiative to actually get something done, because it's easy not to.
Realize when signing up for this that it requires far more time than most other courses, especially if your lab is in Longwood.
this course is great for people who want to do lab work during the semester, depending on your lab it can take a lot of time though!
Whether you're doing thesis research or not, this class offers a great opportunity to gain experience working in a lab with the guidance of a professor.
Garnering feedback from your supervisor and mentor is oftentimes extremely helpful.
It all depends on what lab you are in. A great lab=great class. A bad lab=horrible experience. Choose wisely, young fellow.
Definitely take advantage of this opportunity! There is nothing else like it and it really does open your eyes up to so much more than anything in a classroom could expose to you.
Make sure you pick a good lab. The mentor should have a stake in the project you work on, and want to work. they should also have an idea about how to make it work well.
Do it!
The experiences will vary from lab to lab. But I will discuss my personal experience: it was horrific. I worked with the most condescending people ever, who, for some reason, have a vendetta against me. I am looking forward to finishing my thesis and then never seeing them again. My PI barely spoke to me (he ignored post docs sometimes too...) and I was given little credit for the hard work I did (I went in to do experiments on Saturday and Sunday mornings, and yet I was still berated for not working hard enough). My first laboratory experience was awful. So let me tell you this: only join labs that have had experience working with Harvard undergraduate thesis writers!
Great way to get lab experience
This course really depends on your lab environment, and your supervisors. I worked in Dr. Murthy's neurobiology lab, and had great mentorship. It was a very comfortable work environment, and I felt that my work was appreciated!
Great way to pursue research and get credit for it! You also develop close relationships with your mentors and learn about applications of neurobiology in different areas.
Go do research!
You need to motivate yourself to do the work
Take it if you are planning to a) write a thesis or b) do lab work during the semester.
This is a very time-consuming class, but very worth it. Totally recommend to anyone who wants to get experience with research. I had a fantastic experience and got to work with a really friendly, supportive lab!
Being in a lab has been a surprisingly great experience. Robert Stickgold is the best, most down to earth mentor you could ask for and the entire lab does their best to help you and support your research.
Be sure to find a lab where you can contribute meaningfully to the lab's work.  This makes working 15 hours a week in lab fun and exciting.
great way to get lab experience / thesis work done while getting credit
Great way to incorporate structured time for thesis research into your schedule.
You cannot get an HCRP wage stipend while enrolled in 98r. Plan accordingly.
you must be self-motivated and responsible
This class is perfect if you are planning to work in a lab during the semester. Doing research can be very time-consuming and thus, it is helpful to get credit for a fourth class.
Start early on the final paper.
You really get as much out of lab experience as you choose to put into it. Having the opportunity to get course credit for research gave me the chance to spend more time in lab and work on my thesis project in a more in-depth way.
It's a great way to earn credit and still have time for your thesis. Remember that you can't get paid for this work though.
Good course for thesis writers.
Nice introduction to research
The class is a great way to experience what it is like to work in a lab. If you have spent time in your lab before and aren't getting what you want out of it though, definitely switch labs and try again.
It's great to get class credit for work that you would do anyway.
Don't think the paper is easy! Depending on your PI, it can be a pretty involved affair...
need to put in at least 15 hours in lab- can be quite overwhelming. Make sure to speak to your PI about how many hours she can expect you to do realistically.
Great class to take if writing a thesis!
It is the most freedom you will ever have, and the hardest you will ever work for a class
Great way to make time for lab in your schedule and get credit for your hard work at the same time!
Great opportunity to get involved in research
If you are interested in doing research in a lab, should consider taking this to get credit for research.
This is a great opportunity to get credit for your hours in the lab.
If you are interested in research, take this opportunity to get credit for it!
If you are looking forward to doing research under the guidance of various research assistants, each doing their own project, I would definitely recommend getting involved in this.
Working in the Nelson lab is really great!
Great way to get class credit for research you are involved in whether or not you end up writing at thesis
Although laboratory members are busy with their own research projects, do not hesitate to ask them for assistance. They are incredibly helpful and approachable.  In particular, ask questions about the basics of MATLAB programming before moving on to further levels so as to build a solid foundation.
Find a lab you love, do research, and get course credit for it!
It's research for credit - do it!  Results will vary.
Do this class if you want to get credit for research and get English honors for Neuro without writing a thesis.
Meet a good PI. A "good" PI is someone who not only deals with research topics that are interesting to you, but also s consistently available for feedback. I would recommend not working at Boston Children's Hospital if you are working with animal models because it takes a very long time for your procedures to get approved by the animal facility there.
Be very proactive about getting your mentor(s) to meet with you and respond to your emails!
If you want to have the opportunity to engage with depth for a research project, this is a great opportunity. Don't do it unless that's your goal. Too many hours.
An amazing chance to experience research as an undergraduate. I learned what it is like to be in a lab and whether or not this was something I would like to pursue and continue with for a thesis.
You learn practical scientific skills, and if you like working in labs, this is a good way to do so. You have to be committed to going to lab every week.
98r is great!
This is a great option for students pursuing thesis work who need extra time to dedicate to their work.
Great way to still do meaningful research,get credit for it, and not have a too stressful schedule (the daily commutes to Longwood really added up)
This is class is truly what you make of it.  If you put in the time, you will get a lot back for it!  Completing research is truly a valuable experience.
If you are doing lab research, get course credit for it! You'll be spending the time there anyway, and this way you have one less class to worry about!
it's great to take 98r if you're doing research in a lab, especially if you're planning to write a senior thesis
This class is very demanding in the amount of work you have to put in, but it is very rewarding. I have learned so many new techniques and also how to think critically about designing experiments. I am planning to write a thesis, and this is a great class for gathering data for such a science thesis.
Do it! I learned so much more from doing actual research than I ever would have from a class. Its a great experience.
If you want to write a thesis, or figure out whether you want to write a thesis, or figure out whether you want to go to grad school, you should take 98r. Your lab makes all the difference!
It is a lot of work, but it is necessary to put in these hours for developing a thesis project.
LAB!
98r is a good chance for you to really spend a significant amount of time in a lab and get a solid project together for your thesis.
Choose a lab that you would enjoy working in because you will be spending a large portion of your week there.
Great way to get credit for something you'd be doing already.
I highly recommend if you want to do research. It's great because it gives you a chance to try it out and it's great since you get credit. You'll also learn a ton about the process of doing research and pick up lots of valuable skills.
I love being able to design my own independent project and carry it out!
Seriously do this if you need a fifth class or want some extra time.
As long as you maintain a good understanding with your PI on what you should be getting done/other expectations, definitely worthwhile. Especially for those who are planning to write a thesis (I almost didn't take the class but am glad I did, since you have to write a paper to propose your thesis anyway)
If you don't need money, it's a great way to get credit and arguably teaches more than any neuro class you'll find
Choose your lab carefully! If you choose Longwood, keep in mind that travelling will take some time. Try to have one entire day a week so you can go to lab and spend all day there.
Take this course only if you're actually interested in research. If you're doing it to decide if you are interested in research, this class will be torture. Do your due diligence to find a lab in which you're qualified to work. If you don't, you'll have the worst semester of your life.
This class requires a decent amount of time. 10-15 hours a week of working in a lab (plus anything you do outside of those hours for lab).
It's a good experience. Definitely do it!
Enrolling in this course is a fantastic way to get course credit for your research!
This course has been the greatest insight into the scientific process for me at Harvard. Definitely take advantage of this opportunity!
This is an excellent tutorial! The workload is low, so it is manageable as a fifth class (which it will have to be on semester unless you have extra credits), but it is also so informative! I learned more neurobiology in this course than I have in any other course. You will get to see exactly what happens in the brain when a person has Parkinson's or schizophrenia, or what happens in the brain when someone takes a certain type of drug. Learning everything in the context of dopamine is a great way to learn about the brain. Additionally, Barak is a great lecturer! He is funny, quirky, and very knowledgable. I wish that I could take another course with him in my remaining time at Harvard.
Great way to get lab experience and connect with a PI.  Definitely something to pursue.
Self explanatory class
Great class if you want to do research!
Make sure you pick the lab wisely.
If you find a research project that you're really passionate about and could see yourself pursuing it further (possibly a thesis), you should absolutely do 98r!
I had a lot of hesitations about taking research as a course instead of an elective or something else, but ultimately am so glad I did, as it really allows you to invest time in your research to an extent that just probably wouldn't be feasible with a full courseload.
I had an amazing experience working in lab this semester. I enjoyed learning more about cognitive neuroscience and I am excited to continue this research over the fall.
Really rewarding use of time!
Find a great lab with great people and enjoy getting academic credit to do research!
Lab for credit during your junior spring is an incredible opportunity! Take advantage, as it will greatly help you in preparing for your senior thesis. Find a good lab early on (meet with multiple labs in order to find the right fit) and you will be set! Be sure to stay in contact with your PI in order to maintain a positive and mutually beneficial relationship.
This class is a great way to spend time in lab without it getting in the way of other classes.
Great to prepare for writing a thesis or push you away from research if you don't love it.
Working in a lab for course credit is a great experience because you can immerse yourself in the research
A great way to spend a lot of time in your lab
It's great! Automatic A for going to lab. Keep in mind the travel time if you choose to work off campus
If you are going to be working in a lab anyways, you might as well.  It's nice to establish a relationship with your lab supervisor and lab head through this course.
I definitely think everyone should do research especially in the sciences. But pick something you will enjoy!
Great way to really focus on research
This is an excellent way to get course credit for the research that you are completing.
Great way to get some research experience in!
This is a great way to get involved in research at Harvard!
Stick to a schedule, really jump into your work.
Doing individual research is an amazing experience.
Great way to get research for credit. In terms of assignments, there is only a final paper at the end that is a great way to synthesize research for the semester and get started in thinking for the thesis if you are writing one.
