Attendance is a proxy for active participation.  This class is a requirement, so just come every session having read the papers, and be prepared to sit through onerous discussions and mediocre lectures.  Start early on the proposal, since the course itself offers no enhancement in understanding developmental neurobiology from start to end, but don't expect much feedback after considerable time spent writing.
The opportunity to write and review your own NIH-type grant proposal with top faculty members makes this course a winner.
Don't take this if you can avoid it
This class is essentially what you make it.  You are not held responsible for much of the information presented the first 2/3 of the class which is slightly frustrating. In theory this is because you are writing a development themed grant that pulls from the class material, however, very little from class ended up in my grant. You are given ample time to do the grant however a lack of hard deadlines and the lateness of the help sessions will probably lead to a frantic two weeks of writing at the end of the semester.
The lecture portion of this class can afford to be greatly improved.
Even though development is my area of interest, this was my least favorite course.  I learned very little, and most of the students think the class is a joke
great overall introduction to the questions of developmental neurobiology. not a particularly good crash course in overall development though.
This is a potentially great course, but is made far more stressful than necessary.
If you want to be a developmental neurobiologist, this course will get you psyched up about development.  Otherwise, if you're in PIN, you have to take it.
Please try to be engaged in the discussion sections.  You are contributing to each others' learning experiences.  Along these same lines, please show up on time.  Everyone is busy, but it is your responsibility to make things work.  Show respect to your instructors, your fellow classmates, and the course.
Take it if you want to learn about grant writing and start your grant early.
The grant writing assignment is a very well organized and informative process. I really value all the feedback I received along the way. I fee like I came away with a lot from this exercise. It's obvious that a lot of care went into creating and organizing the class. The professors honestly care about creating an effective learning environment. It was my favorite class that I've taken at Harvard thus far.
This course is incredibly helpful in gaining critical thinking and grant writing skills.
Good class overall. I think some of the lectures could be beefed up a bit. The assigned papers are interesting though and the discussions our year were mostly good. You get graded out of a 100 for every discussion class, which I don't think is necessary.  This also encourages people to make useless comments from time to time which is annoying.  The grant in the end is a pain but I guess I can't say I didn't gain anything from doing it.
That the course is pretty time consuming, especially when the grant kicks in, but the material is interesting and to enjoy the lectures.
Although it is difficult and a large time commitment, the course will teach you all about how to write grants.
It is a great course if you have several hours a week to devote to reading, writing, and researching for the final grant.
"don't worry, just focus on your rotation and the whole thing will be over soon."
Lisa Goodrich is extremely dedicated to the class, and it absolutely shows. I highly recommend the course.
This class is an excellent introduction to developmental neuroscience. It is well-run and the discussions are fun. However, how much you benefit from the grant-writing portion of the class really depends on your mentor.
This class is awesome - you will learn more than just development.  I had already taken a class that covered very similar material before and still found this class very rewarding.
A useful course even if you aren't interested in development. You will learn methods, how to read papers, how to write critiques, how to present, and how to write grants.
If you're dreading development, you shouldn't. It's a great class.
It's time consuming, but it's worth it because the instructors work just as hard, if not harder, than the students.
Good for exposure to topics, tools, and thinking about grant writing.
