A personal and engaging learning environment, sometimes seems to be bordering on old-fashioned but it does a good job of bringing you up to date with pretty recent work.
If you were an neuroscience major in undergrad, half this class will be review. However, you are forced to take it anyway, so reading these Q comments is utterly futile.
Assignments take a very long time to complete.
While the class covers a lot of important topics, if you are not in the PIN program and don't need to officially take this course, I would recommend auditing this class and doing the PSETs. The class has many logistical issues that makes things unnecessarily stressful, along with other short comings. The professors are very nice and enthusiastic about the subject, but the adding up of various small problems throughout the semester, along with vastly different teaching styles of the professors, made the class feel disjointed
This course provides an excellent overview of how neurons work, with an emphasis on the experimental methods that neuroscientists have used to determine what we know. Discussion of the literature in the second half of the course highlights recent advances and outstanding questions in the field. The course is taught by exceptional scientists who are also great teachers. After taking Neuro 220, I am better able to understand the methodology of the papers that I read and view their results in a broader context.
You'll learn a lot, but you might not be happy. I found I hated myself a lot during this class because it felt like no matter how hard I tried, I always managed to do poorly.
Take if strongly interested in systems neuroscience.
This course is very useful if your research is about neurophysiology. It will take some time & efforts but you can learn a lot.
it is really mind  training
Excellent lectures, tedious assignments
This class is highly recommended for anyone interested in neurophysiology. It's definitely recommended for anyone interested in neuroscience, but it may sometimes be frustrating to go so in depth into topics that aren't broadly applicable.
This is probably all information that is necessary for you to know if you want to pursue a career in neuroscience. The first half of the course is great, but it deteriorates after the midterm.
Absolute must for a neuroscience PHD.
Keep up with the work and ask questions along the way whenever you are confused so as not to fall behind, then the course will be very rewarding.
Solid class
This is undoubtedly the best introductory course to neurophyiology I have ever taken.
The class isn't easy, and parts of it are definitely frustrating (both for the difficulty of the concepts and for the occasionally dubious way in which those concepts are taught) but it's probably about the best formal training in cellular neurophysiology as anyone is likely to find.
This course seems like a great introduction to neurophysiology when one has little background in the subject, even if they are well-versed in other areas of neuroscience.
This course is how a bio course should be taught.
Good course. Physiology isn't really my thing but I definitely learned a lot.
This class is great if you would like to understand neurophysiology on a very general level- or a very extensive level. You can take what you want from it- whether that be how to read an electrophysiology trace, or more detailed information on all the different types of channels expressed in the brain.
You will learn how neurons integrate inputs and what makes one neuron in one brain region so different from another in a different region.
It's just lovely. Very, very interesting.
it was hard but you have to take it so suck it up and just do the work and try to learn as much as you can.
First half sucks, second half is great, don't take unless you're really interested in electrophysiology.
If you are well prepared in this area, much of it may feel pedantic and slow. If you're not, much of it may feel like it's going over your head. In either case, students I talked with felt like the class helped them understand basic principles and critically engage with papers.
Basic introduction to neurophysiology with some more advanced topics in the end.
You will all go over the problem sets in class and learn many useful things! This is better than all undergraduate neuroscience classes (maybe except for MCB 80).
The course is generally good, but can be hit-or-miss.  The first few lectures seemed very slow for anyone with a little neuroscience background. The pace then picked up, and the midterm exam was tough but fair. After the midterm, the class became much less organized and it was hard to know what we were supposed to get out of the lectures.
strongly recommended
Lack of organization , student must be proactive
Take this course: electrophysiology will be a lot more intuitive to you after that as opposed to reading general textbook descriptions.
This course is baller. Absorb as much as you can, and ask as many questions as you can, because you get unfettered access to world-class researchers for 6 hours a week. Take advantage of it.
lots of work but you learn a lot of material
This is an excellent introduction to a hard field.  After a relatively painless semester I feel confident enough to critique studies that would have been impenetrable to me before.  If I hadn't been into electrophysiology before, I suspect the enthusiasm of the instructors would have convinced me to try it out.
Put in the work.  You will be rewarded with useful knowledge.
If you are seriously interested in the subject matter, there is no better set of instructors.  It would be a shame to pass up the opportunity.
Have fun, don't be afraid to ask questions. Studying in groups can be very helpful because this is the kind of material where you don't really realize what you don't know until you talk about it and work through problems with others.
challenging but worth it at the end
Nice equilibrated class, which starts with a bit of biophysics and ends on solid, modern techniques in neurophysiology.
I learned more from this class in 3 months than I learned in 3 years in a neurophysiology lab. It was totally awesome dude.
This course is not perfect, but it's as good as it can get. Take it.
I'd recommend people working with neurophysiology to take this class. It seems no matter what level you are in, you'll still have something to learn here. The professors are really nice to discuss with, even about your own research.
I enjoyed this class a lot! A rigorous and comprehensive introduction to the subject.
This course is a LOT of work and requires extensive amount of time and energy! A strong background in neuroscience is not required, but would be very helpful. A supplementary textbook may also be helpful if you don't understand concepts from class.
