If Ryan is teaching this class, highly recommend. It also matters a lot who your classmates are, and this year I think this class got very lucky.
Ryan Draft is one of best instructors I have had during my time at Harvard. He combines humor with raw intellect, but is humble about his ability to do so!
Great teacher, Ryan is the absolute best. Take the class if you want to expand your knowledge of the brain circuits and make great friendships with classmates.
It is a great class if you are interested in brain development
Ryan is the BEST.
A tremendous course that teaches so much about the depth of our current understanding of neurobiology.
Ryan is a great teacher, as expected
I really can't think of a better tutorial, and that's not an exaggeration! Ryan makes papers make sense and themes connected, even the technical ones! The course also taught me to question a lot of things I read, especially the significance of data and validity of claims.
If this class is offered by Ryan next year (which he said it will not be, but in the case it does...), take it. There is a lottery to get in, but if you do, congrats. Great discussions, great people, and great knowledge. There is just too much stuff I can talk about....
This class (Building a Brain with Ryan Draft) was amazing; it was easily the most enjoyable and rewarding neurobiology class I have taken at Harvard. Class discussions were great, with Ryan facilitating astonishingly well. The weekly assignment was reading 2 papers and writing up answers to a list of questions. This is one of those courses that are only as useful as you choose to make it. Because I was so interested in the material, I put in quite a bit of effort, and that's why I loved the course and did not find it a waste of my time. Be warned though; although you only meet once a week, I found myself doing more work than some other classes.
Ryan Draft is amazing. This is by far the best Neuro tutorial, has very little work, but still teaches you a ton about reading scientific papers and about the brain! TAKE IT!
Take this course! This is the best course I ever had and you will love it. Ryan is a genius and the class is a lot of fun.
Best neuro tutorial ever.
It's a really chill class and you do learn a lot. Not the best for bonding with fellow neuro students, sadly.
Take it!
Ryan is the bomb
What else needs to be said. Ryan, visual system, awesome classic papers, couldn't get better
OMG OMG OMG super awesome tutorial!! I was bummed at first to hear that both ICON and neuropharmacology were not being taught my year, but this class was great. Ryan is one of the best group discussion facilitators I have ever met. He is so approachable, yet don't let his calm demeanor fool you. He is very sharp and is very direct with answering your questions (or very honest when he does not know the answer). The work is super-manageable, really interesting. Honestly, you can't ask for a better tutorial. TAKE IT.
Really enjoyable way to get to learn about the birth of the brain
It's a great opportunity to get to know a faculty member and learn in a more intimate environment
This tutorial is great, a perfect way to knock off an elective. Ryan is an excellent teacher and the material is really interesting. Take it!!!
Dr. Draft is awesome! There is a really chill atmosphere, so there is no pressure to memorize unnecessary facts but rather understand concepts of neurodevelopment thoroughly and discuss very interesting and engaging questions with your classmates. You are lucky if you get lotteried into this course!
It's hard work in many ways, but Ryan is super cool and it a great teacher.
This class/material should be a requirement for neuro concentrators. The class really highlights the strengths/weaknesses of the neuro field and provides opportunities to consider ways in which the field needs to be changed. Also really helps with learning how to read science articles. And, of course, Ryan Draft is a wonderful instructor.
the tutorial is great because the only work you have is to do the readings each week but you come from each discussion having learned a lot
You learn a lot of interesting stuff. It's not terribly difficult, you'll learn how to read a scientific paper, and you'll start thinking about synaptic connectivity both from a broad perspective and at a very fine-grained level.
Very informative, incredibly fulfilling, reasonable courseload.
Prepare to have fun while learning! It's like school house rocks (but without the music).
very sciency!
