This is a very good and enjoyable class. The grading is based only on response papers which is a much more educational way of grading in my opinion. Feedback on response papers is very detailed and useful. However, note that this course might be a *lot* easier than you expect if you have some systems neuroscience background. That said, it is still very enjoyable.
Great class. The more grad students the better.
This is a really great class.  Really low workload (read one paper a week and written a two paragraph response after discussing it in class) but you'll get a lot out of the class.  A great overview of where the field is and has come from with a professor and guest lecturers who really know what they're talking about.  Also a great opportunity to develop one's skills in reading, thinking critically about, and discuss scientific papers.  You really learn how to exact the main ideas and find the holes in the author's arguments and experimental designs.
This is a very interesting course.  The lectures sometimes move a little slowly, but the papers you will read are very good and the professors are great.
The class covers interesting topics in visual processing and give you an overview of the field. It also attempts to bridge the biological and computational side of the field. Unfortunately, this year the class did a poor job at doing either, not giving enough information for students of either background. Also the lectures and paper discussed seemed a bit disjointed because of the weird timing of reading the papers before learning important background information. I hope the class makes some major improvements for next year, but as it stands I would only recommend this class if you are dead set in going into this field
This class is quite interesting if you have a proclivity for the subject. It's also low-stress, which is always nice.
The subject matter is interesting, but this class is more flawed than the papers you will have to criticize. Grading is partially subjective and polarizing. Regular office hours are not held, and due to other conflicts, the professor missed over a month of classes in total. I would encourage future students to really think hard before enrolling. I hope this class improves quickly in the future because the topics are great. The class, as is, should not continue if not changed.
This course was a stress-free exploration of a very particular topic. Thus, if you are not interested in the topic, it may get a bit boring, but I think that goes without saying. The assignments aren't too difficult and the readings aren't too dense (with a few exceptions), so it's not too hard to become conversationally fluent about the material. Professor Kreiman is a nice, genuine, and extremely intelligent individual.
Take this course if you can! Prof Kreiman gives awesome lectures, while Hanlin, the TF, leads awesome discussions. It taught me so much about visual object recognition. The readings and lecture material are definitely challenging--but in a good way.
I am very happy that I chose this course as one of my advanced neurobio electives. I went into the course hoping to learn about the visual system in greater detail, and I came out with a comprehensive understanding of the physiology of the visual system and of the experimental procedures and techniques used to investigate it. The course consisted of one two-hour session each week; Professor Kreiman lectured during the first hour, and we engaged in discussion of the paper we had read for that week during the second hour. The lectures were always incredibly interesting, provided us with a strong foundational understanding of various topics relating to the visual system and were enhanced by Professor Kreiman's extensive research experience in the field. I really enjoyed having the opportunity to read a paper every week, discuss it in class and analyze it via a weekly response paper. This class provided us with the unique opportunity to voice our own interpretations and critiques of a paper while being able to receive immediate verbal feedback from an expert in the field. If you have any interest in learning about the human (and non-human primate) visual system, then I highly recommend that you take this class.
This is a really fun class! I think it's one of the best ways to fulfill an advanced neuro requirement. The readings are all interesting, and you get to know them well after class discussion.
simple assignments, but tough grading (on a 4pt scale, even the final). 3/4=75%.
This is a wonderful class with a light workload! It will help you better critically analyze scientific literature and gain a deeper understanding of visual systems.
Fantastic course. I learned a tremendous amount! Prof. Kreiman taught material in a very friendly and informative way. Hanlin was also very helpful! I have learned a lot about reading and understanding science papers.
I really liked this class because it wasn't extremely taxing, but it helped me to improve my ability to critique and ultimately understand scientific papers in a field with which I am not fully familiar.
You read some fascinating papers.
You will finally understand object recognition
A rare opportunity to be in a small class with an expert in the field. There is no work required for this class- Read a paper before class every week, and then write two paragraphs about that paper for class the week after. That's it- no exams, no finals, no final papers. That said, the grading will be uncertain.You'll listen to a lecture for an hour, then discuss a paper for an hour. He's very knowledgeable on the subject.
FANTASTIC course. Kreiman is super awesome as a lecturer (super smart and really good at explaining concepts) and is really engaged in the class while still managing to be laid-back. The small size of the class was also great.
