If you're planning to do a neuro thesis, definitely enroll in Neuro 99.  You'll want the time to go to lab/write.
Use this opportunity to really develop a project from beginning to end. Think of it as a mini grad school session, where YOU initiate a project from beginning to end. If you are the one coming up with background research, the research question, hypothesis, and tests, you will learn much. If you're handed a thesis topic, you will learn much much less. Also, be proactive and set up deadlines for yourself. Set up meeting times with your PI. Your PI will not actively seek you out.  Pick a topic you're interested in, otherwise it will be VERY painful process.
Writing a thesis really teaches you how to manage a large project if you've never done one before - it's a great academic learning experience.  Plus, it will help you have things written up if you ever plan on publishing your thesis work, so it's killing two birds with one stone.
Definitely take the course if you are working on a thesis so that you can have time to work on it, taking 4 real classes and doing a thesis on the side is not advisable.
required for thesis
Do it!!
AN excellent way to work on your thesis. Make sure you attend all the workshops!!!
Writing a thesis was a huge challenge but ultimately very rewarding.
Writing a thesis was one of the best decisions in my college career. It was difficult and incredibly frustrating at times, but the final product is one of my most well-crafted and thoughtful works. If you have the time and the fortitude, DO IT.
Do it. Find a good advisor mentor and get something done.
Great class!
A great way to budget time for your thesis.  I cannot imagine how I would have made it through my thesis without this course.
This class means you're writing a thesis.
Finishing a thesis is one of the most gratifying experiences. Working on it, on the other hand, can be painful and confusing (and very time-consuming). Please manage your time as best as you can- if you can finish the work without pulling any all-nighters (particularly in the last couple days before the deadline), consider yourself golden!
Finish your experiments as early as possible to start writing!
Get course credit for your thesis- it's a no-brainer.
You'll have so much freedom when you hit the submit button for that thesis!
If you are writing a neurobiology thesis, you will need to take this course. Ryan and Laura are very helpful!
Take this course if you're planning on writing a thesis.  And if you like research and are debating about writing a thesis, do it.  It's hard along the way but you'll learn a lot, and it's a great accomplishment to look back on afterward.
A thesis is a great way to have something to show for the work you've done in lab over the past few years. It can often result in a publication as well (or be a product of a publication).
Great way to get credit for research!
budget your time well! ask Ryan Draft questions about figures!
Take Neuro 99 if you are writing a thesis. It's a no brainer. It gives you time to work on your thesis and you get credit for it.
it is very helpful to get credit for working on your thesis - you will need the extra time!
Great way to fulfill a reqiurement and get thesis work in your schedule!
99 will dominate your senior spring. Minimize the amount of other responsibilities that you take on for the same semester.
Great way to budget time for your thesis!
This course is a great way to build time into your schedule for thesis research.
Bob Stickgold is the best PI ever! If you're interested in sleep at all, this is the lab you need to be in.
If you are going to write a thesis, my impression is that neurobiology is one of the best concentrations for it in terms of advising and the overall quality of the process.  That being said, writing a thesis is a HUGE time investment, one that will likely require you to sacrifice some other aspects of your college experience (engagement with other senior spring courses, some time with friends, possibly commitment to an activity).  Even so, I LOVED writing my thesis and am so glad that I did it.  If you can find a topic that you can happily devote 1000 hours to, write a thesis.  If you can't find something you're that passionate about, I would say don't write one.
Make sure you want to complete a thesis to take this class.
Writing a thesis is one of the most challenging and rewarding things you can do in college.
Writing a thesis was incredibly rewarding and brought me closer to the Neurobiology department and my fellow concentrators. The experience was good for me because my advisors (PI and grad student) were great to work with and very supportive. I also stayed ahead of the deadlines as best I could, which probably contributed to a relatively low stress experience.
Thesis writers: Get ready for a fun ride...
You're probably pretty well-versed in how this works by now, so keep moving ahead and don't give up when feeling frustrated! Do your best to maintain good communication with your PI and mentors; it makes a huge difference.
Thesising is rough but rewarding
Take this class if you want to do a thesis!
Thesis requirement
If you're writing a thesis, this is an essential component to keeping your schedule balanced. After you turn in your thesis, you are free to use that time to enjoy senior spring, which is amazing! As a word of caution, be sure to pick a research mentor who will be responsive/at least provide some feedback for your thesis. My thesis provided no written feedback throughout the process, which certainly made my thesis feel a lot more like indepedent research than I anticipated. Thankfully, it worked out well, but it was quite shocking to have never received feedback on something that only I had read. It was a growing experience, but I would have certainly liked to hear back on my writing. If you need help narrowing down who will provide feedback, ask Ryan Draft as he will have knowledge of previous mentors who did not give a lot or any feedback.
If you're writing a thesis in neurobiology, you'll probably be enrolled in this.
Lots of independent work. Make sure you have a PI and mentor who you can work with/talk to.
Write an MBB thesis!
Be sure to communicate with your advisors.
You should absolutely do this if you are passionate about a thesis topic.
Make use of Ryan and Laura's availability! They are eager to help!
Be self-driven; take deadlines seriously and self-assign additional deadlines along the way; develop a strong relationship with your thesis advisor and meet on a regular basis to discuss your work and any concerns you have, particularly if you are ever feeling lost!
If you're going to write a thesis, start thinking about it really early, talk to your mentor a lot, make sure they're responsive and helpful and excited about your project, and make sure you actually want to do it.  Then the process will be much less painful and more rewarding than it would be otherwise.
Definitely take advantage of the chance to do dedicated research and write a thesis. This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to create knowledge at the undergraduate level that will contribute to science. It is also a rewarding experience to complete such a comprehensive, large academic project and to build close relationships with your advisors along the way. Be timely with your thesis deadlines to ensure everything is completed on schedule.
If you (a) like the research process (b) can find a lab and advisor that you get along well with and really enjoy and (c) can find a lab researching a topic that you are genuinely interested in, then writing a thesis is an INCREDIBLE experience and I HIGHLY recommend it!
n/a
If writing a thesis start writing as soon as possible, even if you haven't finished collecting all of your results yet.
A thesis is not to be taken lightly; it is a huge time commitment and emotional burden. That being said, completing a thesis was also the most fulfilling accomplishment I've experienced at Harvard. Be aware that because there is no 'tutorial', you'll be largely on your own when it comes to writing style and form. Take the initiative and look for grad students, peers, etc to read over your work!
If you are writing a thesis anyway, why not get course credit for it at the same time? Just make sure that you and your PI are on the same page about how you will be assessed.
Thesis is a good experience, you won't regret it
Writing a thesis is hard work but a rewarding experience.
While there will inevitably be bumps along the way, writing a Neurobiology thesis is a very rewarding process!
It depends on you! Start early!
Writing a thesis is so not as bad as anyone makes it seem.
Research something you love! It means the world in the end.
You should definitely take this course if you are writing a thesis.
great for those writing a thesis!
