Unless you really want to pursue an MD/PhD, this class is really not worth the time
The patient presentations are excellent, and eye opening. Class is well organized and thought out, although the reading each week can be excessive. Teaching fellows and faculty are very easy to talk to, and very approachable.
It's awesome. The patient presentations are unlike anything I've experienced during my undergrad years at MIT, and it adds a layer of realism, purpose, and enhanced understanding to the academic coursework and reading we complete throughout the term. I'm not sure how I'd improve the course; it seems they have everything figured out (but since Ed's been doing this for so long, it's hard to expect otherwise...). The speakers hail from Boston hospitals and area academic institutions such as the Harvard and MIT networks. All are excellent and many are leaders in their fields. The class is really awesome, and I can't really do it justice through this short eval or text field....
This is one of the few courses in which you get to meet and interact with patients, which is a huge merit in  and of itself. Furthermore, the guest lecturers are experts in the current disease research, which is based on much more basic science research on neural and molecular mechanisms in animal models. Thus, it is a great way to better understand the connection between basic science research, clinical practice and everything in between including exposure to the workings of clinical trials.
Ed (and Jang-Ho when he was here) are fantastic. Ed and the facilitators worked so hard to feed us and provide us with the opportunity to hear experts in the field talk about the diseases we were studying. Yes, some of the lectures got a bit boring, but meeting the patients honestly changed my life and my outlook on my own scientific research career.
It is a very informative and insightful class.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.  Inspiring lectures and patient visits.  You'll appreciate what you learn, and, just as importantly, you'll remember what you learned.   The workload is a terrific balance: the major assignments are appropriately challenging, but the week-to-week upkeep is manageable.
This course was one of my favorite at Harvard. For people who are interested in neurobiology research or clinical practice, this is one of the best classes you could take.
It's awesome!
don't be rude and show up late on the monday sessions!  even though people were told not to do this, it seemed that no one listened.  I personally felt disgusted everytime someone entered while a patient was being interviewed.  It felt like that late person didn't care enough to adjust their schedule to accomodate the patient even when the patient took the time to come talk to us late at night as well as risk their own embarassment.
This is a great course, especially for premeds. It's the first time that I get to interact with patients in an academic setting. This is such a worthwhile and satisfying course.
Hearing from patients and receiving lectures from experts on the disease made this course truly a unique and valuable learning experience. Not too work intensive and highly interesting! Definitely worth taking! (Also, you get dinner during class!).
The patient presentations were the best part of the class.  It definitely helps put a face to the disease.Lectures are sometimes better/worse depending on the instructor and what he/she chooses to focus on.
The unique format of this course is what makes it so special. Having the opportunity to talk to leading researchers in their particular fields and meet patients who have various neurological disorders is both insightful and puts a face to medicine. I loved this course!
This course provides students with the fascinating opportunity to study neurological diseases such as Parkinson's, Huntington's, Multiple Sclerosis, ALS, autism, schizophrenia, Tourette's, and more each week via presentations by researchers and patient presentations by physicians. Seeing patients with the diseases was by far the most fascinating aspect of the course, and I encourage all students interested in neurology or clinical research to consider taking this course. Undergraduate students should know going in that graduate students taking the course will most likely achieve a higher level of understanding than their own and that the final exam is not specifically written for the level of undergraduate students, but this course provides such a fascinating learning experience that you shouldn't let this discourage you from taking the course.
Best class I've taken at Harvard.  Professor Kravitz brings together an all-star team of doctors, researchers, patients, and course staff to deliver an experience you couldn't get anywhere else.  An absolute must to take if you are interested in medical research on the brain.
This is an amazing course if you're interested in Medical School or pursuing a PhD in neurobiology. The opportunity to learn alongside medical students and other graduate students really distinguished the course. The patient presentations are incredible as are the research papers discussed. If you have a love for the field, have been engaged in research for some time, and have completed several courses in neurobiology, this course would be ideal. The teaching staff is extremely supportive and knowledgeable, and the experience overall is excellent.
Keep up with the readings and take diligent notes in class.
This is a very interesting course! There are a lot of readings (4-6 papers per week), but many of them are engaging.
Amazing class. I definitely learned a lot.
greatest class I've taken at Harvard! Definitely take this class if you can. The teaching staff is outstanding, the patient presentations are very impressive and the spectrum of disorders is very well-balanced. A great course! Especially at the college it is hard to find a course that makes medicine and curing so real!
This is a really life-changing course.  It's amazing to see terminally ill patients, and hear how they are facing the disease.  Then you contrast that with what research is being done to treat the disease.  This connection between the scientific and clinical is what makes this course great (plus the awesome teaching staff and dinners!).  However try to ask questions and go to office hours or else you will get lost in all that is going on.
it's gonna be more than whatever you expect
This course is one of the best I've taken at Harvard.
The patient presentations are definitely the highlight of the course, and a rare opportunity for an undergraduate. However I think the rest of the course isn't as great as it may be hyped up to be. The paper discussions are not interesting, and there is no continuity in the course at all because there are guest lecturers every week.
This is a good course to take if you are interested in learning a bit about different neurological diseases.
A very classic example of a get-in-what-you-get-out sort of class. It's very easy to get by in this class not having done the readings, but it will get you both when you take the final exam, and in the degree of knowledge you take away from the class.
An invaluable opportunity to personally interact with patients and learn about neurological diseases in a very real way. You also learn a great deal about how to conduct research. The time commitment is very low - your grade depends on a presentation and the take home final exam. The readings can be dense and difficult.
It's a fantastic course that is well organized and super interesting, if you're interested in the neurobiology of diseases. The teaching staff is always there to help, and there are patient visits before each lecture that really puts the lecture material and research papers we read into perspective. We also visited a stroke unit at MGH for one of the lectures and that was a really cool experience.
This class is a really great exploration of neurological diseases and the patient presentation component adds a human element to academic learning.
NB 209 is one of the best classes you can take at Harvard! Getting to hear form patients and doctors on these various diseases is an incredibly rewarding way to approach these complex topics. This year, the class was very undergraduate heavy, but if you are at the college, beware that the grading standards are higher because it is a grad school course. As an undergraduate student, be sure to ask the teaching staff where you stand during the course. The final was difficult, but also did a great job of putting the whole course in perspective. Perfect for a senior spring course!
This has been one of the most amazing courses I've taken at Harvard. The lectures are great, you get to see patients first hand rather than through textbooks, and the workload isn't that high. Just make you get some practice quickly reading articles for key points (you really don't need to get stuck on details).
This course is definitely worth it if you're willing to make the commute. Unlike other neurobiology courses, this course allows students to see the neurological diseases firsthand by interacting with patients. Additionally, students in this course are able to brainstorm possible solutions and discuss their ideas with major researchers in the field. Overall, I think this course has been a wonderful opportunity, especially for those interested in pursuing a career in medicine.
This course is one of the few courses at Harvard where students can directly interact with patients and learn about their experience living with neurologic diseases, which are among the most devastating and difficult to treat conditions in medicine. The discussions and readings are also very interesting and are a great way to gain a deep background and understanding of current research for these diseases. However, what you get out of this course will largely depend on the effort you put in, as it can be very easy to not read very many of the papers and get through the course with little engagement (the only assignments are a take-home final and paper presentation). Also, because of the few formal assignments, it is hard to tell where you stand in the course in terms of grades. However, if you do the readings and are actively engaged in discussions, this course will be one of the best courses you take at Harvard.
This class is so rewarding, enlightening, and worthwhile. Almost no work (besides from the readings, which you don't have to do thoroughly every time). Class is definitely a time commitment (considering the 30-45 min commute each way and 2.5 hour lectures), but almost nothing outside of class/commuting. The patient presentations are SO valuable. As an undergrad who took this class, I can confidently say that it is a unique, once-in-a-college career opportunity to interact with patients so closely and put a real-life component to what you're learning about. Take this.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard, and I am very confident that this will continue to be the best course I have taken. The professors are phenomenal, the doctors who come in to present are the tops of their fields, and the patients you interact with are unbelievably inspirational. I looked forward to this class every single Monday and Wednesday. This class gives you a wonderful overview of a wide variety of neurological disorders and really opened my eyes to the difficulties in diagnosing, treating, understanding, and living with these disorders. I cannot recommend this class enough. Make sure you stay on top of the reading and the material, and get to know the professors! They are immensely inspirational as well. If you want to change your life for the better, take this course.
exciting course introducing students to a wide range of neurologic problems from schizophrenia, to mood disorders to Autism Spectrum Disorders
This class provides you invaluable access to patients with rare and interesting diseases, and the lecturers are, for the most part, phenomenal (and accessible). You'll read well-selected papers and eat a free dinner during every session. I'm hopeful that we'll see some changes to the discussion segments in the future (right now, they consist of giving you like five minutes to come up with a grant proposal for a major disease, which is really a waste of time).
Select this course!
(1) Harass the TAs about getting the slides from the faculty presenters and posting them promptly or it may not happen (we only got the slides for 9 out of over 20 presentations!). I'm clearly not bitter. -_- In fact, tell the TAs to tell the presenters to send them the slides before they present or the day of their presentation. (2) Come prepared with ideas about how you would study the disease given all we know about it. The in class discussions in which we came up with "grants" to study the diseases were often rushed and we would have 5 or less minutes to come up with ideas so it helps to come already prepared. (3) Not many homework assignments, which is great, but there were a lot of scientific articles and reviews to read so start reading them the weekend before or you'll run out of time. (4) Come hungry! Dinner is provided at every class. (I hope you like pizza and/or Thai food) :)
This class is a unique Harvard experience. If you're interested in pursuing medicine, especially with a neuroscience focus, then seriously consider adding this class to your schedule. I walked away from this class learning from clinicians how to interact with real patients, from leading researchers the exciting new studies of each disease, and from the faculty how to effectively and efficiently engage with the modern scientific literature. The take-home final exam was extremely challenging at parts because certain course materials being evaluated were not formally taught in class. For example, we were tested on how to read an MRI, and while there are sufficient resources online, it feels a little disingenuous to be tested on something that you hadn't practiced in class. Other than this, remember to participate in class, as this is your chance to engage with scientists at the forefront of their fields and patients who are bravely sharing their personal experience with their disease. I appreciate Harvard (and Ed and the teaching staff) for offering and organizing this course as this class pushed me to critically think as I learned about all the neurological disorders.
