Think broadly about the overarching question tying together all the papers you read in each block.
A little dry, but a good course overall.
This is a good course for someone who already knows molecular biology and genetics, and is familiar with many of the techniques, but wants to put it in the context of neuroscience.
it's good. take it.
This is a somewhat chaotic trip through a bunch of interesting papers, with four really smart teachers.  It's unclear why the papers are presented, or what they exemplify, but these molecular guys seem to be onto something.  So why not?
Make sure you prepare well for Tom Schwarz's small group discussions.  They are educational and entertaining when everyone in the group has read his/her paper and thought about how to teach it.  But when someone is unprepared, it can be dull and frustrating.
The class is good for learning how to critically assess papers, but is less appropriate for those who are looking for a class to introduce and teach molecular neuroscience techniques.
It is valuable to take this course in order to draw upon the wide range of knowledge that the instructors have about their field.
Be proactive in getting feedback from the professors from the midterm, otherwise the same mistakes will be repeated on the final exam -- to your loss.
A real strength of the course is the fact that it is based on discussing papers both with professors and with fellow students.  The course is a great way of learning about methods in biochemistry/molecular biology/cell biology/genetics.
does a good job of teaching methods of molecular biology and critical reading
It is a comprehensive look at the tools and techniques used to investigate questions in neuroscience.
This class is very helpful, especially if you do not have a background in molecular biology.
This course is not that useful if you don't have much of a molecular biology background. Although you will be able to make it through the course, and you will gain some familiarity with the terms and methods, much of the discussion and critique of the material might go over your head.
1. Exposure to Mol. neuroscience themes. 2. Learn essential tools i.e talk in front of class, describe figures in a critical way.
This course focusses on biochemistry and molecular biology -- do not expect to learn a lot about neuroscience in general.
This course is an informative overview of the techniques and approaches used to study neuroscience from a molecular perspective.
Typically you are assigned 2 papers to read each week and are expected to discuss them in class. For Bob's section, you will be randomly assigned to a group of 3-4 students and run a paper including all of the relevant background, data from the paper, and future directions.  There was no midterm during our year, only a final.
