it had great potential but totally didn't live up to its promises at all.
If you are really interested in China and/or energy issues, than this class may be one for you.  Be warned, however, that you will only get as much out as you put in, and it is very easy to put very little effort in.
Very broad, not enough specific details/discussions to keep you engaged.
This class isn't your typical seminar; although it had only 20 students in my particular case, we didn't have extensive discussion as you might expect from other seminar courses. It does, however, do a great job of covering the field of various topics that has to do with the role of energy for China's economic development. Professor McElroy explains the usual topics of renewable energy, economy, and grid infrastructure with a depth that goes beyond the basics - it's not exactly quantum physics or anything like that, but it has plenty of data. The final paper that concludes the course provides a chance for you to tie all that together, or to explore a related topic that's relevant to the overarching theme. In regards to the lack of extensive discussion, I find that the office hours provided make up for that. If you're into a particular field or want more clarification on a subject, just go ahead and you can go into detail as much as you want. Bottom line: if you're looking for an extremely detail/calculation-intensive course that relates to energy in China, this probably isn't the best course out there for you. But if you *are* interested in how various sources of energy apart from traditional fossil fuels will play a role in China's future economy, do feel free to shop and possibly take the course. Be warned: at times, it can feel more like a lecture than a seminar. But the overall workload is pretty light, so it's a nice course to have on the side.
You will learn a great deal about China's energy in this stress-free course.
I think the course certainly presents some interesting material. However, McElroy could really improve his teaching by being more structured and taking the assigned readings seriously. It can be a bit boring at times to sit there for 2.5 hours and listen to McElroy and other people talk. McElroy is also not that enthusiastic when he talks so you better really love the topic.Overall though, its a cool way to learn about renewable energy and China in a low-stress environment-the class does not involve a lot of work.
This course has some interesting insights, but overall it suffers from a lack of structure, evaluations and teaching rigor.
An excellent course for students looking to understand the current environmental and energy challenges in China.
This is a fun and more relaxed class but if you want to take more out of the course, I'd suggest you to do more reading outside of class and really participate more in class.
Poorly organized class. If you want to have powerpoints read at you with really no expectation of you doing any readings be my guest, but it quickly became painful to sit through this class.
Teaching staff is all very knowledgeable about China energy issues (and energy issues as a whole). Definitely a good class to take if this is your type of thing. It's probably not that great though if you're just looking for a random elective.
This class is perfect if you are interested in China and its energy situation, but probably is not for everyone.  For one thing, the structure of the class is very old-school and not that conducive to a true discussion.  Much of the three-hour class will be spent with Professor McElroy or one of the TFs lecturing using a Powerpoint with a bunch of dense textual slides.  I was surprised by this as most seminars I've taken have been much more interactive.  You can certainly ask questions, no problem, but the class is not set up as a discussion at all.  Also, I found the readings pretty disorganized and the class time not used very efficiently.  But that being said, I still learned a lot, the Professor and the TFs are outstanding and amazingly knowledgeable (seriously like energy, climate, and China encyclopedias), and I thought the final paper assignment was awesome!  It was totally open-ended, so you get to pick literally whatever you want to research and study.  To get the most of the class, I suggest picking something you are truly interested in, something off the beaten track, and then going to office hours repeatedly to hash it out with the TFs or Professor McElroy.  They are truly there to help you and very interesting to talk to!
If you are interested in energy policy, and have any interest in China, I would highly recommend it. You learn about technical details of various energy technologies, as well as a ton about China.
A great class if you're interested in energy.  Without a genuine interest, you will probably turn it into your easy class and not get much out of it.
You get as much out of this course as you want to. The work is very light, and skating by without learning much is very easy to do. If you seek out the professors outside of class and really invest yourself, this class is worth it.
Professor McElroy is very nice and a good lecturer. He speaks in a very cler and logical manner and presents numerous visuals during his lecture.
