Great introduction to the field of law, as well!
If you're interested in environmental law this course will give you a good understanding of the kinds of litigation that go on and what being in that field will entail. It's at an inconvenient time and you do have to stay awake for the 2.5 hours, but Shaun is very knowledgeable and does his best to keep class interesting. But you do have to be interested in the subject matter.
This is a great class. Really tells you about the way environmental law is working. Extremely important subject and therefore fascinating class. You study current events and the laws that make them.The seminar is long though, bring snacks and prepare to focus for 2.5 hours. Shaun is great. Try to talk to him outside of class. Also start the final essay before Thanksgiving ... it's long.
This was a great tutorial, I am very glad I took it! Professor Goho keeps the material interesting and helps to facilitate class discussion. It can drag a little (2.5 hours on Tuesday nights- it gets long) but he understands and tries to wrap up early and takes breaks. The reading can be dense but I actually didn't mind doing the assignments. Would highly recommend.
I shopped a couple ESPP junior seminars and I'm very glad I've chosen 90X. The material covers both breadth and depth, and Prof. Goho is very knowledgable. He's also quite nice and approachable at office hours. Overall an enjoyable class that I would highly recommend!
The class may be slow at times but the tools and knowledge you are given are extremely useful and make the class worthwhile.  Shaun is a really great guy who you will enjoy working with.
If you've ever been curious about the EPA, about how we regulate the environment, or about the effectiveness of federal environmental legislation (Clean Water Act, Clean Air Act, Endangered Species Act, etc.), then you should take this course. The professor really cares about the students and the material and is incredibly accomplished and knowledgeable about each unit we study. If you want to go into any kind of environmental policy, or if you are interested in thinking about the ways the U.S. can improve our existing environmental laws, take this class! Honestly, this is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Although the time slot is a little tough, this course does a great job introducing the application of law to US environmental policy and develops a lot of skills for reading legal text.
If you're interested in environmental law, or really any environment/conservation/related work, definitely consider this class. Shaun is really invested in the class and breaks down the cases well. I would caution though that if you are absolutely new to law it's kind of hard to keep up for the first couple weeks so maybe read up on some basics before the semester
It is an interesting topic to explore!  There aren't many law classes offered to undergrads, and even less so for environmental law.  So I would tell you to definitely consider taking the course.  Professor Goho is great and the course is very well taught!
This class is great not only if you want to learn more about environmental law, but also about law in general!
Take this class if you're at all interested in environmental law! It's a very good introduction, and I learned a lot. ESPP concentrators should definitely take it. Also, Shaun is great and a very good person to talk to (even about environmental or law issues not covered in this class).
Anyone remotely interested in environmental governance in the U.S. should take this class. I went in with a very cursory understanding of U.S. environmental law, but have left with a wealth of applicable knowledge that I will certainly use for the remainder of my academic and professional careers.
This is a great course if you have any interest in the law or the environment (especially the intersection of the two)- but is also a great way just to begin immersion into the field of legal studies if you are considering law school. This will give you the option to look at some legal readings in a friendly atmosphere
This is a cool class to take if you want to learn about major env. policies and get a taste for what reading cases is like.  The readings can be a lot, but often a skimming of the readings is sufficient to get the major points.  Shaun is extremely knowledgable and allows for good discussion in class.
Shaun is extremely knowledgeable and his passion for the subject matter definitely translates to the class. Solid survey of environmental law. Would highly recommend this class because there aren't others like it in the college, and definitely worth walking to the law school for.
