This course is really informative and thought-provoking. By discussing some of the most important issues in Europe today, you develop a perspective on not only these challenges but also how they relate to other countries (e.g. the US) and the types of policies that might be successful in addressing them. The discussion element is very strong so be prepared to come and talk about all the readings (some of which are quite heavy) and rather than just read them, I recommend trying to delve deeper and think about what each of them mean to you.
This is an excellent course, but demanding. You will be engaged in active discussion every week and challenge to defend you ideas.
Hands down, this was the best course I have taken at Harvard. I really felt like I learned something new, applicable and relevant every week. The class discussions were enlightening and fun. Eloi does a great job at getting students excited about the variety of topics that we cover in this course and manages to present many of the complex ecological, social, political and economic issues surrounding environmental topics in the EU (and US, for that matter) in a way that is concise and comprehensible. His class is scientifically rigorous yet fun and inspiring. Eloi is incredibly supportive and a great resource for any student interested in the environment, economics, or politics. The course was an all-around amazing experience.
Great course and great instructor. You will learn a lot about the EU and how this supranational institution works. If you are not interested in the EU don't take the course at all.
I walked into this class not seriously considering enrolling, and within half an hour I was completely engaged by Professor Laurent's style and objectives. It was an immensely interesting course and anyone with an interest in Europe, environmental science, or modern policy would be extremely happy to have taken it.
Eloi is an excellent lecturer and seriously engages with every idea you have in discussions. He is clearly passionate, and the class reflects his strong work ethic. Everything we learned was up to date and even ahead of the times. Take it!
This class was engaging and extremely well organized.  Each class is devoted to a lecture on a particular European environmental challenge or issue and is split up to discuss "classic" literature about the subject and current policy.  The diversity of backgrounds in the class made the course worthwhile.  Prof. Laurent is an engaging lecturer and wonderful discussion leader.
Really nice class. Brings together various fields of studies: economics, philosophy, environmental and political sciences.
Prof Laurent is one of the best teachers I have had thus far! He is highly motivated, super-enthusiastic, and genuinely interested in his students. He was very approachable, and was of great help both personally and academically. I learned a great deal about economics and public and environmental policy. Prof Laurent makes sure you understand the main concepts, and you will be highly motivated because he is enthusiastic about what he does. The greatest part of this class was the structure. The meetings were divided in several parts, and this really helped keeping the material interesting throughout the whole time and staying focused.
