If you can, take this class. It really helped give me an understanding of the scientific field of synthetic biology from a perspective I did not have before. Juma is a great professor and will talk with you one-on-one if you ask. There will also be incredible guest speakers and some name drops (if you know the field, you'll recognize the people).
This semester we explored synthetic biology and how the field applies to human health and the environment. The course is in a discussion format, where every student gets to lead a discussion a certain week. Very enjoyable if everybody does the small amount of reading and is genuinely interested in the chosen topic. The exploration of technology went hand in hand with ESPP 77 if you're an ESPP concentrator.
Prof. Juma is incredibly knowledgeable, accomplished, and learning from him (in the very relaxed environment that he creates for the class) has been an absolute pleasure.
The class with Juma is very laid back, has a lot of potential, but really depends on the group of students in the class and whether or not they are willing to dig deep into discussions.
This class, and Professor Juma, offer a lot of flexibility to the topics of discussion and the final paper topic.
Professor Juma has a lot of great stories to tell. The class is very student-taught--you learn from others who take turns teaching the class and discussion is driven by the questions your peers have. The final paper is a lot of fun to write because the topic is your choosing, but remember to start early.
This class is run somewhat like a freshman seminar - little work, but you also don't get that much out of it.
great fifth class for me. not too much work, and got a lot out of it
Professor Juma really carried the course and was very enthusiastic about the material, which showed during class time. He has an incredible swath of experience which he shares with his class on a weekly basis. The once a week seminars with a coffee break were always good. Also, readings were fairly interesting, though some were dry. The class, however, felt like it sometimes had forced discussion.
This class is about a niche topic but it opens up the possibility to discuss a variety of topics from biotech, to international trade policy, to farmer exploitation, and more, and it's all very interesting.
This seminar is a lot of fun and Professor Juma is extraordinarily knowledgeable, well-connected, and generous. The policy paper you develop will be a really interesting project. However, sometimes class discussions are a little bit slow and meandering. Class can be disorganized as well.
Fantastic seminar!  Professor Juma and Katie are an absolute delight, and this was the class I looked forward to most each week (you never know, you may just get the former prime minister of Kenya as a guest speaker as a spontaneous surprise!)  Workload was light, but amount learned and personal development was considerable.
This is a really interesting class with a knowledgeable and nice professor who has great stories to share. Discussions touch on some great subjects, and there is not much work. The class is really disorganized though, so prepare for due dates and readings to be constantly shifted around.
This class is awesome -- not only will you learn a lot but its very minimal work. A reading or 2 every week to be discussed in lecture and 1 big end group project that is very interesting. Real life learning in this class.
This class is very interesting and does not have a lot of work. Professor Juma has an amazing amount of knowledge about this topic and is very willing to share it.
This is a wonderful opportunity to dive into the topic of biotechnology in a relaxed setting (esp. for those who have no prior knowledge!). Professor Juma is a wonderful professor who is extremely knowledgeable and experienced, and has a ton of professional connections with whom to connect you with for the final paper. Take this course!
Take this class! Professor Juma is a true expert in his field who is incredibly resourceful and friendly. Learning from him and his experiences is an exceptional opportunity. The course covers a variety of topics that are relevant to current and future scientific and political discourse. The final project provides ample opportunity for you to explore a topic you're truly passionate about. This class was one of my most amazing experiences at Harvard.
This is an interesting class without that much work, and Professor Juma is very cool! He has awesome contacts and the class talks about interesting topics.
It's a great course to learn about something so relevant.
This class has a light workload, but you would be missing out on a lot of broadening readings if you chose to just skate through. Do the readings, participate in discussions, and learn from the incredibly inspiring speakers and stories from Professor Juma.
This was definitely an interesting course, but I don't know if I would recommend it if you are specifically looking for an ESPP tutorial. There are definitely better ones out there for learning about environmental issues. Discussions were engaging, but often unstructured and all over the place. That being said, I had a great time learning about the different topics, and had a good time doing so. Professor Juma is super awesome and really, really fun. He's just a really great guy who wanted to make sure we all got along and had a good time.
Prof. Juma is as kind a person as you will ever meet, and singularly cares about his students getting a fulfilling and informative experience in his class.  Laura is a model for how every TF should hope to be, and the readings were short and fascinating.  No work except for the open-ended term paper, which is actually written over the course of the semester and with significant help whenever requested from TFs and Professor Juma. Take this if you have any interest in the idea of technology.
A wonderful chance to learn about and discuss an amazing array of topics related to technology and sustainability. Low stress and incredibly relevant. The visiting guest speakers really added another dimension to the learning experience. Professor Juma is wonderful!
A great seminar on a very timely topic. Professor Juma helps lead engaging discussions on a range of biotechnological issues, stretching into topics many of us had not even thought about critically before. The class members brought a diverse range of insights through varied backgrounds and this contributed to a very successful seminar.
Professor Juma is a kind, supportive, and highly knowledgable professor. The ideas and questions discussed in this seminar are interesting and the guests all have a lot to offer. I definitely recommend this course.
There is no better course than Professor Juma's ESPP 90p! The class engages with the most relevant and pressing social, environmental, and technological issues through discussions of primary resources. Professor Juma expertly divides up the class into different discussions that are run by students.  Professor Juma often brings in practioners and special guests who work on the issues you discuss in class! Aside from class discussions, only other assignment is a policy analysis paper due at the end of the semester.  Take this class!!  All-star teaching staff and amazing topics; simply a joy of a class.
Professor Juma and Laura are wonderful. One of the best classes I've taken here. Coffee break every week!!!
Professor Juma is a great professor and person to know.  He is interesting, engaging, caring, and laid-back.  The course material is interesting, but the success of this class depends largely on the initiative of the students within it, so be prepared to put forth effort to both the class discussions and the final paper.  This is certainly a course where you get what you put into it.  Overall, a relaxed environment with an interesting professor.
Very engaging subject matter if you have any interest in it. Do some research on it before you sign up. If you think biotechnology is your thing, this is the course for it.
Professor Juma is amazing, take this class. He is so interesting and knowledgeable, and he understands how busy we all are so was especially flexible with assignments. The topic is great, even for somebody with no background in environmental science (like me), and the readings are very short and easy. Start early on your final paper, since it's the only real assignment you have!
If you have any interest in genetic modification and biotechnology, I would strongly recommend taking this class. It is so laid-back, and Professor Juma is tremendously invested in his students and very well-connected to the bio-tech world. I was able to engage in-depth with a topic I was interested, and Prof. Juma helped to connect me to myriad leaders in the private and public sectors around the world.
Professor Juma is a wonderful teacher and makes the class environment friendly and comfortable. The course teaches you a good deal about the current topics in biotechnology, and forces you to question assumptions you might have had about the best way to solve current environmental crises. The workload is very manageable and this class is a fun elective if you're not an ESPP major or secondary. Professor Juma is an impressive connection to have, is funny, and extremely knowledgeable. I always looked forward to this class every week. What a joy!
A good class, needs more structure though.
This is a very easy class with low time commitment but it is also very fun and interesting. Professor Juma loves his work and puts together entertaining and educational lectures.
This class is somewhat disorganized at times; however, I really appreciated the speakers and the opportunity to work closely with a businessperson for my case study.  This class might not be as academically rigorous/thorough as some might hope, but it will definitely give you a very different and useful perspective on environmental issues than other highly academic classes like ESPP 78.  This course shed some light on how business people and the private sector view the environment and how they interact with the government/regulatory agencies.  It was very enlightening to learn about all of these potentially useful and risky technologies and why it is so urgent to find a way to regulate them safely and efficiently. Readings are minimal, class can be a bit long at times, but the speakers and Professor Juma were definitely very interesting people have discussions with and work with.
Professor Juma is the best. He is really knowledgeable about the field and is really helpful on the paper. Definitely take this class if you are in any way interested in biotechnology or just public policy in general!
If you are interested in biotechnology, public policy, environment, or all of the above... take this class!
Very easy but interesting material. Professor Juma is extremely nice and a wonderful contact to have.
This course has a manageable workload and is extremely useful for an individual interested in environmental issues.
Prof. Juma is a fantastic professor with a wealth of knowledge and experience to share.  Do not miss out on this opportunity! It was one of my favorite Harvard classes, without a doubt.
