Professor McElroy is the least enthusiastic professor I have ever encountered.
Material was redundant
A great place to find out how you, as a scientist, engineer, or policy maker, can realistically affect how our civilization interacts with the environment and its limited resources.
You should take it but you should probably think before you decide.
It's interesting and painless.
I would encourage future students to take this class if they are at all interested in getting a broader idea of climate science. If you have questions or are curious about what people are thinking about and discussing about climate change, what negotiators are dealing with, and what scientific options are out there, then this course is definitely very helpful. However, do not expect this course to be a really discussion based course.
I loved the course, but I think you had to be proactive about learning and exploring the material to get the most out of it. As its a seminar, you were not sitting down and being taught the material. But I assume Professor McElroy's Gen-Ed class will be more of that sort and I think that will appeal to many people
Go into it with an open mind, and be ready to learn a lot about all kinds of energy sources
Do the readings, but spend more time just perusing latest developments in the news about energy technologies and policies.
Professor McElroy is one of the most knowledgeable people on Energy IN THE WORLD, it is amazing to hear him answer anything thrown at him!
As someone who is very interested in this subject material, I found it hard to pay attention in this class.  I do not think that I was the only student that felt this way.  In class, we had discussions that weren't strictly about the reading (which was the only assigned material), but instead about anything energy related that we were curious about.
You can learn a lot in this class about energy.
Professor McElroy is an incredibly insightful and important professor, even though he sometimes understates his own accomplishments and roles!  Take the opportunity to learn from the most tenured professor at Harvard.
A good opportunity and setting in which to explore and discuss some very pertinent issues.
This is a very good look at the topics promised in the title, but if you are looking for a highly rigorous treatment of these issues, this is not the course for you.
The class has great potential, but the discussions die out too fast and the time therefore feels unused.
Solid course to pursue an individual research project as a final paper!  Long lectures! You should ask for a 5-10 minute break mid lecture at the beginning of the course
Great course and outstanding experience, provided that you are interested in future energy policy and clean energy technologies.  Unfortuanately there's only 1 graded essay before the final paper, so a very large fraction of your final grade is contained within that final paper.  Nevertheless, I'd highly recommend this class.
Great class which combines lecturing with open discourse.  Every class meeting saves plenty of time for discussion of various topics. Prof. McElroy is very knowledgeable in the field and steers the discussions but allows the students to lead it.
Great course, raises real world issues
a bit dull to be sitting through for three stretches at a time.
We have interesting lectures, but I think 3 hours is a bit too long. There needs to be a break in between or the class should be at most 2.5 hrs.
Take this class! Prof. McElroy is awesome and it is great to hear his opinions and discuss your ideas with him, more so than many other professors.
