The class is a good overview of world food systems, which is undoubtedly an important subject. I think you probably could learn a good deal of the course material by reading a couple books, though.
Definitely take this course!! It is one of the most unique classes Harvard offers, with three renowned professors teaching a small class of only about 20 students. I learned so much about the food industry, as we covered a different theme each week, ranging from America's obesity crisis to GMO crops to Biofuels to International Policy. The class is really not that difficult.  It only meets once a week and there are quite a few readings assigned for each class, but, because they are often long government reports, etc., you are not expected to read every word. There are 2 small assignments during the semester, which are not too demanding. The final paper is definitely the hardest part of the class- approximately 30 pages - but you get to choose your own topic and I found the process to be really valuable actually. There are students in every grade in this class and a large amount of them do not study ESPP.
No better summary of all the components of the agricultural industry.
The multi-directional approach is incredibly cool - having professors from the business school, Kennedy school, and biology meant that every issue was looked at from many perspectives. Professor Reinhardt, in particular, was fascinating and the case-study framework for the class was so cool. The professors expect a lot of you and the students deliver - discussions are fascinating. However, the lectures sometimes feel very disjointed, like we're just hopping around from topic to topic. Also, Professor Holbrook's lectures are very disconnected from the rest of the class-  they;re on plant biology and make no sense if that's not a field of study you know. The only real assignment is the final paper, which is a (cool) doozy. They don't mess around with grading! Be prepared to be graded harshlyA good background in writing will help you immensely. Also, a background in writing research papers!
This is one of the most interesting classes I have taken at Harvard. You'll get to discuss real-world food and environment problems with CEOs and businesspeople who grapple with these issues on a daily basis, and consider case studies that changed my perceptions and challenged my beliefs about food issues.
This is a really interesting class and it is cool that it is so interdisciplinary. However, keep in mind that there is a very heavy business focus and the environmental impacts of these businesses are, in my opinion, not discussed thoroughly enough. The final paper is also really long (about 30 pages).
Great class. Truly interdisciplinary. As a Gov major, I was familiar with policy stuff, but the economics and biology challenged me in a good way. I learned a lot and also learned how much I don't know about our environment and global food systems. HOWEVER: 8000 words is a LOT. There is very very little guidance. If you want to have any idea what you're doing, you'll have to go to office hours. It was a pretty big commitment to write a 30-pager for a seminar not within my concentration. I would still recommend the class, though! The field trip was fun, material was interesting, and I felt like a BOSS after I finished my paper!
This is a super interesting and well-taught class! Final paper is long.Discussion is good and the topic (food and food policy) should be interesting to just about anyone. Prof. Paarlberg (an HKS professor) talks about the intersections of food and public policy. Prof. Holbrook (a plant biologist) talks about the biology underlying food systems. Prof. Reinhardt (an HBS professor) talks about food as a business. You will get a chance to read b-school cases and talk to CEOs, which was a highlight for me.The final paper is supposed to be an 8,000 word research paper so beware. Other assignments are light.
The class was disorganized, the assignments were vague and unreasonable, and we never got feedback on our work.
This course has a unique mix of perspectives coming from the different professors. Weekly Skype sessions with company executives are also very interesting and provide real world perspectives. Would recommend for anyone interested in food systems.
Great class if you are interested in food politics from a policy/economic/business perspective, but want some science backing. Wouldn't necessarily recommend this for someone only interested in STEM since this really isn't devoted to that. Opportunity to interface with 3 full and great professors is super fun and it's a varied, engaging class. Know that it is a lot of work, especially the essay at the end and that you won't be given a ton of feedback on your work (they were slow to hand back essays etc.).
Great course! Every week is surprising, and you learn a lot through the interdisciplinary teaching approach. The exposure to the HBS case method is also a plus. Would definitely recommend taking this course!
Don't take this class alongside other classes that have heavy end-of-year requirements because the final essay is a behemoth.
Definitely the most interesting ESPP I've taken. And the profs are fun
If you are interested in food systems, food politics or agribusiness take this class. The teachers are an awesome trifecta that all bring something new to the table. Would recommend this to anyone. However be warned that the end of year assignment is in my opinion too long and should be shortened. Thirty plus pages is too much for a class with such a general focus.
The final paper is a large commitment, but getting to discuss HBS case studies with CEOs via skype was super cool and precipitated some really interesting discussions. Definitely learned a lot writing the final paper, but really don't throw this course on as a fourth class without thinking about it. I wrote about 50 pages for this class.
This class was very interesting, and taught me a broad range of topics about food systems. If anything, I learned about how complex food systems are and got excited about how much I had to learn.
This class is a great way to gain some insight into different aspects of the food system. I learned a lot from the HBS case studies of different food businesses. The classes that focus on business are less focused on the science/environmental impact.
This class is excellent if you are interested in learning about agriculture, recent technological advances and current trends in the world food systems. It challenges a lot of preconceived notions about best agricultural practice.
Lots of readings and the grading system is slightly skewed: light course load at the beginning of the semester but much harder, longer assignments towards the end.
This class was really interesting, especially since it looked at the intersection of science, policy and economics. The final paper is significantly long and requires a lot of work and time, but is rewarding in the end. I definitely learned a lot in this class.
Actually interdisciplinary!  The profs are great; if you have any interest in agriculture, food policy, even business, you'll love this
The class is very interesting and you should definitely take it. The work load is not bad with just short easy papers and weekly readings except for the final paper of 8000 words which was ridiculous and hopefully will be changed.
This is one of those courses that will completely change your perspective about the world.  The professors are great and incredibly helpful, and the material is increasingly relevant due to the various problems facing our nation in terms of food and climate change.
