Each week we learned about a different area of environmental health. I enjoyed learning about a broad range of new topics and being able to hear from different guest speakers each week. (Yummy snacks provided too!)The final project was a bit confusing - there were no concrete instructions/goals until the last minute making it a bit stressful at the end. However, given the small size of the seminar, we all got to know each other well and worked well as a group on the final project.
Take this course!!! Jack and Susan are fantastic and really care about their students, and the course material spans so many relevant and important subjects regarding the environment and human health. Work is quite minimal, but you'll end up learning so much. Plus, you get free snacks every week and get a great discussion out of it. More people should take this course for sure.
This is an incredible class and the material is something that I feel everyone really should learn about, especially in our modern world where chemicals etc. are becoming even more common! Really eye-opening and definitely made me redefine the way I think about pesticides, PCBs, flame retardants, etc! Overall amazing class - great content, fantastic professors/lecturers and overall effective execution! As a seminar class it also has a really manageable workload, the only thing is that the final project can be time-consuming, that being said it is incredibly rewarding and I think one of the favorite assignments I have ever done!
If you are interested in the hidden dangers around you and how to live a healthier life, then take this class.
Weekly readings are interesting and the class is not too hard! You learn a lot in it on a broad level. You do a really fun mercury project where you analyze mercury content in hair. That project is a LOT of work but it's really fun and interesting!
Great class to learn about some cool topics in environmental health and extremely light workload.
This seminar is perfect for anyone interested in bringing "the environment" closer to home. Possible side effects include being afraid of household chemicals...Also, Jack and Susan are adorable and bring SO much food to class. Always a good thing.
If you are interested in public health, or environmental health, you should take this course to get a better sense for those fields.  The mercury project (should they do it again) seemed to be geared towards learning the scientific process and carrying out experiments.  So, if you are an upperclassmen writing a thesis, or are already involved in research, I think you will get less out of that project.
The project at the end is big- it requires lab work and a lot of time.
The course is quite easy, but you must be willing to really "participate" in lecture. Because the class is basically lecture based, you can't participate through discussions but rather only by asking questions. Also, the project at the end is a group project...
The material was great, although it was a little stressful that they hardly gave any feedback on assignments due during the year. Very chill, not too much work, and really interesting!
Prof Curwood is awesome and lots of interesting subjects to investigate.
interesting class. you get out what you put into it. DULL LECTURES THOUGH.
If you want to dabble in/learn about public/environmental health issues (GMOs, fracking/renewable energy, lead in water, etc.) in a relaxed setting, this is a highly recommended course.
The topic is very interesting, but the class isn't very satisfactory in terms of actually delving into the material.
The material covered by this course is very interesting if you have any interest in global health issues!  It is also great to have two perspectives from Doug (science) and Steve (public radio).  However, at least this year, each class was completely dependent on class discussions which were sometimes subpar.  So quality of discussion and debate is entirely based on students.
Professor Dockery and Steve bring a level of expertise to this subject that is rare for a small course like this one.  The workload is minimal but interesting, and the discussions and debates are lively.  Would recommend as a concentration requirement or an elective.
This is a great seminar, whether as a concentration requirement or as an elective! The 2.5-hour classes/week are the perfect amount of time to deeply dive into the content and learn more as well as discuss opinions. Doug is a leader in this field, and Steve has a lot to add because of his radio program; they are exactly the people you want teaching a class like this. If you have an interest in environmental concerns that directly affect people (whether they be cancer clusters, air pollution, or toxins in the workplace), DEFINITELY take it!!
Even if you are interested in environmental health hazards, you still might not like this class. It only provides a basic overview of many many different toxins rather than really delving into the nitty gritty of things.
The class topics are excellent. If you take a look at the syllabus and are genuinely interested in the topics, you'll love this class -- as I believe all of us in the class were quite genuinely invested in the topics. That said, it was a small class, as I believe no one would really be interested in the long class length and assignments if you're not really invested in the topic. You'll know if you should take it when you look at the syllabus! I found it to be one of the better classes I've taken during my time here, and overall it's decently laid-back (though the grading seemed pretty harsh -- don't be fooled by the fact that it's a seminar, or don't necessarily think it'll be a GPA-booster).
I very much liked Professors Curwood and Dockery. Each week had a new and interesting topic in a field about which I knew little going in. The discussions were fun.
interesting discussions
This course is very interesting; sometimes the discussions lag a little bit and get a little vague, so make sure you have a lot of specifics to bring to the class.
