It was not difficult at all, and was a lot of fun.
The guest lecturers for this course were outstanding. The workload was not very high and the assignments were interesting. This course should not be thought of as only for ESPP or OEB concentrators but for anyone who is interested in conservation.
Professor Sodhi is amazing. Additionally, he brought in many visiting professors to talk about their work and their ideas on conservation. Overall, the course was a great experience.
This class should absolutely be taken!  Navjot was great!
Professor and thus overall experience changes every year.
You get to hear talks from the best minds in conservation biology, what could be better?
GREAT PROFESSOR; but Prof. Sodhi is a visiting professor, so he will likelyl not be teaching this course.
recommend to students interested in the subject
This is a great class: the format allows for a different guest lecturer each week with thorough discussion, and I learned a lot about conservation biology of the whales. Do note that the course has a different visiting professor each year, but if it's anything like this year's, it's definitely worth taking.
This class is so baller and super easy. Take it. Especially if you're into conservation, animals, and/or whales. Also your friends will be so jealous that you're taking a class called "Large Whale Conservation" coming home with facts like "Did you know that Humpback whales migrate 8,000 km a year just to breed in warm water?"  Per (the professor) is also really cool.  The speakers that come to the class each week are great and they've written all of the papers you read (or actually just skim) for the class each week.  Great class, I recommend it with enthusiasm.
WHALES ROCKED!!!  If you are interested in marine conservation, this (was) a must take (since I don't think it's being offered again).  We had really interesting conversations about conservation and the course forced me to really question some of my beliefs about conservation.  Professor was really great too!  We took the best field trip ever!  Overall, a really inspiring class.
A wonderful introduction to the principles of conservation biology.
Great elective course
I know the professor changes every year, but if it were Per again/another genetics teacher, I would say that you should only take the class if you are extremely interested in genetics.
participate
It's so interesting, and it's exciting to learn from people involved in the field of whale conservation in a laid-back atmosphere with a small group of students.
I know the subject matter changes yearly, but this is really the only conservation class you will have the opportunity to take and it's FABULOUS
Take this course, nothing like it at Harvard.  Per is the man, and even though he will be gone you will have someone good too, just not as awesome.
This was the best class I have taken at Harvard
So this course won't be the same topic next year, but conservation is a great thing to learn about so take it!
There is a different professor every year, so I can't really say much about whether or not I would recommend the course.  I would certainly advise shopping it; if the professor next year is half as good as Dr. James, then it will be a great experience.
Truly fantastic class. I was one of only five students in this great course. We learned so much and even took awesome field trips, including to Washington, DC. Dr. James was great and it's a shame she won't be teaching the course again. I can't believe how lucky I was to be in such a small and engaging course.
BEST CLASS EVER!  Interesting content and material, incredible guest speakers, and awesome opportunities like cooking with a sustainable sushi chef and a full day field trip to the Cape.  Joe is a superstar in the marine conservation field, and being able to learn from him is a true privilege.  Joe may not be teaching next year, but if he is, TAKE IT!
Taking this course is just an amazing opportunity. You get to hear about the latest research in conservation biology from experts in the field. We got to talk to HUDS about their sources for seafood, cook sustainable sushi with a nationally renown chef, and go whale watching in Cape Cod. Most of all, you will learn so much about marine conservation biology.
The variety of topics explored and the guest lecturers were fantastic. It was student-interest driven, plus we were introduced to fascinating research and aspects of marine conservation. Dr. Roman was very engaging and enthusiastic about the course. Our guest lecturers included a variety of researchers studying everything coral to whales, a chef who cooks invasive species, and a comic creator behind "Sherman's Lagoon." The field trip (whale watching and aquaculture tour) was great!
There's not much to say about this class that will be useful, as the professor changes every year, but Professor Roman is awesome; if you get a chance to take a class with him, absolutely do. He may be a little bit of a tough grader and he expects a certain level of work from his students, but he prepares you for real-world OEB research in a way I've never been exposed to before.
This class taught me so much about how science is applicable in real world situations, and has motivated me to become more active in marine conservation.
This was one of the best courses I took at Haravard. If you are interested in conservation I highly recommend this course. Professor Roman is great, and the course was the perfect balance between lecture and discussion. The guest lecturers were a great addition to the course, and the field trip was awesome.
Great guest lectures.
This class is a great survey of Marine Conservation Biology, covering a variety of topics and providing a good sense of the policy and science in regards to this subject. The small class structure was nice, and the guest lectures from a variety of interesting people are awesome, but I felt it could have incorporated more discussion and interactive activities. The final paper takes a lot of effort, and there are quite a few readings each week, but overall the work is fair and the class is enjoyable. The field trip especially is really cool, and the professor is clearly very dedicated and enthusiastic about the material, and tries to engage us in thinking like real conservation biologists through our flash presentations at a hypothetical "summit" and our work in creating a journal on Trends in Marine Conservation Biology. Overall, though I think there are definitely things this course could improve on, I would recommend taking it.
This class is different every year but if it's anything like this semester, TAKE IT!  So many guest lectures with incredible people in the field, including a live sustainable sushi-making demo and a class field trip to the Cape!  The workload is manageable, you'll WANT to do the readings because if you're in this class you probably care about the subject.  The final paper is a little daunting but they do a good job of working you up to it and if you procrastinate that's your fault.
It is one of my favorite courses at Harvard!  I got to meet highly distinguished conservationists, the readings were superb, and we went on a trip to Cape Cod for whale watching and checking out a sustainable oyster farm.  It was an amazing experience, and I recommend this course for anyone interested in marine biology and for those who have yet to be exposed to it.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard by far.  It is very interesting and you learn a lot but you have to be genuinely interested in the subject matter or else it could get boring.  Prof. Roman is super inspiring and does a good job of making it a very self-selected class so everyone is super passionate.  You learn a lot even though there aren't tests, only reading assignments and one intense research paper.  I learned more in this class than any other because Prof. Roman facilitated an environment where we all wanted to learn.
The Professor is wonderful-- although he's a visiting Prof, so things may change in subsequent years.
Amazing course. Covered interesting material, got to know other students and professor well.
This is a great chance to learn about conservation biology in a small seminar setting with a visiting professor from outside Harvard. Take advantage of this unique opportunity!
Great course. Varies depending on instructor, but Francesca was amazing.
This is an exciting course, because it is taught by a different visiting professor (an expert in the field of conservation) every year. This year, I was particularly excited to take the course with Francesca since she specializes in mammal conservation. The class was once per week for 2.5 hours, but Fran made it engaging by having many activities in each class (lectures, discussion, debates). Although this could sometimes get a bit disorganized, it made for a really unique, engaging, and multidisciplinary way to learn the fundamental of conservation. We also had two fun field trips to Harvard Forest and Woods Hole Marine Lab!
Although the instructor will change next year, Professor Cagnacci was simply remarkable! She was not only a forefront expert in her field of Conservation Biology and deer ecology, but also a passionate teacher who took much time to provide insight and encouragement for her students. We went on field trips to Harvard forest and Cape Cod, observing various animals from beavers to harbor seals. Extremely cool class that should be taken by all interested in OEB and ESPP! I am honored to take the class with such an amazing professor.
This class changes dramatically year to year, so shop it and decide for yourself. However, I truly found it an engaging and informative experience.
This class is a lot of fun! The 2.5 hour length is a little long at handle all at once, so it would help to have a short break halfway through. The final project was a lot of work, but rewarding.
Even as someone with zero college-level biology background, I found this course accessible and fun.  This iteration of the course allowed students to explore conservation from a variety of different angles depending on the students' interests and abilities.  I recommend it.
Faculty, unfortunately, changes every year, but this is a fascinating topic to work on!
This class is a wonderful opportunity to get a glimpse into the field of conservation biology. It was a bit disorganized and overwhelming at times, but was very valuable.
Great class if you passionate about environmental justice and interested in discussing these issues with like-minded students; A lot of freedom in assignments and opportunities outside of class
Good class, but be ready for a lot of reading. Sadly it's not as useful as I was hoping, as it provides a good general overview of conservation biology and the problems we face today but doesn't really go into any of the 'How'. How we solve these problems, how we measure population levels, how we collect data, etc. So good for people who haven't read a lot about conservation biology before, but kind of a waste if you already know a lot of case studies and wanted more concrete stuff.
I really enjoyed this class and would highly recommend taking it. Since it is taught by a different professor every year it changes greatly, so past reviews won't help you.
