It was a particularly dense class and should only be taken by those especially interested in environmental sciences or systems technology.
Not worth your time. This was one of the biggest letdowns of a class I've taken at Harvard. Should be renamed "the Professor Jasanoff show", as she simply drones on about her significance in the subject. Readings were relatively interesting and the class has potential, but lectures were completely useless. They expect a level of depth and analysis for each week's response paper which is simply impossible to achieve in under 300 words. The final paper plus take home added excessive stress to reading week, and the combination of the two is not necessary.
This class is really wonderfully run. Michaela and Basil were excellent section leaders, all assignments were given thorough feedback, tests were thorough, fair, but didn't make you want to rip your hair out. But also, Professor Jasanoff provides a highly intellectual and unique academic environment that teaches you a new way of thinking about technology. Note that this class is more about technology than it is about environment.
Very good course, manageable workload with significant amounts of reading but nothing too strenuous
I didn't expect this class to count for USW - but it ended up counting - if you're looking to fulfill USW or just learn some really interesting theoretical and sociological frameworks for looking at technology and society, take this course! I was mildly interested in the material before the class, and now I think it provides really important things to consider when thinking about how our society changes.
This is an excellent class all around. The selection of reading is especially excellent, for it not only covers theory but also current events and case studies. Prof. Jasanoff is very knowledgeable in her field and very accommodating. Would highly recommend participating in the Wednesday Flip! The short presentation gave me a good idea for what to write in my final paper. Basil is also very helpful as a TF, so you're in luck if you get his section! Highly recommend this class.
Avoid having to listen to Jasanoff lecture if at all possible.
It's sociology and theory. I thought we would do more interactive, STEM related stuff involving technologies being used today toward environmental problems. Nope. It's just a lot of theory about technology and society, nothing really applicable in a STEM field.
A friend said this was a "boring interesting class," and that resonated for some reason. It was all interesting knowledge that I wanted to have, but the process of lectures, readings, and sections felt rather grating. Here are some reasons: 1. Prof Jasanoff is a fantastic teacher, but her lectures were very stream-of-consciousness and I felt lost/tired in many of them - they could have been tighter/punchier. 2. The material could be very dry at times (we had an entire lecture on "standards"... make sure to get a full night's sleep before that one). 3. As with many ESPP classes, there are a lot of frameworks flying around, and it is difficult to ground/center the knowledge. To do well, you must be able to latch onto a framework, apply it to a case study, and then move on to another one. Requires a lot of adaptability AND GREAT WRITING SKILLS OMG BEING A GOOD WRITER IS ESSENTIAL FOR DOING WELL IN THIS CLASS. Overall, I still believe this was the right choice over ESPP 78, but be prepared to spend a lot of time working with dry material..That all said, I really appreciated how interdisciplinary the course was, and how it very vividly demonstrated how technology, environment, and society shape each other.
manageable workload, interesting discussions
The lectures put me to sleep.
You will definitely learn a lot in this class and look at technology differently afterwards! (Technology as in GMOs, automobiles, nuclear power, etc...not necessarily drones, internet, virtual reality, etc...just in case anybody was thinking that). Jasanoff is a legend in this field and just listening to her speak is an incredibly insightful learning experience. Michaela, our section TF, was also really great at facilitating discussions every week. Section for this class actually felt productive and helpful, unlike many other courses here. However, don't be expecting an easy class this course has a whole lot of reading every week and I do not recommend trying to get by without doing most, if not all, of them. The assignments are graded rather harshly, from the weekly response papers to the exams. I took this class as an elective, and it definitely felt more like a concentration requirement (because I believe it is for ESPP concentrators!). You should have an interest in the relationship between technology (that impacts the environment) and society to really enjoy this course...otherwise it will feel like too much work.
Definitely a neat class to take if you're interested in the environment. Especially if you come from a STEM/policy background, it really gets you thinking in a new way. Excellent way to confront some of your own biases on these issues, and get a broad overview of some of the really neat theoretical work on the subject. Prof. Jasanoff is a legend in the field, and while her lectures can get a little dry at times, she does a great job of communicating the material.
This class does a great job of integrating social theory and technological development.  I would definitely recommend it to STEM and social science students alike.
You don't learn anything group breaking but it's interesting overall
Incredibly fascinating class, especially if you're interested in the interplay between technology and society... or, if you're like me, if you've never really thought deeply about the importance of these interactions and are curious to learn more! Very enlightening and thought-provoking.
If you have an interest in policy or the environment, I would encourage you to take this course.
Great class - mostly based on society and technology and less about the environment. Pretty easy but also engaging. Good mid-size class. I wish I'd had more time to dedicate to the readings, I think doing them all would have made this class better. That being said, the readings were interesting enough that I think I'm going to spend some time over break reading them! Would recommend for anyone - humanities, science etc. concentrators
A great introduction to the field of STS. As an ESPP concentrator, I was very glad to take this course, and would have wanted to take it even if it was not a requirement. The readings and materials are great, and you come out of the class able to discuss the philosophy and sociology of technology quite well.
This class is not particularly difficult. Readings tend to be short and enjoyable, though there are usually many of them. Going to lecture and taking notes will be enough for exams.
This class covers topics that are very relevant to modern day issues.
Pretty easy / painless class.  Some readings are very dry, others are more interesting.  Final paper is fun if you write about something you're interested in.
Not a heavy reading load, but lectures can be slightly dry at times. You should take it if you are interested more in the philosophical reasoning behind technology and social interactions. There is limited discussion of technology and what I would initially think of impacts to the environment (like pollution).
I would only recommend this course for the purposes of fulfilling a requirement.  Prof. Jasanoff gives great lectures, to be sure, but I found the material of the course to be extremely lacking.  It's a very cursory overview of a bunch of topics, and doesn't really go into any depth beyond reading a few NYT articles.  There is a lot of focus on extremely lofty abstractions that seem somewhat arbitrary and unnecessary for explaining very mundane concepts.  The course does do a good job of getting you up to speed on a bunch of hot topics/debates in technology, but that's not really what I usually hope to get out of a course at Harvard.  After the first few weeks, I learned the readings were never necessary to follow lectures and/or section (the readings are all just news articles and unnecessarily lofty essays, with a few outstanding exceptions).  Maybe I'm just too pessimistic about academic treatments of simple concepts, but that's my honest impression.  I would have gotten so much more out a course that discusses the economics or science of these technologies.
My background is mainly in the sciences, so this was a refreshing look on the sociological side of technology. There's a lot of cool case studies to learn about. Be prepared to write for the final paper and then write more for the final exam.
The material can be quite interesting and is highly relevant to questions about our future, but it's sadly easy to get distracted from lecture and skim the readings. Section responses help make sure you get through some of the reading, but try to commit to paying attention in class, too.
I didn't find it to be a particularly useful subject, but it is an easy class with a low workload and some of the material is interesting.
The class allows you to explore multiple perspectives on relevant issues such as GMOs, clean energy, and climate change. The teaching staff definitely encourages you to consider multiple viewpoints and to think critically.
It took me until the paper to realize that I had learned something. However, since then I've used my new tools of thought in all my classes. I am sure that this class will continue to serve my ways of viewing the world for the future.
I initially disliked this class a lot in the beginning of the semester, but by the end, it became one of my favorite courses I've ever taken at Harvard. It touches on so many different topics regarding technology, environment, and society, and because you get to pick your topic for your final paper, you get to explore the topic that catches your attention the most a lot more deeply. If you're interested in what the course title implies, it will be a good experience.
Be prepared to read a lot.
Interesting and relevant course, but sometimes too much reading material to get through.
It was an overall good class and Professor Jasanoff is undeniably at the top of her field. However, I often felt that it was overly theoretical and that the case studies were not linked together as well as they could/should have been. The final paper/project was awesome (not saying it wasn't stressful) in that it gave us a lot of flexibility to pick a subject that was interesting to us and write about it. While the process of picking a subject and doing the required research was certainly difficult at times, I ended up really enjoying it. What left a bitter taste in my mouth was the take-home final which I think was a poorly conceived test of our knowledge.
Great class, would definitely recommend.
The class was definitely interesting, but a lot different than what I expected. A lot of the subject matter is very theoretical, and I was definitely expecting more of a scientific approach. Kind of felt more like a philosophy class, so be aware of this when taking the course. If you aren't used to this approach to learning, the class will be fairly difficult. Readings can be dense, and lectures a little dry. Section is definitely helpful for breaking down some of the more tricky stuff.  Finally, I'd say that you probably don't want to take this class as an elective - I'd only take it if you need to for your concentration (ESPP).
ESPP 77 was a good class. It was very interesting, and it helped me get a sense of the policy side of things (I study CS and EPS). Prof. Jasanoff is great, too. Beware, though, that to me at least, this was a sociology class -- a bit more sociological theory than I bargained for! But it was still a good, interesting, engaging, and manageable class.
This is an incredible foundational course in Science, Technology and Society, which Harvard does not often provide for undergraduates. The critical theory with which we look at case studies would really benefit all students, with the hope that engineering concentrators would look at their work through these lenses always.  All the my peers in this class would remark on how enjoyable this class was for us. The course staff really does take care of you. A great introduction to new methodologies and key Science, Technology and Society theories.
Take this class! Professor Jasanoff is a wonderful teacher and lecturer. This course is based in the concept that the technical and social are inseparable. It makes you see the world in a new way, with applications for public policy, engineering, urban planning, as well as any field that interacts with sociotechnological infrastructures (more than you probably realize). The readings are interesting and lectures and sections are engaging, especially if you get Tijs!
This class is a really neat way of looking at how technology functions in society and will seriously change how you regard technology in society. Be warned though, this class is almost like a philosophy class and less about actual environmental technology.  The readings can be kind of dense, but the second half of the course deals with a lot of case studies (Fukushima, GMOs, geoengineering, etc) and those are very interesting and really relevant to current debates.  This class won't exactly be easy, but I would definitely recommend taking it if you're at all interested in environmental philosophy and technology!
This is a great class taught by a professor who created and leads the field of science, technology, and society. It introduces a different lens through which to view environment and technology, and is an extremely interesting perspective. Lectures are well-prepared and engaging. Readings are generally interesting, although very long so definitely form a study group for the tests. The course does a good job of applying theories to case studies so they actually seem relevant.
Pretty cool subject, makes you look at technology in a whole new way.  Useful
If you are interested in the connections between the environment, technology and society, then consider taking this course. You are exposed to a wide range of interesting topics and theories. And the course is likely only to improve, since this was the first year it was offered.
The course is interesting but could use a name change.  This course focused on ways to analyze how technologies effect and interact with society rather than being a course about Environmental Technologies.  It's a sociology course, not a science course.
This class is enlightening in a lot of ways and learning theories to analyze the social aspects of technology is very useful. However, the course expects a lot from you: readings are pretty long and dense and response papers are time-consuming and graded pretty harshly. But the course will change the way you think about technology and its implications.
Be prepared to challenge yourself but this is a very interesting course. Be okay with reading strange theories then moving on, however.
Inspiring and engaging lectures given by an amazingly knowledgable scholar and instructor; a timely course with a rich and varied selection of intriguing readings
You will gain a contemporary understanding of environmental issues and technology and the policy surrounding them. You will also gain historical interpretations of environmental technologies.
This course is great - if you want to engage in philosophical debates about how society should be interacting with technology.  It'll definitely open your eyes to a new way of thinking about issues, but make sure that you go in with the knowledge that it's not going to be about "green" technologies (at all).
Great course, challenges you to think about technologies from cars to nuclear energy to GMO's.
This is a remarkably well-organized course with a variety of subtopics. The conversations started in these sections brought together students from a variety of academic backgrounds, which made for a really enriching, relevant, and thought-provoking experience.
Professor Jasanoff is a wonderful lecturer and the readings, which include theory and newspaper clippings, are very interesting. My thinking hasn't radically changed, but now I do ponder more deeply the implications of technology in society, rather than simply accept "progress" for progress.
This was the first year the course was offered, but it ran very smoothly and the readings were interesting. Make sure you understand the conceptual readings early in the class and it will make the rest of the class more enjoyable.
Professor Jasanoff is a great lecturer- easy to listen to , approachable, and so knowledgeable about all she lectures on that it is a pleasure learning from her.
Sounds much more interesting than it is. Don't take it unless you are an ESPP concentrator or interesting in the theoretical component of science & technology. There was a shockingly limited focus on public policy or case studies that would be applicable outside of the class. Taught me to think in a new way, but I don't think overall it was very valuable.
Listen to TF feedback to know what they are looking for in response papers, talk to them about the final project often to know what they would think is best. Not a really hard class or really easy, just know all the concepts and answer in the right manner and it is a painless semester.
