This is a phenomenal, unique class at Harvard!  TAKE IT!!
This is an awesome class that really helps its students understand the problems faced with land use planning, in terms of the ecology of the area, climate change, social and economic dynamics, and advances in technology. I think it's strongest asset is the fact that you learn so much from going out and actually visiting the areas under study and you talk to the locals and people that actually have authority to make change. Professor Forman is tremendously knowledgeable and is just an all-around terrific person. It's the one class I've taken in which I became good friends with almost all my classmates.
Class lectures can be dry at times, and material is not always cohesive. Expect little guidance on assignments (essays, presentations, workshops), but do not stress about grading because you will do well. Really, you don't need to stress. Creativity is good, and don't be afraid because the professor wants you to be "bold"--feel free to rip out roads from an entire state or require people to live on floating apartments. Enjoy yourself in Florida, don't stress too much, because all will be well. The Florida trip is amazing, and not as outdoorsy as you might expect initially, so no need to bring grizzly bear repellent. Essays are more important for your grade so don't slack on them and pick interesting topics that are novel. Take what you want from the reading but don't worry about memorizing it page by page. If you feel frustrated at times about what you are expected to learn or show through your work, you're not alone. Take some time during your group meetings to gossip and talk about the class outside of "discussion" mode. You'll appreciate your classmates more and realize that everyone is feeling pretty much the same.
Opens up the world of planning to you in a way that incorporates the environment.
Great opportunity to develop a close relationship with a fascinating professor, and the Florida field trip is very eye-opening for both social and ecological reasons.
Professor Forman is a wonderful, kind man, whom I've developed huge respect and fondness for. He has lived a full life, is full of stories, very sharp, has written books, and knows how to call birds and coyotes like no other. He'll demonstrate on the FL trip, which was a wonderful class-bonding experience (prepare to work 14 hour days though). The class, if not anything else, was a very fun experience. Learn some ecology and what issues planners have to wrestle with along the way!
This is a wonderful wonderful class if you are ready to get out of the classroom, collaborate creatively with your classmates, and start to apply some of the things you think about instead of just thinking about them.  Professor Forman is great, the fieldtrips are awesome, you will think about things in a whole new spatial way.  It may just change your life.
The best thing about this class is definitely the field trips and projects we did- it's the most real work I've had to do at Harvard and infinitely useful in terms of looking at the world in a different way. I learned a LOT just through presenting our designs/landscape plans and I think creating such extensive projects is a great way to get exposed to the world of landscape planning. Extremely interesting and eye-opening, as well as lots of fun (having class at the GSD is an added bonus)!
Professor Forman is a great instructor, he makes this class truly wonderful.
In this class, you don`t always know what you`re supposed to be learning, but you always end up learning a ton. I gained some practical skills and approaches to planning and interacting with policy, and I got a general sense of the values that should inform planning without a detailed set of planning principles that could weigh down creativity. Prof. Forman is somebody that every student should meet and learn from. You will never look at a stretch of highway or a parking lot in the same way ever again.
Fantastic class.  I learned a huge amount and had an amazing time doing it.
a really interesting class with a dedicated professor and an ability to really get to know one's classmates well with the trips; you'll definitely learn a lot!
It's a lot of fun but not very structured.
Truly the best class I have taken at Harvard. Wouldn't trade the experience for anything.
Professor Forman is absolutely phenomenal. You will love him to death and have THE BEST TIME on the week-long spring break field trip.
If you're at all interested in how ecological science translates into planning and policy on the local level, this is a great course to take.
I loved this class. Mostly because I think the class bonded wonderfully and that is a credit to the teachers and to the structure of the class: the trips are definitely unique at Harvard and opportunities to get to know everyone and therefore are really fun. A background in ecology would definitely be helpful. The best part about the course was the way it made you think without limits, I just wish the class itself had fed more new ideas into my thinking.
This was an amazing course. I learned so much and got to experience both the planning aspects as well as ecology research. This was also great practice giving presentations to the class.
Fun to think about, but a little disorganized.
Cool subject material, field trip over spring break surprising amount of work.
I am so sorry that this was the last year. Truly, probably the best course one might take at this school.
This is a special class. I could say a lot more things but mostly its just special- sometimes in a good way, sometimes in a terrifying way.
Though lectures can be quite dry, all of the field work makes the course a truly unique experience at Harvard. Professor Forman is a world-renowned landscape ecologist and really makes it a priority to get to know all of his students.
If Professor Forman ever decides to teach this course again, you should DEFINITELY take it.  It is a course experience unlike any other that you will have at Harvard.  The subject material is relevant to solving real world problems, and you get the opportunity to really bond with your class.  I loved taking this course.
