Absolutely take this course when if it is being offered! The course is taught by an outstanding teaching team that really cares about the students and the issues being discussed. The professors and the TF are all incredibly knowledgeable and thoughtful regarding the main topics of the course, and are excited to share that insight with students. This is by far one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. I especially loved how timely the course was. Climate change, migration challenges, refugees, and conflict are all important topics on the world stage, and I'm glad I was able to take this course and get more informed about these issues. This course pushed me to think about the world in a way I hadn't yet, and was absolutely the kind of class I came to Harvard to take.
Fascinating topic but my only reservation is that it lacks the discussion aspect of many other seminars. The class very much is taught like a lecture.
As you take this class, you quickly come to realise how relevant the issues covered in class are. You'll be discussing topics that are only beginning to be covered in research journals, and under the guidance of two passionate and incredibly distinguished but approachable professors, you'll learn to think about the world and the intricate connection between climate change, conflict and migration.
This class does not have a lot of work, but the material covered is fascinating. Leaning and McCarthy make a good and interesting team. While it was interesting, I question really how much I took away from the class. It was very easy to disengage because there was practically no work besides two papers.
Honestly, ESPP 90j is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Leaning and Professor McCarthy are world experts in their field. They're both incredibly passionate about humanitarian work and climate science respectively, and make sure to relate everything you learn in the course to current conflict and environmental crises. They give you extensive written feedback on your final paper--but make sure you also book office hours with them. Despite being very busy people, they make time for you and have some amazing stories about their careers in the field to share. The TF, Marianne, is incredibly enthusiastic, supportive, and knowledgable about humanitarian and urban studies. I can't recommend this class enough.
This class has exciting and poignant material.  It can be an excellent to experiment with possible thesis topics.
Not only are you working on a highly interactive basis with a professor that is extremely worthy of your respect, but you are working with material in a conglomerate way that you have likely never touched before, working with issues that will (if you allow, and probably even if you hadn't intended to allow) touch you.
take it
This class allows you to look at the world and current events in a COMPLETELY new light. I often walked away from class feeling like this was the most significant and meaningful information I had learned at school. These problems are very real and this class gives you more background and a strong framework for thinking about them.
The class is very interesting, and it's a wonderful chance to get exposure to climate change and migration through two stars in their field. Professor McCarthy has a wealth of knowledge about climate change, and Professor Leaning is one of the most passionate and engaging teachers I've encountered at Harvard. Both of them are very warm people, and make themselves available to talk to students. Final paper is a lot of work, but otherwise the workload is pretty manageable. Very good class!
This class was a very interesting combination of two disciplines. My public health background was extensive and I had never taken an ESPP class; this meant I had both a lot to learn and a lot to share. Professor Leaning and McCarthy are incredibly knowledgeable and accomplished in their fields. This is a wonderful chance to take a class with an unreal faculty to student ratio, especially considering the quality of the professors. Not too much work until the final paper, which is a lot of work (especially if you're a procrastinator like me). This class contains material that is relevant to all of our lives, maybe not in the present but definitely in the future. It offers a true global perspective on gigantic issues facing the whole world. A must-take!
This class is an amazing opportunity to learn from two incredibly bright minds. Prof. Leaning and Prof. McCarthy have incredible hands on experience in their fields, but most importantly they are really invested in the class and working with students. I felt very lucky to have this opportunity.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Leaning and Professor McCarthy are so knowledgeable about these topics, and they're also really excited to discuss anything with students outside of class time. This class really taught me to think about climate change and environmental problems in the context of economics, development, and politics. Anyone with any interest in the environment or international politics should definitely take it!
Superb class--both professors are fantastic and know oh so very much about the class. The readings are interesting and the only big thing you have to worry about is your class paper (something you will probably leave for the end. Try not to.) Get to know the staff/others in the class. Definitely a positive experience. You will learn loads.
Prof McCarthy and Leaning are truly leaders in their fields of study-- it was wonderful hearing them talk about their own research, travels etc. Class time is a little long but they do usually provide a short break. The final paper is tougher than it looks! Take advantage of Prof M and L's office hours and start it early
This is a HARD seminar. It's very interesting and you're extremely lucky to take a class with BOTH Professor McCarthy and Professor Leaning, but one must be very into the subject material to enjoy the class. Also there were only 7 people in the class when I took it, so it's possible that if there had been more people, I would have enjoyed the course more and not felt so much pressure from my peers to do ALL of the reading and be super engaged with the material. (Note: you're required to do ALL of the reading in this class because you have to submit discussion questions on it each week.) Then again, if one is into Natural Disasters, disasters caused by wars, refugees, human migration, Climate Change, and/or the Ecology of War, TAKE THIS CLASS. you will talk about all of these things and more.
This is a fascinating course. It has been, without a doubt, the best course I have taken at Harvard. Professor Leaning is one of the most captivating professors that I have had the privilege of working with and Professor McCarthy's experience in the field is unmatched. For those looking to fulfill their ESPP requirement for a junior seminar, this is the ONE! For those of you looking for an elective, this class is totally worth it. The discussion is incredible since it is a small class and the professor to student ratio is unreal. Take the course, seriously. It's not a lot of work compared to other seminars but what you get out of it is incredible.
I can confidently recommend ESPP 90j to most students because the course material is fascinating and the professor one of the most talented people I have met at Harvard, while at the same time the course requires little background and was not terribly difficult.  More people should be learning about the interconnected nature of natural disasters, population flight, environmental degradation, climate change, war, and urbanization, a few of the many topics covered in class.  These problems will not abate, and so their study is imperative.
This class is fascinating for any interested in human rights, and Professor Leaning is amazing.
Professor Leaning is phenomenal: very engaging and gets you to think about the readings on a different level.  She solicits some of your best work from you.
It's an excellent course for anyone interested in writing a thesis related to migration/natural disasters. Professor Leaning is a great resource and the readings are very good.
Very interesting class. Not much work until the final paper at the end. But if you choose a topic you like, it's not that bad.
Professor Leaning is a wonderful and extremely qualified professor.  You will learn a lot about humanitarianism and well as disasters.  However, the paper has minimal guidance, and don't leave it until the last minute since it can be very very hard to get data for it!
You learn a lot and it is rewarding, but should have a serious interest in the subject material especially if this course is not a requirement since there are a lot of readings and the final paper is long and a significant portion of your grade.
Only take it if the class is smaller otherwise you will be frustrated that it is much more like a lecture than a seminar.  Don't expect to engage much with the professor, but she is extremely knowledgeable about the topic so if it is what you are interested in, she is definitely the person to talk to.
amazing topic, really terrifying, a lot of work, you get to wrestle with big questions
Definitely very interesting material, but if you're looking for an intimate discussion-based tutorial, you won't find it here. I feel like I would have gotten the exact same out of the class if I had just read the readings and not attended the weekly 2-hour meetings.
This course was by far the best course I have taken so far. Dr Leaning is an expert in the field and she is so good at conveying the material. This course gives me a much greater perspective on climate change and what kinds of impacts it can have on populations.
The best class I've ever taken.
this class will open your eyes to the complexity of refugee issues, but it might also leave you more confused than when you came in.
You will learn a lot from this class and be exposed to many important issues that you will find no other way to learn about at Harvard.
