This course is a lot of work, but definitely worth it. I would recommend for someone who has taken an ESPP course as it does build nicely on other courses. This is a great class for anyone who cares about environmental issues.
This course is very well structured and organized, and gives you a great overview of environmental politics in the United States as well as the global environmental movement and the interaction of different actors.
This class is really about learning new ways to think about environmentalism; how to consider risk, valuation of nature, humans' place in nature, etc.  Be warned that there is a lot of reading, and as always the more you do the more you'll get out.  But go in committed to reading a lot and participating in section, and you'll come out great.
This class has an Incredible amount of required reading. Up to hundreds of pages a week. And it really it required because the format of the midterm and final requires you to remember an absurd amount of detail from any of the readings that were assigned. The best thing you can do for this class is put together a study group that can divide up the readings and then share notes. It isn't a very well organized class which can be frustrating at times and lecture/section are useful, but not really necessary to do well. 
you don't have a study group
Please do not take this course. It is the worst class I've taken at Harvard. The class does not actually teach you to think critically about environmental politics.
This course requires a lot of reading. If you actually do the readings, everything will be easier for you later on in the course (for the midterm and final), and you will also get a lot more out of it.
Making a study group is key to this class. I would highly recommend you split up the readings and then meet to talk about them, or at least share notes.
This was a truly phenomenal class. It covered complex topics in a nuanced but deep way. All components were well done: the lectures, the sections (really great), the readings. I came away with a feeling that I learned something important in this course. Something not only important for my academic development, but something important for my future contributions to our world.
It's a really thought-provoking, broad and in-depth class that encourages some great discussions if you get the right TF. That being said, the exams are a bit funky (it really should be an essay class), and it's completely impossible to do all the reading, but they expect you to be able to reference small details from all of it. FORM A STUDY GROUP, divide the reading, share notes.
Glad I took it... you can learn a good deal from this class and get by without doing many readings, although I would've liked to do more because a lot of them were very interesting
Valuable course if you desire to be a knowledgeable citizen.
Wonderful class! One of my favorites at Harvard. Take it if you have any interest in politics, sustainability, or the environment. Coming in with a vague, underdeveloped interest in sustainable development, I emerged well-equipped for intelligent discussion on virtually any aspect of the environment (so don't be intimidated if you're not fully up-to-speed on current environmental debates).  Professor Jasanoff is very clever and cares that her students take something away from the course-- which is challenging because it requires you to think, rather than due to a huge amount of work.  I had a lot of fun with the research paper, which is open-ended and let me explore a totally new topic that interested me.  Recommend with enthusiasm.
It's incredibly difficult, frustrating (intellectually) and theoretical.
Take notes of your readings each week!  It will help come essay/test time.
The ESPP department has a wonderful sense of community and the TAs really helped us to get to know each other. The readings are so thoughtfully chosen - they help you to understand so much about environmental politics - do them! (Regularly!) And enjoy the final paper - it was a really special opportunity to learn about a case study in depth.
This is absolutely one of my favorite classes I have taken at Harvard. However, I think your enjoyment/appreciation of this class really depends on how much you put into it. I had a light semester and was able to do all of the readings and therefore all the lectures were really interesting to me, but I can see how they might be a little dry if you don't do the readings. That being said you SHOULD take this and do the readings because it is material you'll want to have understood for the rest of our life as we tackle these problems globally. Sheila is on of the most intelligent people I have encountered here and you will certainly learn a tremendous amount from her.
For those interested in environmental issues, it is a great course to take at Harvard. Though some readings were rather difficult to connect with and often jargony, most were interesting and, in my opinion, the best aspect of the course. Many were disappointed with the lectures, which many found hard to engage with, and oftentimes the class seemed a little disorganized. There were definitely strands throughout the whole course, but I think that the class could do better to connect those strands and not just add them on at the end.
This class is worlds away from ESPP 10, which was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, and that's despite being politically more closely aligned with the professor's views. Professor Jasanoff is an expert in the field, but that doesn't make her a particularly interesting lecturer, and the powerpoint slides that accompany them can be impossible to decipher. The readings are occasionally interesting, but extremely long, and the majority are dense. This means that most students will give up trying to do any more than skim them by a few weeks in. If you are simply interested in environmental issues, and don't really like political theory, then I would not recommend this class.
I enjoy delving into environmental politics. However, the material in this particular class was for to technical and jargon-y for my taste, and the lectures were definitely on the boring side. Also, there's a rigid response paper structure that ignores the realities of academic work patterns.
Yes, there is a lot of reading. Yes, the lectures can be dry. Yes, there's a lot of theory.

HOWEVER

This course plays such a crucial role in the Harvard curriculum. It's so rare that you can take a class where you read theory about environmental mobilization and then analyze pictures of the People's Climate March. Jasanoff is brilliant and kind. Take this class.
Lectures can be tough to follow, and readings are often long and difficult.
too much uninteresting reading.
The professor is unfocused in her lectures and the purpose of the course is vague.
If you are an ESPP concentrator, have fun! Otherwise, take it if you're interested in getting a pretty good overview of what "environmentalism" means.
If this class was not a requirement, I wouldn't have taken it in retrospect.
The course has a lot of potential, but the lectures relate only so much to the readings, and the readings themselves can be quite long.  Studying for the exams entails a lot of effort to extract which information from the readings is actually necessary to remember.
They grade hard, but the material is very interesting on an intellectual and personal level, and if you can grasp the concepts they throw at you, you will broaden your view of and your approach to environmental issues quite extensively.
I might tell people that this class is caught up in lens and framework.  One must be interested in the combination of the theoretical and practical approaches to environmental politics. (This is a strength of the class, but not necessarily something that everyone enjoys.)
It WILL change your perspective on environmental issues, no matter how much you know about the environment or how much time you've spent in this field.  While it may not be the most compelling class to sit through, and while the group project may be an absolute nightmare, if you allow yourself to listen and THINK about the issues presented, your eyes will be opened to an entirely new way of approaching the environment.  Make sure that you keep an open mind--allow yourself to see other points of view--and you will start questioning EVERYTHING about the environment and environmental issues that you thought you knew.
While I recognize that ESPP 78 may be a bit theoretical for some people (and that Professor Jasanoff my come off as dry), don't let poor reviews of the class dissuade you from at least shopping it.  True, the class was likely made all the more interesting because I came in with low expectations; but truly, it was a joy to take and has completely altered the way I approach environmentalism.  In fact, I'd go so far as to say that it has deeply influenced my intellectual development in general.
A great class to take for an overview of environmentalism today.  Professor Jasanoff is very big in the field, and rightfully so, given the way she thinks about things and her general scholarship.  It's a bit tough at times to catch on, and can get pretty dry, so you've got to like to topic to stay in -- but if you do like it, this is a highly interesting class with some neat perspectives.
Lectures are rough but informative.
Take this class if you are interested in the material, and exploring it very analytically.
if interested in environmentalism and ok with the high work level
Difficult, dry in places but ultimately rewarding
The course is much richer if you do the readings.  Then you can really get a lot more out of the sections and lectures.
If you are willing to work hard, put in the time, and be serious about the material, this class is DEFINITELY worth the investment.
You will learn useful things, but will also passionately hate this class.
if you go into the class with an open mind, you'll get the most out of the course
best for interested people, but then great.
This class is boring, tedious, and overwhelming.  However, you need it if you want to concentrate in ESPP.  My only advice is to suck it up and get through the class.
I HIGHLY recommend this class to others IF they have an interest in environmental policy and IF they think they have enough time to put into it.
Do all the readings and take notes as you read.  That will make studying for the midterm and final easier.
ESPP 78 changes the way you think about the environment, governmental proceedings, and public policy. It is very valuable for anyone interested in government or the environment. My only reservation would be that lectures are often boring. That said, the information is excellent.
This class should only be taken if necessary for ESPP concentration requirements.
You will very much enjoy section... lecture and the readings seem a bit disjointed. Don't expect solid answers from this class.
The lecture is rather uninspiring (and unimportant to the course) and the readings can be think at times, but section leaders do a great job picking out what is actually important.  If you go to section and get the just of the readings each week you will do fine.
there is a lot more work than you think there would be
You have to take the class, don't let it discourage you from pursuing this concentration.
Take it if you have to. Not a particularly interesting class, even for those interested in the material.
It's a bearable concentration requirement... not wonderful, but not miserable either.
This course aims to cover a massive amount of material in very short time, resulting in a poor understanding of most concepts. Also, a considerable amount of reading is required to at least understand what is going on. With regard to grades, the probability of getting an A in this course is remarkably close to 0. Anyone who is concerned about grades and GPAs must immediately forget about this course since it comprises one of the toughest, most stringent grading ever.
The readings and the content of the lectures make up for whatever else may be offputting about this class.
If you're interested in the topic, this class will be very interesting, though somewhat more theoretical than it may appear in the course description.  The grading of written work and exams can be a bit tough, and you'll have to do a lot of the assigned reading to do well.  But even if the class can be somewhat demanding, the teaching staff are very helpful and help you get through it, and the interesting material makes it worth it.
It's good for those people who are interested in it (probably those people who have to take it for ESPP) but otherwise I can see the course being too much work for what it is and a bit of a drag. Definitely not an easy, low-workload intro class, and certain parts of the course will probably be a lot better/worse for individuals based on their interests, so no one will really love the course from beginning to end, I think.
It's frustrating, the readings are long and often very boring and lectures aren't exactly... exciting
The course provided a cursory glance at many topics and issues related to environmental politics and environmental assessments in general.  The major requirements of the course was a group project, where you work in groups of 8, on an environmental debate.  You also work on a 15-20 page term paper.
This course has TONS of reading, and a lot of work towards the end of the semester.  Material is interesting, but be prepared to spend a lot of time on this class.
It'll give you an extremely helpful way to view and approach modern environmental issues.
prepare for a lot of assignments
Very useful but a lot of dense reading. Not always the most interesting, but always applicable.
A lot of work, but an essential course to take to be environmentally literatue
This is not a fun elective. It is a lot of work, and is best suited for those with prior knowledge of the subject, and a reason for wanting to know more.
Take this class if you ever are interested in what is behind environmental policy decisions and what makes them so difficult to make effectively.
This course will change the way you think not just about environmental policy but about how the world works.  I highly recommend it, but be prepared to do a lot of work.   This course required a lot of work and a lot of critical thinking, but I highly recommend it.  I would warn you that its kind of a moral reasoning class in disguise at time, so be prepared to do some critical thinking and reevaluation of your own opinions.  This class will leave you with more questions that it answers, for sure, which can be frustrating.
This course is appropriate for someone very interested in environmental politics (and I enjoyed it), but the workload is too much for a "fun" or elective course. Some aspects, such as the group project, are worthwhile, but the reading and weekly response paper are daunting.
Do the readings. Pay attention in lecture. Just because it's a lot of work and it's hard stuff to understand doesn't mean it's not worthwhile. This class tackles some impossible issues and you're left with questions rather than answers, but the framework it provides is essential for work in environmental poolicy.
It's an interesting class, but it's more intense than it needs to be and honestly, who cares about so many of these nitpicky issues?
Lots of work with tough evaluation methodology (because it's arbitrary, ill-informed, and does not reward anything but authors' names and volume).  Go to Prof Jasanoff's office hours, otherwise you will feel like the course evaporates your intellectual curiosity.
Stay away
Although it was hard to tell how I gained from the class while taking it, now that it's done and I can look at it comprehensively, I can honestly say I've gained a lot of analytical insight that I had been lacking in approaching environmental science and policy.
While it seems intriguing, and is relevant, this class is WAY too much work. If you can avoid taking it, I would say don't do it.
This class taught me so much about the complexity of the environment. We viewed the environment from four lenses: science, economics, law, and ethics. It really helped me understand environmental issues more comprehensively and provided me with substantive readings to defend my views.
You should probably only take this course if interested in the subject matter or are required to for a requirement.
I believe every student should take a course in environmental politics before leaving Harvard. The issues dealt with in this class have profound implications for our lives, no matter what profession we ultimately end up in.  You will absolutely learn a lot in this class, though you have to be prepared to put in a lot of time to do so.  This class is a huge time commitment.
Its more like environmental philosophy rather than "environmental politics"
You should really like environmental politics and the theory behind it. Its a class almost entirely based on the readings, a lot of them on risk assessment.
Do you think you understand environmental politics?  Take this class and you'll realize that everything you thought you know about is actually much more complicated and interesting.
Take this class if you're super interested in environmental issues and excited to read about them/ discuss them.  Otherwise it's not worth the amount of work you have to put into this course since it is very involved- (100-200 pages of reading/week, response papers, final paper, final project, and a final exam!!).
I would tell future students that you will learn a lot, but you will have to work very hard.  You should only take this class if you are willing to put in a lot of time.
This course is amazing, especially if you are interested in and have studied environmental science and policy. Don't take as a freshman or sophomore. It is a good course to pull together a lot of concepts on environmentalism, not to test the waters.
Only take this class if there is a big change to the amount of work or if it is required.
You will gain a thorough understanding of not only the current environmental controversies and issues, but also the big, theoretical questions underlying environmental politics and policy. The course can be pretty esoteric, which becomes frustrating, but if you're interested in environmentalism, it's incredibly useful to know all of this. There is a very high workload.
I would recommend this course only if it is required for you. The work load is pretty high, and there isn't a lot of reward. It is an interesting course, and it was somewhat rewarding in hindsight, but it was definitely tiring and exhausting to keep up.
This course presents challenges in its reading materials, lecture information, sectional discussion, and weekly assignments. The information gained, however, is well worth the challenge. This course will teach you to think from every dimension but the obvious one, to question from all the depths of inquiry, and to derive answers from all the sources of knowledge. It is well organized to train your mind to deliberate actively on the subjects of environmental policy, justice, and many more. It is a very useful course for anyone interested in environmental law or policy, or just about any field in general.
This course provides an excellent theoretical basis if you are planning on an environmental policy career or concentration-- however, I would not recommend it as a pragmatic introduction to environmental politics.
This was, by far, the best course I have taken at Harvard. As a junior ESPP major, it really tied together many of the courses I have previously taken. It delves into the major barriers that hinder the advancement of science in politics, and it helps one to understand how environmental science functions in reality. I would encourage taking this class as an upperclassman, and I would definitely recommend being part of a study group, because there are 100-200 pages of readings per week.
Great themes, will challenge how you think about science, technology and politics in relation to the environment
"Question [your] underlying assumptions.""The expert-lay divide in decision making is a barrier to progress""Science is not objective. Cost-benefit analysis is a tool, not a policy"Sheila Jasanoff is a boss.
I'd say it's a lot of work but the teaching and section components are outstanding.
ESPP78 provides a great overview of historical and current environmental problems and policy. Be prepared to challenge the way you think about solving environmental problems: if you are not that interested in the environment, you will see how the environment affects multiple aspects of life and governance, and even if you are a die-hard environmentalist, you will question some of your assumptions about why certain things are "good" or "bad." It helps if you have a healthy sense of curiosity about the environment and how to make it "better"; otherwise, you might sometimes find the amount of work required of the course to be too much.
Be prepared for a lot of dense readings, but know that you only need to know the main points. Pay attention during lecture because that material tends to be tested on the exam.
This class will question the way you think about the world around you. If you are concerned about environmental issues and want to know something more about how we have tried to face them, sign up. Just be ready to read a lot.
only if you are a espp concentrator. and there is less science and much more public policy and debates about what is right and wrong and equity etc.
Good course, a bit difficult grading wise. But very useful and interesting.
Wonderful class to take to give you a sense of a complex issue in politics, science, industry, and among the public. I would recommend taking this course sometime after your freshman year, because you'll get more out of it.
You will learn so much from this course and you should absolutely take it. It will be a lot of work. Don't take the response paper lightly because if you really pay attention to them, they will prepare you immensely for both the midterm and the final exam. In general a great course. At times it can be a bit frustrating because of the amount of work (especially towards the end), but professor the class is very well organized, and the staff is extremely accessible. Highly highly recommend.
This course is just way too much work for how much we learned. I felt like a lot of the points could have been made and summarized without having to read these ridiculously long and dense readings. In addition, I felt like the topics could have been made more engaging but we spent so much time doing readings that we didn't have any time to do anything else.
this is a very interesting class (and raises questions about the underlying social constructions of environmentalism that don't often get talked about in ESPP classes) but it is NOT easy. There is a ton of reading, and the response papers are formulated so that you have to do most of it. The midterm and final cover a ton of material (there was something like 96 readings altogether covered on the final) so if you fall behind it is very hard to catch up. That being said, the TFs are very nice, and willing to help. Just know you do have to try to do all the readings, and a lot of them can be very dense.
If you need to take this class for the ESPP concentration, make sure to form a reading group with a reliable group of students at the end of the semester, it will be crucial for you for studying for the midterm and final.
You MUST take this course: even if you weren't an environmentalist at all, you'd learn lifelong crucial knowledge from brilliant Prof Jasanoff about everything from democracy to trade to law. She's such a multitalented genius, just worth being around in general and absorbing wisdom from.
You should be ready to read a lot, so try to get involved in a study group if possible.  This class is very interesting, but you get out what you put in, so do the readings and participate in section.
This is a really good class but only take it if you have enough time to dedicate to the readings or you can form a study group.
Honestly, just don't take this unless you have to for ESPP or if you reallllllly like environmental politics, with no attempt to formulate solutions to big problems.  Way too much reading that you are accountable for, and the grading is very rigid.  avoid avoid avoid
I really enjoyed it! Do all the readings--the people who didn't ended up not liking the class nearly as much as the people who did. They are actually really interesting and rewarding; I'm keeping some with me to reread whenever I have the chance.
This is the type of class I wanted to come to college for. Incredibly engaging and interesting. It was much more philosophical than I expected, which I actually enjoyed. It was a ton of work and reading, and I don't think I did well in it, but it's one of those journey-not-the-destination classes.
Be ready to read a lot for this course and form a study group immediately so you don't fall behind. The course faculty is amazing but this is not an easy course. There is a lot of material you need to know and you need to be able to connect it all.
This class is a challenge, but well worth it.  It will challenge your conceptions about science and environmental policy, and provide you with new frameworks to evaluate these issues in the future; it is that rare class which will change the way you read the newspaper every day.  This class is not for everyone, but those willing to engage deeply with the material will gain a tremendous amount from it.
Way too many readings. The teaching staff will hold you responsible for knowing all of them very well in the midterm, final, and weekly response papers. You will not be able to keep up with it all though. Also, a big portion of the grade is the final group project, which was not a clear assignment at all. IF you need to take this course, make sure to relentlessly pester your TF with questions about what they are looking for in the project as soon as it's assigned.
This course will change the way you think about problems, regardless of discipline. It really fulfills the liberal arts ideal of teaching you how to think. The material and readings are difficult but fascinating. And Sheila Jasanoff is brilliant; though not always the most exciting lecturer, what she says is really important and always worth listening to. But don't take it if you're not willing to devote a substantial amount of time to it, and think you might bail on the readings a lot. The readings are really key to absorbing the material of this class. Also, grading on the response papers can be pretty strict, so expect to have to work hard on those if you want to do well.
Professor is full of herself, offers no contradictory view points and even frowns upon them.  Way too much reading for a class of this level.
This course changed the way I think about the environment, and if you see yourself going into environmental work this course is a must-take. If you make the time for the readings, you'll enjoy it a lot more and get a lot more out of it. If you aren't going to do any readings, don't bother taking the course.
This was an extremely challenging class for me. Be warned: the reading load is excessive, and the lectures can be very theoretical with confusing organization and a lack of connection to the to readings. The grading is strict, and even if you put in a lot of time it is somewhat unclear how to do well. That being said, this course provides a thorough foundation to the subject, and if you do put in some time you'll emerge from the murky abyss with some thought provoking questions to take with you. I have a new perspective on how to approach solutions to political issues, especially as they apply to the environment. I came into the class knowing very little about environmental politics. Now, I can more confidently voice my opinions and engage in discussion about current issues. The group project was actually a really cool way to see the themes applied in the real world. If you are committed to class, it can be a rewarding experience.
This course is an important course for ESPP concentrators because it teaches you to think outside the box and ask important questions about environmental policy and politics. I would NOT take this as a freshman or sophomore -- it works best as a capstone class after you've given thought to the ethics, economics, etc. since this class makes you think more critically about these concepts. Workload is heavy, a lot (sometimes too much) reading, and the final presentation, group paper, individual paper, AND final is just too much at the end of the course.
That it's not what I expected. This course is much more philosophical than I thought it would be, but I absolutely loved it.
I don't think this class will give you a good idea of ESPP. For those who want to concentrate in ESPP, take ESPP 10 first. Absolutely do not take this first.
This course has a lot of readings, but they are all wonderful. Professor Jasanoff does a great job of breaking down the politics behind the environmental movement and leaves you with hard questions that you will continue to search for answers for long after the course. I highly recommend this course if you have an interest in the environment at all. Be prepared for a large work load but an amazing course.
Take this course if you are prepared to read a ton of material, and only if you are interested in not HOW environmental policy is framed, but WHY it is framed that way.
It's a great class -- I learned a lot about environmental history  and the politics behind environmental movements. It was fascinating because it was new material and the class readings were interesting.
Take this course if you want to better understand the difficulties of making environmental policy, and ways players in their different fields can work together to improve policy making.
It is necessary to do the readings for every week and definitely for exams. The exams and discussion questions and project are all difficult. Make sure you have a lot of time to dedicate to this class with a final project, final paper, and final exam, all very time consuming and difficult. The teaching staff although intimidating is very accessible and very helpful but definitely the hardest class during my time here and near impossible to do well. WAIT UNTIL YOU ARE AN UPPERCLASSMEN TO TAKE THIS COURSE YOU WILL GET A LOT MORE OUT OF IT.
I definitely struggled with this course at first, but it ended up being one of my favorites.
Pay careful attention to the course description. This is politics, not policy, and you will be spending most of your time with sociology-related applications.
This class delves in depth to different aspects of Environmental Science public policy and the material is extremely interesting.  It is a very difficult class to comprehend but if you put in the work and time then your efforts will be rewarded.
This is one of those classes that will stick with you. Professor Jasanoff is a giant in her field, and she approaches the course with the same sort of academic rigor that she approaches her scholarship. It's infectious to be taught by such a great thinker, and you'll find yourself making insights you didn't think previously possible.
Don't take this course unless you have to.  If you want to take this course and you don't have to, then you should switch majors (or add this minor) because people who like this stuff probably belong in ESPP.  The amount of reading required is laughable and nobody does it.  Kids who find success in this course band together with friends and create massive study guides that   allow kids to do fine on the exams and participate in section (70% of the grade).  This course is pretty confusing and roundabout to the point where the assignments become dreadful.  A course that can get away with assigning  reading like this needs a hall-of-fame professor that kids worship.  Jasanoff is a great professor, but I'm sure would admit to not being a crowd-energizing rockstar (like Ferguson, Malan, or some of the other lecturers that kids rave about).
