You need to put a lot of work into it, especially group work.
requires a lot of work and dedication, but is a meaningful and engaging class
The real world experience was interesting and valuable, but the class was not very well organized and most people did not feel prepared enough to complete the assignments well.
This course is rather different from most other courses you will take at Harvard, in that it is about learning through the experience of actively creating policy in 4 specific cases, rather than just studying other people's policy. I found it very fulfilling because you seem like you're doing work that benefits the world beyond your mind-- you actually get to do things in this course that have an impact now, though maybe just at the small scale of HUDS.
Be ready to work. The amount you get out of this course is directly related to how much work you put in.
This is one of the most unique and exciting courses I think is offered at Harvard. It's practical, interactive, and the best part is that your classwork has real, positive impacts on student life at Harvard.
be ready for hard work
This is a great intro class to ESPP even though it was stressful and frustrating at times because I sometimes felt like I was lost or unsure of what I was doing. But having to learn things on my own while working together to produce something practical and presentable was also a great experience. I really enjoyed this course, but it definitely required a lot of time and effort. I actually wished many times that I just had more time to concentrate on my ESPP memos and assignments, but I just could not ignore my other courses for this one only. I would suggest not taking ESPP along with four other classes like I did.
learn a lot of interesting facts and information, act as a real world consultant, work actually can be implemented by decision-makers (HUDS and UOS), sometimes a large time commitment
Amazing, not at all what you'd expect, full of hands-on learning in real settings
With the consistent work load and the way skills taught build on experience, you really get out what you put into this course.
If you are looking at majoring in Environmental Science and Public Policy, this is an excellent course for you. Very hands on, and you form a good relationship with the professor and other people whom you may be working for.
You learn a lot about environmental policy by doing it, rather than studying it.
If you are remotely interested in concentrating in Environmental Science and Public Policy, definitely take this class because it is the best way to gauge your future in the concentration.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time in your groups writing memos. Take the course if you're very interested in how to help our environment and how to write effective policy. Also, be prepared to work on the weekends, because there are Saturday night deadlines.
It is a very interesting, one of a kind course. But you should be prepared for a large weekly load of work.
It's a great way to learn about environmental policy in an interactive and stimulating setting.
There are more assignments for this class than for most classes you'll ever take at Harvard.
-be prepared to do a lot of hard work and put in a lot of hours. You will get rare chances to interact with people like President Faust, the Dining Services, farmers who supply Harvard, and you will learn firsthand what it is like to develop environmental policies
Take the research component of the assignments very carefully.  Adequate research marks the difference between a well written and a poorly written memo.
This is one of the few practical classes offered at Harvard.  If you have an interest in making real improvements on the climate change issue, take this class!
You will become great friends with your group- you spend so much time with them. This sills taught in this class will be very, very useful in the real world.
This class should be called "Water Policy." It is a difficult class, but you will learn A LOT about policy, things that you can apply to ANY concentration.
Great Class. Learned a ton about water, more than I thought possible. Turns out that it is everywhere, and the problems hold tremendous policy lessons for all sorts of policy.
This is one of the best classes I've ever taken. I was skeptical at first, but if you give this course a chance, as in just taking it, you will be blown away.
A phenomenal way of becoming an efficient and concise writer.  Professor Briscoe, probably the preeminent water policy expert in the world gives great insight into effective public policy and how to communicate your ideas effectively.  The class is only about water issues but is one of the most practical classes I can think of for any concentration because of how much it improves one's ability to write efficiently.
this is a good course to begin learning about environmental policy - but be warned! You will not leave feeling any sort of mastery of the material. Instead, I have more questions than when I began.
This is definitely a course that you should consider taking if you are interested in ESPP or in EPS. But, it is also a course that will expose you to the current issues happening around the world pertaining only to water. It is overall an exception course taught by an exceptional staff. I strong strongly recommend it even if you are an engineering concentrator or a government concentrator. The course is very multifaceted and addressed water sustainability from a number of different fields.
If you are interested in gaining a global perspective on environmental issues, this is definitely a class you should look into. The other environmentally-oriented class I took this semester had nothing on ESPP10 when it came to that. You learn about local water issues, WHILE still getting the chance to compare to other parts of the world, it's amazing in as far as giving you perspective. Also, Professor Briscoe is great! GO FOR OFFICE HOURS!!! He is amazing and has all these interesting experiences to share from his time at the World Bank. Also, the content is fascinating and it really makes you think about how water is tied in with the economic and sociopolitical climate of countries around the world in a different way. be prepared to do a little self-teaching as far as the technical aspects of writing policy briefs are concerned but other than that, painless class. Even if it doesn't count for your concentration, and especially then, if you are just interested in policy and the environment, then I would recommend it. (if an elective, you can take it pass-fail you will enjoy yourself immensely and learn A LOT without having to worry too much about whether you are getting the memos right.)Definitely one of the most interesting classes in my time at Harvard!
Absolutely awesome professor. If you're interested in policy, this is a great inside view. A fair amount of work -- each assignment (once a week) would usually take an entire sunday.
TAKE this phenomenal course. Dedicated teaching staff coupled with a great course structure/interesting material made the course very enjoyable. Briscoe and TFs were very approachable. Briscoe is an expert on water management and he will probably have worked on most of the cases himself - don't let that intimidate you. Applications to the real world and practical skills were emphasized.
This class is NOT an introduction to environmental policy on the level of international climate accords and the landscape of policymaking for broad issues. Professor Briscoe focuses exclusively on water, which isn't as narrow as it sounds because the policymaking lessons that he emphasizes can be extrapolated and applied to any sort of environmental decision. A good deal of the class is influenced by Professor Briscoe's title as "Professor of the Practice," and he isn't afraid to let that show in his teaching. That's not a negative, but it's important to keep in mind that he comes from a distinct vantage point that is different from that of most Harvard professors. His experience with the World Bank gives him a somewhat partisan perspective on certain issues, but hey, what's life if not negotiating the disparate perspectives of intelligent people? The teaching team is GREAT and both Professor Briscoe and my TF, Alicia, made a determined effort to get to know their students outside of the class, which is excellent and very endearing at a place like Harvard.
It was one of the best real-world classes I've ever taken, and my section was best section I've been a part of while at Harvard.
An amazing class to take to learn about public policy and meet an incredible professor.
This is a class on fresh water policy, and it will NOT give you a good idea of whether or not to concentrate in ESPP.  Get to know Professor Briscoe.
This class has shown me the different aspects in the policy world today in a fun and interesting way. All the case studies were very useful and made the situations more realistic for me.
Best class I took this year. Taught me so much that is applicable to life and gave a great inside look at world issues from a new perspective. All about water though...
This class may be like jumping into cold water for students who have never studied policy before, but you'll definitely walk out feeling like you have a better knowledge of its material.
One of the most fun, most practical courses I've ever taken.
very interesting class, but requires a lot of reading/writing outside of class, also requires a lot of class participation
Great professors and TFs! Their enthusiasm for the subject is contagious.
You'll learn a lot, but be prepared for lots of reading and weekly essays (in memo form).
The best class I've taken at Harvard so far!
I really loved this course. The assignments will seem a little tedious at times, but the readings and lectures are very interesting and sections are engaging. Professor Briscoe is great and very easy to approach and meet with even with all of his impressive credentials. If you are interested in water issues, take this course!!!
This course is definitely not an introduction to environmental science in general, but it does provide a fantastic look into water policy. It will provide you with the tools to complete policy analysis and presentations as well.
Professor Briscoe is a really engaging lecturer and the assignments and readings help clarify lecture materials. The TFs and Briscoe are well aware of student workload and reduced the amount of work for the class so students would have more time to work on the final paper, which was really helpful. Because there's no final exam, the course is much less stressful and students can really just focus on learning each case and not worry about memorizing all the information.
Pretty awesome class. Just make sure you do the readings when you're on call. Also hope that you get Aaron as your TF.
This class develops you ability to craft concise and effective policy recommendations.  It contained much less environmental science than I expected however.  It is focused only on water issues, so the point of the class is really to write policy memos.
One of the best classes at harvard with one of the best and most interesting professors.
take time to meet Briscoe
This is a good class if you are interested in the topic. There is no final exam and the class is taught in units, meaning that each unit has around 2 lectures and when it is over you are no longer responsible for the content. This means that if you care there is A LOT to learn (Professor Briscoe is SOO knowledgeable in the field) but if you don't care, you can get by without learning much and just writing some random stuff for the memos. There is a group presentation which can get annoying, as well as a large final project, but it is a pretty good course overall. It is not an overview of environmental issues, and it is focused solely on water, but that is not necessarily bad. It's a reasonable amount of work, and you can really make it more or less depending on how much of the readings you do.
This course is only focused on water policy. If you are interested in this topic then you will most likely love the course. However, if you are more interested in other environmental topics you might find the material a bit tedious. Also, the course is heavily focused on policy and less on environmentalism.
This is a great class especially for anyone interested in water issues. It is a fair bit of work but it is very beneficial work. Prof. Briscoe is very good teacher.
ESPP 10 is a great class if you are interested in the environment and in water resource issues. Personally, I loved the class. The professors are brilliant and wonderful people, and the ongoing theme of water scarcity is an issue that is increasingly pertinent to society's concerns today.
It is one of the best courses I have taken in my four years. The policy and case study focus was a refreshing break from the theory and issue-based courses in the social sciences. The teaching staff is incredible, and they really care about the students.
This is a great class that has a unique format.  It allows for substantial engagement by the students.
Take this class if you need it for ESPP.  It's not going to be THAT helpful if you are trying to decide whether or not to be ESPP because this course is nothing like the other ESPP courses. (ESPP-78 is all environmental law and politics, and the ESPP-90's are awesome and super-specific.)  If you're interested in environmental issues and writing policy take this course.  If you don't like policy but think the topic is interesting, well you might enjoy this course, but you'll hate all the memo-writing...  Professor Briscoe is really awesome though.  Take this course if you want to know what it's like to work for the World Bank.
be prepared to invest significant effort into the course
This class is interesting, but requires a lot of time investment that may at times seem unnecessary (group presentations and such). Overall though I think this class will continue improving (this was their first year teaching it this way), and it is a decent introduction to environmental policy. Professor Briscoe is quite good at breaking concepts down for students who are unfamiliar with them. Unfortunately, Professor Rogers is not at all a good lecturer, but I believe we only had 2 or 3 lectures by him this semester. I would recommend this class as a second ESPP class, unless you are an ESPP concentrator.
The professors and tf's do a great job, and really want you to learn and also to improve the course.  It was the first year for the current staff and I thought they did a fantastic job.  Reasonable amount of work with the ability to get really involved if you want.
Fantastic introduction to real-life environmental issues and policy creation.
should be prepared for a lopsided work load (a lot towards the end) and frequent assignments.
The course is pretty challenging however if you are interested in the content of the course it is definitely worth taking.
Water is the central theme so you'd better like it!  In all seriousness, though, water quality issues are crucial to ESPP and the focus on it really helped me learn that.
ESPP10 is interesting for the first 3 units, then gradually descends into tedium as the assignments are long,unnecessary. The class also gets repetitive as each of the 9 units were on water policy.
The only reservations I would put on taking the course is that one should only take this course if you are very interested in the topics discussed.  Make sure in the initial classes that you are willing to go in great depth about water issues and their impacts.
It's a lot of work, but totally worth it!
The class focuses exclusively on fresh water issues. If this is something of interest to you, then you will enjoy the class greatly. If you want to be exposed to a greater range environmental issues, this class is not for you.
Interesting, but a lot of busy work. Also learn some general skills like how to write a memo, etc.
The professors are great. Make sure you do the reading, it actually makes the class more fun. If you don't you will be lost.
The class will probably not have the same professors/format next year!
This class is absolutely amazing- the professors and TFs were all excellent, and the discussions within the class are extraordinary. I learned so much about the reality of environmental policy. If you're interested not only in environmental science, but how that knowledge is implemented in the context of specific socioeconomic and cultural backgrounds worldwide, take this class!The memos aren't very long, and the actual coursework is not terribly time-consuming. My favorite class this year!
The course should be titled "water politics." There really isn't any emphasis on environmental science - it is ENTIRELY policy. If that interests you, take the class. If you are more interested in the science or engineering side of things, you'd be better off taking something else.
The case study format of this course will teach you a lot about important issues all over the globe and teach you how to look at policy from many different perspectives. You will work a lot, but you will learn a lot. The practical knowledge you walk away with is more than that of many Harvard classes.
This is not the "old" ESPP10, so it no longer covers environmental/sustainability issues salient to Harvard, nor much on carbon and carbon markets. In fact, it focuses exclusively on water issues. At first glance, water issues might not sound so interesting, but if you take the class you'll realize that water affects so many other domains--social, economic, political, legal, etc. The case study method was engaging and fun as well, and while Prof. Briscoe had some initial trouble with names, he cares a lot about his students.
Awesome case studies!
ESPP 10 is an engaging, comprehensive class that not only informs you about specific water policy case studies, but also teaches the process policy-makers engage in to form policy. It is a very interactive class!
This class is very challenging, but John Briscoe is an incredible professor who will genuinely engage you in the material. Easily of the best taught and most practical classes that I have taken here at Harvard.
Professor Briscoe is an incredible teacher with so much fascinating real-word experience to share in his lectures. And, he also gets a ton of other really interesting guest lecturers with direct knowledge of the courses case studies to come in and teach as well, which was probably my favorite part of the course. Plus the workload and reading requirements are totally manageable.
This course is challenging at times, but it is a worthwhile adventure!  You learn so much from Professor Briscoe, guest speakers, and the amazing TFs!  I recommend this course to anyone who is interested in water policy or engineering!
It's a great class, we learn in a different way. We figure out things on our own. There's a lot of freedom.
Don't expect too much science. It's a policy class.
Would recommend taking as an underclassman, and the material and Professor Briscoe are great, but know that you're expected to speak regularly in lecture.
I was excited to take this class because I was interested in the ESPP concentation, but I found it wasn't what I expected.  It was highly focused on policy, and I found that I was actually expecting more concrete science and solutions.
This class really was great. Professor Briscoe being so awesome really made the class worthwhile. There were great speakers that not only know about the case studies, but actively participated in them and wrote the readings that we study. I thoroughly enjoyed the case study nature of the class. The readings aren't always necessary to do, and you can write good memos without them, however if you do do them you will get a lot more out of lectures and participating in class. Also, GO TALK TO BRISCOE! He is an awesome professor that is really interested in helping undergraduates. Overall, I'd say it's worth taking.
ESPP 10's a really cool class, if you're at all interested in environment-y stuff/policy/international development/relationship between people and the environment (which is all really cool and you'd probably find it really cool anyways!). Yes, it is water-focused, but water issues come in all shapes and sizes, and the various case studies let you see various aspects of it. All of the teaching staff is very dedicated to the course, and Prof. Briscoe is really knowledgeable, experienced, and friendly. The only downside to the class was that it felt like an intro class in structure (coming from a junior who took this for kicks), and lectures/readings in some units weren't very cohesive. But overall, still a lot to learn.
This is an amazing course! It will teach you to explore issues through a whole new way. I really enjoyed writing memos through case studies and the eightfold path, which helps me understand problem-solving much better. Plus, Professor Briscoe and his TFs are wonderful (the class party at his house in May was lots of fun)
This class is definitely worth it, and you learn so much! Sometimes you may feel overwhelmed, but it's definitely worth it.
don't take it as introductory course
Rivers bring life to billions of people, and come with many complexities- hydrological, political, and cultural problems that the whole world shares yet different regions deal with quite differently. Really interesting course.
Briscoe is retiring, so unfortunately this class is not worth taking anymore.
Briscoe is a very engaging lecturer and provides great materials to read and present. Be prepared to think critically about the problems he presents.
If you are looking to get a stellar grade, be prepared to devote several hours to readings. There is no set way to excel in the course. That being said, river systems were a great lens into the world of public policy.
You may not get the best grades but you will learn an INCREDIBLE amount.
The class is very interactive and well structured. However, because it is case-study based and not cohesive I took less away from the class than I originally hoped. But seriously take ESPP10 if you get the chance.
What you learn with Prof. Briscoe will last forever deep into your professional life.
Professor Briscoe was great and made an effort to get to know everyone in the class. He cold calls on students during lecture and works to make the class very interactive. The cases are interesting because they are real life, relevant, and recent. Knowing a lot of random information comes in handy for this class.
I think this is a course that the professor really cares about. A lot of people really enjoyed it. Lectures are interactive and you really learn a lot about writing succinctly, about how world politics work, and how to tackle policy problems. However, I found that I really just disliked the subject and was disillusioned by policy in general, which made the second half of the class almost unbearable. If you care about the environment but are not sure whether you care about policy, shop this for a few weeks. If you realize you hate policy, drop it and appreciate that you learned to write a memo. Don't stay because you feel like you have to.
You had better pray Professor Briscoe decides to teach another semester!
This is an awesome class which will teach you much more than just water policy. Professor Briscoe easily translates his knowledge to discussions about any other problems in the world and  general discussions about the world around us and differences in other countries. You will get a lot out of this class and will be forced to discuss during class time which is a good skill that you do not get out of larger lectures.
Professor is super conservative and uninterested in minority opinions.  TFs don't care.  Grading isn't very transparent and feedback is nonexistent.  Memo writing is a useful skill but there are far better ways to acquire it.  Take this class if you are thinking of concentrating in ESPP and need something to convince you otherwise.
Great course to apply knowledge from economics, engineering and government. Professor Briscoe is a very dedicated and accessible teacher.
Unfortunately, Briscoe isn't teaching this class in the future years, but if he is somehow teaching it, TAKE IT. I wish I knew about this class as a freshman, as I'd be switching to the ESPP concentration solely because of this class.
This class is a lot of fun, and a welcome break from "academic" analysis of issues with it's broad range of case studies, guest lectures, and peaks into the "real world" of global water issues. You will certainly learn a lot in this course, and as long as you keep up the workload is highly manageable (but somewhat constant).
Professor Briscoe is one-of-a-kind.  There are many courses at Harvard that you could simply teach yourself, if only you had the reading materials.  This is a course, I believe, where you truly get your money's worth.  It is also a course, however, where you get however much you put in.  If you do the readings, which are entirely manageable, you will understand the discussion, do well on the memos, and reap benefits out of section.
It is more reading and coursework necessary to keep pace with the course than one would initially expect.
Professor Briscoe is one of the best faculty at the school. He is extremely well-versed in his subject, knows how to teach a class, and takes care to get to know each and every student individually. Go to his office hours and get to know him because he has a lot to teach. The material in the class in interestiing, the cases are well thought-out, and you learn practical skills and lessons, such as how to write policy memos.
The course is better named water policy instead of environmental policy, but the class is nonetheless great. The skills learned will prove incredibly useful in all disciplines and the teaching staff is truly wonderful. Make sure to do all the readings and come to lecture prepared to engage and be engaged.
Some of the material was confusing, but I still believe that it is a good class. Also, even though the course is environmental policy, all case studies deal with water.
I not only learned a lot about real life water issues and public policy, I also enjoyed it all. This is a great introductory course and Briscoe is an enthusiastic and amazing professor. It's really amazing to learn about these cases from someone who has so much firsthand experience.
This is an amazing course. Take it if you have the opportunity and are at all interested in policy. It focuses on water issues, but you everything that you learn is applicable to other issues as well.
If looking for an applied policy class with real-world examples, this is THE course to take.
Go to Professor Briscoe's office hours! I made the mistake of not going until the end, and he was a great guy to talk to. He's also a really important figure in the field and has a wealth of knowledge about water policy.
This class is fantastic. It may seem like a niche field, but it teaches you so much about politics and negotiation in the broader sense, and Briscoe is just a diamond!
Incredibly interesting class with a fantastic professor
Professor Briscoe is great and the unique structure of the course is worth experiencing if you're seriously interested in issues of environmental policy. Be aware that the course is focused on water, but don't let this scare you away if you're interested in something else- you will learn analytical skills that are relevant to whatever field. Be prepared to do a lot of work pretty consistently, but the assignments are flexible and if you're engaged it's pretty easy to succeed.
If you understand this course is about water policy and think you might be at all interested, shop this class!!  Taking this class was the best decisions I made this semester.  Not will you gain an understanding of and exposure to very interesting and relevant challenges people and countries are facing the world over, but you will also come away with the invaluable skill of writing effective memorandums.  Plus, you get to hang out with John Briscoe, who's the man.
This is a great class. Take it take it take it!! You won't regret it, I promise :) Prof. Briscoe is awesome, and section is insightful. It gives you a really good introduction to the world of policy, and the role of water in all aspects of life. Definitely one of the highlights of my semseter.
I enjoyed this course a lot. Professor Briscoe and the TFs were all very well qualified and showed genuine care for the students and interest in the class material. Assignments were interesting and the final paper in lieu of an exam both eased the finals period workload and proved to be a enjoyable, educational experience.
This is fantastic class that will open your eyes to the world of water policy. Professor Briscoe is one of the best teachers that I have had in my life. But beware that only one side of a given situation is presented. There are no readings that show a different perspective. But you will learn a lot about water policy, challenges in the environmental field, and how to write memos.
Great class, great professor, moderate workload; learning tow write memos is a useful skill, and the teaching fellows provide  a great support system
One of the best classes I have taken here. You develop practical skills by applying critical thinking to real world problems and are guided by people who have real world experience. Very refreshing and different than the deeply academic and theoretical curriculum of other classes. Best teaching staff/prof combo I have ever had.
This is a fantastic course, focused on water policy, taught by an awesome professor with equally awesome TFs! If you do anything at Harvard, take this course!!!
This class is very difficult but totally worth the time and effort.
This class was extremely enjoyable if you are interested in the subject material. The teaching staff was great and every unit was very interesting. It is a good gateway class to anyone interested in government and policy or environmental sciences. It is a good look at the politics behind engineering.
TAKE THIS COURSE. I couldn't begin to condense the absolute wealth of knowledge, both in policy and water, that you will absorb from the incredible structure and teaching staff. Although the course focuses primarily on water, the process of writing policy will undoubtedly transfer to any field requiring a policy memo. Coming into the course I had absolutely no experience writing memos and this truly allows you to eventually get a strong grasp on the how-tos of the eight fold path. Briscoe is amazing. Your TF's are down-to-earth, incredibly knowledgable, and above all, absolutely invested in helping you achieve excellency.
this class is awesome. I'm a senior now but I have learned a ton that I wasn't able to uncover from other classes.
This class is a great way to get exposed to ESPP through a specific lens, water policy. Professor Briscoe can be a bit intimidating and scatter-brained at times, but is an incredibly smart, accomplished, and warm individual. If you have any interest in ESPP, I would highly recommend this class.
Professor Briscoe has led one of the most interesting lives of anyone I have ever met. Read his biography and you'll probably be convinced to take this class! I found the class fascinating. Granted, it is about water, and only water. But that is SUCH a diverse topic, as you will find through this class, and I felt like we only scratched the surface of how water affects health, politics, the environment, the economy, etc etc. Finally, please make sure you're clear about how the memos are being graded. The assignments seem easy on the surface but they are graded harshly. Still, a very light workload compared to most classes.
I found this class to be more difficult than I assumed it would be.  That being said, learning how to write a memo is invaluable, and Briscoe is great. Come prepared to work hard and know the cases well in order to get the most out of class.
This course is a great integrative course of politics,  economics, and environmental science/natural resource management. It does heavily focus on water. The teaching staff was fabulous and really invested and engaging in helping the class fully explore and expand our knowledge base in this area.
This was definitely my favorite class so far. There's so much to learn from Briscoe and from the TFs that are things that you generally don't get to hear in more academic contexts. Briscoe especially has a wealth of knowledge about these issues that comes from on-the-ground experience, so it's really fascinating to hear his take.
Professor Briscoe is a rock star. The case studies are all interesting and diverse. The class should be called "Water Policy." You can use the policy analysis tools from this class on any other topic. I highly recommend this class.
The assignments can be vague, but that's how it's going to be in real life.
I am somewhere in between recommend with reservations and unlikely to recommend. I think unless this is your concentration, or you are very interested in the topic, than the workload and effort required is not worth it.
You learn a lot from taking this course, but it is too fast-paced and the workload (especially the research) is heavy, so don't take it at the same time as other difficult classes.
great introduction to environmental policy, but a pretty constant stream of work for which it is difficult to fake it!
This course is entirely unique; the process of drafting policy memos is very difficult yet relevant and important.
If you really want to be a policy maker or consultant, this class is useful. If you want to advance the field of sustainability science, look elsewhere.
This course is interesting, but also very frustrating at times.  Feedback is insufficient and unhelpful.  Assignments are often too complex for our preparation.  Students should be OK with group work
You will learn how to write policy memos, but it is a lot of work, and sometimes frustrating. Unless you are really interested in public policy or the concentration of environmental science and public policy, it may not be worth it.
Because the class doesn't count for a Core requirement, be absolutely sure you are either planning on concentrating in ESPP or otherwise have great enthusiasm for environmental issues.
This class teaches a skill. If you are interested in environmental sciences do not take this course. If you are interested in writing environmental policy, you will not like the course, but it iwll be helpful.
This course is unique in that it emphasizes experiential education. Its focus on group work is in tune with real-life policy work.
Great opportunity to work in groups - learn a very practical skill - great fields trips - work with important people in the university.
I think this is a very useful class for anyone who is considering consulting in their future.
I would tell them that the case studies were extremely rewarding and interesting but also that the course requires lots of time commitment.
Its a lot of work, you have to be interested in the topic, but you get a ton out of it if you put in the effort!
This class is unique in its practical approach to policy analysis. You're thrown into how a policy analyst actually works and how someone would actually have to create work for a client.
It's a lot of work, but you feel pretty acomplished by the end of it. Excellent overall.
The information covered in this class is very interesting and you will learn a lot.  The course structure however is difficult to work under and the assignments often seemed like an obstacle to thoroughly learning the material.
This is the class to take to see if you really want to be an ESPP concentrator or not as a freshman or sophomore. It takes a lot of work, but if you are truly ESPP you probably won't mind too much.
This course is truly unique: you act as a consultant for real clients, working extensively in teams with other students. Slog through the first few weeks, because the rest is worth it. If you want to throw yourself into the class, it can easily take over your life (and probably will nonetheless, given that policy memos are due every Sunday morning). Make sure you have the time needed to get the most from this class.
It takes a lot of time and research, but if you're genuinely interested in environmental policy this class is a perfect introduction to that field.  You get to work on interesting and engaging projects, and you have a lot of opportunities to be in contact with university officials.
Requires constant work, thinking, and reflection. Ultimately, the course is very rewarding. A lot of opportunities to do real-world policy analysis.
You'll present your work to HUDS, University Operations Services, and Drew Faust!  The work is like that for a green consulting group.
but very time consuming
It is a fantastic class because of its practicality and applicability to real life situations, however, it does require a lot of work and often is difficult to grasp.
Be prepared to work weekends and with groups occassionally
This course was fascinating but required a lot of time. Depending on how interested you are in environmental issues (and how well you work in a group) the work required for this course may be worth it (or might not, though It was for me). The field trip and the connections that you get through this class are great - we went to some interesting classes and I had a chance to talk with the head of HUDS, a famous chef and at the end of the semester we presented our findings to President Faust!
Briscoe is an excellent teacher and has a wealth of experiences to share...the class has a lot of real-world lessons but as a result the readings and assignments can be dry at times
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Briscoe does a great job mixing theory and practice and challenges many of the notions of "doing good" or environmentalism that many of us hold. Take it!
This class is a challenge not necessarily in terms of work, but in the way it requires you to think and the many things you must consider when completing assignments or thinking about topics.
That it's a lot of work, so if you're ok with doing it, the class will be a rewarding experience.
This course is not easy, but it is not too difficult either. Briscoe is a brilliant teacher and the knowledge you gain on how to make effective policy decisions in the field of water management and distribution is invaluable. I have already been able to apply the skills I learned in this class to other coursework. If you really engage with the coursework you will have a lot of fun.
It's just awesome.
Don't take this class if you don't want to think. Knowing the material is important, but even more important is being willing to think critically and come up with your own solutions and analysis. The professor is amazingly dedicated to his students, and the teaching fellows and friendly and very smart.
Briscoe is a boss
If you have the chance to take this class, you 100% should, no matter your concentration. Professor Briscoe truly makes the class. He is engaging, interesting, and immensely qualified in the field of water policy. Do know that the class focuses on water policy even though the course title is water policy.
I would be hesitant to take this course without Briscoe coming back because he was the key to its success, but overall a very interesting intro to international environmental policy and global development in general.
Make sure you're interested in policy (as indicated by the course name) before you take this class. REALLY interested.
Everything is great until you hit the final paper--then it's hell. Also, the memos are graded harshly as the taste in the TF changes and then you're left forever wondering which style you should adopt.
I highly recommend this course for future students interested in Environmental Policy. Although completely focused on water policy (which made me hesitant at first), this class uses a narrow lens to teach skills and methodology that can be applied to many other fields and aspects of ESPP. The case-study based structure allows for in depth engagement and helps to contextualize the theories and bigger ideas. Overall, this class was fun and engaging, and challenging but was super rewarding.
This is a must-take class. One of my favorites in 4 years full of great classes. Do the readings and learn as much as you can from the teaching staff - they are very knowledgeable.
This class was INCREDIBLE but Professor Briscoe is the reason it was so special so look at for pretty major changes because he isn't teaching next year.
This is a fantastic class, and is definitely one of my favorite classes at Harvard. The teaching staff, including the professor and teaching fellows are phenomenal and I have learned so much about water policy around the world this year. Professor Briscoe basically knows about water issues in any part of the world that you name. A lot of the concepts that I learned in this class are also applicable in many other topics.
This is an awesome class.
Professor Briscoe is the best. Unfortunately, I do not believe he will continue teaching. The idea for the course, however, is still great and the structure as well. Briscoe was able to synthesize the many regions we focused on and so hopefully a new professor would have as much widespread knowledge and be able to do the same. Also, going to office hours with Briscoe was great! Go to office hours with your TF too. It helps immensely on the memos!!
absolute best class I've taken at Harvard. I looked forward to going to class each week. John Briscoe is one of the most inspiring, intelligent, and just generally incredible people I've ever met and it's been an honor learning from him.
An extremely fulfilling and interesting course. Professor Briscoe is an amazing professor with decades of experience in environmental policy (particularly in water management). Just this year, he won the Stockholm Water Prize (which is basically the equivalent of the Nobel Prize for water and the world's most prestigious water prize). Do take this class if it is somehow offered again. You do not want to miss the chance to learn from one of the world's experts in environmental policy.
It is rather unfortunate that this was Dr. Briscoe's final year teaching the course. He made the material exciting, and he brought an unrivaled level of expertise after having worked at the World Bank for most of his career. But I would still recommend the course to those interested in going into policy making in general as I believe that was the most important point of the course.
This class was very interesting and professor Briscoe is a great lecturer, always keepig you on your feet. Like any class, the more you put into this course the more you will get out of it. I found myself skipping some of the readings. I enjoyed the final project and being able to write about something that fascinated me.
