While lectures and readings can be a bit dense and cumbersome, the material is definitely worth exploring. I appreciated getting an insight into reading and developing policy documents.
This class was super time-intensive, but it is well worth the time. I came into the class thinking that this was going to be a class all about clean energy, but learned that it is WAY more than that. The global cases taught in class and the country your section focuses on are all really interesting, and the textbook is a must-read. My only qualm with this class is how much time it is (I took it as a general education requirement and as an elective because I was interested). You give multiple presentations and the final paper is no joke, so bring your passion about the environment or social justice or at least your curiosity and you'll enjoy the class. Don't be afraid to speak up in lecture, this is meant to be a class that introduces you to sustainable development so you are not required to know anything about the topic beforehand.
This is a great class! Take it! It's a great intro class. Perfect as a GenEd or for a secondary or concentration. Class size is small, it is very personalized, and section is engaging. The projects are fun, and I learned a great deal of things that I can actually implement in quotidian instances.
This is a really amazing class. You really learn not just about sustainable development, but how to think about sustainable development, and thinking is really what we need in this day and age.
This class is hard and takes a lot of work, but it has absolutely been my favorite college course so far! Not just an ESPP course, but a really fascinating and relevant topic overall.
This is a great class, you may spend a lot of time reading, researching and writing essays, but the content is extraordinary and fun. It allows you to see how interdisciplinary subjects like sustainability is.
This class is engaging and fun. You get to take on a country as your case study in section and this country becomes central to how you engage in class. It is a great way to learn about sustainable development in an interdisciplinary way.
I would highly recommend this course. Professor Clark is great at engaging with and actually listening to students. The course is valuable no matter what concentration you're planning on doing. It encourages critical thinking about everything from ethics to economics to the environment.
It's a super interesting class. The workload can dip up and down at different points, and the professor likes to give very detailed assignment descriptions. Occasionally feels difficult to grasp the topics without getting hands-on experience, but the case-studies help somewhat
This class was in its first year, and its biggest strength was its dedicated and passionate teaching staff. So I trust that it will improve a lot in the next year. The main problem was that everything was very abstract and theoretical. I felt overwhelmed by the empty space within the big brackets we were drawing everywhere, We were tasked with creating policy recommendations without concrete knowledge of what good policy recommendations look like, which resulted in a lot of inflating piecemeal research with wordiness. The presentation was a great exercise, the teaching staff (especially Alicia Harley) was very supportive, things were very open and friendly, and I wish I had spent more time on the readings. The study of sustainable development is inherently nebulous, but Bill also tends to talk kind of repetitively without getting to the meat of the subject matter, so it was easy to get lost and unmotivated. But I would definitely shop this class to see what changes they make because Bill Clark is very dedicated.
The class had great ideas but is definitely an acquired taste.  Should definitely be shopped and considered deeply.  In order for this class to be good, huge improvements need to be made.
Major reservations in taking this class, unless they change the course dramatically. My biggest issue was with the grading scheme; it was very opaque, and my group felt as if our grades given pretty arbitrarily because no rubric was ever given for the written assignments and presentations. The course is very logistically taxing, especially towards the end of the semester with an assignment due every three days. Do not take if your reading period is packed, or if you don't like working in groups, because ~70% or your grade is essentially shared among your group work. I definitely learned a lot about SD and its literature, but--thinking retrospectively--I don't think I would take this course if I could again unless major changes are made.
It will change your perspective on social events ie: "news"
wonderful course!  while the readings may not be too heavy of a courseload, don't take this if you simply want an easy class.  The more you put into the class the more you'll get out of it, and the interim assignments, presentations, and final projects will certainly take a lot of time.  You'll feel super accomplished, though, if you take these assignments seriously and put in the proper effort.
This course needs a lot of changes but overall it was good if you are interested in development and such. If you put in the time, it can stretch your mind in a really positive way!
If the structure of the course is drastically changed, I would absolutely recommend it. The topic is fascinating and very applicable to all parts of your life. However, overall I was very disappointed with this class given the structure/administrative aspect of the class.
I think a lot of people might say how disorganized the course was, but personally I really enjoyed the course. I think sustainable development is an extremely important topic that everyone should learn about. Yes, it was a bit disorganized, but it was also the first year the course was run. Using case studies to study different regions was very effective, and the professor and TFs really put a lot of time into commenting on your essays and providing you with feedback, which is much more than I can say for most other classes here.
stay away, unless you: 1. like learning about things that can be thought through using common sense, 2. enjoy professors that can't facilitate discussion and resort to cold-calling, 3. enjoy professors that think cold-calling on students is funny, or 4. love tedious group projectsthis class had a lot of potential as a "Sustainable Development" class taught by a Kennedy school professor...but it turned out to be a total disappointment. I felt that Professor Clark didn't know how to teach undergrads (he spent too much time on really simple concepts) and I didn't think the readings, assignments, projects, and lectures were meaningful...felt like high school. The grading was really quirky and disconcerting. WAY too much work for a gened
this is a course they are still figuring out how to teach, but it's interesting. shop it and see if it's something you like. it's not an easy gen ed by any means, they want you to put in hours.
This class has so much potential, but it really needs to change structurally.
This was a good class, but I would really only recommend taking it if you have a flexible schedule because of the group work. The entire semester (and almost of of the work for the class) was done in groups of 5, which obviously is really difficult if you can't ever find time to meet. Would be a great class to take pass/fail just to get exposed to the topic and material.
Learn how to do independent research.
Gives a very solid framework to think about sustainable development (that is the main strength of this course). Some readings aren't really necessary to do in order to have good discussion in class. The teaching staff definitely have opinions that you need to cater to not in the discussion but in the writing.Most important, however, is that the main assignments of this course is a group essay with a group and topic that you do not have any choice in. Some of the essays are not very collaborative so you get someone's grade for something they wrote and which you have minimal input in. If you have no reservations on group essays, do take this course. Good way to fulfill a GenEd but you won't be blown away, just well-equipped as you progress forward by excercising different analytic techniques.
Group work is a central component of this course, which is a turnoff for many people. Also, lectures are mandatory but not always very helpful, which is frustrating. However, the material covered is extremely important, and I highly recommend that everyone consider taking the course.
Take this class. It is awesome. By far the best class I've taken at Harvard.
Take it! This was a wonderful class, the lectures were never boring, and the discussions were informative.
This is  gen-ed course that requires a good amount of your time, so make sure you are interested in the topic if you are looking to have fun and enjoy the class.
Don't take this as an easy gened. Take it as a really interesting class where you have to put in a lot of work, but where you'll learn a lot and also it's a gened.
If you're looking for something to engage seriously with questions about sustainable development, this is NOT the class. Though the readings are good, lectures are completely useless and involve a lot of hand-waving and reciting of the textbook Prof. Clark is working on. The project is poorly organized and an unnecessarily high amount of work. You don't actually learn much, but some of the readings are interesting if you do them.
The material is very interesting and constantly evolving. It is an evolving and critical approach to the problems of today and tomorrow. The ethnocentric perspective was new, interesting and remarkably applicable. I trust they will work out some of the kinks in the class.
It is a good class but the assignments are difficult.
I would tell students that the workload for this course is not by any stretch heavy, but I would strongly caution students that the course does not seem to be organized in a particularly constructive way which made the entire course a very confusing experience from start to finish.
This course had many growing pains after converting into a gen ed. I don't doubt it will become better over time because Professor Clark had great Q scores the year before, but you should tread carefully in choosing this class.
The material covered in this class has potential, but the class did not live up to my expectations. It was mundane and sucked the fun out of environmentalism. With that being said, it was helpful for thinking about entire systems and analyzing sustainability from a more broad perspective.
If you're looking for an introduction class to climate change or the environmental problem at large, you would be better off taking other environmental-related courses. This course provides you with a concept so large that you don't feel that you actually learn something very specific, especially when you already know a thing or two about the climate and environmental debate. Most importantly, this class has a lot of group assignments and very tedious scoring points e.g., 1 point for news posting and 5 points for each assignments. You definitely not create a substantial work with much thought put into i.e., research essay.
It seems as if Professor Clark is still working out some kinks with the course. This was the first semester with the class taught as a GenEd and it suffered growing pains. The case-study approach was not well-suited for the larger class size and the lecture material did not support actual assignments.
This class needs some restructuring to accommodate a larger class size but Prof. Clark and the teaching fellows are well-intentioned and really interesting people to talk to. If you are interested in the topic, the course material is comprehensive and interesting, but the lectures can seem a bit long and they aren't very interactive. The case study was my favorite part but I didn't feel like I learned as much about the other two case studies. The groupwork component was a little crazy with the large section sizes but if it's adjusted, I would recommend the class. The workload isn't very high, there are no tests, and you don't have to fully complete every reading to understand what's going on in class.
This course will give you insight into a very pertinent field right now. You will learn about how people in the field think, the frameworks they use, and the obstacles that they face. I think that these things are very important to understand and that the basics of sustainability need to become a part of every student's vocabulary. For that reason, I would encourage people to check out this class. The class also gives the opportunity to interact with a real region and a host there to improve their sustainability outlook there. However, I have a number of misgivings about the way the class was run. Because it was designed as a small discussion class but was run as a medium sized lecture class, some aspects of the class felt slightly off - lectures were a little over my head and with little chance for discussion in such a big group. Grading was tough without enough feedback to improve on subsequent assignments. Sometimes the research question for our region felt too big, out of our area of expertise - which, I think, was largely the point - but something that I personally struggled with a lot. The teaching staff are looking to fix a lot of these problems, so next run through could be improved a lot. Consider this class, but consider it carefully.
You will actually learn a lot.
You get out what you put in. If you do the readings and attend lectures and participate in section, you will find the class fulfilling, but otherwise you may find it very uninspiring.
It is completely unorganized and unfulfilling. As amazing as the class initially sounds, it does not live up to the hype. The assignments are impossible to do, not because of the difficulty of the material, but because of the vague and impossible instructions. Often, the assignments are graded on criteria that were not a part of the assignment outline, and it is impossible to figure out what criteria will be important for the next assignment. Be prepared for a frustrating semester, cumulating in a rewarding, but also frustrating, presentation.
Only do the readings from the main book and the section specific readings.
The class is a cool idea with case studies in different regions in each section, but is very poorly executed.  The TFs aren't that enthusiastic and the material is a bit circular with regards to sustainability.  The course was also very poorly organized this year because they had way too many students in the class (last year they had around 20, this year they had 70 and dealt with it oddly).
If you love the environment, don't take this course. If you're interested in sustainable development, don't take this course. It essentially embodied all of the issues with sustainable development currently plaguing the world: policy makers getting bogged down in abstract terms and random case-studies, making "lists" of issues, and avoiding economics, science, and law whenever possible. Biodiversity and threats to ecosystems were never discussed.
This was the first year that the course overgrew its "coping capacity" (pun intended), and it suffered for it. Group work was clunky and schedules were changed on the fly (e.g. presentations added/removed due to lack of time to accommodate them all), which really just served to confuse everyone. If the course figures out a way to handle that amount of people, I'd recommend with enthusiasm, but until then, only with reservations.
To be honest, having left this course I'm not really sure what I have learned. The readings didn't really get talked about in lecture that often. Lecture needs to be more interactive and engaging. Especially since the lectures are 1.5 hours long, the instructor needs to do more to engage the class.
You will definitely learn something about sustainability in this class. However, the course readings are dense and it's a lot of busywork for a final project that doesn't feel very satisfactory.
Sustainability is a famously ill-defined area of study. Despite promises made in introductory lectures, this course has not found a way to solve that core problem. The new definition of sustainability that the class uses is still rather nebulous, and that woolliness can be extremely frustrating at times. However, if you can get over that hurdle, Sustainable Development offers an outstanding opportunity to learn a lot about how real world actors approach complex challenges.
This course provided a lot of opportunity to do in-depth study of sustainability.  We explored potential sustainable development planning in several different regions of the world, and we ended the course working together to offer critiques of current development plans for those regions.  We often did our own, independent research on different aspects of sustainability, becoming experts on those topics for our groups, so we had a chance to take learning in the course as far as we liked.
I would not recommend this class to those who want to fulfill the Societies of the World GenEd requirement at all. I would only recommend it to those genuinely interested in sustainable development, or are pursuing the ESPP concentration.
This course may seem easy but it really is a time commitment. You have to do the readings to keep on top of the topics being discussed in class plus you have to do cover the section materials which are tangent too and in addition to the readings for class so it can become a lot but overall it's not too bad if you're into it.
Excellent in theory, very interesting, if they fix the class size problem I'd be likely to recommend.
It can be a strong overview course, particularly if you (like me) want to learn about the policy world but are unlikely to enter it. However, this iteration of the course was sometimes frustrating because the class was too large for its structure. The course's style was also a bit fuzzy/over-general for my taste (I frequently wasn't sure what we were trying to accomplish), but that might well be personal. The staff is amazing, and we were exposed to a variety of interesting ideas.
If you are reading answers from the spring of 2016, I wouldn't take them too seriously. I trust that Professor Clark and the teaching staff will make some necessary changes. This was the first time the course was offered as a gen ed, and so a lot more people enrolled than they were prepared to handle. I also wished that this course didn't leave out biodiversity and nature as much as it did. The workload is definitely manageable but grading is weird...we'll see how the grading plays out...
This class was confusing.  I spent most of the time not really understanding what was going on or what I was supposed to be doing.  While I believe this is a very important topic to the world, I think that there are other SW classes that are better.
This was the first year the class was offered as a gen ed, so the class size greatly increased and the teaching staff wasn't able to handle it super well. However, they have had lunches and meetings with students on how to improve the course for next year, and I have no doubt that Professor Clark will make it much better. Reach out to him and get to know him. Definitely shop the class and see the size and what improvements they have made. The material is great if you put the work into it and do the readings. Lecture and section will be better next year.
This class is a great way to either kick off your studies in ESPP or fulfill a Gen-Ed.  It's definitely no walk in the park, but the work is spaced out in a reasonable manner with multiple short assignments and weekly readings.  Prof Clark is a very good lecturer and a world leader in what he teaches.  The work also tends to be fulfilling and meaningful in that you're actually trying to solve problems in a very real sense.  A couple complaints however... The first few weeks of the course were perhaps too self-explanatory and even a bit unmotivated, and it wasn't until four or five weeks in that I really got a sense of "Wow this is really useful stuff."  The second major complaint was that group-work in section was often a mess since the course was bigger than they expected.  The TFs do their very best (and they are awesome!) but often times everyone had their own idea of what they thought was important, and we tried to cram a ton of unconnected bullet points into a 10 minute presentation, for example.  Also, you have to rely on other group members perhaps to an uncomfortable level at times (which is why if you're planning to blow this off as an easy Gen-Ed, others will probably be very frustrated with you).  Overall very good and worthwhile, especially if you plan to go into something consulting or industry-related, since the whole assignment model is around memos and briefings.
