The lecture material is the best part and what you learn most from the class.  When studying, study the lecture material to review what is important to know as an immunologist.  This is more important than doing well on the exam (both should be synonymous but unfortunately, are not)
In terms of lectures arranged, it was excellent!In terms of organization of material, very difficult to follow.
it's a good course--just very into detail of topics of immunology that you might not need if it's not your primary area of interest
Be sure to start studying early for the tests because it is hard to memorize all of the different things a few nights before the exam.
This course is an in-depth detailed examination of many of the most important topics in immunology today, although the connections between them must be built by students from the knowledge of previous basic immunology courses (IMM201).
This course really isn't for the non-immunologist.
IMM 202 broadens your perspective in immunology. It is not the most interesting class and takes some patience to appreciate. I enjoyed learning about these topics nonetheless.
If you want something beyond B and T cells and autoimmunity, take this class.
I would tell students that this course is difficult but it is very important to take to have a complete understanding of immunology that reaches beyond just B and T cells. This course is critical to take for any graduate student looking to join an immunology-based lab.
The course introduces many important but overlooked fields within immunology. However the lectures are not organized in a way to facilitate complete understanding of the topics and needs serious restructuring.
I would tell them that this is a course which will have some good lectures and some bad lectures and that you will ultimately take from it what you want.
Fill the gaps in your immunological knowledge (and make some more..)
Take full advantage of having the faculty present during the discussion!
You'll really learn a lot in the class and there's some extremely good information in it, but just make sure to review the lectures as we go to understand them.
Great series of lectures by great lecturers
This course is a useful follow-up to the T- and B-cell centric lectures in IMM201. It goes more in depth on some topics, and you will learn much more about innate immunity and the translation side of immunology research.
The material is more interesting than first semester, and although we have lots of papers to read for this and other classes the conversations are better than those in 201.
Good exposure to human immunology
This class is really a very good experience.  You get an incredible amount of information to learn and digest and learn a wide breadth of immunology
This is a great class to learn many things in various fields, but some lectures were disappointing.
The paper discussion segment of the course isn't really that helpful.
great class as far as amount learned, but talk to course director to make sure you are prepared if unsure.
Good course to learn about how to review papers and learn about various diseases. Would greatly help to know basic immunology beforehand.
Unfortunate that it's required because its pretty unhelpful save the last few lectures that are more disease-based.
Discussion section is disorganized
That it will contribute greatly to their knowledge of immunology.
Great lectures, very easy course where you don't have to do anything outside of class, discussion sections may feel like a waste of time.
Great class for people who are interested in immunology research. The format also allowed to ask ourselves questions beyond the science. I particularly enjoyed discussing the impact of immunological discoveries on medical practice, the viability of those findings for industrial development and journalistic ethics in communicating science.
