it's great for training critical reading. naturally, even better if your area of focus is immunology because most papers are relevant to the field
Prepare by knowing the figures in the research paper
This course teaches you how to critically review published literature, whether or not you have had previous exposure to the topic.
great course to improve your paper reading skills
Make sure to set aside enough time to read background on the papers that are being discussed in class to know the experiments that have been done in the past. In addition, make sure to closely read the methods section in order because a lot of the caveats in the paper emerge from the experimental setups (i.e. FACS gating, incubation times, concentrations used).
Make sure to read the papers ahead of time at least twice.
Make sure to save enough time to read the papers and mull over them. Don't just read them the night before -- you won't get enough out of the discussion. Think about them with a clear mind.Also, make sure to speak up and talk.
It's a real start when you know how to read, efficiently and effectively.
Think outside the box
A great course to become comfortable with reading immunology primary literature
Duane is amazing- definitely take the class
It's a creative way to learn to think like a scientist. The exercises, including being given figures without legends and needing to put them together into a paper and being given a title and techniques and having to design figures, actually help a lot with the kind of thinking needed to put together a scientific story. The paper discussions were also good but not that different from any other paper discussion class. The highlights for me were Duane's class exercises.
204 is the best class you take as a G1. Florian really helps you to pick apart papers and read efficiently.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard.
-Wonderful class, get to learn many useful ways of analysing papers and crafting a story! Definitely worthwhile to attend.
It is really fun and very important for growing as a researcher. It is great for improving your critical reading skills and how to tackle learning about a new field.
