This class was a cool idea in theory, but it suffered in execution. Watching Ferguson and Jasanoff lecture was always great, particularly when they argued against each other. However, this class really suffers from a lack of cohesion. Each week's "historical vignette" was never really connected to past encounters in any sort of larger narrative, and there was really no point in doing any of the readings for class because they were completely unnecessary for both section and the assignments. Class participation is a great idea, but too often it seemed like we were doing reading quizzes as opposed to having actual discussions, and honestly, I would have preferred to hear Ferguson and Jasanoff debate things as opposed to Ferguson and some random kid. The section project wasn't super great, mainly because my section had 16 people in it, which is just impossible to divide work equitably between. It's a good senior spring class, though, very few assignments and it's clearly designed for freshmen/sophomores so if you've ever written a college paper other than for expos it shouldn't be hard at all.
I enjoyed the course, hopefully they will have worked out some of the kinks from teaching it for the first time this year.  The subject matter is interesting and the professors are very engaging.  Overall, I would say at times it felt like a lecture series rather than a cohesive class, which was great for a senior spring class but if you're looking for a class with a strong argument you might look elsewhere.
Lectures are very entertaining and engaging. Maya and Niall are a great paring and really fun to see two experts go head to head.
The professors are amazing, and the lectures are very entertaining. Make sure that you come to class prepared so you can participate in discussions.
take this!! really really cool class-- I took it P/F and loved it. Only thing is theres a TON of reading (but if you take it P/F you dont have to do all of the reading)
This class is absolutely wonderful. Prof. Jasanoff and Ferguson's discussions are always lively. Despite their differing approaches to history, they ended up converging towards the end. Loved the readings & lecture is not a traditional lecture in that it is participation/discussion based. Would recommend anyone to take this course, regardless of your concentration.
Take this only if they update the reading list and get rid of the "section project."
This course is awesome.  Two professors make the lectures twice as fun, and the chosen cross-cultural encounters are from a wide range of areas, both geographically and across time.  Really good introduction to the history department.
This is a fantastic class. Lectures are SUPER interesting and the work load is very manageable.  The section component is different because you work as a class on a group project the whole semester--this is a great way to really get to know your section and come together as a group. I loved this class!
The course prides to analyze and debate on historical encounters between distinct cultures from very different points of view, yet only if none of them fundamentally clash with that of professor Ferguson, in which case he names the case "A debate that is unnecessary." Overall the course introduced me to some very unique cross-boarder cultural encounters, however I found professor Ferguson's style of teaching very stringent and intimidating.
This course has ENORMOUS potential. Its professors are some of the best at Harvard, and the way it highlights different methods of history is great. I do think, though, it needs to be better organized. Is it going to be a participation based class or not? Will the assignments be more helpful in making sense of the class? Will there be a clear narrate the class is trying to create? If it can answer these questions, this class could be one of the best history courses at Harvard. If not, it will be another good class whose professor's make it worthwhile.
really awesome lectures and profs
Before doing the readings, read a Wikipedia article or summary of the encounter so you know what to expect from the readings.
Really cool lectures, reading is somewhat heavier than in British Empire but not strictly necessary for class, reasonably light workload. Sections you do a group project that is completely unrelated to lecture material. Realize this is a humanities course not a history course and as such you do somewhat more eclectic things
A very interesting course that I believe changed the way I look at history. Despite this though, there will be some things that were frustrating about the course. The whole history fair / section component seemed a little too basic and felt more like I was just fulfilling a requirement rather than learning. You will at times likely get frustrated with the professors as well. Ultimately would recommend the course though
This is a phenomenal course, particularly for its first year! Hearing 2 of the best professors at Harvard discuss and debate about the meaning of historical arguments is fascinating and incredibly beneficially. I really feel like this course made me a more educated and aware person with a very reasonable workload.
So interesting! And fun! I would go to this class even if I wasn't enrolled because the lectures are just so interesting to listen to
It is a lot of fun and not incredible difficult.
Seeing these two professors go back and forth was really exciting and made for a great class. The class is unique in that way, and I would highly recommend it.
You should be prepared to speak in lecture.
Fun, interesting class but needs some re-working to make it a more cohesive experience.
Great course, Ferguson and Jasanoff are awesome
I really liked the idea of this course and the structure for the most part was successful. My favorite part of the course was the section component and Guillaume was a wonderful TF. I did not understand the participation component for the lectures. I wish the questions had been focused more on being critical of the encounter and its place in history rather than questions that just checked to see if we had done the readings.
Be ready to read A LOT. You have to put in the effort for this class to make it worthwhile. It's a lot, but if you do it, you will leave a changed person.
The course is not that well structured, however it is very easy and the TFs are generous with the grades. All said, Ferguson's lectures were very interesting and engaging. You are not responsible for any of the material in lecture until the very end of the course.
This is a great course that will open up your prospective and teach history in an innovative way.  Do the readings because they are needed for the final essay!  The lectures are taught in discussion style and can sometimes become biased, but otherwise are great.
It's a unique class because of the way the professors interact--they have totally different world views and ways of approaching history, and that makes it interesting. The encounters they chose to analyze are fascinating as well, showing the people behind the world-changing events. Overall a good, non-traditional history class.
Don't expect to learn a ton about a huge period of history - it's what it sounds like, with brief glimpses into interesting encounters. Definitely a cool class, and with a bit more structure it'll be a great way to hone your approach to history and question some foundational beliefs. Big emphasis on economics, culture, and empire specifically (though that could be guessed from the profs).
Professors Ferguson and Jasanoff are two of the best professors at Harvard and make the material quite exciting with their jokes, debates, and arguments. Definitely take this course.
A background in writing historical essays (primary source essays, particularly) would help in this course, because there isn't very much in the way of teaching you how to think about history in terms of argumentation taught in this class.
Really fun class. Work is very interesting and manageable, section projects are a blast.
This class is one of the few that I've taken where students are asked to question what they're learning critically and decide for themselves what is right. Set up as a debate between two power-house professors this class challenges you to think outside of the box when looking at any problem, and reminds you how important perspective is! Take this class, it's fun and awesome!!!
I highly recommend this course. You can get away with doing very little work--no one really checks if you've done the reading and a lot of the class is devoted to a section-wide group project, which boils down to almost nothing for most of the class. Even if you take that route, you'll still learn quite a bit just by attending lecture, as Professors Ferguson and Jasanoff are both very strong lecturers. Having multiple perspectives makes it one of the more compelling history lecture courses offered here. However, you'll benefit a lot more if you do put in the time to do the reading and take the assignments seriously; it's still not that much and the material is generally very interesting.
I cannot give an accurate recommendation as my hope is that the course will be starkly different in its second running than its first; however, this is a fun class and if you have not studied with Ferguson before, it will provide a nice introduction to his style of history, while including a strong voice from a more frequently voiced progressive school in Jassanoff.
As a freshman looking for an introduction to college-level history study, this course could not have been better. Not only are the professors fantastic, the section experience and TFs engaging (unfortunately a rarity here), and the readings interesting, I I learned, through the case-study method, how to approach historical arguments and debates in a way that I may not have in a more traditional history course.
This class is amazing! Take it while you can. The discussion-based lectures make it unique among classes here at Harvard, and the chance to take a course with both Jasanoff and Ferguson is a real treat. You'll learn so much and gain a new perspective on what it means to practice history.
This is one of the coolest classes I took at Harvard. Ferguson and Jasanoff are two of the most brilliant professors at Harvard; hearing their (often competing) takes on 12 moments in history was fascinating. It's also not a huge time commitment and the assignments are interesting but not challenging. It was a great senior spring class but I also wish it had been offered when I was a freshman because it provided a lot of useful guidance on humanities assignments (like close reading, finding good sources, etc)--I found it more useful than expos.
Tried too hard to be a seminar. But both lecturers are stimulating. I am sure next year's will be better.
Definitely worth your time. You get to interact with two of the most brilliant and interesting teachers in the history department at once. A great introduction to how to do history, too.
If you want to have a real Harvard experience, one where a Liberal and Conservative professor battle it out on stage every week, than this is course for you. Its fun, exciting and manageable with assignments. The Professors are amazing and I can't say enough about how enjoyable it was to attend lecture.
Lecture was great, but each one felt disconnected from the rest. The assignments felt pretty arbitrary.
This course is fantastic! In theory, you will be getting a treatment of historical methods and an introduction to the way historians think. In practice, this is an excuse to think about history with Professors Ferguson and Jasanoff, which overrides any fears you might have about the class being too basic.
First, Jasanoff and Ferguson are AMAZING lecturers.  The back and forth between these two very dynamic professors made going to every lecture totally worth it.  As a Statistics concentrator it was also great to be in a class with so much participation.  Additionally I really enjoyed doing a new encounter every week.  I learned so much about 'random' but very important encounters that are not covered in the typical history class.
Don't take it unless you're a good writer, know a lot about history or are really good in bsing. Most students are seniors who are history majore despite the fact that it's an introductory level course.
This class is absolutely wonderful.  Ferguson and Jasanoff are two of the best, and learning from them is a treat.  Be ready to do a lot of reading.  Also, the final question is a doozy.
This class is extremely interesting - but be prepared to read a LOT.  In addition, Ferguson will try to force his ideology on everyone in the class, and he kind of blocks out a lot of what Jasanoff is trying to get across. Ferguson definitely speaks more than Jasanoff in the class, which bothered me because I wanted to hear what she was saying.
It is an engaging class that is worth the time.
Once you get into the hang of how much reading is necessary to understand what's going on in lecture and participate, it gets a lot better. Definitely do a brief wikipedia search on the topic before starting any of the actual readings, because they rarely give you a grounding in the topic before launching into the nitty gritty, so it's hard to know exactly what you're reading about otherwise.
I'm sure this course will improve in its future iterations, but the inaugural year was a bit rough. The encounters felt rather random and disconnected, the assignments were frustrating and largely extraneous to the course, and the lectures sometimes felt hostile due to Professor Ferguson's penchant for personal attacks. That being said, I do feel that I learned a lot from the course, having never taken a history course at Harvard.
The premise of this class is really interesting, so are the lectures, but the strange relationship between section (where you don't talk about readings but rather work on a full section group project) and lecture (where participation is required) is still unclear to me. The assignments read like high school prompts (write an annotated bibliography, describe a primary source, etc.) and are pretty unfulfilling. Definitely go to the lectures which are informative and fun but maybe P/F is the call based on section and assignments.
Its really easy, but frustratingly unorganized so beware.
Although disorganzied the first year it was taught, this class wasn't very hard and was incredibly interesting. Profs Jasanoff and Ferguson balanced each other well and offered great perspectives on what I thought at first seemed to be rather insignificant historical events. You should take it, especially if you need a history elective.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Ferguson and Jasanoff are gems, and watching them engage with each other is fascinating and hilarious. In terms of enjoyment and intellectual payoff per hour of work put in, this class is one of the best at Harvard.Hopefully next year the professors will structure their lectures into more formalized debates--that would ensure that each could make his/her opinion heard on every issue, and make a fairer way for each to respond to the other's assertions.
So sad that Ferguson is leaving, if this class is offered again make sure it's with 2 professors with vastly different viewpoints. That added a lot to discussions! It is run like a HBS class, discussions about the cases each week. A lot of the value of the class comes from what the students say. If you have next to no historical knowledge, it's okay because you'll learn a ton about studying history as well as interesting cases that a lot of people who do study history also actually know very little about! :)
A fun, easy class with interesting lectures. It's a shame Ferguson won't be lecturing anymore, though. He made the class.
This course was so great because it is history but the history is told through  series of stories which are all very fascinating.
Ferguson was incredible but the course itself was lacking
niall is no more :(
It will never be the same again without Professor Ferguson... but still a FANTASTIC course, and not too difficult. I definitely recommend this course for anyone who has even a mild interest in international history.
I would highlight that the diversity of the "12 encounters" is incredible and really gives you a fresh and more unbiased look at world history from the 16th to the 20th century.
The readings are ridiculously long, the history project is very time consuming and I am not sure how much I learned from it, BUT TAKE THIS COURSE. (If it is ever offered again) With a little restructuring could be 10/10.
This was an excellent course if you're looking for a broad exposure to history. I learned a great deal about interesting historical encounters and honed some of my writing skills. The material is fascinating, and the professors are excellent. Take this course!
This class offers an interesting, unique way of studying history by looking at a series of specific cases rather than a specific time period or region. The debates between Ferguson and Jasanoff were interesting, and the ability to contribute to the discussion through considerable student participation breaks up the monotony of the typical lecture class and allows more engagement with the material.
This is a solid world history course in which the professors picked 11 "encounters" between civilizations and discussed one each week. We went in depth in each encounter, really putting together the story of the characters involved. Ferguson and Jasanoff are INCREDIBLY knowledgeable in their fields and a great teaching team. I think they probably wanted a little too much audience participation from the class given that it was an 80 person lecture and they knew way more about the topic and could provide much more useful insights than us probably...Overall though, a really fun way to learn history and a great elective. Andrew is a great TF- he's super chill and fosters great discussion in section, asking probing questions and letting everyone talk.
A great way to discover how relevant history is to understanding current and future interactions between the different nations and cultures of the world.
This was an awesome class taught be two amazing professors. It's sad that Professor Ferguson is leaving, as he was amazing to learn from. That said, I definitely recommend this course to anyone even remotely interested in history.
It was a great treat to have lectures by Professors Jasanoff and Ferguson. They are enthusiastic and know how to relay this feeling and make you thinking critically. It's a great class if you're willing to give it the time, energy, and passion it needs.
NEVER TAKE THIS CLASS.NEVER TAKE JOSEPH LAVAUVIERE as a TF -- such a hard grader.I AM SO GLAD NEILL FERGUSSON IS LEAVING!
Professor's Ferguson and Jasanoff are both great and very different. Ferguson is likely to drop an occasional controversial imperialist/racist comment and always keeps things in hot debate. Jasanoff is more about understanding cultural lenses and the experiential version of history, and its great to see these ways of studying history collide.
Great class, even if you're not a history concentrator
This class is really interesting and lectures are super enjoyable. That being said, I'd be wary of the assignments.
Awesome course! Great professors, but it'll definitely be very different without Ferguson in future years. Section component was good, but the group section project was a waste of time.
If they offer this course again, take it! Though it is A TON of reading, all of the assigned readings tend to be varied and interesting.  This course is great for getting a general understanding of history itself, which is so important if you are considering a concentration in this field.  Plus, hearing from these two amazing historians is an incredible experience in itself.
This might be the best class I've taken at Harvard. The professors are both phenomenal and the material is incredibly engaging. I have a tendency to never go to any lectures, but I went to pretty much every lecture for this class. I learn so much from each lecture. Class is at 10 am but it's impossible to fall asleep. I don't consider myself to be a history buff but this class makes me want to seriously consider taking more history classes in the future. I learned that history is not a fluffy joke for people who don't possess hard skills, but actually a subject rife with serious methods of analysis. I learned so much about the world around me and how to think about the historical context behind modern and past events. Incredible class-- it's a shame Ferguson is leaving to go to Stanford. He will be missed.
The class may well be three different entities. Lecture discusses the readings and weekly topics in a relatively engaging and interesting way. Section time is spent completely working on a section wide project that takes the entire semester but could be condensed to two weeks, as opposed to discussing the course readings or material. Assignments have no relation to the readings or lecture discussions, and the guidance is frustratingly minimal. The course is young, and future classes may have more positive experiences, but the disjointed nature of the course diluted the fascinating nature of the course material and detracted from the eloquence and intelligence of the professors.
This class is overhyped. It is tough that your grade solely consists on your tf grading your three papers. The first two papers also do not seem very relevant or specific to this course... the topics you chose to write about could be anything and are not necessarily meant to overlap with the course material. The final group project was also not very helpful or useful to my learning experience. It seemed like a waste to take away from the class discussions for this group project that did not contribute much to my learning.
The lectures for this class are fantastic, Professors Ferguson and Jasanoff are both excellent lecturers are are consummately capable of holding the attention of sleepy college students. This is a particularly good class for those who are interested in history but who have not take many history classes in the past.
Awesome class! Too bad Ferguson is leaving.
This class had such engaging lectures and I feel better versed in world history.
Go to every single lecture because they are so engaging and taught so well.
I was sad to see so many freshmen in this class because this class should not be their introduction to history at Harvard, or to academics at Harvard for that matter. The syllabus for this year reflected the muting effect this class would largely have on people's ability to critically think about history and the way in which it is recorded / reported. The purpose of this class, material-wise and skill-wise, is very un-centered and unclear. You can do without this class during your Harvard career, and I am sad that I realized that too late. Perhaps it will be better when Professor Jasanoff is teaching alone!
This course will prompt you to start thinking in new ways. It will expand your horizons and provide an incredible academic experience.
This class is on the cusp of being an incredible course. Its case study approach to history is innovative and thrilling. That said, the assignments in this course are insultingly simple. This does not mean that they are graded as such; my grade in no way reflects how little the topics inherently demanded of students. This class needs to have a complete overhaul of its major assignments, with the exception of the final essay, which was entirely adequate, if uninspiring. Should the course replace a 1000 word essay on a historical object of one's choosing, or a 750 word annotated bibliography, with rigorous essays or a midterm, this class would be a fantastic history elective for those who are less historically inclined.
