This is the best language class ever! But obviously not relevant to most people.
Danish is fantastic! Definitely take it.
Rune is awesome. Take Danish! It's super fun and a tiny class.
This class is fantastic! But obviously I wouldn't recommend it to someone not interested in learning Danish.
Danish has been and still is one of the most enjoyable classes I have taken at Harvard. It is very unlike most college courses in that it is essentially stress-free and I always look forward to class. It is a very low workload, and most of the homework is fun anyway (for example, we watch a Danish TV-series). This makes Danish a choice if you are looking to fulfill the language requirement or are just interested in learning a Scandinavian language. With a class size of only one or two students, you also get very individualized feedback on all your work. Overall, I highly recommend this class to anyone even remotely interested in Danish!
The individual attention is one of the strengths of the class. It is a fun learning experience that is unique to Harvard.
Danish is a fun and interesting language, and taking it as part of the Scandinavian tutorial program was a great experience. Rune is a great instructor and the coursework is fun and varied. Presenting for Scandinavian Language Night in place of a traditional final exam is also great, as it allows for you to incorporate the elements of Danish culture that you learn about throughout the semester. Be warned, though: if you're the only one in the class, you'll be presenting for 15 minutes by yourself, which can be kind of daunting.
An excellent way to begin learning Danish. The joy for this class, however, stems from your own interest in Denmark. I would not recommend this course to someone just seeking to fulfill a language requirements (in fact, I took it as an Elective).
As someone who has studied a few different languages at Harvard, I can say without a doubt that Danish is the most enjoyable and fun language course that I've taken. The course's emphasis on audio-visual elements of Danish culture makes it very engaging, and Rune is a great teacher - patient, understanding, and willing to adapt to your needs if you are struggling with the material. Also, presenting for Scandinavian Language Night is by far the most fun I've had with a final here at Harvard! I can't recommend this course enough!
Fun, relaxed class, with very individualized content. With only two students, you really have the chance to make this class what you want it to be.
Language tutorials are great fun! They are a great component of any semester, since the learning style is so different from other courses. It's great to be so involved in what you are learning, and having one-on-one instruction is really good fun.
I probably wouldn't recommend this to anyone unless they are already considering taking Danish.
Rune is a fantastic teacher! He works with you to craft a study plan for the semester that is tailored to the areas where you need the most improvement. There's a great mixture of reading, listening, and speaking in the course that helps you feel fully immersed in the language. The workload is manageable, and Rune is great about working with your schedule to make the course work for you. I highly recommend this class if you are interested in Danish for any reason. Beginner or intermediate, you will find a place for improvement and enrichment.
This is how languages should be taught! Rune emphasizes speaking about topics relevant to our everyday lives and makes an extra effort to talk about topics that interest us. For example, I am interested in tech and Rune will find Danish articles about tech for us to discuss. This broadens my vocabulary and is useful for speaking with Danes
If you are considering taking Danish, then you probably have a link to the country or a deep interest in the region. If that is the case, then Danish is a fantastic course to take. In a short period of time you will be picking up words and phrases, and the style of the course really ensures you learn the language. Rune is absolutely fantastic and he makes sure to connect Danish with your academic interests, so you can use the language in your field.
