I strongly recommend anyone with even a remote interest in the Icelandic language to take this course. It was an absolute joy every week.
Icelandic is a wonderful language to learn! be prepared to not learn too much however... The course itself is very low key. The basics of pronunciation and grammar are taught, but not much else.
Icelandic is an incredible language, and this class is an amazing opportunity  in itself.  Even if the language is not spoken by that many people, it is a worthwhile endeavor to learn the language of the sagas and the Vikings.
Learning Icelandic this semester was an absolutely unique and extremely fulfilling experience. Having such individual attention as the only student in the class was simply amazing; I doubt I'll ever have such a chance again before I graduate. Our course meetings were fun, engaging, and very interactive; coming to class was always a pleasure, even if I was bogged down with other work to do at the time. If you are willing to accept the fact that you're going to be learning a language that only 300,000 people speak (i.e. fewer than those who live in the city of Boston), I highly recommend you try this. This course is the epitome of the incredible resources that are available to us as Harvard students and the amazing experience you can have here if you step a little outside your comfort zone and explore something you might otherwise never encounter.However, this recommendation comes with a caveat.  Grammatically, Icelandic is an extremely complex language that will inevitably frustrate you if you try too hard to understand it. The number "one", for instance, can have ten (that's right, ten) different spellings depending on the gender and tense of the word it modifies. So, einn, ein, eitt, eina, einum, einni, einu, eins, einnar, and eins are all different ways of writing "1", something that we so readily take for granted in English. If you have a background in Latin, this sort of declension might come more easily to you, but be warned that even if you DO have exposure to languages with extensive case systems (as I did), it still won't always be easy to connect the dots.
If you want to learn Icelandic, then take this course! You'll have one-to-one (or near one-to-one) facetime with the instructor, and your Icelandic language skills will definitely improve. That said, it is a time commitment, so be sure it's what you want.
This class is a good introduction to beginner Icelandic reading, writing, and grammar.  Much of your learning will be done outside the classroom, and this class requires a lot of self-directed learning and commitment to the language.
Icelandic is a fun language to learn!  Despite the fact that only 300,000 people speak Icelandic, learning the language can help improve grammar skills and also facilitate the learning of other Scandinavian languages.
If you are at all interested in Icelandic language or culture, then take this course! You will receive one-on-one attention from the instructor, and depending on the demand, you may be the only one in the class. Icelandic is a difficult language, so the personalized tutorial format is very beneficial - take advantage of it.
If you want to do something really fun, incredibly cool, and genuinely substantial, take this course.
Stefn knows so many languages and can explain grammatical concepts in so many different ways that one of them is bound to stick. He also has a multitude of wonderful stories to tell, and every lesson is something wonderful to look forward to.
The pace at which you go and what you learn once you're doing with Icelandic for Beginners is entirely up to the student, so be warned. (Not that this was a bad thing at all; after we went through the book I requested that I practice reading Icelandic with Icelandic folktales, and that was super fun.)
I would recommend the course because the material is interesting, but would caution students that they should not take the course if they expect to significantly improve their skills over the course of the semester as has been the case in my experience in other language courses at Harvard.
The actual content is wonderful, but the structure and layout (administratively) of the course makes it a hard class to take.
