Lecture and section are boring and the material presented is not very relevant to doing well on essays. All the readings are not needed.
Take it if you like mythology and vikings. Mitchell is dope too.
This class is very easy in terms of workload. However, if you don't do the readings or pay attention in lectures, you are just completely lost when writing the two papers. The lectures are really boring and hard to follow.
More difficult than you would think.
It is a relatively small course with a passionate and knowledgeable set of professors excited to teach students about one one the most iconic, influential, and enigmatic societies in history.
Be able to tell the difference between many many names that all start with Thor.
This class will give you a great understanding of Nordic heritage without being too heavy on reading or writing. Professor Mitchell is extremely nice and presents the material in a very easy to understand way. You will be exposed to a great variety of sources and you will learn a lot even if you only have time to skim the readings.
It is good if you keep up with the readings.
You can literally do zero of the reading and get a B plus if you Wikipedia everything the day before the exam. Highly recommend.
Fantastic, interesting, engaging class
While the subject matter of this class is interesting, lectures often feel disorganized which can be frustrating. There were many times where the points and questions presented at the beginning of the lecture by the professor were never actually addressed later in the lecture. I sometimes would leave the class unclear about what the general points of the lecture were.
The Viking Age is an interesting topic that's fun to learn about.  Once you get to the literature part of the course though the readings get a bit too heavy, so you'll probably want to split them up among friends.
Pretty easy
The class is generally easy and okay, but the final exam at the end of the course is barely related to large course concepts.  Like 20% of the course hung on us identifying a runestone or some rock, which I did not think was far.
Don't take. That's all I can say. Lectures were super dry, books were boring.
Make sure to stay current on readings as it is very helpful.
Great class to take pass/fail. Minimal work and interesting topic.
This class is the easiest and least painful way to get your A&I requirement if you loathe the general foo-foo nature of English courses. The Vikings, in a word, are sweet. Their history and literature are awesome. If this class gets its lectures a bit more organized, I would recommend it 10/10.
This course is very poor. It is not interesting and is taught very badly. The work is graded unfairly across different tfs and graded a lot harsher than should be.
Vikings sound cool, and this class does its best to destroy that idea. Lectures are incredibly boring, and the grading is sporadic and arbitrary.
I would like to tell future students to keep an open mind in class and do the readings.
This class is interesting and offers an easy way to fulfill your AI requirement
do not take this unless you're obsessed with all the minutiae of the viking age.
You look at this class and see an easy Gen Ed, but then you realize the readings are soo long and difficult to understand you're not going to want to do them. The lectures are so long and boring they are almost pointless. These two things combined will make you find yourself in a huge hole when the final comes around, stressing way more than you ever should over a Gen Ed.
Really chill and interesting class about Vikings. Mitchell is a boss and the teaching staff is awesome. Try to do the readings because they are pretty important for the final.
This class is extremely interesting - I loved attending lecture. This class may be attractive because there isn't a lot of work involved (only 2 papers and a final). BUT the TF's grade harshly and the final was very difficult.
Really try to pay attention during lectures. At first it might seem that the lectures aren't important but it will really help you for the final.
The professor is so knowledgeable and likeable, section however may be a bridge too far.
It's a great class that isn't too painfully difficult.
trap class not a gem
Very chill way to fulfill a gen ed. Professor Mitchell is great, and the material is interesting.
Enjoy the readings
this class was a major disappointment. incredibly boring and poorly designed. section is awful. there are better gem classes out there
As a graduating senior, I can confidently say that this was the worst class by far that I took at Harvard. Walking out of the exam left a bitter taste in my mouth. I am shocked that Harvard would offer something of such a low, inferior quality. It was so bad that I actually feel insulted that some of my tuition covers this class. It was a waste of time. There is truly nothing positive I can say about the class.
This isn't an overly difficult class but the essays are graded pretty difficultly and the lectures are veryyyy dry. The material isn't as exciting as it may seem but the essays can be done in a day, maybe two for the second one. The Final wasn't bad as long as you have a good group study guide.
The essays were graded harshly.
A lot of readings! The final exam covers a wide breadth of information
The material is interesting and the assignments are fair. Take this class!! It's an easy way to fulfill the AI requirement and quite possibly the easiest way to do so.
It is easy to get away with not doing the readings; however, it is easy to get behind and do poorly on exams.
You might be considering taking this course because you've heard that it's easy and fulfills a requirement. That might be true, but it's only easy as long as you ACTUALLY DO the readings and GO to lecture (shock!). Professor Mitchell's lectures are not the best structured, but you should go, and take notes! - you'll be thankful for them when the final comes around. A genuine interest in the subject matter also helps.
Make sure you get a good TF.
This class is extremely manageable and pretty interesting.
Really bad professor. Not interesting and confusing. Material is interesting enough but I don't' feel I learned a heck of a lot. The course was easy though. One of my least favorite courses at Harvard.
Actually do the readings, they are interesting, funny and not too bad at all.
Definitely take this class if you are interested in the material.  The reading load is heavy but worth the time, and some of it can be skimmed.  Make sure to do the reading before section so you can participate in the discussion!
2 5-7 pages essays. Midterm was a 5 pg take home essay. Final was a take home 6 single paragraph responses and a 2 page essay. There are lots of readings... but less than half is necessary to write good essays.
I enjoyed this class very much. The content was interesting for the most part and the professor was very nice. There is a lot of reading though.
This class was a great way to fulfill the Gen Ed for AIU. The primary text readings for the class were very interesting and were full of great stories. Professor Mitchell is also amazing, as he knows so much about the subject material and generates a lot of enthusiasm. The take home essays and tests means you get to focus on the texts themselves, rather than memorizing a review sheet. Great class!
...the lectures are really dry and don't contribute any additional helpful information in completing the essays. Although both Professor Mitchell and my TF said that I shouldn't NEED to do outside research to write my paper, I had to do a substantial amount of outside research to even get enough background to figure out how to write my papers.
Interesting at times.
Low workload. Only do the readings when it comes to the essays and exams.
Not as easy as it is reported
It's pretty easy and pretty interesting.
This class is incredible.  The workload is very light, and the assignments are actually fun.  The texts are all super fun to read because they are all about viking raids, violence, and magic.  Professor Mitchell is also an INCREDIBLE lecturer.  This class was a pleasure to take.
The more you put into this course, the more you will get out of it.
Fun class and reasonable work load for a gen ed
It's an easy (as far as workload goes) gened. However, the grading varies widely from section to section.
Mostly my TF ruined my experience but you will not learn anything about the Vikings
Super easy - fascinating material.  Brandon is the best TF I've had at Harvard!
The course definitely isn't a joke, but if you do some of the reading, you can get by easily. Mitchell is extremely well-versed in the field, and is a good lecturer, if not always engaging.
Read a book about Viking history.  It is cheaper, faster and you will learn more.
This class is very interesting and a lot of fun to be in.  You get to learn about vikings from one of the world's top scandinavian studies professors.  Sounds like a pretty good deal to me.
This is a great class. Professor Mitchell is easy-going and very helpful. The workload is not difficult. There are a lot of readings, but you really do not have to do all of them extensively.
Do the readings, they are great
This course is interesting, has a great professor, and has a pretty low workload. If you want to painlessly fulfill a Gen Ed, this is the course for you.
It really just was not as sweet as I had hoped. Big disappointment. If you're taking this for A&I because you don't much like poetry/english courses, I might look somewhere else. It starts out as being history, but it really ends up being a lot about reading and analyzing literature. The stories are kind of cool, but I found lectures got very stale. You don't really have to do too much reading to write your essays and will rarely be asked very specific questions, but section can be REALLY awkward and painful if you don't read the books. I actually enjoyed some of the readings when I did them, but there is a lot.
BEST. CLASS. EVER.  Professor Mitchell is so enthusiastic about vikings and the work is definitely doable even if you have no idea what Vikings are or about Scandinavian culture.
Great course. Enjoyed reading the sagas more than I thought I would. Important to read them though, or else you won't take much from the course.
Do the readings because they are fun
It's a really easy class, but you get about as much out as you put in. You can learn a lot if you go to every lecture, do the readings, and participate in section. You can also do none of those things and pretty easily get by. A true self-starter kind of class.
Fun and informative course that fulfills a GenEd requirement.
It's not a hard class and the workload is low but what work there is, is pretty difficult and is graded pretty toughly.
Everything is take-home so it's a pretty easy class. The lectures are kind of disorganized but the assignments mainly focus on the readings. The readings are all pretty interesting.
The material is very interesting and the course-load is very manageable. An easy way to fulfill Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding
Fun way to satisfy a core or gened requirement. Vikings and Norse myth are really fun!
The reading is great and discussions can be really good, but lectures are a bit dry and in many cases aren't as meaningful as they could be
A good class, largely because the texts are interesting.  The lectures can be dry, but Professor Mitchell's passion for the subject matter helps offset that somewhat.  All in all, a good class.
Professor Mitchell is awesome.
Great class that covers the best of Norse literature and presented in context alongside other elements of Viking culture!
Vikings is a bit of a mixed bag. Professor Mitchell is funny and interesting, but sometimes the subject matter is dry, particularly when it deals with poetry and linguistics. The best thing about the course is that you can choose what areas you really want to focus on for your assignments, so if you take the course, find an area that interests you and figure out how you can write papers on that topic.
Not as fun as it sounds.
You will get out what you put in. At times it seemed like the grading was a little bit arbitrary...not sure what they were expecting. But it is two papers and two takehome "exams" that basically end up being papers. It was certainly not a stressful class.
Stephen Mitchell and Vikings. What could be cooler?
You will get a lot more out of this class if you do the reading. It's very easy to avoid it, but you'll finish the semester feeling like you wasted a lot of time.
I took it P/F and spent about 10 hours total on papers and take-home tests, and the material was very interesting to learn and discuss.
This class was super fun--I never would've read these texts if not for this class, nor would I have learned any of this super cool material. What a class, I missed it after it was over. And it wasn't too hard.
Really interesting material, good Gen Ed to take.
It was an enjoyable class and the readings were interesting.
exams are challenging but the material is quite interesting.
The class was relatively easy but quite boring. The vikings may sound sweet but a lot of the stories really aren't. The grading was a little harder than I had expected. Still, you don't have to actually do a lot of the readings and lecture isn't that important to go to.
It was fun to take a class about Vikings but it wasn't as interesting as I thought it would be. I was often kind of bored in lecture even though Prof Mitchell is a really interesting person...
Great course -- don't brush off the readings (they're genuinely interesting once you get into them too!)
Course materials are interesting and I learned a lot about Vikings (who are cool), but the lecture material (not Professor Mitchell himself, he is AWESOME) was boring and it was hard to pay attention. Not necessary to go to lecture.
Painless class that is at times repetitive and focused on minutiae.
A decent core class, not overly hard but not particularly exciting at various points in the course.
This is the best Lit-A Core available.
Excellent professor.  Not much work, very interesting
Very fun class, awesome subject and great teacher.
the professor is awesome, TFs were interesting, reading/material excellent, very easy and painless course, counts for core credit, only meets 2 hours per week, optional sections, easy midterms
A painless core, and very interesting too.
Vikings kicked some serious ass.
This class is interesting, fun and informative. The workload is light, but I still learned a lot and had enjoyed going to class.
The reading load is nominally heavy but much of the reading does not need to be done. The mid-term was easy but the final exam will probably be hard (I haven't taken it yet.)
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard (sr. year). Professor Mitchell is a great teacher.
Professor Mitchell loves and knows the material but still makes jokes about it making his dedication to the subject questionable and ambiguous. Hard to be excited about it when your professor isn't.
Great way to knock out a core, while actually learning some great knowledge of a typically misunderstood group of people. IE, they didn't have horns on their helmets!
Easy core
Fun. Interesting. Different.
Professor, lectures and readings are very good, and fun. Try to have Tom Worth as your section TF.
Learn about Vikings for your Lit and Art A, its fun and the workload is manageable.
If you get the easy TF, it's a guaranteed A, but if you get the tough one you'll work hard for unsatisfactory grades.
Best literature at Harvard by sheer, unbridled awesomeness.
This is a laid back, fun, and easy course with interesting material and a great lecturer.
