films are fantastic, worth the work!
This course is a great way to introduce yourself to a wide range of cinema that is not only really interesting to study but also of great entertainment value. The variety of films presented, from silent films all the way through contemporary vampire films, is a truly enlightening slice of scandinavian culture.
awesome films and awesome teaching staff!
The movies that you'll come across are incredible, but the class is overly regimented and sometimes awkward as a result.
Interesting material, not an easy A.
Great course for anyone interested in film.
There are some good movies in this class and solid teaching, but the ins and outs of film theory can be a little much for the uninitiated.
This is a fantastic way to watch amazing movies and learn a lot about a fascinating part of the world.
It's important to know that there's a much greater focus here on looking at culture through film, rather than through film itself as a medium.
Everyone thought it was funny that I was taking a class called "Nordic Cinema," but this was so much more interesting than anything they were taking.  The films are great and you learn a lot.  Writing about film is much harder than you would think, but Prof. Lindqvist is more than willing and able to help.
This is a great overview of Nordic Cinema, which has produced some really incredible films that everyone should see.
only if you like these types of films (ie kind of bleak and depressing)
The subject matter is very interesting but the instructor is very demanding and a hard grader.
Really gives a complete picture of Nordic culture, but the grading is varied and she is not afraid to give low grades.
The material is great. Just be aware that it is time consuming if you are not able to make the weekly film screenings.
Interesting class with a wonderful teacher. Fun and different. Challenging, but nothing unreasonable.
If one has any interest in cinema or the Nordic region, this course will be quite interesting.  Professor Lindqvist is an excellent teacher who makes sure every student is challenged.  Not for those looking for a class with optional readings/lectures or an easy A.
This course provides great background on the Scandinavian region and how it has produced some of the greatest filmmakers. The course is extremely interactive, which makes it all the more enjoyable. The readings are super interesting and the films are off-beat.
For anyone who enjoys discussing film, Scandinavian culture, or a new experience into film analysis, I would highly recommend this course!  It was very interesting to see the tie-ins between Nordic film and culture.
