This has been my best experience with any class here at Harvard, and you will be surprised at how much you are able to learn after just a short amount of time because of the individualized approach to the subject.
This course allows you to challenge yourself to learn a new language at a fairly fast pace. It is a great experience as the class size is very small and will allow for a lot of individual learning.
I really enjoyed this course and highly recommend it.  It is fairly laid back which takes the pressure off and really lets you just enjoy learning the language.  Nina is a great teacher and made it fun to learn Norwegian.  She provides excellent feedback and is very reasonable when assigning homework.  If you are considering taking Norwegian as your foreign language requirement you should do it.  You will not regret it.
Norwegian is fun but difficult to pronounce!
Norwegian is a great language. Studying it at Harvard gives you the opportunity to work with dedicated and talented teaching staff, to learn in small classes, to receive individual attention and instruction tailored to your interests. The language connects you to the culture and to the country, as you read the literature and discuss the news in your assignments.
If you can't decide on a language, always go for the smallest department.
Norwegian is great. The instruction in the language is great. If you are hesitating at all about taking it, just take it!
If want to be engaged by a new culture and language, sign up! The professor is great.
The class is interesting and definitely worth taking!
I am surprised at how well my reading skills have progressed in only a year.
Low stress and a really fun language to learn!
Norwegian started as a whim and became something I'll likely end up integrating with my future because of how well this class was taught, and how much the course brought in my and my classmate's own lives. An excellent course.
Norwegian is a great language and Harvard is a great place to learn it!
Norwegian is very small class, but it is also a ton of fun. I've definitely enjoyed studying Norwegian more than any other language I've taken. If you have a reason to take Norwegian I would do it!
This course is very fun, and you learn a lot! The class makes learning a difficult language engaging and manageable. Definitely take it!
Norwegian is a great class. I am happy to have taken it and to feel more fluent in the language and more connected to the culture. Frode is a great instructor and mentor.
This was by far my favorite class this year and you will be amazed by how much of the language you can learn in just a semester! It does help to if you're motivated to actually learn the language and the first few weeks of the class are a little rough, but after you start to get the hang of it, it becomes very rewarding!
If you can meet the requirement for "academic need" and make it through the application process to get into this class, it is well worth it. This is an amazing language, and you will be amazed how quickly you learn it in this class.
Nina is a great instructor. She is patient, accessible, good at explaining and providing feedback. The class is a great way to study Norwegian, which is a great language that opens you up to discovering more about Norway, Norwegians, their culture and literature as well.
Nina is a great teacher.  Just like anything else you only get out what you put in. If you are willing to work Nina is a great resource.
Nina is lovely, and so flexible with students who might need to balance her course with an otherwise heavy and difficult course load. I really enjoyed my time in her class.
As far as language options at Harvard go, this is honestly the best as far as time/work commitment. However, I would suggest getting in groups to go over grammar/practice speaking to truly learn.
You can definitely pass this class with just doing your homework a couple hours per week in addition to classes, but this class is very self-study oriented, which means that if you want to learn the language, be prepared to spend an extra few hours. However the materials are great, the professor is also great, and the language is easy and very fun, so I enjoyed it a lot!
Taking Norwegian has been the best decision of my academic career yet. If you want to learn an unusual language, go for it because Harvard will let you pursue this and it will likely be one of the most rewarding things you do.
Nina is a fantastic instructor and I truly enjoyed learning Norwegian this semester.  I saw a lot of growth and she has inspired me to continue studying Norwegian.
Amazing! Worth the T fare.
