The course covers very interesting material! Assignments and projects can be somewhat disorganized, but all in all if you're interested in the subject matter you'll find it rewarding.
What you get out of this class really depends on your interest in the material and how much work you want to invest. I was not interested in many of the papers we read for each class, so did not get much out of most classes. Yaron seemed to pick papers based on what he wanted an excuse to read, rather than what he thought would be best for students to learn about. Nor did he try to generate enthusiasm among the students. So while I learned a lot from a few of the papers, I felt that most of my time in this course could have been better spent elsewhere.
Good course to take to get a feel of what's the current areas of graph algorithms and research are
Loved this class!! Nicole and Brendan were fantastic instructors and the class was really enjoyable!
I really enjoyed this class! It covered a lot interesting material without requiring an unreasonable amount of time or effort. Nicole and Brendan were both really clear and effective lecturers, and they picked out interesting concepts to focus on for the semester.
There is a lot of overlap between this course and CS136- if you want to go more in depth on markets, this course may be a better fit.
great survey course!
If you read through the syllabus and any of the topics interest you, then take this course!!
Great class.  Very chill but you learn a lot.
Very good class with interesting material, reasonable workload, and well-paced lectures. Good CS elective to take if you're interested in econ/CS or algorithmic game theory.
I think this course changes every semester, so my comment only applies to Nicole and Brendan teaching it. CS 234 was one of those classes that is chill, yet teaches you a lot. There were only 3 psets, but they were all pretty time consuming, taking like 15 hours or so to complete. Lectures were very interesting, but this year the class was 9-12 on Friday mornings, so attention span was sort of a problem. Overall, Nicole and Brendan are fantastic! They gave us donuts for our "midterm" and "final", and were extremely helpful at OH for answering questions about the HW.
The material from this class was really interesting. The workload is fairly light, limited to 3 problem sets. It's a fun and interesting class to take on the side.
This course covers a lot of interesting material for students interested in market and mechanism design.
