This class consists of reading and discussing human-computer interaction papers in addition conducting original research as the final project. You'll have the chance to talk about HCI for three hours a week and will learn a lot about the field, and it's great to have a chance to talk about design and technology in a seminar setting. Prof Gajos is very knowledgeable and does a great job leading the discussion. I'd highly recommend the class to anyone interested in the topic of the class or HCI in general.
This is a great class if you want to get an exposure to various research topics in HCI.
I absolutely loved this course. It truly helped me understand the literature better and grow as an HCI researcher. There are so many interesting projects and works in the field. The workload is pretty manageable overall, but the projects take a bit of time.
Absolutely fantastic class that will expose you to exciting HCI research and core HCI principles. A lot of work, especially toward the end of the semester with final projects, but a lot of fun with a lot to learn. The laid-back but insightful discussions really make the class.
a lot of readings but a very fun and enriching semester
The materials and portions of the course that the professor controls are great.  The only reason I would recommend this course with reservations is due to a bad experience I had with my final project group.  One member of the team did not pull his/her weight and was very difficult to work with thus hindering my overall outlook on the course as a whole.  I would recommend taking this course with a partner in mind that you can trust and with whom you are familiar in terms of work ethics and ability.
It's a great class for exploring the latest in UI research. I would recommend it to undergrads only after taking CS179 and getting some programming experience though. That would maximize your ability to contribute to this course.
The papers you read in the class are very interesting, and being able to discuss them in a small setting with classmates was fun. The small projects and final project were great ways of putting into practice some of the principles learned. Some web programming experience is useful.
interesting course, not technically hard, fun insightful discussion, supportive and insightful instructor
I would tell students not to take this class as a generic intro to HCI course, but rather to take the class if it directly relates to or is relevant to your research or future job interests.
Pros : you will get to learn about some very interesting HCI research work. The Crowdsourcing assignments have a lot of potential to do cool stuff and teach some very interesting applications. Cons : Class is not structured in the best of ways. Assignments/projects take way longer than expected. Don't expect feedback on any of the assignments.
Prof. Gajos is a very accessible instructor. Because this is a seminar-style class, you get what you put in. Discussions are mostly student led, and participation is very important.
A lot of readings ~ 4 papers a week. And the projects are time consuming.
