Don't take it unless you want a degree in computer science.
You learn a lot, and walk out with a great skillset in the languages you learn, but it is a lot of work. Expect for this to take over most of the time you spend on academics during the week. I cannot imagine taking this class at the same time as another class with very time intensive assignments.
Very useful
It's a whole bunch of work!
Challenging but rewarding. My semester was pretty much spent doing CS50 or trying to plan when I would do CS50, but I definitely got a lot out of the course. I feel prepared to go from here and do some introductory coding in the outside world, and I know that as a science major this class will help me with data analysis. CS50 isn't exactly a pleasant experience while you're going through with it, but Malan and the TFs do genuinely care and try to make it as painless as possible. The fact stands that it is a hard class though, so there will be some pain. Ultimately, my biggest advice is get started on the problem sets early-like Saturday morning early- so that you can get the help that you need early and finish on time without too much stress.
This is a course in which the amount that you learn relates to the amount of work that you put in.  I do feel that my ability to programmatically understand the fundamentals of computer science improved as a result of taking CS50, but I think that stems from attending section every week, working through the lecture notes in detail, and attempting problem sets on my own before asking for help.  I would definitely advise taking advantage of section and asking your TF any conceptual questions that you have; you'll find that you enjoy the course more if you feel that you understand why you're doing what you're doing.  Overall, I enjoyed CS50 and am glad that I took it!
Super hard lol. The first 3 weeks are a honeytrap, after the add/drop date prepare the class to rocket into all-nighter land. Be prepared, if anything.
Be warned. This class appears to be easy and totally accessible to complete beginners who have had no coding experience, but time commitment required as a complete beginner to understand the material is insane, especially when there is limited support to understand the actual syntax.  As a senior, I did not have the time I needed to fully devote to the class, and thus feel like both 1) I didn't get much out of the course and 2) my grades will suffer as a result. Take the class pass/fail and save yourself the stress of grades, but even then you will have to work a considerable amount to pass. I made the mistake of thinking the lectures would be a joke after watching the first lecture -- but they do actually become more informative later, and I would recommend watching them (if not live, at 2x speed). Nearly all of the TFs are undergrads themselves which made me feel very uneasy/awkward/humiliated in some cases. Overall, I very much appreciate the effort Malan and the staff make in making the course 'fun' -- playing music before and after lecture, incorporating engaging demos, having events like the hackathon and fair -- but I think sometimes it goes a little too far and takes away from the essence of what you are trying to learn in the class. More time could probably be spent instructing on syntax or going through pset walkthroughs rather than playing music, for instance, which would make psets much more doable.
Make sure you have plenty of time to devote this course. I don't regret taking it, but I regret taking it when I did because adding CS50 to a busy schedule will make things tough on you. It's a great class where you get what you put into it though, and if you put enough in, you'll be pretty happy with what you've accomplished at the end of the semester.
Definitely take a computer science course before taking this class. It says it is an introductory course but it absolutely has a learning curve. If not a course, definitely study C, javascript, sql, and php before taking the course. This was the most stressful class I have ever taken, between the intense requirements of the weekly psets, the lack of help at daily office hours, the massive amounts of material being pushed on us in such a short period of time, and the brevity of lectures and tutorial videos. This class is like trying to drink water through a straw from an industrial grade fire hose
Be prepared to have this class be your number one priority most weeks.  Especially after the first midterm, the problem sets become all-consuming
If you are willing to put in the hours, CS50 is definitely doable. But the hours are necessary, so don't think you can skate by on half doing assignments. It is an all or nothing environment.
Don't take this class if you just want to dabble in CS. It's poorly taught (lecture and section) and you won't learn anything.
It's a good course, though it could be organized better. Make sure to know a bit about coding before diving in, and definitely pay the utmost attention during the classes on pointers. Also, go to office hours and section.
Take this course only if you have experience with computer science. Otherwise, consider Computer Science 1.
This class can eat up all your time if you aren't careful. Plan your course wisely if taking CS50, and try to go to some section (doesn't have to be yours). Office hours are literally the dumbest thing in the world. Don't be tempted by the materialism and corporate sponsorship. Your mental health is most important.
The pace of your week and your sleep schedule (or lack thereof) will revolve around this course. It's likely to be your most difficult, and almost certainly, time-consuming one. Make sure you know people who are also taking this course who are willing to collaborate with you regularly. I felt almost punished by it--drinking out of the firehose, as they say, but when you come out the other end you will feel elated that you survived, and realize you did learn a lot. It's definitely not for the fainthearted, though.
It is a great experience to take at some point. The opportunity to work on computer science and actually see the applications that it could have was just amazing.
It's a lot of work, but it's really enjoyable and rewarding. Make sure to stay on top of work and don't fall behind.
CS50 is definitely a hard course, but it is worth the work that you put into it.
Requires a lot of time but if you get through all the work on your own it is definitely worth it and will be applicable in many fields
You'll learn a lot and the final project is great-- but the rest of the class can feel tough and never ending, particularly if you aren't loving the lectures.
It's tough, but if you put in the time it is very manageable. The psets are extremely rewarding, you really get a sense of accomplishment once you finish. Office hours is a must as the course staff is super helpful. The production value of the course is massive, some lectures feel more like a game show, and all the events (puzzle day, lunches, hackathon, etc.) are really fun and worth checking out.
Be sure you can manage your time well and put in about 9 hours of work a week.
Please try and avoid this class. It attempts to drag you in with its showmanship, but in reality, as soon as the add drop period ends, the class gets exponentially difficult and loses any enjoyment.
It's hard but worth it.
This class is difficult, but it is worth it. You learn a lot about computer science, and it is an incredible opportunity to develop your skills. The course gives you many resources, and it is a very collaborative environment. I would recommend that you take a look at some online computer science tutorials before taking the class.
Take it.
Take this course if you want to learn how to code.  Doable by most people.  Just know that you're going to spend MANY hours grinding for this.
CS50 is great, definitely don't skip it if you have a background in programming (namely from APCS) because you still learn a lot of useful things, and it is fun to be a part of the environment of the class. Start the psets and the final project early.
You should try taking or dabbling with coding before taking this class.
CS50 is a necessary evil.  It was an incredibly hard class that frustrated me to no end.  By about Wednesday of every week, I hated the problem set and how much of my time it was stealing.  That being said, I think I learned a lot.  Additionally, the grading process is incredibly opaque.
Do not underestimate the problem sets
This will be hard but rewarding if you don't have CS background. If you have a little background, this course has the potential to be amazing.
Don't underestimate how many hours per week you're going to be spending on problem sets. Try to start them early in the week, if possible, because office hours on monday and tuesday are VERYYYY helpful, but office hours on wednesday and thursday are so hectic that you really don't get much help at all. Be prepared for CS50 to consume your life and also be prepared to not be able to invest yourself as much as you might like in your other three classes.
It's hard and it'll take a lot of your time, but it is definitely worth it!!!! You gain valuable skills that can translate to anything.
Not bad
You will learn a lot, but be warned! You will devote all your free time and 25% of your sleeping hours to the homework. Okay, maybe I'm exaggerating...
Be prepared to put a good amount of time for this.
This is a hard class but if you re motivated and have a group of friends to work with, it is well worth the effort
This class is awesome and you'll learn a lot. I think that while learning about coding and all that was great, for me the biggest thing that was revealed was how computer science and similarly technical pursuits do not have the intellectual barrier to entry that I previously thought.
The class is very hard. In the beginning of the year they said that most of the students taking the course had never taken CS before, but in the middle of the semester I wondered how in the world those students got through the psets. I had a background in CS (albeit a very basic background) and after pset 3 or 4 when the pace started to pick up I was spending 1-2 days at office hours (3 hours each). The last 4 psets I would say I spent 2-3 days at office hours. It took me 1 day to do the work for my other 3 classes and 6 days to finish CS50.That said, and although it might seem intimidating I really enjoyed the class. Retrospectively I am impressed by what I have done, and (even though I definitely did not feel this way when I was doing the pset) I had fun doing the psets. I highly recommend the class to those that are prepared for the workload (and not to start the pset the night before ... it is almost impossible to finish especially on the latter psets) and have a schedule with classes that isn't as academically rigorous besides CS50.
If you want to learn a ton then you should take this class. But be warned to do well the commitment is about 18 hours a week of work
This course is going to be the craziest, most outlandishly up and down, stress-inducing, helicopter of a rollercoaster that you have ever been on.But you will love every second of it.
Way too hard.. so it becomes stressful. If you want to learn how to code you can easily learn by yourself on code academy etc. But its really fun and I think everyone should take it some time at Harvard!
Don't take this class if you have a heavy workload. It is very time consuming and frustrating.
Honestly, I didn't love the class but it was definitely worth taking.
It's not an easy class, it's a huge time commitment, sometimes its a pain, but honestly one of the best decisions I've ever made in taking this class. It's really cool how computers work under the hood, and you get to learn all of this cool lingo that only computer scientists use. I now know how to say foo and hai.
CS50 is a demanding course that requires a great deal of work and a large time commitment, but if you put in the work the reward is well worth it.  You leave the course with your toes in the water of a new ocean available to you.
This is a course that every student at Harvard must take. It's one of those classes that you shouldn't be able to graduate from Harvard without taking.
Don't take this class (for a grade) if you're not willing to sacrifice a lot of time struggling through the problem sets. I made the mistake of taking this class with another demanding class (Stat 110), and it cut into my preparation for that class significantly.
Don't take this class. Don't feed it, it's already bigger than it needs to be. I have too many issues with the class to list, and there's no way most of them can be fixed if the class stays this large. It's not a cult, because cults are usually smaller.
It is helpful to have some basic coding background. Also, the class would be better if taught entirely in section.
It's really not as hard as they say it is. You'll be fine if you've taken AP Comp Sci; you'll probably be fine if you haven't. Start your project early if you don't want to survive on coffee for the 48 hours before the deadline. Go to section! And take the course. You'll learn a lot and you won't die. There are definitely harder courses, and you have a great support structure with CS50.
It was incredibly challenging, and most of the time during the week I felt stressed and tired and felt like I wouldn't be able to finish this course.  But looking back, I realized that the tough psets, the even tougher quizzes, and the wonderful friends that I made through this class have made this course extremely worthwhile.
This is an amazing class, with amazing staff that really tries to make themselves available to you. You can see that CS50 is David Malan's life, and it shows. He really does a fantastic job with the class. That being said, it is a lot of work, and be prepared to pull several all-nighters with your psetting squad, but hey, it's all part of the experience!
I'm not much for the cult-ish parts of the class, but there's definitely enough of a serious side to make this worthwhile.
Great introduction to computer science but takes a lot of work. There are a lot of resources, so be sure to use them. Office hours are often crowded, so try to reach out to your TF ahead of time or work with a group early.
I would not take this class if you have no prior experience in computer science. As someone with no prior experience it was not only incredibly difficult, it was also overwhelming and extremely time consuming. Not a class that should be taken lightly or "just for fun." If you really want to learn CS consider taking CS1 first.
Make sure you have time to do it.
Know what you are getting into. This is a lot of work and it isn't an easy "intro" course.
Don't take this unless you have experience with CS, really like it, and have no other hard classes. Literally take it with three gen eds.
I didn't like CS50. For those unfamiliar with computer science, significant self-teaching is necessary, as is office hour attendance. I never felt as though I had a deep understanding of the material. Gimmicky.
The more you put into this class, the more you get out of it.
Only take it if a) you specifically want to learn programming skills to do programming-related things in future, and b) if you're prepared for the course to swallow a huge portion of your semester. Even if you don't struggle with CS, the p-sets are simply time-consuming. I would say it is not worth it if you're just passingly curious about CS and don't have a serious reason to want to add it to your skill set.
It's a good class to take. However, there is a large workload. When the average says about 15-20 hours a week outside of class, that's actually how long it will take. But overall a rewarding/good class.
This class does what it says it does, but be prepared for a lot of work. Being able to manage your time is key, and seeking help will probably be very necessary in order to succeed.
Take if genuinely interested. If not, will probably be miserable.
I would tell them that if they are interested in the topic and are willing to put in the time that they should take the course. CS50 was definitely a challenge and something new to me, but I do feel like I got something out of taking the course from learning the basics of coding to in general knowing how to be a better worker in terms of asking for help and optimizing resources. David Malan and the whole CS50 staff have definitely put a lot of time and effort into making the course what it is and taking it has truly been an experience.
You get out what you put in.
This course is a decent introduction to how computers are programmed and generally work. The lectures, however, are extremely gimmicky and are practically useless. The lectures are not only extremely general, but each problem set requires you to watch more than half an hour of instructional videos that actually teach you what you need to know. And that was one of the things that really frustrated me: every problem set required 3-4 hours of preparation *before* even starting on the 10 hour problem set. In order to succeed in this class and find it at all enjoyable you need to be interested and gear enough to start very early in the week to allow yourself enough time for both preparing for the problem set and also doing the problem set. I am glad I took the course because I now have a basic understanding of how programming works and how websites function. But along the way there was way too much trial and error self-teaching for an introductory course.
This course is amazing if you don't mind spending so much time coding
CS50 is kind of a world of its own and you have to learn how to navigate it very quickly because the class also moves very quicklyfigure out what works for you, what parts of the provided materials are and aren't helpful. Also, 10/10 would recommend you go to the BSC the first week of the class and get a peer tutor.
Even though many complain about the difficulty or how the professor "doesn't teach" or how it takes 10 hours a week, I can assure you that none of these thigns are true.  The course is amazing, fun, and interesting.  YOu get to have the experience of getting to program your own functioning websites with a lot of hands-on work.  Even if you aren't going to concentrate in CS or a related field, this is definitely a course you want to take.
I would only take this if computer science is something you enjoy or find interesting.
Please be wary of all the hype of CS50. I kind of got dragged in due to peer pressure. It was really tough at times and really challenging, definitely affected my quality of life during the semester. But, in the end, I was satisfied with what I learned
Malan is kinda obnoxious, and lectures are often times pretty worthless in terms of teaching you how to actually code for psets. Almost all of the learning is done outside of class; the resources they give you are great, but it is a different style from a lot of other courses.
This class is hard. It is hard even for people with some CS background. It takes a lot of work to complete the assignments and to understand the material, but the end results are definitely worth it. Be aware of finding the right people to do the final project with because no one can help you if you're the only one that's willing to work in the group.
I have mixed feelings about CS50. If you're considering taking it as a freshman, I would recommend waiting until sophomore year. I found that the course was a lot less stressful because I was not caught up in the mass hysteria often associated with large freshman-focused intro courses. That being said, I did actually find that CS50 gave me a pretty strong foundation for picking up new languages if I need to. I don't think CS50 really deserves the hype that it gets. It's a good course, not great. Word to the wise: start your project early.
You learn a lot, but it is quite cult-like and a ton of work.
Some people will tell you CS50 is a cult. Some people will tell you that they love it. Some people will tell you that they hate it. My answer is that you have to try it out for yourself. It will be a very quick ride through computer science, and after the first three or so weeks, students with CS background will struggle and learn as much as students without any CS background. I came in with zero CS experience, and while CS50 will tell you that you can take the class with zero prior CS knowledge, know that it will be difficult and it will require twice as much time from you as any other introductory level pset class. For those of you with zero experience, be prepared to cope with a lot of failure early one, be prepared to admit that you need help and reach out to other students, TFs, or the course heads very fast when you feel like you're slipping behind, and be prepared to spend most of your week learning and working on the psets. I won't tell you to take it; I'll tell you to try it out and challenge yourself to see how much you can learn. I'm proud of myself for taking it and sticking with it, but the choice to stick with it is really yours to make.
Great class!  I highly recommend it regardless of your background.  However, be prepared to work hard and be honest with yourself about the hours required (15-20 a week).  With that said, truly worth it, and I probably learned more than in any previous single course.
it's worth it
Very challenging but rewarding at the very end when you do your final project and realize how much you have learned. I would highly suggest taking a cs class before taking this though just to get some basics down. They say 70% have never taken one before, but that isn't true. People just mark that.
This class is a hard, but very fulfilling class. Get help, and get it often. Find other students to work with, and if you really put effort into learning the material, you can get so much out of the class. My favorite class at Harvard so far!
Very good but a lot of hard work if you have nobody to work with.
A lot of people take this course with the expectation that it will give them a good grounding in computer science, but in reality the second half of the course is so quick and hard to keep up with, and the problem sets are absurd, that it just becomes more of a stressful affair than an educational experience
It's one of the most challenging undergraduate or graduate level classes I've ever taken. I struggled a lot. If you put enough time and effort, it's worth the struggle.
The instruction is really impersonal because the class is so big, but it seems even more impersonal than other large classes. It seems like David Malan is more concerned about the publicity aspect of CS50 than the actual content, which is definitely lacking at times. Some people love this class, but it really didn't mesh well with my style of learning and I absolute did not get enough out of it to make it worth the workload and frustration.
I'm glad that I took the class, and I did learn a lot. CS50, however, is not a well run course. Most of the learning was done either on my own or working with my roommate. The lectures are not very relevant, although section was great.
Yeah, it's s lot of work. Do not take with ochem or stat110
You have to be patient in order to succeed in CS50. Everything takes A LOT of time.
It will push you. It will be frustrating. But if you can grind through it, there's also a lot you can learn. You get more than just coding skills out of this class.
It is a good class, but can get overwhelming at times if you don't plan your time properly.
it's a necessity
This is a great introductory CS class with lots of resources available, but be aware that PSets become WAY more difficult right after the add/drop deadline. The class before the deadline is not representative of the actual difficulty of the course overall.
The course is enjoyable, well-taught, and useful. It is not exceedingly difficult but is time-consuming.
Only take if you know you want to concentrate in CS.
This is an amazing class and I think it could be useful to virtually anyone. ALSO THE CS50 CULT IS AWESOME :D
You need some background
It is a lot of work and time.
Be ready to spend time working onthe psets each week. If you've never programmed before youll learn a lot, but the feel is very gimmicky.
I think the goals for this class are unrealistic and unattainable. Sure you learn some computer science and how/what to google, but I could never complete any portion of a problem set on my own without going to office hours all the time. There is a huge gap in the level of difficulty of the lectures and that of the problem sets and exams (they call them quizzes but they are midterms). My favorite part was the final project because that incorporated style and product design, but we were so limited in time that the projects were quite simple for those of us with hardly any previous experience. If you know computer science, that is a huge advantage when taking this course.
You will cry. You will feel pain. It will all be worth it.
This is a good class to take sat/unsat considering you can learn most of the useful material without quite as much work.
Work on the pset as soon as it is released.  This makes the entire course much more enjoyable.
Focus on the problem sets and try to ignore all of the idolization of David Malan, the uselessness of lectures, etc, and you'll be fine.
office hours suck
This class definitely requires a lot of work each week. I would recommend going to office hours at least once per pset. However, when I look back at the class, I realize that I have learned so much about programming.
NOT BEGINNER FRIENDLY LIKE IT SEEMS!!! Only take this class if you know you want to learn cs, not just to see if you like it or might be good at it.
If you don't have experience in CS or have extracurriculars you care about, or are taking other difficult classes, don't take CS50. Take CS1 or something.
Only take this class because you want to, or have to. Don't just take it on a whim. It is definitely worth the work, but you have to know that it is going to be a lot of work. You will not always be able to get the help you want for homework. Find good pset buddies. Just try.
The most useful thing you will get out of this course are the friendships you will build with the friends you stay up late with, so pick well!
Know what you're getting into. For some people it's a great experience, and for others it isn't, with everything in between. Don't feel like you have to take it, but if you want a one-stop introduction to computer science, this will do the trick. Just be prepared to put an at times obscene amount of work in if you expect to consistently do well. Don't believe all of the hype though. At the end of the day it's still a class, and all of the spectacle isn't going to do you much good trying to finish a pset at 5 AM.
Great class. Tough intro class but you learn a lot. Well worth it.
Before taking this course, make sure that you have a really SOLID reason for taking it and are committed to the time it will take. Make sure your other classes are sufficiently based with this workload.
Prepare to spend long hours on the psets. The experience and knowledge are ultimately very rewarding, but your nights will be spent at office hours if you were as unfamiliar with coding as I was at the beginning of the semester.
CS50 requires a huge amount of time outside of class to do the problem sets if you have no computer science experience. However the course covers a lot of interesting and useful material and I know a lot more about programming than I did before I took the class. Make CS50 one of your main focuses in the semester that you take it, or take it with a light courseload.
This is a great intro course, and the CS50 staff do their best to make things fun and social. That said, it is a lot of work, and you will have to do a lot of learning outside of class.
Only take it if you have to. They cover so much material and cover it shallowly that you wont be very proficient when exiting the course.
Unless you are already an experienced programmer, this is likely to be your most time-consuming class due to the weekly programming assignments. But you will learn so much in a short amount of time. There is nothing like it!
It takes a fair amount of time. Go to office hours for help!
If you have no CS experience, it will be extremely difficult, time consuming and frustrating. Psets increase in difficulty so quickly that it is impossible to feel like you have any grasp on the material being covered. If you have no experience, the psets are impossible to do without a huge amount of help, so you will have to build your schedule around office hours, getting help from friends, etc which really impacts your semester. Office hours are overcrowded and are an extremely tense and stressful environment, especially later in the semester, and you often have to wait for a long time to get help. That being said, it is obviously a very important topic and you will learn basic CS skills, so it may be worth it but be aware that it will be a huge part of your semester.
If you want to experience and learn computer science at Harvard, there is no way out -- you'll have to take this course. I enjoyed CS50 not so much because of how the course is set up, but because I enjoyed computer science. I think that the course has to teach the material better, as opposed to leaving you on your own for the large part. The course sacrifices depth for breadth -- too much material is covered in not enough time. C is also unfortunate. David Malan is a fantastic lecturer though. I enjoyed going to his lectures, many memorable. He is also genuinely interested in his students and committed to teaching. I think the course would improve if less material is covered and the curriculum is revamped.
Be prepared to do a lot of work, but you really do get out as much as you put in.
I would recommend this class and I think it can be a great experience as long as it is taken with friends.
TAKE THIS CLASS ON EDX BEFOREHAND TO AT LEAST GET FAMILIARIZED. This will make your life so much easier. If you do this, you can start a PSET on a Friday Night and actually make serious headway without having to go to office hours.
A lot of work but it's worth it
Malan does not seem to care about the students and the work is tough but the last few psets with Php makes it all feel worth it!
CS50 is an incredible amount of work if you have never programmed before, but the time was a lot of fun and I feel like I learned a lot. The biggest tip I would give is to make as many friends in the course as possible and bond with TFs so that you are not lost after spending 20 hours on a pset.
It is a good class, but make sure to take it with an easier schedule because it will be very time consuming if you've never programmed before.
As with any big course, the rumors are all true, simply because experiences with it vary widely. It's got its flaws (overstaffed office hours, unreasonable expectations for some students, incomplete coverage of course material in lecture), but pretty much everyone who takes this course and puts something into it will get a good deal out of it, even if it's just having demystified CS as a field. I'd recommend taking it if the thought has crossed your mind, but it's a serious commitment - one that isn't actually necessary to learn CS if you really want to.
It is a lot of work and you need to find people to work with otherwise the problem sets are impossible
If you have not taken computer science before, be prepared for this class to be very hard. I would recommend taking it pass-fail if you do not intend to be a computer science concentrator. The problem sets start out relatively easy, but don't be fooled! They get harder really fast. Also, there is a lot of teaching yourself, which can be extremely frustrating. Make friends to work through the psets with- it is too hard to do without help. GO TO OFFICE HOURS!
Although the course is advertised as open to all skill levels, those with no coding experience will find the course significantly more difficult. However, the intensive workload pays off.
Challenging course, where, even though it is demanding, it makes you learn a lot, and will introduce you to the world of computer science in a fun way.
I recommend taking this course but make sure that you find good people to work with and that you use office hours early in the week!
CS50's culture is really fun, but overall the class isn't that satisfying. The p-sets get difficult right after add/drop ends, as a warning, and there is little to no feedback on the p-sets and the quizzes so you never learn why anything you did was wrong/you never learn from your mistakes. You basically have to learn a new language (or two!) each week, which makes the overall curriculum super shallow. It attempts to be a survey course, from what I can see, but it has way too much work to be a real one. I used to code a lot, but this course kind of killed my love for coding...
Class is great if you make the time for it and have a solid support group. Not sure how you'd be expected to get through the class without OH. Don't take as a fourth class.
Overall, CS50 was a valuable experience for my first semester in college. The material was interesting, and I came out of the course proud of how far I had come. However, the workload was very intense, and I would not recommend the class to someone who is looking for a relatively easy Gen Ed.
If you are a graduate student, I would highly consider taking this online over break. The workload is excessive and very unmanageable if you are taking several other classes simultaneously. The skills that you learn, though are invaluable in this day of age. Especially for those who work with large data sets including at HKS and GSD, knowing some code is very useful to better manipulate and clean data sets.
This is a hard class.  I expect that most people do well in the class because everyone tries incredibly hard to do well, but it is very hard to do the first PSETs with on CS background.  I came in with AP CS as my background and it made the first 4 PSETs completely fine.  The latter half of the class was very hard though.
It will be more work than your other three classes combined
WARNING!!!!! DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE!!! It looks fun, but trust me, after add-drop period, it is absolutely hell. You will pull all nighters just trying to write parts of your code. The lectures do not teach you anything that has to do with the psets. The first 4 psets are hard, but doable. After that, it becomes impossible. Did I mention that it's basically like taking two classes! It is UBER time consuming AND frustrating?! DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE!!! IT IS NOT WORTH IT!!! SAVE YOURSELF!!!!!!!!!!
Don't take this class unless you have a genuine interest in learning how to code. If you are just succumbing to peer pressure, you will be miserable.
If cs is related to your concentration, I would advise taking cs50. But if you don't plan on going into coding and are just curious, I wouldn't recommend it. You probably don't get enough from cs50 alone to warrant the effort.
Do not join this cult. It's a terrible class in which you have to learn everything on your own. Do not be fooled by all the flash that goes into the course.
It's hard, but worth it
Take this course regardless of your previous experience as they teach you everything you need to know, but just because you've done a few years of coding won't make it much easier.
It is a lot of fun but a lot of work.
Great course, be prepared to work very hard and put the time in. Do your psets early and do not take short cuts, and you will learn an amazing amount in a short period of time.
CS50 is a magnificent performance. It's incredibly hard, but effective use of your time can help you succeed. With so many students, so many assignments, and so much material covered, any student who ever considered computer science should find a way to take this course.
CS50 is worth taking (especially freshman fall so that you make a lot of friends). It's a lot of work and requires a lot of time and effort (and finding a good tf if you aren't assigned one) but I learned a lot and ended up switching to CS from a different STEM field after taking this course.
Loads of work. Good basis.
Very challenging class that's great for those interested in going further into CS. However, for those who just want some exposure to CS may want to take a simpler class.
Just be prepared to work hard. It is a fun but very challenging course. If you're on the fence about taking it, I'd probably not. You should really go in knowing you will be able to commit a lot of time and effort.
1. depending on your experience, you will need to gauge the right balance between not getting enough help (and struggling for hours on end) and getting too much help (and not figuring PSETS out yourself) 2. grading is somewhat a mystery, but they supposedly grade on "improvement". 3. don't start PSETS late. just don't do it. also make sure to keep up with lecture, or at least with the material that's being taught 4. go to section 5. good luck
The difficulty of this class is HUGELY dependent on your prior experience. I took it with no prior programming experience but a medium level of comfort with web design. I spent probably 20 hours a week on problem sets. Near the end of the course, I didn't finish problem sets at all. It's very possible to do all the work for this class, but not if you have a lot going on in your semester -- I didn't find most of the work to be particularly DIFFICULT as much as it was VERY TIME-CONSUMING, because a lot of the material has to be self-taught. The final project could be fun, if you do something that really interests you (and again, is manageable!). I hugely recommend taking it pass-fail, if you don't need it for a requirement and are just interested in learning more about programming - it gives you a safety net if, for example, you have other assignments due one week and just can't get the pset to work. Going to office hours too often will hurt your own ability to do well on exams, so be careful that you're actually learning how to do the psets and not just getting the answers from tfs/other students.
It is CS50.  I think there's enough students out there to let you know what you're getting yourself into.  The work can be a real pain if you don't enjoy it, but at the same time, I think it'd be a shame to leave Harvard without having the experience of CS50, and plus, you may discover you really enjoy it!  If you know your just taking it for that, taking it pass fail could alleviate a lot of stress.
If you think you might be good enough to not take CS50, don't take it. The stuff it teaches is neat, but gets boring fast. Don't take if you don't like C, because there'll be another CS course that teaches it to you way better.
I would try to do this on my own, rather than take it, but you can get something if you approach it right.
Freshmen beware.  Know that you can have a smoother transition to the college if you don't take CS50 your freshman fall.
Make sure you are ready to commit significant amount of time per week for this, if you haven't had much experience with computing languages.
With someone who has no programming experience and can be slow to work out logic, I found CS50 to be a challenging but very rewarding class. The class is big and learning to really program and think how to program is hard. Listening to lecture at 2x speed (or even 1x speed) is not enough to expect to breeze through a pset. Even going to office hours and sections might not be enough. You have to really be willing to work through the problem - trial and error several times - as you learn the concepts. But that's how programming is and in many ways, that's the joy of it and the joy of learning. Students find this hard because we have limited time and limited energies and sometimes we just want things done - but CS doesn't work that way. Despite this hard work, CS50 also provides students with a lot of resources to succeed. You have to be willing to put in the time (there are times when I code for 5 hours and none of that coding is usable). But you will learn a lot - you will learn to think and you will realize the possibilities. There's help, there's a rewarding nature to it - you just have to be up for it.
This class takes a lot of work if you're new to computer science, but it's well worth it in the skills learned, both specifically relating to computers and those which will aid in all kinds of creative problem solving down the rode.
Students interested in this course probably will take it even if it receives poor reviews since coding is such a critical skill. Not sure what I could say that would have any impact.
It is definitely a course worth taking, even if you haven't done any CS before, even if you have done a bit more. They introduce the concepts quite well and offer plenty of resources for you to learn a lot. However, it gets noticeably more difficult from a point on. The transition in the difficulty level of the psets is quite abrupt. Also, you might find yourself unsatisfied with the last weeks of the course, as a lot is asked of you, and it doesn't necessarily feel like you actually learned those things, but rather searched for them online. Keeping that in mind, however hard it might have been at some points, I definitely enjoyed the course and don't regret taking it.
Take this class if learning to program is important to you.
If you have the time for it, it's very fulfilling
This class will really beat the shit out of you... but by the end of it you will probably be so tired and delirious that you'll still have a smile on your face and an irrational urge to take more cs. If you're interested in learning, take the course. If you're interested in sleeping, stay away.
It did a great job in informing us of the technological world we are exposed to today and it is very challenging. But do be aware of the workload, which could be overwhelming sometimes.
This course is a fast-paced, comprehensive introduction to computer science and the world of programming. The lectures are captivating and thought-provoking, and the office hours are extremely helpful to understand the problem sets. I would, however, tell students who do not have programming experience that they should be aware that they will have to spend a considerable amount of outside class time understanding the fundamental material of the course that is essential to having a solid foundation in programming. Since the course moves very quickly, there is often not enough time to cover those basics in lecture and section.
CS50 is a great way to get a good understanding of a lot of different aspects of CS, from how the computer/internet work to coding syntax in a variety of languages. No matter whether you have previous CS experience or not, however, it is a huge time commitment. Sometimes, lectures can be repetitive or on the theatrical side, which is good in that it makes the material fun and easy to grasp, but also not a great use of time if you already understand the material.
It's a really helpful class that teaches you a great life skill. It will take a lot of effort, but can be one of the most rewarding classes if you apply yourself.
Try always to keep up with the course and really understand each pset. Then it is manageable quite well. Once you fall behind, it is almost impossible to catch up.
Take this class if you want to learn the basics of CS. It gives you a good understanding of what's going on in the computer world.
Okay, it's a pretty good class in terms of what you have learned by the end. However, the process is quite painful. As a semi-organised student, I had to pull an all-nighter  almost every Thursday, even though I would start the problem sets on Monday/Tuesday. I would take it again if I were to go back, but know that this is likely to be the hardest class of your semester.
Know what you are signing yourself up for.
This class is very rewarding. I learned SOO much. But make sure you either know what you're doing, or you know somebody who doesn't mind helping.
It is, with no doubt, a very useful course. However, students should know that it requires a lot of commitment, so one has to keep in mind that if she/he has other more important commitment within the semester, the course might be better taken in another semester.
You should only really take this class if you need to. It's very interesting content, but a bit painful to go through all the ridiculous problem sets.
Insanely challenging, a huge timesink, and definitely not worth taking.
Certainly a difficult course for those with no programming experience (like me). I took this course SAT/UNSAT, and that helped a lot with the stress. I learned a lot of basic programming skills, and I think everyone should know these skills at this day and age. If I had the will power to take this course on my own time through edx, I would, but after failing to get that started, I decided to take this course. If you're a junior or a senior, don't take it for a letter grade unless you have experience.
tl;dr It's been real, just like the struggle.Don't dismiss these Q evaluations simply because you have coding experience and 72% of this class comes in with none. I had two years of CS experience from high school (AP CS and a year after), but I still found this course's problem sets supremely challenging and time-consuming, especially for an introductory-level CS course. Unless you are extremely skilled at CS (in which case you should be in 61 or 125 instead), you probably won't like this class while you're in it. That said, despite its backbreaking difficulty, this course is surprisingly and amazingly rewarding when, at the end, we look back and realize how far we've come since Pset 0. I made some amazing friends through our collective struggles over psets, and you probably will too.
This is a class you basically have to take, but that doesn't make it a good one.
Take this course only if you are interested in CS. This is not the class to take if you are looking to build a few skills. You have to actually enjoy this stuff, otherwise it will be miserable.
There is a very big learning curve and you will need to put a lot of time into the class.
It's tough, but worth it
With CS50, there's a lot of entertainment and show/production-like things going on, but at the end of the day, I feel like I did learn a lot more about how to code and computer science in general. I came in without having taken AP CS in high school, and for me, it was quite the transition to adjust and learn how to approach the psets since a lot of CS is just a certain way of thinking that I just wasn't familiar with. It was definitely really fun and rewarding though, even taking into account all the all nighters!
This course is great, but do not procrastinate on psets. Do not wait, or you will not survive. You will not sleep. You will not be happy. If you start early and ask questions, there are a ton of resources available to help you and you'll be fine. Lectures are really enjoyable and I really recommend this course to everyone.
Must take this class if you are willing to put in the work.
Stay away from this course unless you are naturally talented at math/sciences or have experience in coding.
It's difficult. I came in having taken AP Comp Sci my previous year and I found the course to be challenging. All in all, especially if you are considering taking any other pset courses, I would recommend being somewhat familiar with a coding language before enrolling in CS50.
CS50 has a stigma behind its name for a lot of reasons. I'm here to tell you that the class is very doable, so don't be scared! I had never coded before CS50 (save MATLAB basics and editing Tumblr layouts), and I thought this class was well taught and very rewarding! I'm not going to lie; it's a lot of work, but it won't feel like it's for nothing at the end!
CS50 is a very interesting class in that it's not really a class. You have to teach yourself most of what you learn in this course, and that may not be the best for all people. However, if you have the time and are willing to put in the effort, it's a pretty good class.
I finally drank the Kool-Aid and took CS50 my sophomore fall. Did it live up to expectations? No. (Best to set them low now so you're not disappointed later.)Looks are deceiving. Don't buy the DSLR photos and candy and clever branding. CS50 ended up being a lot of late nights, stress, and moments where I was absolutely lost, and by taking this class as a humanities/philosophy-major I was way out of my comfort zone (and will probably retain very little of it moving forward). Please talk to friends who have taken this course before signing up for it. Please make sure you have friends who are TF's/CA's before starting the course. And seriously, seriously consider taking this course Pass/Fail if you have no prior coding experience.If you're deadset on taking it, I'd advise taking it freshman fall because it will make your life so hellish and painful early on so that later in college, you'll be prepared for anything. You'll become so accustomed to a ridiculous workload that life after CS50 will be a breeze. Overall, it wasn't a great experience, but it wasn't terrible; it felt like death at the time, but with 800 other people taking the course you're bound to survive in the end. You'll pick up some cursory skills in coding that will require more CS courses to actually functionally use. And you'll learn how to Google like a pro. However, there are infinitely less painful geneds, and unless you think you'll end up majoring in CS, treat this class like an elective with a high opportunity cost before jumping in head-first. Best of luck, and may the odds be ever in your favor.
This is a great, difficult overview class if you have no or very little (1 year or so) experience in computer science. However, if you have several years of experience, even if you don't know a little bit of the material in the curriculum, in my opinion, this class took too much time for not enough learning.
CS50 is challenging but built with a pretty great support system. Lots of resources outside of TFs for help on PSETs, etc, which makes the class a lot more doable. Also, lots of your friends will probably be taking it, and working together where appropriate makes the class a lot more manageable.
it's insanely hard
This was hard. A ton of work. Take it if you are actually interested in investing time in learning.
This course is a lot of work and it's very hard. Think long and hard about whether or not you actually want to put this much work in. It's not worth it to take this course just because it seems like the thing to do for because friends are taking it. I wish I would not have taken this course.
CS50 is a great class if you're interested in getting an introduction to the world of computer science. No matter if you have minimal experience, or no experience, if you're willing to put in the work, CS50 will help you understand the basics of computing languages like C, php, and HTML.
It is many hours of work, but very rewarding, especially if you have an interest in the subject.
This class is great for CS majors and non-CS majors alike, however those who are taking the class as an elective should opt for pass-fail if they plan to preserve their sanity.
In order to take this course, you should have at least some mathematics or coding background. This course, unlike what it claims, is not for everyone. It is not for people who do not like or are not good at quantitative thinking. To get anything out of it, it requires a willingness to spend hours and hours trying to figure out one little part of your code. Lectures will not teach you anything, so you have to be prepared to do most of the work on your own or with your friends (unless you have an exceptionally helpful TF). If you find showiness irritating (as I did), then you will dislike the culture of this class, as it often seems more about growing the brand name of CS50 than about teaching computer science. I regret taking this class.
CS50 is a great class. A lot of work and definitely stressful at times, but overall it was worth it and I learned a lot.
If you're considering CS as your concentration, take this course. But be very aware that this class can be extremely difficult and time consuming, and really take this to heart, because even though I heard it was a hard class, I kind of just dismissed the idea and went in not worrying much, thinking that I can definitely handle it. But it turned out to be an extremely rough semester.
It's difficult, but worth it. You'll struggle through the psets, but when you finish one it's an awesome feeling. Also, don't put off the final project until the last minute. You WILL regret it.
It's really tough but worth the experience
The course is large and often chaotic/frustrating. The time commitment is significant. Regardless, it is empowering in that it gives students the tools needed to create and develop. Thanks to CS50, I am now aware of the great potential there is in a good understanding of computer science.
After the midterm, the psets become increasingly difficult.
CS50 is an awesome class. It is quite brutal when you're sitting in office hours and cannot get help for over an hour, but it is all worth it when you realize how much you've learned in a semester.
Overall rewarding experience. The class can be especially overwhelming for about the last 4 or 5 psets, where at times issues can seem to only be fixed by TFs or other students with a lot of experience/comfort. It won't steal your life for the entire semester, but there are a few weeks where it will be your main stressor. Great community through the class though, the TFs and David manage the huge class size as best they can and it allows students perks and opportunities to work together.
start problem sets early and watch lecture and section videos
Lots of work but thoroughly worth it!
It's worth taking, if only for the experience of being part of this class.
CS50 is an exciting and challenging experience. While I would recommend it if interested, future students without programming experience should be prepared to put 20+ hours of work per week into the class.
Don't be afraid. Your success in this course is not determined by prior computer science knowledge as much as logical thinking and ability to proactively seek out help.
I recommend taking this course just because the reward is so worth the struggle, and you know that after you have taken this course you have learned a lot; in fact, I would say I might have learned more in this course than my other three courses combined.
It is super hard and frustrating if you are new to CS. The first half of the course is mad easy and the second half kind of sucks because the difficulty ramps up quickly to an almost unfair level. But, in the end, you learn a ton and I was able to create a website for my final project that I think is pretty damn cool. I would not have been able to do that without taking this class.
Look, this class blows. The lectures are terrible and you don't really learn much. You will spend much of your time online and in disorganized office hours desperate to find help. Having a TF friend or a friend who knows computer science is actually incredibly helpful for this class. It will take hours every week to complete your psets. Personally, I complained a lot about this class. The final project was rather fun though, especially if you're working with friends. This class is important, especially in this fast growing world. Everyone should know how to code, and while this class won't really teach you how to do that as well as intro classes at other schools. It's the best we have, so go for, but know it won't be easy.
CS50 is great if you know exactly what you're signing up for, and what you're signing up for is a lot of work, even more frustration, but also a good deal of satisfaction or even exhilaration when your code finally starts working at 2 in the morning.
I went in with no coding experience. The first few weeks were very manageable, but eventually, as warned by previous Q guides, I started to spend upwards of a dozen hours on the pset each week. This course has a great support system of TFs that I wish I'd utilized better. Also, don't be discouraged if you fail one or both "quizzes" (which are an hour and a half long so just call a midterm a midterm), because nearly everyone technically fails it.
Though there is a large course size and a lot of course resources a lot of the learning is done on your own and there is a lack of personalized instruction crucial for a course like this. Still, a good intro to elements of programming, but C is also not very applicable for what a lot of people want to do with computer science.
Go to section and office hours
Be ready to work hard (10-20 hours per week). You will most likely need to spend a lot of time outside of lecture and section just thinking about the problems on the psets before even actually implementing any of your ideas. However, if you are willing to put in the effort required to get a good grasp on the topics presented in the course, you will learn so much and feel very satisfied by what you do one the course of the semester.
I wish they were more forthcoming about the time commitment of the course.  The second half of the problem sets are about three times the length of the p-sets before the add/drop deadline.
This is an intense course especially if you have NO knowledge. It took me 20+ hours on every pset. Office hours do help a lot so go early. It is a rewarding class and I did learn a lot but I don't think I can go and code anything on my own now. I think if you have no plans of taking any other CS course I would say you may not want to take this course. Everything is online and if you have the motivation you can still learn at your own speed without getting a grade. In the shopping period you get a taste of the course. If you really enjoy it, take it. If not drop it because it gets more rigorous after the add/drop deadline. This is a doable course if you are willing to put in the time and effort.
Definitely worth taking at some point in your four years at Harvard--not only does it teach an incredibly applicable and important skill, it's fun and engaging as well.
If you have never taken a CS course, be prepared for a steep learning curve.  All in all, you learn a ton of really cool and applicable things in CS50.
Just have a group to work on psets with. And don't underestimate the amount of time you need to spend on psets. They really take a long time if you actually read through the entire spec and watch the walkthroughs (which I would recommend). I would say this is like 1.5 classes so don't take it lightly but also don't be scared to take it. It's definitely doable/manageable.
If you have time to put in this course, and I recommend making time for it because it will change your life in small ways, take this course. Absolutely take this course (but only if you're willing to put in the time). You will get out of this what you put into it. It's hard and daunting, especially if you don't have experience. But you will gain a ton.
So much work.  So worth it.
If you want a true introduction to computer science, then prepare yourself: this class won't baby you about it. Better be ready to learn some hard-core coding skills, sometimes on your own.
You learn a lot but it also takes a lot of  time.
Overall, I would recommend this course BUT with a few asterisks if you have never taken a CS course before. First, be sure you will have the time (15-25 hours per week) to devote to psets, sections, lectures, walk-through videos, etc. Second, try to get a tutor (CS50 does them for free!) early in the semester. Third, make sure you find yourself a pset buddy because it will be virtually impossible to do this course alone.
Good intro to CS.  Covered many topics.  This will really help you figure out if you want to do CS in the future.  Psets may take longer than expected and may be frustrating at times.
You will learn a lot in this class, but be prepared to do a ton of work. I took this class pass/fail, as an elective, and it still took over my life a little bit. Because the thing with completing the psets is that in order to really learn the concepts, you have to complete the work all the way, and either your code works or it doesn't. Those breakthroughs take a lot of time, but without them you'd just be muddling through, so even as a pass/fail student I was pretty much doing all the work. This class covers a lot of ground and it can feel really empowering to learn so much, especially about technical concepts that may have felt too complicated or out of reach. I'm definitely grateful for what I've gained in this class, but it did come at a high cost.
The psets are hard. You will struggle and cry and fail both midterms/quizzes. Do not worry. It is all worth it.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE IF YOU HAVE NO CS BACKGROUND AND DO NOT BE FOOLED BY ALL THE HYPE THAT SURROUNDS THIS COURSE. You actually learn practically nothing from this course, and have to teach yourself everything, and if that's your style, then definitely go ahead. But keep in mind that it'll take up a huge chunk of your time, you'll have to be in office hours almost everyday, and it's going to be tough. Whether or not you'll use this stuff later is up to you, but definitely not as good as it is said to be.
this should probably be the main focus of your semester - make sure to balance this course with easier courses if you have little or no experience in CS; however, if you do want to learn CS, I couldn't think of a better introduction to a wide range of topics that encompass the subject
CS 50 is a challenging but fun course and I learned quite a lot from it.
it isn't worth it. they try to pull you in with the cult and cake and "fun" stuff. but in reality they don't teach you anything and you just waste a bunch of time on psets that they don't teach you how to do.
It is an awesome experience - you will not regret taking this class!
Great class, challenging but rewarding
Don't do it to yourself. Just don't. Only take the course if one of your friends is a TF so they can tell you the answers. Otherwise you will fail. Oh I guess also if you have VC funding for your app you can also take the class.
Only take this course if you will be disciplined enough to hold yourself accountable and dedicate the time needed to process the content-- if not, you won't derive the maximum benefit you could from it.
hard work, learn a lot, don't take it because you think it's going to be fun
Get a thermos and there is free coffee at Brain Break.
This class is really hard if you have not taken programming before. But it is extremely rewarding and you should definitely take it, you will get so many more valuable skills from this course than from any other!Also go to section! It provides a really good space to hone your skills on the fundamentals before tackling the much harder problem sets!Also watch Doug's playlist in the section tab! They are super helpful!Finally, don't bite off more than you can chew for the project! You will not have as much time as you think!
Start problem sets early and go to office hours on monday and tuesday!!! Once wednesday and thursday roll around, office hours are hectic.
CS50 is... CS50. It's not just the theatrical fluffy stuff you see in the first week or two, so be prepared to work hard and put in a lot of time. However, it is so worth it. You learn so much about coding - and since it's largely in C, you have the low-level foundation you need to teach yourself to code in just about any language. Be prepared to teach yourself a lot of the material for the problem sets, but it's doable - and so rewarding when you get to the final project and see how far you've come!
Do not take this course unless you have to because of requirements. Do not think because you are taking this course pass/fail that it will be a walk in the park. It is one of the most challenging and time consuming introductory courses offered at Harvard. It is not an experience to be made light of. Taking this course is not an essential component to the "Harvard Experience." You can make that whatever you want it to be without diving into something completely out of your realm. For those of you that have to take it, form study groups immediately and always start the problem sets early.
Before taking this class, I used to check the box "no diagnosable symptoms of mental illness such as anxiety or depression." That is no longer the case.
It teaches you fundamentals of computer science that are very important to know.
the workload is a lot, and you should expect to put in a lot of time outside of class
BREADTH: CS50 is a really cool course that does an amazing job of teaching a little bit of everything about CS. At other schools, you have to take two separate classes if you want to learn programming and say, HTML/CSS, but CS50 will introduce you to everything which is really special. Also, your friends will be jealous of you as you go to really cool events like Puzzle Day and the Hackathon and the Project Fair where there's unlimited food, tons of staff, and simply an incredible amount of excitement about the course and about CS. All of my suitemates plan on taking CS50 in the future after they've seen me be so excited about it.BACKGROUND NECESSARY: Q Guide reader, one thing that you're probably thinking of is if you're able to succeed in the class or not because you don't think you have a strong enough background in CS. I think that the most successful CS50ers were definitely the ones that had some background coming in, even if it was just AP CS. However, I wrote my first line of code in CS50 and I thought I was fine in the course. I think that it really depends on the person. If you're STEM-minded and have no CS experience and want to explore CS, I'd definitely not worry about lack of experience because most people get through it, even if it's tough. I also had non-STEM friends who were also very successful at the course. However, I'd say for 95% of people, getting through the course week by week is a HUGE struggle. Expect to spend tons and tons of time. IS IT A CULT?: CS50 gets a lot of flack for being an overhyped course that is essentially a show that David Malan puts on. In my opinion, CS50 deserves all of this flack. The lectures are essentially useless because they're more The David Malan Show than anything else. However, you'll learn with friends throughout the week and in reality, any course of its size has bad lectures anyways like Ec10, LS1a, etc. Also, while CS50 gets all this criticism for being this annoying thing that doesn't really aim to teach you raw concepts efficiently but rather seeks to entertain, it is this entertainment factor that gets you free t-shirts, free food, awesome events, and booths that are manned by reps from Google, Facebook, Quora, etc.I recommend this course as long as you think about why you want to take it enough. It won't be a breeze, but I think it'll be worth it.
Try and be active in understanding the code. I would write, copy, and change code I had and although I though I knew what was going on, I was never fully confident with my knowledge.
Be prepared to basically learn CS on your own because lectures are useless but definitely reach out to the TFs who are very good and helpful, I did that way too late.
This class is a great introduction to computer science! I am personally a business major and can totally recommend the course to people from concentrations not related to CS who want to broaden their horizon.
If you're totally new, prepare beforehand - when learning languages, it'll be very uncomfortable to code (if not just impossible) for awhile, but it'll make sense once you look back on it weeks later. It's much better to have that discomfort at home - and then the epiphanies during the course - rather than to suffer during the course.
Make sure to go to section and lecture! Overall a great introductory course to computer science, but be forewarned that the workload is much heavier than you might anticipate.
Don't take it,
It's a lot of work but you learn a lot.
Take this course for sure because you will learn about CS and it's uses. However be prepared for a couple of stressful weeks.
Great course. For those with little experience in CS -- you will only be able to make the most out of CS50 if you complement it with less demanding courses.
Because of the insane time commitment necessary, this class is going to be great if you find you have a genuine interest in the material and hell if you don't.  Don't take this class just because of the hype, do take it if you think you may be interested in computer science.  You'll get out of it exactly what you put into it.
This class is real work. If you're interested in it as someone starting from scratch, you should really be prepared to put 8-12 hours of work per week in.
The class can be fun, but it depends on the person.
This class is super time consuming, but you'll certainly learn a lot. With that in mind, it really helps to have some programming experience before for this class. The assignments start to get much more difficult around week 5.
An important Harvard experience. Gives you a taste of the world of programming. PSets will take up the entirety of your Tuesday and Wednesday nights.
be prepared to do a LOT of work, lecture doesn't apply to class at all
Don't bother unless you think there is a significant chance you want to become a comp sci major. There isn't enough added value over teaching oneself a language to make it worth the work. One would be much better off watching the publicly available videos.
Without any background, the course will be stressful and a struggle more than a challenge.
Take it pass fail if you don't need it to concentrate or for gen Ed.
If you are interested in computer science and are willing to sacrifice your social life, extracurriculars and possibly even grades in other classes to pursue the knowledge of the field, definitely take this class.
I think it depends from student to student how enjoyable the class is. If you go in knowing that you will have some tough nights trying to finish psets, and some of the concepts may be hard to grasp, but you have an enthusiasm for learning computer science, it's a good fit. I would recommend starting the psets early, starting them is half the battle, and it's much easier to get help at Monday office hours than Thursday office hours. Take advantage of all the resources -- the TFs want to help you.
A good intro to CS, provided this isn't your first time doing CS. Some background is definitely required to make this course reasonable. Take this course without taking many other hard pset courses, because it will take a lot of time.
it is overrated and isnt more applicable to real life than any other course. dont take this course when you have a tough semester. you will have zero support for your final project and no idea of what is expected of you considering your comfort level
Take it early. I took it because I wanted to major in Mechanical Engineering, but now I am probably going to concentrate in CS. Even if you do not decide to concentrate, you learn two important skills 1) to think like a programmer, so that if you ever have to work with a programmer, you can do so effectively 2) to teach yourself new programming languages: much of the course is self-taught, so you learn how to learn, essentially. I have friends who took only CS50 but used the skills they gained there to learn languages like Python to do work that they found interesting, like physics research.
Great class. Will be more challenging if you do not know anything about CS.
This was a worthwhile course to take, but expect to put A LOT of hours into it. The problems sets take forever, as is the nature of coding.
This is an exciting class to take,  but also requires a lot of time! Make sure the rest of your schedule is not too heavy!
It will be painful, but you will learn.
This course will challenge you but it is totally worth it.  You will learn a great deal and gain many skills which you can apply later in life.  This course takes you through an long process and you will be amazed at how much you have grown come the end of the semester.
I had ZERO prior knowledge in computer science and coding and, as I expected, I found this class extremely challenging, time-consuming, and frustrating at most times. At the same time, it was even more rewarding and looking at how much I have learned in this short semester, I would recommend this class to everyone. Yes, it will be hard and may require 15+ hours per week, but it's only 2.5 months and you'll learn more valuable and practical skills than you would in any other class. Take it! Don't be afraid of the challenge, everyone gets through it.
Incredibly well-organized class that teaches you some very valuable information and gives you a good groundwork for further computer science courses if you choose to take them.
CS50 is an experience - and it's worth all of the rage, hype, branding, and marketing it generates. It takes off slow and gets hard, fast (especially after the fourth week), and the problem sets may seem impossible at first. You'll pull all-nighters and curse as your code fails without end. Yet you will meet amazing pset buddies and experience CS50 culture through Puzzle Day, the Hackathon, the Fair, and every last night before code submission. The skills you walk away from this class with (C, JavaScript, SQL, etc.) are an absolute must for any student seeking an internship, especially in STEM. Malan is a fantastic professor who promptly replies to any emails or questions, and he goes out of the way to make the class as accessible and fun as he possibly can. There are certainly hipsters who complain about the power and size of CS50, but it is well deserved. Regardless of concentration or prior experience, take this class. It may be the only CS class you take, but whether you continue or stop afterwards, you will be glad you took it.
Be prepared to need a lot of help and PLEASE find people that are in the course to work with and PLEASE talk to your TF
This course needs so much improvement for me to even consider recommending it. This class is more of an institution and a business than an introductory CS class, and I think that's why it sucks so many kids in. It needs to be more like a course, where lectures actually teach you about coding (syntax, techniques, ways to improve your code) rather than a show about cool things that computer science can do. This is especially true because this class is very difficult for people who have never done any coding before. Previous knowledge is assumed by Malan and some TFs; I felt like I started behind in week 0 and never caught up, but rather, fell further and further behind. The speed of the course is absurd. The problem sets are structured such that I have to spend more time reading through the actual problem set, including 10+ videos, all the pre-coded files and try to even remotely understand what is going on before thinking about the actual problems I have to complete for the problem set. It is not an efficient way to learn and I hate how this course assumes you have 24+ hours a week to work on each problem set. No other class in the college does this, so why does CS50 get to? Why does CS50 get special privileges, like being the only class you can double register for? Only take this class if you have significant prior computer science experience or if your day is composed of more than 24 hours. But, I do NOT recommend this course to anyone.
Really good class, tough but very instructive
This is the class to take at Harvard. It is not easy, especially if you do not have any inclination to STEM and CS, but if you work hard, the learning experience is amazing. There is also a big emphasis on undergraduate teaching, which is great!
Wow. If you want to be thrown in the deep end and learn this course by googling things 95% of the time, then this is the class for you. But if you want a class that actually teaches you the material and you feel you gained something from it, I don't think this is the right class. They introduce so many languages in this class and don't really teach you any of it. Section is also worthless. Office hours are a nightmare, I just didn't even go after awhile because they're incredibly understaffed. Ugh.
This class can be fun, but if you don't have any prior computer science skills, it can take away a lot of your time. Don't take the class if a) you have a very busy schedule, b) have no prior computer science experience, or c) don't want a stressful semester. Other than that, it can be a great course, and it certainly has its merits.
Take it.
They SAY that you need no coding experience to take this course, but honestly David Malan is fooling himself. Half the people that say they have "no prior experience" already have experience they just don't want to be harshly affected by the curve, which makes it even harder for those of us that ACTUALLY don't have experience. Also there is a huge portion of kids who take this course that should definitely be taking a higher level CS course. Like if you can finish the PSets in 3 hours, you should be taking something harder. Those kids take attention away from the kids who are really struggling. Also, giving a quiz where the mean grade is a failing grade is absolutely absurd. That should be an indicator by itself that something is wrong with this course. And then most of the few kids who get high grades who Davad Malan sends congratulatory emails to already knew most of this information before taking this course, and, again, should probably be taking a higher level than an introductory course.
Excellent class! You will learn so much interesting stuff about basic computer programming. This class will be a lot more useful than you think. No matter what you end up doing, knowing a little computer science is very useful and cool. I will strongly recommend this class!!
CS50 is not for everyone. If you're interested in the field of computer science, it is a good into course. It is not a course to take if you're merely interested in learning to code (there are far better ways to do this). The difficulty ramps up dramatically about halfway through the course, and you will spend a lot of time doing psets.
It's challenging and at times frustrating, but you learn as much as you put in.
Don't take alongside other difficult classes and come in with coding background
CS50 is not an intro class. If you know a bit of coding, it's manageable but still difficult. Lectures don't really help at all and most of the learning is done through the psets. That's all on you. The class is all sparkle but no substance. David Malan isn't an amazing teacher, he's an amazing performer. All of the work is done at Office Hours, which are poorly managed and understaffed due to the high demand of help, since none is offered during lecture.
It's exactly what you think it is. Material is great to learn, psets suck.
That unless you really want to know code (if that's the case take it sat unsat) don't take this class.
If you have no coding background, CS50 is definitely a very challenging class -- Lamont at 3am on Thursday night (Friday morning?) is often full of pour souls wringing their hair with frustration as they stare at a small computer screen. But at the same time, CS50 is honestly one of the funnest classes I've ever taken, and you'll definitely come away with a better understanding of how CS works. Also, if you have coding experience, the class isn't bad at all.
CS50 is a great class to take if you want to gain a foundational knowledge of computer programming... something I would say is very useful in today's world. However, don't think that you can walk in with absolutely no experience (as I did) and it will be "easy" or even "slightly challenging". If you don't have previous experience, your going to have to put in A LOT of hours and A LOT of effort, and you can't be afraid to ask for help! That being said, I would say it's definitely worth it. :)
This class is fun and definitely an experience, but be prepared to seek out help for yourself, like a personal tutor, if you are struggling. Do not feel like you should just do it by yourself or try and fight for a TF during office hours. The most important thing is that you learn the concepts, no matter how much extra help you may need.
They structure the course in a way that lulls you into the false notion that  you will be fine coming in with little CS. They offer you an easier pset in the beginning, but after add-drop deadline this all changes. They get rid of the hacker edition and make everyone do the same pset regardless of experience. Therefore forcing those who didn't come in with cs experience to struggle a lot post add-drop. Malan also spends too much time putting on the show of cs50 rather than teaching programming techniques.
I think it is important to learn coding at some point, and this is a good class to learn the basics
If you're looking to force yourself to learn a little bit about a lot of languages, this is the course for you. If you're hoping to understand a little about computers, or just get your feet wet, this is not the course for you. Understand that it IS a lot of work, and it can get frustrating (extremely) some times when some small bug ruins your code. Come into it with a cool mind and a lot of patience, and you'll do great. Try to start early to take advantage of emptier OH earlier in the week. CS50 is well organized and staffed, and it has the resources to do a lot for you. By the very end, I was so happy I learned all of these languages, and would even consider more CS. The final project was fun - choose something you really would like to see happen/ something you could benefit from!
Be prepared to work really hard if you've never done CS before.  The Q guide hours are accurate. It's true though that this is much more time-consuming than difficult.  A lot of the time it's just you struggling for hours over a few bugs.  The second half of the class really does pick up  psets 6 to 8 I had very little idea as to what was going on.
this class is very enjoyable though definitely one of the most challenging classes i've ever taken. highly recommend but be warned that this class will take over your life
I found it very hard to keep up having started with no prior knowledge in the subject.
The Q isn't lying about the amount of work required for this course, if you haven't coded before.
Its CS50. It is an iconic class at Harvard. You will learn a lot about how computers and software works in the real world and programming. A cool course for really any concentration that gives the world another perspective.
The workload is a lot, but it's worth it.
Too hard, you're all alone in it, will give you anxiety
I would say that you should be prepared for this to be your hardest class. I took several harder classes this semester, but the workload of this course tripled those other classes. Be prepared by week 5 to have problem sets, lectures, and short videos taking over 12 hours of time each week.
This class will be a time suck. It needs to be your first priority class for you to really get something out of it, otherwise you will just be pressed for time and confused for an entire semester. Office hours are the biggest waste of time unless you have friends there to collaborate with. I'd spend 3 full hours at office hours and speak to a TF for maybe 10 minutes.
There are a lot of rumors surrounding CS50. Many of them are likely true. Others are blown grossly out of proportion. What IS true is this: this course is a lot of work. It might even consume your life if you let it, for better or for worse. The psets can be really challenging at times. And sometimes, you won't have any clue what you're doing. But that being said, if you've applied yourself to this course, put in the work, and really given it your all, you will come out of it having enjoyed the experience, even if your grade isn't perfect. You will have cried and been angry at times, but you will have laughed and had a great time with the new friends you've made too. The (cult)ure that is CS50 is truly unique. The community is vibrant and fun, and you'll come out saying to yourself "would I do it again? Maybe not. But I enjoyed it while it lasted."
This class is incredibly challenging. Be prepared to barely sleep the entire semester as you slowly descend into madness. While the learning curve may be (incredibly) steep, it might not be overcome, and you may be left questioning why you took this class and even why you're in college. Whether you come out of this class with coding skills is up in the air. It's highly unlikely if you have no coding background that you will come out being able to code anything. I understand a little about how computers work, and that's all I got out of this class. 10/10 would not take again.
In our world, it's very necessary to learn the basics of computer science and programming logic. Just do it. Class is surrounded by a lot of hype and various legends but it is not so bad (or good) once you actually take it. You will spend a lot of time on problem sets but it will be worth it. Be sure to meet with a TF one-on-one for help rather than depend on section or office hours. Don't waste your time going to lecture.
Know that it can be very tough if you don't have an elementary CS background. It's a tough course and should be treated accordingly. That said, incredibly fulfilling.
STEP AWAY RIGHT NOW. If you're thinking of taking this class as an elective to learn coding, save yourself the hours and stress and annoyance and just go online to one of the hundreds of online courses that will teach you various languages and basic computer science for free. Seriously. I learned waaaaay more from codecademy.com than I ever learned from this course. If you're silly enough to think that CS50 is amazing and cute because of all of its little gimmicks--the dj, the constant rick rolling, the "i took cs50" t-shirts, the big budget, the pointless photographers that seem to always be around, the stupidly high production value for what is just a lecture--then go ahead and take it. But realize that these cute things will stop being cute pretty much instantly when you notice that this class puts way more emphasis on looking cool than it does on actually helping their students and creating content that makes sense.
The class is extremely challenging (and at times overwhelming). That said, you came to Harvard to be pushed and to learn exciting new things, and that's what I feel like I got out of CS50.
I would like to tell them that this class is a lot of work, but the information you learn it is extremely useful. Also, CS50 gives you all the resources you need to succeed.
It is a very, very demanding course.
Takes a lot of time, gives an understanding of programming in C and PHP, lectures are a bit hard to handle because of Malan's ego, most of the learning is done on your own. Overall, it does teach you a lot of skills, and you learn a lot.
Hey guys, don't be scared to take the course it was honestly a great experience, though it was trying at times and the PSets are hard, they feel great to accomplish. As a Junior, the huge number of freshmen in the class wasn't too distracting and a HUGE game changer in this class was have a group (a crew) to work together and go to the various events (especially the Hackathon!!!) together and it can be incredibly fun and an amazing bonding experience. I loved learning the basics of several different languages and feel I could learn more if I wanted to but looking online, but without the course would have no idea where to start.
Very useful material and useful skills. The lectures are decently fun, the shorts are useful, but your best friend in this class should be your TF. Go to Office Hours (every night if you can). Start problem sets before your section so you can ask specific questions.
This is not easy, and you should take the time to decide between pass/fail and graded.
This course simply had too much material to get through. It's unfair that this is the only CS introductory class that you can take. Even for technical CS majors there should be an option to take a C class, a Javascript class, an HTML/CSS class all separate if that's going to work better for you. At almost all schools this is the case. At Harvard this is the trend too in the other departments. There's a special LS1a class you can take if you want an accelerated track. There's also one for the math department. So why does the CS department only have the accelerated option? Furthermore, if this is going to be the only option offered, CS50 really needs to offer more support. Professor Malan claimed that there was tons of support, but there were never enough TFs at office hours. Sure you can finish a pset as TFs will eventually basically give you the answer, but actually understanding the answer would take considerable one on one tutoring time, something that the course can't offer. Because there is so much material all thrown at you at once, this course is really good at making you feel inferior and stupid. I like CS, but it was a serious mental battle to get through this course and I came out of it without a very solid understanding of the material because it tried to do too much. You're supposed to learn the material via the psets, instead of being taught it prior and applying it on the psets, and this format doesn't work.
Don't expect to learn anything in lecture: they're really more about David Malin having fun and showing off all the toys the course's sponsors have bought him than about actually teaching the material.  The real learning happens as you work on the problem sets and in section and office hours.  For anyone coming from a decent quantitative background (esp. math, physics concentrators, etc.), this will be a very easy and reasonably low workload course, until the last two p sets where it becomes just a lot of mindless work.  But be wary of trying the hacker p sets as it's not easy to switch to the standard edition once you've started the hacker because they are too different.
This class takes a lot of time, and the more time you put into it, the more you'll learn. Don't come in expecting to learn a LOT about CS, though. There's a lot of error-checking that might frustrate you.
start the psets early!
Never take this class. Useless skills. Pointless waste of time. Why would you spend hours on a pset learning pointless skills. Your time can be better spent doing any number of things.
The class offers a lot of support in terms of psets, studying for midterms, and the final project.  This is extremely helpful for students who are "less comfortable" with the class.  However, do plan to spend quite a bit of time on work, especially towards the end of the semester.  The final project will take MUCH longer than expected, and bugs are so common, so plan accordingly.  Besides the time sink, and sometimes the frustrating differences between the languages you'll learn, this is a pretty useful class to be taking.
It is HARD. Don't take it unless you are really sure you want to.
It's everything you've heard about CS50 - it's very very hard, especially certain weeks when you feel like the pset is actually impossible to accomplish, but at the end you do feel as though you've learned things and your thinking has been changed around computers.
Just take it!
Don't take it because everyone else is taking it. Take it because you are actually interested in Computer Science.
This course requires a lot of time, but unfortunately this time does not necessarily help you understand computer science. The problem sets don't do a great job testing the student's application of materials learned in section/lecture and often are impossible to complete without guidance from a teaching fellow.
CS50 gave me a rushing sense of confidence because it teaches you how to teach yourself - how to, at the end of the day, start at point A thinking you'll go to point B but end up at some point Z that you never even knew existed. It's really time consuming, but it's also the class that I struggled most with and consequently grew most from.
You gain a very good background in computer science and so it is valuable if that is something you are interested in. That being said, I would be prepared for a challenging class. Having a more logical or technical background/mind will most likely make the class easier.
Make sure you have up to 30 hours per week to complete the problem sets, and that you have access to tutoring help to ensure you get them correct.
This class is NOT for people with no CS backgroundand I say this a person who did indeed have programming experience. It gave me copious amounts of anxiety, unnecessary tension, and sleepless nights. Problem sets consumed my week, and instilled in me a pessimistically desultory attitude towards the course, and life in general. The theatricality of the class lulls one into a false sense of security and distracts from the toilsome nature of the work involved. Most importantly, there was very little support, with one often having to wait for 60+ mins for help during office hours. While section was certainly helpful, and my TF was able and willing to help, it only met once a week (and emailing one's TF about every small bug becomes a nuisance). CS50 Discuss (the class's online help forum) did occasionally provide me with some help, but a number of my questions were deemed satisfactorily answered by course heads before I could receive an adequate response.I appreciate a thought-provoking challenge, and my complaints about this course are not founded in laziness or an unwillingness to try; my grievances stem solely from the chaotic manner in which the course in run and the lack of an appropriate support system given the size of the class. I would recommend this class to those who intend on concentrating in Computer Science a) because it is a requirement, and b) it will show you whether or not you truly enjoy the field. The grading curve is ostensibly generous, thus the hard work does pay off in a manner of speaking.
You need to be ready to work your butt off, but in the end, it will be worth it.  You will be a much better programmer as a result, and you will also be a much better problem solver.
Important class but could be done better
It is a good course insofar as it has a strong syllabus that touches on a lot of topics, a strong section component, and readily available support outside of "class." However, be ready to skip a lot of lecture because
Take it your freshman year!!!! I waited and wished I'd done it earlier. Also dont worry too much about the workload - its definitely tough on some weeks, but the people who talk about spending 30 hours on a pset are just not asking for help enough. There are office hours full of TFs (not to mention CS50 discuss online is super helpful) so the psets are DEF doable in <15 hours if you just swallow your pride and ask for help
Highly recommended, but only if you have the time.
Even though the CS50 staff won't be pleased with my comment... You don't always have to go to class as all the lectures are online. CS50 provides a 2x app that you can download to watch the lectures at 2 times speed.
Although the course welcomes people from any back ground in computer science, I found people with prior experience to have a significant upper hand on handling the course's material and workload. From many people I talked to with prior experience, they all agree that the course was not a great introduction into the study of computer science. Despite this, I, coming from no background in computer science, did find the course doable and at times enjoyable. I did not like the fact that it felt as though I were taking part in a business of sorts rather than an actual class. Not sure how much I was advancing my own skills in computer science rather than advancing CS50 as a brand.
If someone takes this course, then make sure that the other courses on their schedule will not demand as much. Because this one class was like taking 3 classes.
The workload picks up a lot after drop-add.
Cs50 was one of the best parts of my freshman fall. Take this class.
Do not take this class unless you feel very comfortable with computer science already, or are willing to devote 20-30 hours a week to CS. Be prepared to teach yourself or reteach yourself almost all of the material. Lectures WILL NOT prepare you to do any of the problem sets or quizzes. Although you will learn a lot, this is a terrible way to be introduced to computer science.
It starts off as a manageable course, but as soon as the add/drop period ends, the course gets much harder.
Every Sunday afternoon, I eat brunch with a table of friends. Every brunch, we say our highs and lows for the week. Every time, CS50 came up at least twice as someone's low point for the week. That is all.
Best to take this class with friends. Would have been miserable without group of friends. Start psets on Monday when office hours are relatively less chaotic. Any CS background will help you immensely. Grading system is confusing and somewhat arbitrary. Little incentive to claim prior knowledge of CS. Your final project is graded against your last proposal, so tone down your wild ambitions and go past it if possible -- it will almost certainly be harder than you expect. Start the final project early, meaning before thanksgiving.
Don't take this class.
This class is tough but rewarding.
its hard and takes over your life
It is a really cool class to take and is so relevant to modern day working life. It is a very difficult class, however, and takes a lot of your homework time, so I would only recommend this class to someone who can afford to take that time and is interested enough not to hate having to spend time working on cs. I would also highly recommend trying to take it with friends because it so important to work with others and have people to collaborate with. It would be impossible to take this class on your own.
Largely a self-taught class.
When you are through with this class, you will be impressed by just how much you have accomplished (especially if you pursue a challenging final project). But be warned! The class takes up a lot of time, especially if you haven't taken computer science before.
This class is going to take a large amount of effort, though the amount of time you spend is going to be dependent on how quickly you pick up on the material. Don't think that because you are a math/science person you will automatically understand coding, I didn't.
Tough, but rewarding.
It is in every way incredibly hard. But the hard work you put in is truly rewarding. Nothing is more ridiculously satisfying that seeing some deceptively simple program finally work after hours and hours of programming.
This class is really hard, but you'll be incredibly happy you took it.
This class is kind of a hot mess but this comment will not deter you at all, because nothing stops the CS50 machine.  It is frustrating that the model of this course is being so praised and funded when it is fundamentally flawed and not a great course to take if you just want to learn some basic coding.  The disconnect between lectures, section, and problem sets makes everything just a little harder than it has to be, and the cult-like nature of the course belies the fact that it's not actually that intellectually rigorous.  It is technically quite difficult, but you won't be challenged to change any of your perspectives or grow as a scholar.  It will not be the hardest class you take, but it would love to believe it is.
It's a very hard class that requires a lot of work but you will learn a lot.
Really think about it before you sign up. I'm sure you'll hear a lot about CS50 before you even read these Q scores, but still take time to consider if you really want to add this class to your schedule. I'm glad I took it and it is enjoyable (at times) but it definitely is as much work as everyone says it is.
This class is not the best way to learn computer science. The psets are way too difficult, it is impossible to succeed in the course without extraordinary amounts of help, the class feels too impersonal, and going through 6 different languages in the last 2 weeks of the course is truly miserable
Be ready to spend time on this if you want to do well. You have to start psets early and be prepared to get frustrated at office hours (though they are ultimately useful). Google and your friends who are smarter than you will be your friends.
It's going to teach you worthwhile skills. The process may be painful. But you'll come out prepared to program, and that's a really useful skill. Take it!
Make use of office hours and CS50 Discuss (online forum) to complete problem sets. Don't wait until the last minute. You will have a more pleasant experience if you reach out for support--even more so if you "buy into" the glitz. Sadly, I didn't do much of either.
This is a serious time commitment. Don't underestimate it.
If you haven't had any exposure to CS, you'll need A LOT of time to excel in this class. It moves incredibly fast and, while rewarding, will become your main priority over the course of the semester.
CS50 is as you would expect. Do not discount when people tell you it gets much harder after the add drop. If you're doing this class for a grade, make sure to start the psets early so you can get help, otherwise you'll waste hours trouble shooting.
This class requires a significant time investment thanks to challenging problem sets and midterms, but is entirely worth it. Once you fall down the rabbit hole and get a glimpse of how powerful and applicable programming is to almost every possible problem or situation, then you realize that all of those late nights with friends cursing bugs in your p-set code was totally worth it. The support network is great (super-helpful TFs that are very accessible, but make sure you don't wait until Thursday office hours!); feel free to skip lecture because they're all online but section attendance is critical to doing well in the class.
This is a fantastic course and really gets you thinking in a different way.
Be prepared to be overwhelmed with the courseload, and the lectures to be rather useless at times.
Awesome community, lots of work but very satisfying
CS50 is a lot of work but a very fun class as well. You get out of it as much as you put in, so if you try to understand the problem sets and challenge yourself in the final project, you can learn a lot! The course staff is extremely helpful.
This class definitiely gives you a lot to think about and learn. Overall I went in planning to major in CS, and while I didn't hate the class and learned a lot from it, I now know that CS just isn't for me. If you have any inclination of majoring in CS, take this class.
Prepare to spend a lot of time on this course.
Take it if you have CS knowledge!
Be wary of the amount of time it takes. Difficult for those with experience and those without experience, alike.
Despite the backlash of CS50 being such a well marketed and sponsored course, I believe it's resources allow it to provide a much higher quality scope of education. This is a great course to take but still a technical course so be prepared to think logically and put time into learning the material.
This class takes a lot of time. If taking this class as an elective, try to take it during one of your easier semesters.
You get as much as you put into the course. The tools are there to help you understand the material and create really cool things - it just takes a bit of time.
CS50 is a great way to be introduced to computer science, but one should start the psets early or it will else consume your life.
This class will take a lot of time. It is hard and often times frustrating. It has a lot of money to spend on accessories and resources, but their distribution of them are not really efficient. Office hours are crowded; you may get 2 questions answered within three hours if you're lucky. Important to find a good study group.
Very difficult and a big time commitment, especially if you have no experience. Regardless I actually really enjoyed the course.
A lot of work. Make sure you know someone who is in Rob Bowden's entryway so you can get help from him.
In general, CS50 is a well-organized introduction to computer science and the C programming language.  It definitely isn't the most insightful or interesting course at Harvard, but definitely useful and necessary for anyone who wants to learn more about CS or would like a thorough review of basic concepts in CS.
I first learned to code in APCSA, which is taught in Java, and I learned most of the skills I have currently by messing around in Python (scraping websites, writing automation scripts, writing web apps , etc). While many of the students complained about how hard C is, learning a low-level language like C to begin with will give you an appreciation for how much is done for you (memory allocation, pointers, etc) in other more high-level languages that you will likely use more often later on. I personally appreciated finally learning C, as I now have a greater appreciation for how simple doing the same tasks are in my primary language Python.This class was neither as difficult as people made it out to be nor as easy as I thought it was going to be, but I learned a lot and had a great time. Even though lecture sometimes feels like going to a club or concert, this is still a great introduction to computer science and probably the most fun you'll have in a class at Harvard.
Be prepared to put in the time, especially if you're new to computer science concepts.
It's fantastic. You don't really need yet another anonymous person telling you how good it is or "how it's overtaking Harvard and it's bad."
It's a necessary Harvard cult(ure) experience.
Although it was a difficult course, and even in the darkest of Pset hours, I never once felt like I regretted taking this course.  It was extremely rewarding, and CS50 is the course in which I have learned the most at Harvard.
Unless you love Cs or you have taken a lot of cs, do NOT take this course.
Worth taking -- primarily because computer science is so very important. Be prepared to dedicate significant time, however.
It's a lot of work each week, but the work teaches many concepts in a hands on way that is more effective than just a lecture.
You learn a lot about programming in CS50, but it is extremely difficult, almost impossible, to manage if you have never programmed before.
Very difficult problem sets from week 4 on. good luck. best to work with a group or get tutoring or something. scratch project and final project are interesting
It's an extremely challenging course, but also one of the best run courses at Harvard.
Its nice to say that I now have some coding experience but the course is just way to difficult for a freshman with no prior experience.
This class is very difficult. It is allegedly geared towards people with little to no experience with computer science, but it is very difficult to those who fit into this category of comfort. If you are someone who fits this description, be prepared to have a lot of frustration as you try to figure out the problem sets while those around you who are more experienced get them in no time. Try not to miss sections, as those are pretty valuable since essentially nothing is taught in the lectures, and be prepared for some long nights. Definitely try to find a group of people that you can work with as well -- access to help is pretty limited during office hours, especially on nights close to due dates.
The easiest way to succeed in this class is to find a group of people/friends with whom you can work on the PSETs together with.  The workload is a little on the heavier side, but if you consistently go to office hours with a small group of your class-mates you'll be able to attract TF' more frequently and you won't get stuck on one problem. If you can manage to all of this, the class will be extremely rewarding and overall a positive experience.
If you want to learn foundational computer science, this is the class to take. Be prepared for a lot of long nights.
CS 50 is hard but one of the most rewarding classes ever.
Be mindful that the course does get much harder after add drop. Just make sure you are actually interested in the material rather than "CS50".
This is a challenging class that you gain much from ultimately.
Don't go to lectures and focus on watching the videos posted on CS50 website.
It can be a very good course if you have some background in programming.
Work on your problem sets as early as you can. Note there is one drop if you get full scope score, but save that drop for as late as possible (server.c?)
Be prepared to work and work hard. That being said, the class is not impossible. There really is a community in CS50 among the students that acts as a support system.
CS1 exists.  Look into it.  Be aware that this is not the only option for learning CS, and if you have no experience, it is quite possibly not the best.
Though problem sets are very frustrating and time consuming, this class should be taken simply because computer science and even setting up websites are all extremely useful skills to have in this day and age.
Great course! The lectures are a little theatrical and you don't learn that much from them. However, the course ensures that you learn basic CS skills that will help you in any career you move on to! A fair amount of work, but worth it in my opinion.
If you fail to understand something, don't expect to understand it in time for the problem sets or quiz.
This is a great class if you intend to do anything with computer science in the future; it is a baptism by fire and really teaches you the skills.  It is more difficult than intro CS classes taught at schools like MIT, Princeton, or Stanford.  Because of that reason I think it is a little dishonest the way the course is marketed to try and get every single student to enroll including literature and history concentrators who will never use it again.
As a student with a good amount of CS background, I still enjoyed the class and had a good experience.
demanding on time
Get ready to dedicate at least 15 hours per week for this course.
This is definitely not an intro class. So many hours spent on this class and I didn't think it was that rewarding. I didn't feel I learned a lot. Just don't take this class seriously.
Make sure you have some CS background before coming into this course. Otherwise, this course will consume all your time.
Whereas I do believe that I learned a lot of the basics of computer science while taking CS50, I think that there are a lot of counterproductive parts of it. The lectures are utterly useless for any assignment whatsoever. (You probably won't go to lecture after around the third week.) You almost always need to go to office hours to get your pset done satisfactorily. And you also have to read/watch a lot of different materials in a very disorganized and messy manner because all of the information you need to learn for assignments are scattered all over the place on the CS50 website and you have to figure out yourself which parts to pick and read and learn.
It's a great class but prepared to have no sleep whatsoever and learn on your own with video resources provided by the class.
CS50 is definitely time consuming, so I would only take it if you're interested in the material. That being said, I think it does give a great overview to approaching computer science.
The best course I've taken yet. If you want to learn while having fun, CS50 is a must.
Skip it if you have strong programming experience.
Do not take this class. It is compelling to learn CS and this class may suit some but I took it so I could have some grounding in CS and it addresses far too much to be productive. Having talked to people at Stanford the subject is taught far more sensibly there...
Take this class only if you want to experience Dante's Inferno in real life. I'm not kidding - the mystique & fun perception of this class may make you want to take it, but once you're in it, you're going to go through hell. Unlike Dante, though, you don't have Virgil guiding you: how could Malan, or any one of his TFs/CAs, care about you when they have 800+ students? You're going to have to fend for yourself on these problem sets, and believe me, they will become more and more challenging as the year progresses. Oh, but you will benefit though. You will make it through the 9 tiers of hell (there's 9 psets - coincidence?) and see CS50 for what the inferno that it really is: you'll see it's a place where you're less than a number, where the TFs, CA, and professor don't even care enough to respond to your email, and where the TFs intentionally mislead you on problem sets, causing you to fail and rot in CS50's homework, the fuel to the inferno's everlasting fire. More importantly, you'll get to see the elaborate tapestry of lies that Malan weaved, and you'll see how apathetic he is to the individual student. Five emails I sent him over the course of the semester, five questions I had to ask him because my TFs/CAs wouldn't respond, and yet he was too apathetic, too uncaring to even bother reading even one of them. Is this really the guy you want teaching you? After all, you are nothing more than a number that bolsters his ever-growing reputation.In all honesty, if you want to learn programming, you'd have a better bet Googling it and learning it off the internet. Or at least go to a state school or community college and take an equivalent course. Maybe they'll treat you like a human. As far as I'm concerned, no human deserves a class that the staff doesn't know how to manage; waiting 30 minutes in office hours for a TF who doesn't even know how to help you is beyond agonizing. No human should be deceived by all the propaganda Malan releases only to find out that it's all fake when it's too late. No human, especially one at Harvard, deserves the criminal dereliction that CS50's staff displays. Don't take the class, or you're going to regret it.
An absolutely essential class. Don't graduate from Harvard (or Yale!) without taking this class. You will learn an insane amount of computer science in only a semester. This class will teach you to think like a computer scientist, which is an invaluable mindset. 10/10 would enroll
It's difficult but you learn a tremendous amount.
The material covered in this course is extensive, but the class is well organized and it is incredible how much you improve over the course of the semester.
gotta know to invent facebook
Learned a lot. Go to OH early (MONDAY/TUESDAY). Do not put off the pset.
This is an excellent class if you are willing to put in the time. Even if you aren't willing to put in the time and would rather take it pass/fail, I would recommend it. People of all majors should know about what goes on with computers because society is only going to get more technology oriented, not less.
This class is much too hard for someone looking for a simple introduction to computer science, planning on taking other classes and having a life at Harvard. I highly recommend taking a class on/researching how to code before coming to this class - do NOT take this with no background!
You'll be entirely frustrated, wondering what happened to your Friday nights and your weekends, or all your time, for that matter. But when the program works, it'll have been all worth it.
This is a great course for anyone interested in learning how to put together their own scripts and automate menial tasks.
get some background in programming before doing this class even if it is an intro
I would tell future students that I learned so much in this class and legitimately enjoyed it.
TAKE THIS CLASS
Take it. The best course you could take at Harvard. You will learn more from this course, more useful stuff, than any other course.
Best class ever.  Useful for everyone.
Imagine the most beautiful woman in the world. If she was a class, her name would be Computer Science 50. Take her!
well worth the time and effort spent on the problem sets
It's an amazing course and well worth the time. The work load is manageable.
As long as you don't get too frustrated with little setbacks, you can learn a lot.
It's the 21st century. You don't know anything about computers. You want to benefit from your education. Take the class.
This course is amazing, fun, well taught, challenging, useful, and you learn a tremendous amount.
It's rewarding if you're willing to work hard.
Be ready to work- you will be excited to- don't worry!
It's one of the best classes I've taken this year.
It's something everyone should learn, and CS50 is by far the best way to learn it.
This course is the real deal - what I came to Harvard for. Taught by a fantastic instructor, it challenged me, taught me tons of stuff I didn't know, and pushed me to levels I never knew I could reach. If you're willing to work, and want the satisfaction of a job well done, take this course.
Take this class! It may very well change your life.
Take this class.
great way to learn how to code. You also emerge with a good foundation for picking up other languages. Necessary course for any technical major.
You might spend a long time on problem sets, but at least they are interesting.
Its a lot of work, but completely worth it. You learn the basics on how to work with computers, then you learn how to teach yourself what you don't know. Excellent course, but a lot of time and work!
Take this class if you are ready to work hard.
It's time consuming, it's a lot of work, but it's worth every moment you put into it. In twelve weeks, your understanding of computers and logic will grow more than you thought possible.
CS50 is the most interesting, thorough, broad, and exciting introduction to any scientific discipline that you can find at Harvard.
be prepared to do a lot of work. best if you know someone in the class or who has taken the class who can help you.
Good way to get credit for learning a little bit of C and hopefully doing a cool project.
demanding, but fun and learned a lot
Start problem sets early.
Basically, there are three reasons why you should take this class: you are really interested in compsci, you have a background, or you have to take it for concentration.  Otherwise, it might not be worth it to take this class.  But you do learn a tremendous amount, which is always good.
Great course, awesome professor, engaging lectures.  Challenging, but rewarding.  Definitely worth the time put in.
Dr. Malan is extremely articulate, clear, and knowledgeable about introductory computer science, and makes lectures interesting and pertinent. Furthermore, he is rather entertaining at times and is also extremely familiar with coding and navigating in VIM, so students never have to wait for minutes while the lecturer types out something onto the giant screen overhead.
Shop this class. It will be worth it.
If you think you like CS and programming, take this course. If you don't have any experience, consider the time you want to spend on this course.
It's a lot of work. Be prepared.
Shop it and do the first Pset. If you enjoy it, you'll enjoy the course (but expect it to get much harder). If you don't even like the first Pset, don't take CS 50.
Great teaching staff and a highly useful subject for the future!
Take this course only if you have to. It does not serve as a good introduction to computer science.If you are truly new to the field and looking for an introductory computer science class, you will find this course extremely confusing. If you have some previous programming experience, you will find this course to be mind-numbingly tedious; it will be time consuming but not informative.
best class I've taken at harvard.
It's good--but if it's new territory, psych yourself up for some serious work.
Fundamental to a relevant understanding of technology and its possibilities.  Extremely well taught, provides great support, and though the problem sets are long, they are rewarding
Pure entertainment
This class is awesome, everyone should take it!
Professor Malan makes CS50. It's a great class, really fun, and very worthwhile.
CS 50 was my most enjoyable class this semester. The problem sets were a lot of fun, the professor is young and enthusiastic. I think it is a class that many people would like.
I was a little intimidated by the previous reviews of this course because I hadn't programmed before, but I'm really glad I took it. The course was fun, and challenging, and definitely doable even with a tough semester schedule. No regrets.
This is a great class to talk, I give it my full recommendation.
It is REALLY fun, quite useful, and amazingly well-taught and structured.
Take it like it's someone else's code.
I would not recommend this course unless: 1) You have a background in computer science 2) You have a heavily quantitative background or 3) you have over 45 hours a week which you can comfortably devote to this class alone
Don't take this course as a 5th class, particularly if you also work.  Prepare for this class to define your semester.
Everyone should take this course, with the exception of people who really don't like math or computers.
it is hard, but worth it.
you ought to enjoy using computers beforehand to really get the most out of the course
This was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard!  Professor Malan makes Computer Science fun and accessible.  In today's technological world, a well-rounded Harvard education would not be complete without CS50.
One of the best courses they will take at Harvard.
recommend if you have an otherwise light workload.
Many, many employers love to see basic programming experience, and many, many concentrations are now accepting the class as concentration credit. If you're afraid of the difficulty - don't be! There's tons of extra help available, and most of the concepts aren't difficult per se - code writing can just take awhile.
It's really hard, and you honestly shouldn't leave the problem sets to the night before.  If you don't foresee yourself having time to start the problem sets earlier than Thursday night, don't take the course.
Debugging code is a beach.
Best class I have taken at Harvard!
Not just for people with computer science experience.  Anyone can take it an it's fun.
This was a lot of work, but it was totally worthwhile. Everyone should take this class!
This is one of the best courses I've ever taken. Appreciate David Malan while you have him.
Great course, but do not take it if you do not have enough time for the problem sets.
start on psets early to make use of office time
This is an absolute must-take class.  CS50 is no longer the unmanageable beast it once was - I recommend it to everyone with enthusiasm.
useful class, but too time consuming
Once you've taken CS50, you'll know why everyone says it's fun!
The workload was, I guess, fairly substantial, but before CS 50 I'd never walked home to my dorm at 4:00 a.m. grinning from ear to ear after I'd finished a pset simply because it was so cool and I was so please and proud of myself.
Challenging, but definitely worth it.
As the TFs will repeatedly tell you, this class is what you make of it. For me, the class was hugely rewarding, engaging, and entertaining, but I devoted an enormous amount of my time to it. The best advice I was given was to start problem sets early, and to reach out to at least one TF other than your section leader. It's possible to go this class aloneif you're really good, or in my case, really stubbornbut I could have saved myself a lot of sleepless nights early on if I had simply sought help. It's abundant!
Anyone with even a remote interest in programming, or needing to satisfy quantitative reasoning core requirement would not be disappointed.  It's a lot of work, but, oh so worth it!
It is a great class. Well taught with excellent TF's. Interesting material is covered and it is clearly explained. Problem sets help increase your understanding of the material and give you a sense of accomplishment after you finish each one.
CS50 is the best class ever.
This class is a fair amount of work but the material is not very difficult and is worth knowing.  The work is very enjoyable.
One of the best courses I've ever taken! You must take it! Not only is the material interesting, but also highly practical and FUN. You leave the course with a better understanding of the world around you and a marketable skill. If I were President of Harvard, I would make this course a requirement for all undergrads.
It is tough, but Malan has made it very accessible and rewarding.  Finishing a PS and seeing what you just coded in action is awesome.
I highly recommend this course to both those who are scared of their keyboards and those who consider themselves seasoned programmers or 1337 hax0rs. This course is truly an enriching experience!
Challenging, time-consuming, fun - a great way to learn how to program.
Know what you're getting into
Too much homework. Quizzes are too hard, although the 3rd quiz was a step in the right direction. If all three quizzes are like that next year, that would be satisfactory.
The instructor is amazing; he cares about his students. Problem sets are difficult, but definately doable. Office hours help with problem sets ALOT!
be ready to work, but be ready to have a lot of fun, too
If you're willing to put in the work, this will be one of the most valuable classes you will take at Harvard.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on your work. Start in advance because you can never, ever know n advance how long something will take. You could finish a program in 20 minutes, be conceptually quite correct, and spend 3 hours debugging it, looking for syntactical errors and cases you forgot to account for.
Good, thorough introduction to C. Well supported.
TAKE IT!
It was fun and easy, but I learned a lot. I felt like I could immediately start using what I learned to solve actual problems.
Best course I've taken at Harvard yet.
It's awesome.  Take it.  Simple as that.
The amount of work is worth it. It is a very good class and you will learn a lot.
It's a lot of work, but it's worth it and it's a great class.
This qualifies as a quintessential Harvard class. Everyone, irrespective of their academic background, should take it at some point. It will most likely change the way you think.
Take this class if you are really willing to learn the craft! You can't go into half-hearted.
It's a lot of work, and very difficult, but probably worth it. Useful skills for the workplace.
This class is evil!  Only take it if you have had a lot of experience in programming or if you are willing to ruin your semester...
If you are willing to put in a little effort, it is very rewarding.
CS50 is the best class I've taken at the college and I'd highly recommend it; the return on investment of the time you dedicate to the course is extremely high.
I wasn't going to take this class until I had to drop on the 5th monday. It's lived up to all my expectations and more... If I took this as a freshman, I almost certainly would've been CS.
It's a great course, take it! It's not as time-consuming as you hear, and you'll learn a great deal about programming.
Literally, the single best class I've taken at Harvard
best course at harvard!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
It's a lot of work, but it's totally worth it.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard!
Take it with Malan.  Do it.  You will not regret it (except maybe while coding God mode...)
This is the best course you will ever take.
You should be willing to put the hours in. But, it is well worth the effort.
The class takes a lot of work, but you will learn a lot.
Start assignments EARLY.
Be prepared to work your butt off in this course. Like seriously. I've never spent so much time on a course in my life..and it wasn't the work load that was bad, just there was so much to do, and seemed like so little time with which to do it.
It's ridiculously rewarding to finish a problem set.  It IS difficult, but there are a multitude of resources available to help you succeed.
Take only if you do not mind a decent workload.
This fun and challenging class will provide total beginners with widely applicable programming skills. The teaching staff provide excellent support to the students, to help people of all skill levels learn the material and write useful programs.
I would recommend the course for those who have no prior experience.
Although CS50 has had a reputation for being overly difficult and time-consuming, you only get back as much as you put in. Therefore, if you plan to put in a moderate amount of time and effort, the benefits will be large, although you can also do well even with a shorter amount of time. Malan makes the lectures fun and interesting, so I would definitely recommend this to students in any concentration.
So valuable...you learn a lot, and it's fun, and programming is a very useful skill.
David Malan is awesome.  CS is awesome.  Doing problem sets is a pain in the ass if you have missed a week of class.
CS50 is a wonderful class that gives you a respectably sound insight into a whole field of study.  It can be taken as a one-time elective, or it can lead into more CS courses.
LOTS of work... but even more resources to help you, and you'll have loads of fun along the way. Take this course! CS 50 lives up to its hype and more.
It's a lot of fun but also hard work
CS50 is a course that everyone should probably take. Yes, it is time consuming, but it's worth it because you learn so much in such a short period of time. It is much easier if you have at least one friend who is a TF.
A very good introduction to computer science. You don't need a background in CS to understand the material, but if you have one, they will accommodate you. Provides a lot of room for innovative thinking. "Demanding, but definitely doable."
Just take it! It is an enormous amount of work but even more enormously rewarding. Take it pass/fail if you're nervous.... just don't let yourself graduate without taking CS50.
If you have never taken a CS course before, this is the class for you!
If you want to learn how to code and learn more about computer science, this is as good a course as any I can imagine.  Caveat: Don't buy into the hype of CS 50.  Yes, David Malan is very charasmatic.  Yes, coding your own programs and designing your own websites can be very rewarding.  That being said doing so is extremely difficult and *some people* will have to put in a lot of time to be succesful.  Personally, I was not able to complete half of the psets or the final project even after at least 15 hours of work on each pset and about 40 hours on final project.  I'm not an experienced coder but I did have coding experience coming into the class and am a math major.
If you have a decent amount of prior experience, consider skipping this class. I agree that CS50 is nice, and it has a wonderful atmosphere, but it has a lot of unnecessary and subjective psets that won't really teach you very much of anything at all.
CS50 is a great experience, but it really deserves a lot of time and devotion. I would actually recommend taking it during freshman year -- it might be a shock to your system, but you'll have more time for it than at any other point.
CS50 is a great and exciting class. I do have reservations in recommending it, however. As someone with no background in Computer Science, I struggled tremendously to keep up with all the psets and to do well on quizzes. I found the class to be mostly geared towards those with a moderate amount of experience. I think that it is great for someone who is taking other easier classes, but for me taking CS50 resulted in me not being able to spend enough time on other classes
This class is extremely difficult, however it is mangeable if you take advantage of all the resources available. Be prepared to feel overwhelmed a lot (and probably cry) if you do not have experience with coding/computer science. Before every pset was due I wished I did not sign up for this class but after doing the final project and seeing how much I learned I am glad I took it. I now feel like I can make my own website which is pretty cool.
This course was exceedingly time-consuming. When I read the evaluations before I took this class, people said it might take 20 hours to do a problem set. I think people always underestimate this, and I think it's important to be real. I had never done programming before I took this course, and there were a couple of weeks I spent 50 or 60 hours working on a problem set. Most of the time it was 30-40 hours per week. It's a LOT. The course starts off manageable, but becomes increasingly time-consuming until you are unable to do almost anything else in your academic life. I am a grad student and my research ground to an absolute halt about half way into the course. This course stressed me out a huge amount. HOWEVERIt was also the best course I have ever taken. I learned an incredible amount, and I certainly can't say I regret taking the course. I couldn't have imagined how far we would get in one semester. I did my final project on something related to my lab, and when my partner and I have done a little more work on the project, we will be publishing it. Who knew I would soon have a programming publication! That's pretty damn cool.
It's stuff you need to know for life. It seems daunting, but it's actually fun when you do it.
The events and resources and hype that surround this course make it very popular.  I decided to take this intro course rather than skip because of these things.
Extremely difficult, but you do come away from it having learned a lot.
This is Cs50, my favorite class at Harvard! But a class I really struggled with at the beginning, which honestly surprised me as a math-science person. As many people will tell you this class is tremendously rewarding, finishing psets is the best feeling in the world, but getting there can honestly be a nightmare! This class tested my faith in my own abilities like no other and I come out on the other side a much stronger student and someone who really wants to learn more CS!
This class is hard, but it is also good. You get as much out as you put in. But be prepared to put in quite a bit.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on this class, even if you take it pass/fail.  Think twice about it, if you are writing a thesis.
This is the best class I have ever taken.  I learned the most in this class than I have ever learned in another class in my academic career thus far.  Don't be scared to take it, because you are not graded absolutely compared to your classmates.  I think all intro classes should be run like CS50, with sections for less and more comfortable students and different problem sets based on comfortability with the material.
Take only if you have a lot of time to devote to the class. You will be miserable otherwise.
Despite the massive time put into the final project and psets, the class will be worth your time. Even if you have some CS experience, you will take something away from this course.
In order to excel in the course, make sure to either a) have some background in cs (preferably, having taken at least 2 cs courses in high school) or b) having an extremely light schedule (since the psets WILL take an enormous amount of time if you're inexperienced/not a cs prodigy).
Do not be sucked into this course unless you are truly interested in Computer Science. It is hard. Much harder than they make it out to be in the beginning. Many of the TFs are nice people, but the course simply isn't structured to support struggling students. By the time the course gets really difficult it is too late to Add/Drop or ever Withdraw.
I think this class tries to be more than it can handle. The difference in skill level is too great among the students.
(1) If you have had no prior experience with programming, this class will provide an excellent introduction. It'll be difficult, and you'll want to form study groups and work with your peers. That said, the course is designed to be extremely accessible, and the course is graded by how much improvement you make, so don't worry if you completely fail pset 1. (2) If you have had some prior experience (AP CompSci or equivalent) or if you've programmed some for fun, this is also an excellent course. The procedural programming paradigm of C is different enough from the object oriented paradigm of Java that most of the things you learn will be new. (3) If you have had significant prior programming experience (taken several CS courses already, written sophisticated programs in C), you will definitely want to consider skipping this for a more advanced course. (4) If you have had significant experience programming in assembly, C, and other languages (like me), do yourself a favor and sign up for CS61 (and then maybe go back and take CS51 in the fall). I was bored out of my mind.
Believe all that you've heard both about how difficult and how valuable this class is. Definitely worth taking for anyone who's anyone (I'm talking to you, fellow humanities students). You'll know how to do so much cool programming stuff by the end of this classand you'll understand it, too. But each pset will absolutely destroy a week of your semester, so make sure you don't take this alongside another substantial commitment (hard class, thesis, etc.)
Do not take this course with another course you may consider particularly hard or work intensive. It is extremely useful information and highly fulfilling as well as a readily applicable skill.
You will learn so much from this class, although prepare to work hard. I had no experience with programming before. I took it pass/fail and it really took the stress away from me.
everybody should take this class. There's too much of a focus on C, but the course itself is fun and challenging. Be prepared to spend many many hours on psets. I would actually suggest taking it pass/fail for most people. doing so takes a lot of the stress off but you still learn basic programming skills.
This class is definitely a workhorse. Be ready for it to take over your semester, regardless of how interesting your other classes are. The first few weeks aren't bad, but then it starts to become a chore to look for problems in your code. It was definitely more rewarding than any other class I've taken here thus far. The grading system is somewhat arbitrary. It's my understanding that they normalize the raw scores, then they take into consideration how much you've learned over the course of the year.
The problem sets are a lot of work, but the TFs are great at responding to questions. You learn skills useful for a lot of different fields. Everyone should have to take CS50.
Do not take this class. It is a complete waste of time. I learned no computer science. It is way to demanding for an introductory class, especially if you are not planning to concentrate/minor in computer science.
This course is amazing. It made me very interested in computer science and the field. I will now take more classes in the field and previously was not thinking about it. A lot of work but worth it.
It's a great class, especially if you're planning to study comp sci. If you're not, you can still take it, just don't take it 1st semester freshman year!! You want your first semester to be as easy as possible, trust me. I should have waited.
CS50 is an amazing course and will teach you a lot if you are willing to put in the time and effort.
You learn a heck of alot about programming and such, but just be prepared to put in the time and effort.
CS50 requires a lot of work if you do not have previous experience. However, you should almost definitely take this course. Malan makes computer science accessible to people who are not CS majors. At the end, you will have the tools to solve problems logically, and each pset will be as if you finished another project. Go to section even though it is optional. And go to walkthroughs and office hours if you are unsure--in general, the TFs are quite helpful. Most importantly, find a group of friends that you can work with because CS is, unexpectedly, a collaborative effort. The majority of the course focuses on C, which is not particularly applicable in most programming, but the reasoning of the language is--and you learn PHP and Javascript at the end.
You will learn a lot.  Just be prepared to work quite a bit and be confused at times.
Coding is no doubt a time sink, but I don't regret having taken CS50 as a senior. I learned a tremendous amount, and the culmination of the final project was incredibly rewarding.
super difficult, amazingly applicable, hella interesting. take it.
Don't be scared! It is a lot of work and there will be times when you regret taking the course, but it will all pay off in the end. :)
TAKE IT! Yes, it requires more time than your average class - but not thaaat much more time. Yes, some assignments might be challenging if you have no background in CS - but never so challenging that you can't do them, especially with the AMAZING support system the class has. Highlight of the semester for me.
This class was the best class I have taken at Harvard. It's incredibly well-taught and so rewarding. Even if you have no interest in pursing a CS career, this class is worth taking. The staff and community is simply incredible. You will learn how to solve problems as well as understand more about the technology we use everyday! This class completely changed my mind about what I wanted to study. It was the only class I was sad to see end and I would highly encourage you to take it. If you don't wanna stress about it, take it Pass/Fail but TAKE IT!! If you are a little worried, take it with a friend or roommate. If you don't know anyone taking it, don't worry! There will be plenty of others for you to connect with! You won't regret taking CS50!
definitely a worthwhile class, but be wary. it is promoted as much more accessible than it is in reality. actually start the psets early and you will be much happier for it.
Look at old psets/lectures before you enroll in this course. The marketing is great. but does not paint the whole picture.
If you have any interest in computer science, take this course.  It will open your mind.
Its like a really challenging Latin course: it involves learning and writing an ancient language.
THIS CLASS CHANGED MY LIFE! No really, this class made me change the concentration I was declaring from Government to Computer Science!!! It's the most rewarding class I've ever taken at Harvard. I went in with literally NO coding experience, and left wanting to continue working on my final project over winter break......
Start the psets earlier than the night before they are due (or even two nights before). Also, attend lectures even though they are recorded. They have a fun vibe.
This course is insane. The first few weeks ease you into C very well, and Professor Malan is remarkably engaging, but after the add/drop deadline, either by coincidence or intentionally, the course becomes extremely difficult, the curriculum disjointed (several programming and scripting and markup languages are touched upon in just a few weeks), and the lectures very dull. If you know you love computer science/programming, take it. You'll thrive. But if you're a newcomer, be very wary. There are tons of resources to assist you, but by the time of the final project, you'll probably find that yes, you've learned a lot, but you've only been set up to fail.
This class is REALLY HARD. I took it thinking that it couldn't be impossible because so many people took it. While it wasn't impossible, it was incredibly difficult and would have be very easy to fail. Even tho I took the class pass/fail and got a BSC tutor, I spent 20+ hours a week on the psets. I generally felt very unprepared to tackle the psets because lectures and sections were very theoretical and didn't give the hard skills you needed for psets.
This is a great class. If you focus on the problem sets, you will learn the core ideas of computer science. Most of the learning is done doing the problem sets, so be prepared to spend a lot of time on them.
Only take this course if you are truly ready. If you have no CS background it will be hard--find a friend in CS50 who has experience to help you out. Even if you have experience, think about the other courses you're going to be taking during the semester. CS50 might take over your life at points, especially during the reading week with the final project, so you really need to make sure that you're ready and able to spend enough time on all of your classes. If you do have the time to spend on CS50, the class itself is wonderful. Malan is an awesome lecturer and you should really attend all the lectures because, even though they don't directly help you complete the psets, they help you ace the tests. The psets, especially the later ones, will probably take you 7-10 hours if you've HAD experience. If you do not have experience it will take you even more. But they are great and by the end of the course you really feel like you've pushed yourself, stretched your mind, and learned something new and really interesting.
This class is a must-take because it lets you understand computers at a deeper level.  We all know how to use a computer, but this course introduces you to HOW a computer works.
This was an amazing course, but definitely don't underestimate the workload, especially for those less comfortable (like me). One of the lessons you learn is that google is your best friend, because they don't explicitly give you all the syntax you'll need to know to do the psets. And for the end of the semester, be prepared to do a lot of your own research into php, html, js, etc because they only spend a lecture or two at best on the material, and it ends up being used much more extensively than they make it seem (quiz 1 was a killer because of this, and our final project ended up relying heavily on html and php).
Unless you are going to pursue a concentration/secondary, I would advise against it. You don't learn enough for it to be that useful and it eats up all of your time. I thought I wanted to a CS secondary but will not take another CS class after this one. All semester, I spent most of my week on the CS50 problem set  to the detriment of my other classes. For those "less comfortable" the course moves very fast and you don't often have time to absorb the material.
You will probably end up taking this class because of its reputation. However, it ended up feeling highly impersonal (too many students enrolled), and grading was highly arbitrary. You will be asked to section yourself based on previous experience, and I thought that sectioning into more experienced might mean learning more but it actually means getting graded harder on everything. I also didn't end up putting as much work into this class as I could have because of other classes (I did psets the night before sometimes), so watch out for that.
Be willing to put in a good amount of work.
I came into this class with no programming experience and the idea that I might be good at computer science, since I'm pretty good with algorithms I've encountered in linguistics, etc, but I changed my mind fairly quickly. This course is probably not hard or work-intensive compared to other science and math classes at Harvard (I wouldn't know). But because I take a long time to absorb information and the class essentially rushed through topics and expected us to assimilate them right away, I felt a lot more lost and incompetent than I really was until the final project. Luckily, the support network was tops. Also, the final project took a RIDICULOUS amount of time, even though my partner and I deliberately selected one that wouldn't be work-intensive, so make sure to start it really early.
Good class.  You learn a lot and it can be hard, but it's also a lot of fun.  Great resources and large community to lean on.  Problem sets and exams are time-consuming, but manageable and fair.  I recommend taking advantage of section because it's very helpful.
If you want to learn computer science and don't know anything, you basically have to take this course. It would be much better if the course focused on a few things and actually taught them, rather than mention a bunch of things without really teaching any of them.
This course is a lot of work and very time consuming.
You do end up learning a lot from this class and many people I know that were very unhappy with the class while they were taking it have donned rose colored glasses, but be warned it will take up a huge part of your semester and for parts of it it will not be very rewarding.
It's a great class but has a ton of work.
it is super hard and prepare to dedicate SOOOO much of your time to this class. it's worth it though. get a good TF--a lot of your grade at the end has to do with them.
Once you're in the class, it's hard not to get excited about CS50. The staff just brings so much enthusiasm to the course.
Be sure you have lots and lots of time.
I am so conflicted. They say that if you do not know how to code by 2050, you will be considered "illiterate." I realize so much the importance of learning how to code, and I enthusiastically push all people to do exactly so, and it tears me up that this class is the best way. Because I could not handle this class.
Class is good, lots of resources available, so that anyone can and should take the class. It is rewarding, but realize that what you get out of it depends on what you can put into it. Even if you have previous experience with CS, still realize that the course requires a large time commitment.
CS50 is no picnic: The trials and tribulations are numerous, the Quizes are iniquitous, the all nighters are copious - but none of this actually matters. In the end, you don your "I took CS50" t-shirt, eat a bucket full of candy, and smile when you realize how much you actually learnt in only 3 months.
Overhyped. Too cult-ish. Very useful, but makes huge leaps between lecture and problem sets.
This is a time consuming course. I had programming experience and it still took me about 10 hours a week outside of lectures and section. However, it is a great experience.
If you're interested in CS, this is the only major option available. If you have plenty of time and patience, it can be a very good course, however the grading is not transparent, and it is difficult to cater to every level in one class.
If you have no experience in CS, be prepared to do a huge amount of work. Also, don't take other extremely rigorous courses if you want to have a life.
If you don't have prior programming experience, this course will be HELL ON EARTH for you. Not a freshman year course. Biggest mistake of my time here!
Be prepared to not sleep, and spend way too much time on this course. It eats time and glamourises the lifestyle of programmers. If you go to everything - office hurs, lectures, sections, informal discussion with other students - you MAY be prepared.
CS50 assumes zero background knowledge. I came in knowing literally nothing about computer science (I didn't even know what a bit was) and I did really well in this class.
Advising students that they should be prepared to work long hours on a problem set is something that everyone will say. so I would instead suggest that students make friends in the course with which to collaborate on ideas. Collaborating on code is a breach of Harvard's student code and not something I condone, but working together on ideas can help assuage some of the stress that comes with intimidating and not-specific-enough problem set specifications.
CS50 is a very intense course requiring a significant time commitment.  Especially if you take this course with no previous background, you must be willing to struggle through problem sets and consult all resources available simply to complete your work.  The CS50 final project is very engaging.
The material is very exciting, but know that you will have to do a lot of work on your own because the lectures and sections combined will not be enough to get you through it.
It's HOT.
This class will teach you so much about programming and will force you to think critically and logically. However, for people new to CS, it is incredibly time consuming and often very frustrating. You can spend hours trying to debug your program and not make any apparent progress, so this class requires a lot of patience. While the psets are wonderful learning tools, they have definitely moved many students (including myself) to tears. Though Professor Malan is enthusiastic, I honestly don't think he is a great lecturer. Because he tries to cater to a wide range of skill levels, I often felt really lost or confused and frustrated. Beginners should also be prepared to do work outside of class to understand the material. DEFINITELY purchase the "Absolute Beginner's Guide to C"--It's incredibly well written and I couldn't have gotten through the class without it. If you don't like your section leader, go to someone else's section. Try to make friends with someone who's good at CS.  In short, I am glad I took this class because I learned so much, but I still can't tell whether or not I loved or hated it.
This course is FANTASTIC. Probably the best class I have taken so far, but the hackathon was a MAJOR let down. It ended up being lotteried and I didn't get in, just a heads up so that you dont get your hopes up if you really want to go and end up not getting in.
This is going to be one of the most amazing experiences of your college experience. No other large course on campus fosters the kind of relationships and culture that cs50 does. It will be hard, especially if you are like me and have no cs experience coming into the class, but there are so many resources made available to you that you can always find help and get your questions answered. I cannot stress enough the importance of going to section, watching the walkthroughs, and of starting the psets and final project early. You will come out of this course feeling super proud of everything that you have learned and accomplished and maybe even as a cs concentrator like me.
One of Harvard's most famous courses, and for good reason. For such an expansive topic, it's pretty well presented. You will get as much out of this course as you are willing to put in.
This is a great class that will teach you some very useful skills.  It is well-organized and well-run, and generally clear in its expectations and consistent in its workload.  It will require a significant chunk of time from you outside of class -- probably around 10 hours a week -- but the problem sets are fun and entirely doable (even for someone like me with no CS background at all).  You will come out of the class understanding much more about computers, how to think about algorithms, and how to program, plus you get to make something cool and useful as your final project.  A very worthwhile class for anyone to take.
This class is a great intro to computer science and coding, but takes a great deal of time and patience.
Tough, but you learn CS
Gosh, what a hard call. Extremely time consuming even if you're pretty skilled, this is a great experience if you find people to work with and get help from. Things get quite a bit harder for the second "quiz," so do NOT let it catch you off guard.
Computer science is likely going to become an increasingly important field over the next few decades as more and more things are being automated and determined by algorithms. I would definitely recommend learning it in some form. CS50 may not be the most efficient way to learn basic computer science principles in terms of time spent, as debugging C code can be a little tedious. However, it does provide a fun, structured environment in which to learn the basics of computer science and will be much easier than learning on your own.
Be prepared to do a lot of work and commit a lot of time.
It's a great class! Although it can be a lot of work, especially towards the end, if you look at the pset specs early in the week and at least start thinking about it, it's not impossible.
It's hard. There will be late nights, hair-pulling, and frustration. And it's entirely worth it.
This courses' reputation for difficulty is due to its time commitment. If you plan your time for the 8 weeks of psets and get started early, you will not have any 5am moments of despair. You can definitely come in with no experience at all, do fine, and learn a lot! A worthwhile experience.
Give it your best.
I'm sure most of the comments will tell you to take it and that it'll change your life, but...just be wary. It's hard. I don't expect a good grade in this class, and I don't deserve one, but I feel like I didn't really have much of a shot to begin with. It's just...frustrating. The problem sets, the quizzes, the final project, everything. All I do have to say is that this clearly is a labor of love for David Malan, who has to be one of the most inspired and involved professors I've ever had the pleasure of having. So much effort put into the course, and it really shows. I just wish it was easier -_-
CS50 is difficult, but rewarding, and most of the difficulty is just in the time spent struggling with the psets. If you put in enough time with them you'll be able to solve them. If you have any interest in learning to code, take this class. I left it as a much more competent programmer than I started.
Pretty good course. Can be frustrating at times. But overall it was fun, especially if you have some friends in the class. Final project was super cool.
It is hard.  Do not take for fun.  Take only if you enjoy love computer science.
You should definitely take this class if you want to learn about the basics of computer programming and have a better appreciation of the technology around you in the world. It takes a bit of struggling to get over the syntactical barrier at first, but it is definitely worth it once you can start writing code without worrying about syntax.
This is the workload of ~3 MBA classes.
It will eat up your life sometimes, but it's a good experience and provides solid foundational knowledge for CS (especially accessible for those completely unfamiliar with CS).
Great class. Can be a little over the top at times with the fanfare and the "This is CS50", but the content and the problem sets are great, you will learn a lot and by the end will feel very capable of implementing projects of your own.  Everyone should take it.
Hopefully the comments above and below this comment are enough to convince you to take CS50. Don't harp on tough grading, tricky problem sets, or confusing instructions. With cheerful optimism and genuine interest, you'll do just fine and - if lucky - you'll learn to love computer science. Happy coding!
If you have no computer programming experience, this class will teach you a lot. It's not as hard as a lot of people make it out to be as long as you start the problem sets early.
This was CS50.  Take note of these words because they are probably the happiest three words you will hear in CS50 because they signify the end.  Well this is slightly deceiving, if you have years of CS experience, you probably wont be too scarred.  But if you are one of the many less experienced (here less experienced typical means no experience, but I digress) students, you will likely find my experiences helpful.  CS50 starts out during shopping period with music, a fun lecture, candy, and cake.  Perhaps CS50 should spend one week discussing marketing strategies because that is what shopping period is all about.  You think you are entering a world of fun and rainbows, when you are actually entering a pit of confusion, questions, and frustration.   Like many of my less experienced counterparts, I bought into CS50 hook, line, and sinker.The psets start out fun.  Scratch introduces you to minor bugs, but nothing impossible.  But once C starts, the hours spent on psets start to build up. The specs are often long and convoluted with unnecessary paragraphstrying to aid in CS50s cool factor no doubt.  So you typically read through it, only to find out you dont really know what you are supposed to code, you only know that you do not have the abilities to do what they want you to. But what also makes the psets weak is that all of the psets where you actually create something useful come with so much distribution code, that you could not actually code anything like this from scratch if you wanted to.After coding for 45 minutes, you figure out that you really dont quite know enough yet and have to wait until Monday when office hours start.  Office hours that is another adventure.  Make sure you get there right when office hours start, or you will be 75th in the queue and will have to wait all of office hours to ask one question.  Now, I dont blame the TFs, in fact, they do an incredible job.  But because of the structure of CS50, most students are simply overwhelmed by the psets and TFs have to spend a long time helping students / showing them what they are actually supposed to be doing.  Say goodbye to all your extracurriculars because you will simply not have time to go to them if you want to finish your psets.  And that leads to the biggest issue of the class.  CS50 becomes your life. Now this isnt a bad thing in and of itself.  I have no objection to putting a lot of effort into a class.  What is unfortunate is that all of this effort results in dismal midterm grades and pset scores.  But with each terrible grade comes the reminder that, its not about how well you do compared to your classmates, it is how much you improve from week 0 to week 11.  But at the end of the day this still isnt comforting.  Because the psets get harder, as do the midterms, and while my abilities were getting better, the numbers gave the appearance that my improvement was stagnant.Final Thoughts:CS50 has potential to be a good class, but because of the structure, it is not very good currently.  The less experienced people drown in the difficulty of psets and confusing lectures while the more experienced people stop going to class because it is easy and boring.  This class tries to cater to everyone, but in doing so it causes more problems than solutions.  The best things you will gain out of this class are strong friendships that are formed by staying up all-night, struggle-bussing over psets and commiserating over CS50. Personally, Id recommend taking it through edX over J-term.  It is the same class but without the pressure of it affecting your gpa and taking up all of your time during a semester.  In the end it is your choice, but make sure you know what you are getting yourself into.
I like to call this the best class I have ever taken. I am not a CS concentrator, but am now able to do decent things at the computer. Keep in mind though, that this probably is the most time-consuming course at Harvard. I kept track and indeed spent more than 20 hours each week with lectures, section and problem sets! Working on the problem sets is much fun and very rewarding though.
Make sure that you have time to fully devote to this class. This class may be difficult if you have tendencies to procrastinate or aren't fully interested in computer science.
This class is a lot of work but the feeling you get after completing a problem set is incomparable.  I feel like this is one of the most applicable classes offered at Harvard and it got me interested in concentrating in a field that I never would have considered before.
This is bad class to take in the first semester of Freshman year - I felt overwhelmed and frustrated with the amount of material I had to learn week-by-week to do the psets, and ultimately I felt I was not prepared to deal with CS 50 in addition to other radical changes in my working/living/academic situation for my first semester of college.That being said, you will learn a lot of CS. Not only that, you will learn how to learn CS, so picking up new programming languages in the future will be much easier after taking this class.Also, take this advice (please, please actually follow this advice, you will thank me later):DO THE PSETS SOON BEFORE THE DEADLINE.Waiting til the night before to do a pset is like murder, especially towards the end of the semester.That is all.
It is a class everyone must take.
Make sure you can invest enough time to really understand what you're doing. Not a course worth half-ass-ing
CS50 is an overhyped class. Yes, it is a great chance to learn the basics of programming, but the lectures and assignments rarely intersect, the problem sets seem more like an exercise in looking up functions than actual problem solving, and the exams test material at a level not expected of you in the assignments. I would take the class for the experience, computer science is immensely valuable, but don't take it because it is the holy god of CS50, you will regret it if you do.
I would encourage everyone to take this class. It is definitely a fun time, definitely a little cult-y, but you'll learn so much about so many different programming languages. The CS50 Fair is really amazing because it's then, when you get to look at everyone's projects and present your own, that you realized how much you've learned. That said, if you're not considering concentrating in Computer Science, i would take this course Pass/Fail. It's a lot less stressful that way.
Except for psets 4 and 5 (or perhaps 5 and 6 depending on your psets), this class is no more work than a regular science course.  I think everyone should take it, since it teaches what everyone ought to know.  How does the internet work, and how does a webpage function?  Is this a feasible coding project within certain limits?  How exactly (on a superficial level) does a computer work?I didn't have any experience with programming, and I really enjoyed it.  I would recommend taking it with friends, or at least making friends in it though, since it does make the experience more enjoyable.  I'd recommend doing the psets over the weekend (the walkthrough for the pset is on Friday), and then going to office hours on Monday in order to debug and to fully make sure you understand what you're doing.
You will certainly learn quite a bit from this class. Be sure to start the assignments as soon as they are released (they're hard), and go to the lectures! I found the second quiz to be very difficult, mainly because I didn't go to a bunch of the lectures. It's tempting to not to go, since you think you can just watch the video later on-- trust me, you won't. Just... go to the lectures. :-)
If you want to learn programming in a fun environment, take this class.
CS50 is a Harvard institution. Don't just take it because of the fanfare, however, because it will consume your life and you need to have some inherent interest  in computer science if you are going to leave the class with a positive experience. I would encourage people who are dubious about it, yet are interested in the class, to take cs50 pass/fail. If you don't need the grade to count it for a secondary/gen ed   I think pass/fail would make for a really great experience. You get the fun and whatever you can take out of it coding-wise, without the crazy stress. All in all, I would recommend the class, be ready to work, but also ready to be rewarded if you put in the work.
Do not take this class as a freshman unless you are very interested in coding and computer science.
Be prepared to spend a huge amount of time on this class. You may be disappointed by the help you get (or may not get) from office hours. The material is useful, but I'm not sure I would take this course again if I had the chance, unless sweeping changes are made to the course.
this is a great course, but it also depends on your TF. I had a wonderful TF who held lots of unofficial office hours, otherwise the material would have been pretty difficult to get through on your own. it is a LOT of time commitment, so be sure that you are ready to put in about 15-20 hours a week for this class.
Very helpful to find people who can guide you when you get stuck. DON'T FALL BEHIND ON LECTURE MATERIAL.  Over the summer, read Programming in C and use online resources to get yourself familiar with stuff.  Start psets ASAP.  Then...it's manageable.
If you watch the walkthroughs and start the problem sets early, the class should be easy.
This class is awesome if you are able to put the time into it.
The first half of the semester gives a strong, well-explained introduction to the principals of computer science. Once the course delves into web development, a slight chaos governs the rest of the course. Regardless, the course certainly teaches very useful and applicable skills.
REALLY BIG TIME COMMITMENT. If you are taking other time-intensive classes, don't take this.
Take it!
This class is incredibly time consuming. Don't let the first two weeks with Scratch and Mario fool you, it escalates very quickly. Every week is a new mountain to climb. That being said, if you have a lot of free time/don't really value sleep, go for it. Now that it's over, I am glad I took it.
If you do not have background, prepare for a lot of work after pset3 or so.
Take it, and if you do spend enough time on it (LOTS of time, if you don't have previous experience, or are not taking the class pass fail and are blasting through psets), and survive the semester, you'll likely be happy. However, it is a SIGNIFICANT time commitment.
You will learn a LOT from CS50, and there a lot of great traditions associated with the course (the CS50 hackathon, puzzle day and the CS50 fair, not to mention the constant stream of food) but it will take over a large portion of your time. Take it if you know you like computer science, but not if you want a relaxed way to find out more about web design, etc.
Take this class if you're interested in computer science, but brace yourselves - you're in for a challenge, but potentially the most fun and rewarding challenge of your academic career.
A lot of work, but 100% worth it in the end.
Very good if you take advantage of all the help available to you. Takes a lot of time to code, even if you understand what's going on, just because bugs and making computers run in general are very finicky. DO NOT underestimate how long it will take, and never ever start a pset the night before it's due. They rarely work when ya do that. Also, find out from your tf what they consider good (or bad) style and design, as it varies from TF to TF and can be painful to figure out the hard way.
This class is tough. Reviews will be mixed, but it is really hard. If you have not had any computer science background prepared to be lost. Know that you will finish your psets because office hours and CS50 discuss are very helpful, but recognize that this class will be extremely time consuming and very difficult. You have to teach yourself a variety of things because the lectures do not just tell you what you need to know for the psets. I was hesitant about taking this class, but gave in because of all the hype that went with it. Don't make this same mistake. make sure it is really what you want, and know that you probably won't be making world class apps by the end of it. You get what you put into it, and if you aren't willing to spend a ton of time on it, do not take it because it will not be worth it. Similarly, unless you are planning to major in computer science, do NOT take this class your freshman fall. Nothing against this class because it can be a great thing, but as a freshman it will be difficult and overwhelming, especially if your brain is not accustomed to thinking in a computer science mindset. It will stress you out. It can definitely teach you some very useful skills, and is a cool class to take a sometime during your Harvard experience (depending on your interest level), but as a first-semester freshman it is not the best fit. It is for a certain kind of student, and if you do not feel you fit that type, do not take this class. I am not trying to bash the class because it is very well organized and very cool in a lot of ways, but just be prepared for what is to come. Even taking it pass/fail requires you to put in a lot of work. Take it if you want to learn some CS, but don't expect it to instantly make you the next big app designer. Think this through carefully and talk it over with some adults that can help you with your decision before enrolling.
DEFINITELY do NOT take this class if you do not have background in computer science. Especially during freshman fall, when so much is new and different, this fast-paced course was frustrating, difficult to follow, and demoralizing.
It is way too demanding for an introductory level course. Make sure you have done another CS course before attempting this one so that your expectations are aligned with the amount of time required for this class and your likely level of achievement among your peers.
This class takes a lot of work, but it is definitely worth it. If you have no interest whatsoever in CS then don't take it; otherwise you should. It's worth the experience -- the teaching is fantastic and the whole CS50 environment is a real pleasure to be around. There are lots of hours of work ahead of you, but they aren't awfully stressful because you always have others who can sympathize and who can help you through your struggles.
The course will demand a lot of your time. You may not even have a life if you want to thoroughly understand what is going on. Nevertheless, it is one of best >500 people class that you can ever take. It has a great system in place. The only thing I'd say need improving is its office hours. Sometimes I learn real fast and efficient from friends about programming, but to do so in office hours is more difficult it it is harder to arrange.
CS50 is a highly demanding class but a very rewarding one to. Be prepared to put in many hours for each pset and to start early!
Be ready to work! The problem sets are, at times, very challenging. That being said, the versatility you gain from being able to manipulate computers and construct programs is enormous and valuable to any student willing to put in the work to do well.
Great class!! A lot of fun. Be prepared for late nights the day before the psets are due. Find a good friend to work with (psets, studying, project). They really do take you step by step and help you along. There are SO many resources to utilize, they really make it a course for people of all different CS backgrounds (I had none)
This course makes you spend at least 20 hours a week for both classes and psets if you have no CS background. Quizzes are almost impossible to do well with great time pressure and difficulty in content. Take the class for a grade only if you have to take it as a requirement. Otherwise, just take it pass/fail to put the pressure off from yourself.
Think about your experience level with programming carefully.  If you have no experience at all, then even two hours reading through an online tutorial will soften the blow of the first couple problem sets significantly.  If you're experienced enough, say, to know all the C programming covered on the quizzes, I strongly encourage you to take a more advanced class like CS61 instead.  I frequently felt that I wasn't learning anything new.
Start the final project over Thanksgiving Break! It'll make you much less stressed and happier with the final product.
Simply put, great intro to your basic topics of programming, psets are hard, but doable if you look at them ahead of time, and the experience of just taking the class is worthwhile.
This class is really hard. If you plan to take it be prepared to spend a lot of time on psets if you have no prior experience with cs. The class is also huge so I felt lost a lot.
The psets/walkthroughs, posted lecture notes, and TF-led midterm review sessions are probably the most useful learning tools for covering the course material.
CS50 was, for me, a really fantastic course. Malan is a fantastic lecturer, and the way he runs the course - which, in 2012, had over 700 students and I think around 100 staff - is pretty darn impressive. There is a lot of support built into the course, between the discussion forums, office hours, and section. Malan actually makes a point of responding promptly to any student email, despite the course size. There are also some really cool events, like the Hackathon and the Fair. It should be noted that CS50 is tough-ish. It's a lot of work. It's not at all math-y (literally you have to know arithmetic and understand the concept of a remainder in division and that's it), and they do their best to accommodate those "less comfortable", but if you *really* don't know much at all about what's under the hood of a computer, make sure to give this course sufficient time in your schedule that you'll not feel trapped. Still, this is a fun, challenging course that gets you off the ground in an incredibly useful and broadly applicable discipline. You learn the basics of Computer Science, you learn how to write basic programs, and most importantly you learn enough to make it much easier to master new programming languages and new programming concepts. It's absolutely worth the effort.
you don't get as much support as they promise -- with so many people, they WILL lose track of you at some point. they put too much effort into making it an "experience" rather than a class. you spend most of the time on C, which is abstruse and nobody uses it anymore. still, you do learn how to program, so it is useful. but I never really got into the whole cultish atmosphere of it like some people do.
Take this class if you're willing to invest time in it.
It is very time consuming, but worth taking
This class is difficult for people who have had no experience, but there is so much help available that it is doable.
This class is an amazing introduction to CS. Everyone should take this class at Harvard at least pass/fail, but you will struggle if you are not naturally logical or mathematical.
Take this course regardless of your intended major
Fun, interesting introduction to programming and computer science. A must-take at Harvard
I am a humanities concentrator without much technical aptitude. I took CS50 to try a rigorous course in engineering, just because this seemed like a great opportunity. I am writing this review for a freshman choosing their courses (I took this course as a Freshman).Takeaways: (1) This class is a good tool for evaluating if CS for you. For a substantial portion of students, that answer is "no", but they can fake it well enough to get an A. Some can't fake it.(2) This class is rigorous. While there are some classes that freshmen routinely take that require more work (Physics 16, Math 25/55, etc.), there are not many, and certainly none that any Harvard can sign up for knowing that if they put enough effort in, they can do well. Both Engineering concentrators and Humanities concentrators that I have talked to report that this class can take up to 75% of homework time. My experience was consistent with this figure.(3) Pass/Fail is a really great option here. Many people take this class just to try it out, not to fill any requirement. Then why not go Pass/Fail? There is really very little downside (I haven't met any P/F students that report the P/F option have caused them to slack). Pass/Fail can help insulate you from the effects of the notoriously difficult quizzes.(4) Since pretty much everyone takes this class, it gives you something to talk about with randos in Annenberg. That is a plus.(5) They teach you how to hack/compromise a variety of systems. That was really cool. tl;dr: This class is a lot of work. That has upsides (bonding, learning, pride when you are done) and downsides (sleep/stress/keyboard breaks). If you take the course, be prepared to work, but, more importantly, be prepared to lean a lot.
Very fun and teaches very useful skills.
Reports of this class being exceedingly difficult and reports of this class being exceedingly easy are both true. It is fulfilling and problem sets are both enjoyable and challenging.
CS50 is a fantastic class! I was hesitant to take the course because I am a senior with no prior programming experience. I ended up taking the course pass/fail, and I would highly recommend this option to anyone who is nervous about his or her lack of previous experience. Taking the course pass/fail saved me ~4-5 hours per week because I didn't need to worry about some of the details of the problem sets or agonize over the details for the quizzes. This being said, I still gained a tremendous amount of valuable skills from the course. Now that I understand the foundations of CS, I will be able to utilize the vast array of resources available through CS50.net. I feel empowered to take on almost any future endeavor in programming!
Watch up to week three of the lectures to gauge whether you are suited for this course. If you feel that you may have some difficulty but really want to take the course, make sure to try to get Lauren Carvalho as your section leader! She is amazing! If you have trouble with your code, talk to your friends first, then try to arrange a meeting with your section leader. Office hours can be a bit difficult because so many people need help and sometimes the TFs are preoccupied with other business.
This class will test your problem-solving abilities and patience unless you've had extensive prior experience. It is also very rewarding and fun, especially the Hackathon and Fair at the end. Challenging, but worth it!
Simple class, just stay on top of the work. You won't learn by reading, just start doing.
A great course, but know what you're getting yourself into.
This class should be enrolled in thoughtfully (you really need to balance out your course load), but it is absolutely worth taking! Everything you've heard about it is probably true-- the all-nighters, the hackathon, the countless hours spent working on a problem set, and how WORTHWHILE it all feels in the end. There is overwhelming support available in this class, so don't let it scare you. Just make sure you have the time to dedicate to put the work into it, and you'll surely get a lot out of it in the end.
CS50 really is awesome. You should definitely plan to spend a significant amount of time working on problem sets, but David Malan is a great lecturer and teaches very effectively. The support structure is incredible for such a large class. Quiz 1 was a bit difficult and long, but the curve should account for that. Take CS50!
You get out what you put in. Simple as that.
I'd heard many bad things about this course from people who had taken it lacking both preparation and the "gets computer stuff" gene. I'd also heard many really positive things from geeky CS50 alums. I'm pretty geeky, so I figured I'd really enjoy it - but for me the course fell far short of the hype. Psets are way too long; not in terms of what you're actually asked to do, but in terms of sheer page length (several psets are in the tens and twenties of pages, for no reason whatsoever). The CS50 appliance really sucks; if you're skilled, you'll probably find a way around using it. As to the midterms, midterm one is a joke for a programmer (super easy, seriously) and midterm two is a twenty-page mess with all sorts of random material that you'll have to piece together at the last second. Realistically, if you're a CS type, you're probably going to do it. I didn't hate this course, but I did find it more irritating than rewarding, hence my recommendation with reservations. One more thing - lectures are useless. I didn't attend a single one; only go if you like to witness simple concepts explained at a glacial pace.
This course was absolutely amazing and a must-take at Harvard. It's rough, but the support system is there for you. You come out of this course knowing some very practical skills and a better appreciation for programming languages. You also begin to think more logically and methodically, something that I've applied to my other courses as well.
CS50 is a class that will take up a lot of your time. At the same time, it is worth all the hours you put into it.
Every Harvard student should take CS50
It really helps to know other students in the class, otherwise trying to work through problem sets is very hard.
Overall, very good intro class to get you exposed to the field.  You will be surprised by how much more confident you feel about CS after taking the class.  The psets for this class can generally be done in an all-nighter right before they're due, but I don't recommend it, as it caused quite a lot of stress on some weeks for me.
Definitely a worthwhile class in terms of building actual skills, but don't do it if you aren't interested in learning a whole new language and way of thinking.
The course is WAY too fast. I say this as someone who came into Harvard confident that they are fairly technically savvy and know a bit about how computers, software and setting up websites works. Even a number of TFs who I spoke to privately voiced their opinions that CS50 had become so big and had so much variation in the levels of incoming CS ability that people had,  that it should be split into two entirely separate streams, one for the less comfortable and one for all others. I thought it was quite unfair that there were some people who were just able to wizz through the course because they had done some CS before at school (after all, looking back the PSETS arent difficult if you know what you are doing), whilst others toiled away for  ~12-14 hours per PSET, attended 3 hours worth of lectures a week, watched the 1.5 hours CS50 walkthrough, and then spent another 20-30  mins on the shorts (short instructional videos) just to be able to hand in their PSET on time. In total, that adds up to almost 19 hours of work per week (almost an entire 1 of your 7 days a week) just to stay afloat of the work in CS50, not to mention the fact that ideally to truly understand everything and feel confident you would like to be able to spend an extra 2-3 hours a week reading up on external material relevant to the material in CS50. I write this opinion as someone who has already spent some time around computers and website-coding in the past, and yet I still really struggled with the volume and speed of work.To summarize, I wish someone had told me how many regular all-nighters I would have to pull just to pass this course with a mediocre grade, and how much it would harm my freshman social experience because I had to spend so much time trying to learn and understand all the fast-paced material, rather than meet new friends and not feel stressed all the time. God save you if you are also a varsity athlete who has other commitments in life aside from CS50 and has never done any real coding before.
Great course! You will learn so much about computers and be really proud of how far you come! However, I do wish this class had a more comprehensive grading system. Even though I got grades back, as far as what grade I was close to, I could not tell.
Only take this class if you REALLY want to and care enough to put in the time and effort. Otherwise it's going to be a disaster and you will hate your semester.
I loved this class. It taught me a lot about computer science and the way they think about problems. It was also a lot of fun.
They aren't kidding about the workload. It's a lot to handle, and you have to put in the hours to make the course worthwhile.
CS50 gets real after week 5, right around the time Pass/Fail notices are due. Still, bonding with classmates during hellish Wednesday and Thursday nights made the class worth taking.
CS50 is great if you end up really loving it, but be wary that it's difficult and not for everyone. It takes up a lot of time, so you should balance your schedule with less time-consuming classes along with this one. Walkthroughs are a necessity if you don't have comp sci experience and are doing the problem sets.
Take this class! It changes the way you think. I've learned how to break down all sorts of problems and how to pinpoint and isolate the exact trouble spot. Psets aren't as bad as you think -- just set aside ~8 hours at some point during the week to focus. Honestly, if you go to lecture and watch the section videos (!!!!!! DO THIS) and the walkthroughs (!!! DO THIS AS WELL), the psets aren't bad. Ask questions -- often times, you'll spend an hour trying to figure something out that could've been solved in 5 minutes if you had asked a question (ex: a certain function already exists that you could use if you knew about it instead of trying to write code that will accomplish the same thing)You don't have to go to lecture -- they're all videotaped -- but I recommend staying relatively on top of the schedule. I wouldn't be more than one or two lectures behind at any given time. It makes it harder to catch up later, and lecture can be helpful for the psets.
You learn a lot, but it can consume a lot of your time.
Take the class you won't regret it! Definitely my favorite course this semester.
The course is incredibly well put together and is a crazy experience. I really enjoyed it at the beginning but during the second half of the term it was incredibly time intensive to the point where I stopped enjoying it. Ultimately, however, I am so impressed by what we learned by the end of it and I think that everyone should understand the basics of programming now.
You'll get exactly as much from this class as you put in. I worked really hard and loved every minute. Now, I feel like I can tackle a whole host of different programming problems.
A great overview class of CS, but don't expect to go into anything really in depth.
If you've ever had an interest in computer science AT ALL, than you really, really should probably take this class. David Malan and all of the TFs care about it so much, and their enthusiasm is really infectious. Though it is a decent amount of work, you have SO MANY resources available to help you get your psets done on time. And, the grading reflects your personal development, so you aren't going to be compared to the crazy master hackers (at least supposedly, I haven't gotten mine back yet so we'll see).
hard but you can do it
I had no background in CS and learned more than I would have ever imagined. It's not a hard course; it is a time-consuming course and you get out what you put in.
if you have any interest in computer science, take this as soon as possible.
A must-take!
Be prepared to work hard. This class takes a great deal of commitment and work. When you get to the end, you will feel accomplished and proud, but it will take a lot to get there. It is doable, but incredibly challenging. (Note: I had little to no CS experience at the start.)
You really should take CS50, even if for the sake of just getting the chance to do a final project. It's entirely possible that you will struggle for much of the semester, but stick it out because creating something by yourself or in a small team is inspiring and addicting. Collaborate, ask questions and be ambitious, you can do it!
Take this class! You will not regret it! It is easily one of the best organized classes offered and definitely allows you to gain a deeper grasp of what goes behind computers.
CS50 is a very populist class. If you want to learn basic coding/CS, it will get the job done, but with lots of distractions and inefficiencies. The lectures are not very useful and digress a lot (too many cats and not enough programming) and the psets consist mainly of throwing students in the deep end, hoping they are competent enough to swim by themselves or with the aid of office hours. Take the class if you want to learn about the subject and are willing to invest the time, but be ready to put up with a number of frivolities.
If you don't already know a significant amount of the material covered in this course, it's a solid introductory course. The coding involved in it is fun, and the difficulty level is appropriate for beginners.
CS50 is amazing. If it fits in your schedule, take it. For those who are especially mathematically and logically minded, this is an awesome class. No prior background in programming should definitely not hold you back from taking CS50. Also, try to go to office hours, even if you feel as if you don't need it as much or have much time. The experience of seeing the support network provided by David Malan and the TFs and CAs is just great to witness. Also, if you can, try Hacker psets, even if you do the regular psets as well in case you cannot finish. They are fun and challenging (not that the regular ones aren't)!
A great class. Anyone willing to spend a bit of time should take this course, just to be a bit more aware of the CS field that permeates everything around us today.
This is a great class. It's very useful and you will learn a lot. The concepts aren't too difficult, but be prepared for several late nights working on problem sets. Also realize that there is a lot of support in this class, including office hours 4 days a week and a 24/7 online question/answer forum where TFs can answer questions about problems sets, concepts from lecture, etc. within a few minutes of your post (yes, even at 4am).
Take it pass fail. Right up until the ad/drop deadline, you may think you want to take it for a letter grade. You don't.
Best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Malan is an amazing lecturer, office hours are very helpful, TFs are great, the lunches and activities put on create a sense of community. Hack-a-thon was incredible and the fair was super cool. I've never worked so hard and gotten so much out of a class as this one. Although I don't now plan on taking any more CS, this course really made me reconsider my concentration/secondary. It is a community I want to stay a part of.
It is definitely hard and extremely time consuming. I don't think many of the psets I could have possibly figured out without CS50 discuss or going to OH. I didn't find the lectures helped that much with the psets, they mostly helped with understanding fundamental concepts of CS. I took the class pass/fail and I'm glad I did. When I had other midterms, I was able to focus on them, rather than freak out over the 10+ hours I would have to spend on the pset.
A must-take at Harvard. Best introductory CS course in the nation. CS50 is more than just an academic course. It is a culture in itself, one that you cannot afford to miss out on at Harvard. The course material is engaging and interesting. Psets are hard. Wednesday and Thursday nights will be very rough. You will leave the course feeling well prepared for any future CS course, however. Take it!
Everything you've heard about CS50 is true. It's hard, it can be stressful, but it's definitely worth it. There will be nights when you are stuck on a small bug in your code for so long that you will see the sun rise as you return to your room. It's not that the problem sets are actually that hard, but that they expect you to learn a lot as you code, and that coding is just by nature a tedious and error-filled process. I think most people can handle CS50 if they put in the effort, and you will get more out of it than almost any other class. Also, coding can be pretty fun, so the time flies as you watch your programs come together on each problem set. You will be amazed by what you can do by the end of this course. I have only two pieces of advice: 1) take CS50 in a semester without any other similarly demanding courses; 2) take CS50. I guess I would also recommend not taking it freshman fall, as that's probably a rougher introduction to Harvard than most people are looking for.
Be prepared to work exceptionally hard
problem sets are absurd to tackle for those with no background
If you have a fair amount of background knowledge, the final project will be a lot of fun, but the problem sets will probably not teach you a lot.  Before deciding to take this course, look through previous years' quizzes, and if it seems like you would do well with minimal studying, consider skipping it and moving straight to CS61.
It's very useful in life to have computer science skills, and so taking this course is a good idea. However, be prepared to have it take up a lot of your life. Taking CS50 is like having someone hand you a thesaurus with 20 nouns and a couple verbs, stick you in a foreign country, and ask you to form sentences and communicate with the locals. The course doesn't do a very good job of easing you into the material or leading you through it, but I guess that's the philosophy behind computer science: Figure it out on your own.
A lot of work, take it when you have the fewest other committments and take it early
Take it even if you don't think you like computer science. You may change your mind. Dont start the psets the night before theyre due. If you hear about people pulling all nighters, its because they made stupid choices, not because of the class. Start your work ahead of time and it is easy to get it done. Go to office hours.
It's definitely possible to do this course with no prior programming experience (and still not die) but be prepared to either discover a hidden talent for coding or put in many, many hours. Friends with experience would literally finish problem sets in a quarter of the time that it would take me (with 'me' being probably a relatively slow average of 16 hours a week), so just be prepared that difficulty and workload change dramatically depending on your comfort level with programming. The lectures are engaging but do not necessarily cover the material at the depth that you'll need (particularly near the end) so you either need a great section leader (which I did not have) or the ability to learn some stuff on your own. This course does as advertised: it teaches you C quite well and correspondingly makes it much easier for you to pick up other programming languages by yourself. I am really glad that I took it, but while it was a good course, it was not as good as I thought it would be given the manic nature of the 'CS50 cult'.
It's really hard. Depending on how you do it may or may not be worth it. Don't take it during punch season.
Th course is not as hard as people make it out to be if you start the problem sets early and complete them one piece at a time. There is a huge support staff ready to help. By the end of the course you will have a whole new understanding of how computers, computer programs, and the internet work.
This class is made to destroy your soul. If you want to like your semester at Harvard, DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS! This class will make you hate school, your life, and everything computer-related. The psets takeover your entire week, and after putting 45 hours into a problem set, it is really crushing to have it not work. There is definitely no great safety net--with the long OH lines, you're not guaranteed to get help at office hours. The staff keep you on edge all the time about not finishing, keeping midterm scores super low, making problem sets ever more impossible, and prohibiting collaboration with their horrifying ad-board stories. This is Harvard's bootcamp with candy bribes.
If you have no background in CS this will be a very difficult course. The course breezes through topics that probably should have been taught in more detail, so that those who are less comfortable don't get to fully understand what exactly they are doing. However, you learn a lot and it the class definitely pushes you to learn as much as possible.
Find a tf to help you outside of office hours. Saved my life. Good class, will teach you programming like teaching language by starting with cave languages.
If you are willing to put in the work, it is pretty good.  Tough but doable.  Lectures aren't useful
An excellent class that gives you a fun introduction into computer science.  Although a lot of students feel that they will concentrate in CS after taking this class, it's depiction of CS is a bit cursory.  Nevertheless, you should take this class!  Best class I took 1st semester.
This is a great, but hard, class. Take it if you aren't taking too many other time-consuming classes in the same semester.
It's hard and worth it, but you already know that. Knowing some CS goes a long way, longer than they make it out to be...
do not take this class if you are a complete beginner (like me). this semester was spent surviving the psets. your time would be better spent doing self-taught online tutorial based learning (you wont get any tutorial based learning in this course). once you have at least a year of learning under your belt, then you can take this course for teh lolz
Program or be programmed.
Do not take this class unless you have programming experience. The class is not worth the time. I came out of CS50 without any useful skills. I do not plan to take another CS course.
I would tell students that this class is for everyone, regardless of their background with computer science.  Also it is a very rewarding class.
Not good for remote students who can't immerse in CS50 community in-person.
If you are taking this class for fun, definitely evaluate your schedule and determine if you are willing to make this your priority, because it will end up taking priority over all your other classes. The time commitment for someone new to CS is daunting, do not under estimate how much this will take over your schedule. Take it pass fail if you can
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. IT IS A HYPE. IT REALLY IS A HYPE. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. now that i have your attention, i will be more constructive. it says that its 14+ hours right? thats misleading since that makes it seem like 14~16 hours. it was really 20~25 for me. maybe even more if you include the emotional drain. i do not recommend this class for beginners unless you have a lot of time and/or really want to learn cs. is it useful? to a certain degree. you will be acquainted with cs, but if you dont use it, you will forget it. also, if you take this class as the first cs class, i dont think you get as much out of it as you really can. so i do NOT recommend this as your first class.
It's the most rewarding class ever, just take it and follow it, you'll learn so much.
Be careful. Make sure you have enough time for the class and will either have friends who can help you, are a very independent learner, self starter, have guidance from some other way because the class has a lot of independent learning and problem solving.
It's a lot of work, but it's rewarding in the end. But, seriously, you have to put a ton of work into it.
I think CS50 is one of those rare classes that can demand a lot of time, yet can keep students smiling nonetheless. That says a lot about how well the course if run. Not only are lectures engaging, but there is so much support available from your TFs, CAs, office hours, etc. that you end up forming a kind of coding community, working on psets and final projects with one another. This is what makes taking the class so fun. CS50 was really more than just a course - it was an experience.
Everybody should take this course before graduating. I understand after taking it why there is so much hype around the class. The workload is not as bad as I'd heard it would be, and this is coming from someone with no programming background whatsoever. You'll learn a ton and have fun doing it - and there's also a ton of free food! The feeling of getting code to work is incredible.
CS50 is good for certain purposes. I didn't have formal programming experience and didn't know much about CS, and wanted to learn some practical skills and knowledge as a physics concentrator who may or may not actually do physics later. I will say that I learned stuff in CS50... but not without being rather annoyed by it along the way. It's heavily catered towards those with less experience, and leans towards making things easier than more interesting/appropriately challenging--which is good for some, boring for others, and it seems most people just start slacking eventually anyways (and definitely skipping lecture), whether out of boredom or frustration or apathy or whatever. And a lot of things are just gimmicky/Malan-ego-inflating. Unfortunately, CS50's kind of the only way into CS here, if you don't have much prior experience... make of it what you will.
very difficult course, but extremely rewarding and tons of fun
Great class but demanding. Worth it.
This is an incredible class and you will definitely learn a lot. However be prepared for a serious letdown when the hackathon comes around. For most of the course this event was promoted as the culminating experience of the class and the ultimate computer science experience. I was super excited for this event however i was denied the ability to attend. To this day I am still saddened every time I see my friends with their hackathon water bottles and I think of how much fun I would have had there, had I not lost the lottery. Otherwise this is an incredible course and you should definitely take it.
The quizzes are terrible.
Pay attention in lecture. Don't bother taking notes as you can always refer back to the scribe notes. Go to section earlier in the week as it is really helpful for when doing the problem sets. Office hours are sort of a waste of time; better off getting a tutor from the BSC to help you troubleshoot your code for an hour a week. Overall such a great class. Definitely time consuming, but its really enjoyable work and you come away with such a sense of accopmlishment.
Be ready to work insanely hard and try to start problem sets once they're available.
Heavy workload, but very rewarding
Though this class can definitely be taken without any programming background, having some experience makes the course a lot less frustrating.Also, go to section!! They are extremely useful, because sections are divided by comfort level with coding. So whatever level you're at, you are guaranteed to learn useful information from your section TF. I had two years of CS experience before this class, and I still felt like it was extremely useful to my computer science knowledge.
This class is difficult but you will get a lot out of it if you put time into it
Take. This. Class. It's useful. You'll actually learn something. You'll learn new ways of thinking and looking at everyday things like your computer or a website. It's easy if you put in the time. It's so worth it.
DO NOT TAKE IF YOU AREN'T VERY INTERESTED IN CS.  I am a social studies concentrator, thought I would give the class a try because I wanted to branch out.  I even decided to take it letter graded.  Dumbest decision of my Harvard career.  It took hours and hours of my weeks all semester, and I am legitimately concerned that it will have serious impacts on my GPA, ruining something I have worked so hard for for a very long time.  Really, think twice.  I am the voice telling you not to take it: telling you it will be much harder than you expect, much, much harder.  It will consume your semester, eat you and spit you out in pieces.  UNLESS you are a computer science kid or super interested in the material, then you will probably love it.
The instructor is the best and the support system is amazing. I love the course a lot and wish to come back as a TF or CA. Everyone should take the course before graduation! I wish I had learned some CS before taking the course or had taken it Pass/Fail, though, because it has been really hard and time-consuming for me that I have spent little time on my other classes. The books listed in the syllabus are helpful; I would recommend reading them in advance if you have no programming experience and want to take the course.
CS50 has now become somewhat of a campus institution.  But I'm not sure that's because it is really a great class.  If you have CS experience (such as taking AP CS) the first several weeks will be extremely easy.  While if you do not, the first several weeks will be extremely difficult.  Malan's lectures, while engaging and fun, are more performance than anything, and offer little help in attacking the problem sets, which I don't think are conducive to really learning computer science.  Learning a concept and then being asked to apply it to a seemingly large problem can be intimidating for those who don't have CS experience.The final project is of course very rewarding and the Hackathon is very fun.  So I think by the time students get to filling out this survey there's a lot of positive feelings toward the course that may not be justified given the actual instruction and problem sets.  For those looking to casually learn CS, I recommend doing so on your own or through EdX or by taking this class pass/fail.  For those with CS background, I think learning C on your own and then taking CS51 is probably a better option.  I personally regret taking this course.
Be ready to work. The course material is interesting and Malan is a cool guy, but the lectures aren't always very closely connected to the psets so a lot of your progress comes through trial and error and slogging through them, especially if you haven't had any background in computer science before the course
Lots of work but generally worth it. Came in with no knowledge whatsoever and had to spend around 25 hours each week on the problem sets. Take advantage of the online material (vidoes, discuss, etc) and stay on top of things and it should be manageable. Midterms are somewhat tough, and the final project was an enjoyable experience.
Prepare to spend lots of time working on the psets and the final project.
Don't take this class. Study on your own. You will be bombarded with too much work that you screw up other classes. Don't take it if you have no experience with CS.
This course is difficult, no lie; some p sets might take you upwards of 30 hours. But it's an amazing experience, practically a culture, and you won't regret seeing it through to the end.
It will dominate and define your semester but it will be worth it.
An awesome class to take, but not for the casual learner.
This course caters to those with little to no experience with programming. If you have a basic understanding of programming, CS50 is a very manageable course and lectures/sections may not be as useful for you. That said, try not to be one of the people who start the pset the day before it's due.
It is a great class if you really want to delve into CS. If you only want to gain some familiarity or learn more about web design, then this is not really the best course for you.
Definitely worth taking; you learn as much as you are willing to learn from it.
Not for everybody, but gives you the fundamentals you're seeking
I would recommend this course to everyone regardless of interest in computer science.  The skills and manner of thought you learn throughout the semester are invaluable for every aspect of school and life, and you may even end up wanting to study cs further.  The coursework is difficult and time consuming, but possible.
This is a very doable course, even for beginners, and everyone on the staff genuinely wants to help you. It does take a crazy amount of time though if you are a beginner--about 10-15 hours per pset.
Here's the deal: this is the best class ever and will change the way you think. Here's also the deal: be prepared for some late nights and a lot of (creative!) work. This is the type of work that you finish and then LOVE that you put the time into. TAKE this class! EVERYONE should!!
Prepare for many all-nighters after Pset 3, if you are inexperienced in CS.
REQUIRES A LOT OF WORK. BEWARE.
CS50 is a fantastic class. You will come away with this class not only with a lot of computer science knowledge, but the satisfaction of finishing a final project you couldn't have imagined doing before. Understand this class for what it is, thoughyou will be spending at least 10 hours a week on psets. However, there is a giant support network of TFs (and CS50 Discuss, an online Q&A for the psets) to help you through.
One needs to budget their time properly when thinking about enrolling in this course. Workloads can be heavy.
You can honestly learn everything that is "taught" in this course by simply doing the problem sets on your own. Doing so would be far less stressful since you would not be forced to finish them by certain deadlines. You can easily get the experience of this course without even being enrolled in it by attending the CS50 fair, lectures, puzzle day, etc. In fact, in retrospect, I would have done it this way had I not been considering concentrating in CS. Basically, I would only suggest actually taking this course if you are considering concentrating in CS.
This class accelerates, and it's important to keep up.
This is an amazing introduction to computer science and a wonderful class!
It's CS50, is reason enough. But for non-CS majors, it'll give you a solid foundation for programming and navigating your way around code, a skill that's essential for any profession today. And for potential/decided CS majors, it's a nice way to ease into CS at Harvard. In any case, the community and culture of CS50 has pretty much become a mandatory experience, so just take the class.
This class is over-hyped. Lecture will leave you feeling like you know what's going on, but the psets are way too time-consuming for the pertinent topics (and logical problem-solving is definitely not one of my weak points). Unless you get a lot of help from TFs (or have background/natural talent in CS), expect to feel incredibly frustrated and lost among the sea of students, many of whom have prior experience. The TFs/other students try to be helpful, but there's a culture of closely guarding your own work.Despite Malan's heartwarming stories and insistence that he makes the course accessible, it doesn't really feel that way. The 2nd midterm is a clear example of this. Even though he knows every year that people do worse on the 2nd test, he still decides to dramatically increase the length and difficulty of it every year (2010: 30-some questions, 60-some points; 2011: 40-some questions, 90+ points; this year: almost 50 questions, 120+ points). Nobody I know finished the test. Lastly, sections are very hit-and-miss, with many more experienced people choosing to drop down for the easy A. My "less comfortable" section somehow had averages 5-6% higher than the class average on both midterms, which made beating the class average (what should have been a happy achievement for a less comfortable student) feel much more meaningless.Granted, I learned a lot - there's no denying that. But, with these issues, it's hard to see this class as the amazing experience that people claim it is.
If you've never had CS experience, take this class in an "easy" semester so you can focus on the huge workload CS50 has.
You will learn a lot!  Find a good support network early on (ideally including one or two TFs) to help you when you get stuck, and take advantage of all of the opportunities for help (office hours, etc.).
It can be very easy to skip lecture or just rely on lecture to get you through psets for the first half of the semester. However, this will just leave you wildly unprepared for Quiz 0 and Quiz 1. Make sure you keep up with all of the class material because it will become too difficult to try and cram it before the quizzes. The final project was a lot of fun.
Read the lecture notes after each lecture to keep up with what you're supposed to be learning.
If you do not need this course to fulfill a concentration requirement, take it pass/fail. It is a very cool, fun, and interesting class that Malan does a great job putting together. The course is more than just a class. It is an experience.
I took this with NO CS background and I loved it and I did well. Don't underestimate the last pset (web development) though. You have to learn new languages all at once, so don't procrastinate / miss lectures that week!
Tough class. Have a good 64-bit computer or else you can't take the class. The notes are good but you need another book to really get it.
Take this class! It will teach you how to think logically, and the TFs are willing to help you throughout the semester.
I'm glad I took it, but there's a lot of tedious debugging compared with the amount of hard thinking. Its satisfying when your code works.
You'll have to work. But it'll be worth it.
Spend time doing/reviewing the materials, GO TO LECTURE. This needs to be the class you actually spend time on.
It's an amazing course for introduction to computer science. And frankly, it is the BEST course I have ever taken in my life. The languages we learn in cs50 are really useful if you consider further development in the field of cs. The course itself is amazing too - with david being one of the best public speaker and all. Cs50 hackathon and fair are loads of fun. But if you are not the type of person who's willing to put a lot of time in a course don't take it! (Especially when you already have a busy schedule, it's not uncommon for people to stay up all night to finish their psets before the deadlines).
Take CS50. Know that it is an introduction, and not necessarily representative of the CS department in general. But if you haven't done any programming or CS, don't leave Harvard without taking this class.
Fun, interesting, occasionally painful to debug, but definitely useful if you want to program in the future!
If you make the time for this class, you won't regret it. It's really helpful and applicable outside of programming itself. I'm so much better at Matlab because of this class. It's hilarious. CS50 is something that I feel everyone should take, but if you don't make time for it, there's little use taking it.
Overall, I am glad I took CS50. I learned a great skill, but it was not without a great deal of work and frustration. Just know that although this is an introductory course if you do not have experience coding you will struggle. If you can try to learn some of the material over the summer and you will feel much more comfortable in the fall.
Be prepared to work very, very hard. You might feel lost fairly often. You will learn a lot, but make sure you take a manageable schedule outside this class.
Take this class even if you have no programming experience whatsoever! You won't regret it!
This course is built to accommodate a wide range of comfort levels.  If you have a strong CS background, you are likely to find the course--especially the lectures--a bit slow, but you can still get a lot out of it by doing the hacker p-sets, etc.  On the other hand, if you have no CS experience at all, this course does an excellent job of starting from the absolute basics and covering all of the most important topics.
It's very challenging and time-consuming but you learn so much!
It's tough but worth it. It demystifies computers and shows you whether programming is something you'd like to do in the future. By the end of the course you are able to continue to learn independently online as much as you want. A fantastic course that everyone should try before they graduate.
You should make the most of your CS50 experience. Go to lecture, go to puzzle day, go to the hackathon. I really regret not doing these things.
If you're willing to do the work, it is completely worth it. It's difficult and at times can be stressful to handle with other work, and it most likely will take you about 20 hours per week on average if you don't have experience, but Malan is seriously the man, everyone wants you to do well, and there is absolutely no other class like this on campus. It's a brand. It's also kind of a cult, and you should join. Don't be scared, you won't regret it. Also, freshmen and sophomores, if you can, take it now because you might realize you're interested in the field.
Taking CS50 just completely changed the way I think about things. The course is especially great if you have ABSOLUTELY NO BACKGROUND. I kind of had an idea of how coding and computers worked in general but now that I got a better glimpse/introduction of it, I feel much better and more secure. No matter what some people may tell you, the P.Sets are VERY MUCH DOABLE and MANAGEABLE. Thinking systematically as a computer also gives a whole new perspective in a way I really did not before. Hey, there. Just go for it. Take the course. You'll love it. I guarantee it!
Please, please, please take this class. For yourself. For humanity. For the purpose of making this world a little less stupid. This course is a course in thinking, and it is amazing.
This is not an easy class, but you will learn a lot.  To get the most out of it, you must be willing to dedicate at least ten hours of week.  Supplement lectures (which are almost more helpful when watched online rather than in person) with the scribed notes, which are excellent.  Take full advantage of CS50 Discuss, which is a great resource.  Start psets early.
it is an interesting class you will come out of it having learned a lot, but it's almost not worth the stress.
go to office hoursget a tutor
I wasn't caught in the "cult of CS50", so I don't think that it is amazing. I do think the material is useful, but I enjoyed doing the final project much more than the homework assignments, which seemed like such a chore to me.
Get ready to go on a journey. It'll be quite difficult and sometimes you'll think you were crazy for taking the class. It's all worth it. This is one of those courses that actually makes you feel empowered.
This course teaches a lot of things in a short time window, code experience that can be the essential on your resume. However, be prepared to work a lot (I really mean it, it's very demanding) and stay some nights without sleeping. If this is not a concentration requirement for you, you might want to consider taking it pass/fail.
I wish I had taken CS50 earlier! The problem sets are really fun and CS50 Discuss is an invaluable resource for help. Even if you don't buy into the cult of Malan, you can still get a lot out of this class.
Challenging and time-consuming course, but you'll come away with a very comfortable understanding of programming with the ability to teach yourself more advanced concepts.
Take it.
Very doable if no programming experience.
Highly useful course with a wonderful, positive, supporting environment. Makes learning programming really, really fun. Take this course! You will not regret it!
It is a wonderful experience that will teach you much, but you should be prepared to spend a lot of time on the class and become stressed when the psets get difficult.
Tough but rewarding.  It is amazing to look back and see what you have created in just one semester.
It is a great way to learn how to start programming! Some of the problem sets are tough, but can you really keep up your self-esteem while taking all those humanity classes?
Take as a senior
Having APCS background, while not required, is very helpful with concepts and Psets up until the first midterm. It definitely helps ease the transition into college level CS classes. The most under-utilized resource in the class are the wonderful TFs. Get to know them at office hours or through friends so you can ask them questions outside of normal office hour times (odds are, you're going to be Pseting late into the night/morning).
Though it's famously difficult, it's so well taught and useful you'd be missing out if you didn't take it before you graduate. Problem sets are easily doable if you plan ahead of time, and still manageable if you decide to do them all the night before (as I did).
Believe everything you've heard about how much work it will take. Worth it if you've got a determination to stick it out, but not if you're just taking this as a lark.
Very time-intensive but worth it, no matter how you look at it.
CS50 is an amazing class if you end up choosing to pursue computer science. I took it to see whether I would like the material, and though it was very challenging at moments, it convinced me that computer science is a very promising and interesting field personally. That being said, many have been disillusioned by the class as they realize they do not have as great an interest in computer science as they had thought. Shop it and determine for yourself if you think you can handle 12+ hour psets and long arduous nights. For me, they were always to some extent enjoyable since I was able to work on it with my friends and feel like I was cultivating valuable skills.
This class is very stressful. You learn a concept, but before you are able to understand the concept, you move on to another one.
CS50 was really, really hard. I realized through taking this that CS is definitely not for me, but I'm glad I took it in the end. Start the psets as early as possible, and go to office hours. The feeling you get when you finally get things to work is awesome, but there is a lot of work/suffering involved to get to that point (if you even get to that point). I definitely recommend taking it along with a pretty light course load, because it will take up a lot of your time. I spent anywhere from 10-25 hours on each pset. I know some people that absolutely loved CS50, some people that hated it more than anything, and I think I've decided that I'm somewhere in between those two groups of people. Also, if you're in a group for your final project, try to avoid getting stuck with someone who won't do his work, because the final project is very important in determining your grade.
You will learn a lot from this course, but be prepared to put in the time. I think the main issue with CS50 is that it is very hard to predict how long an assignment will take, and on occasion the first 80% will take maybe 5 hours and the remaining 20% will take an additional 10. You should definitely work on the final project in a group to divide the workload!
I think the class is very well-organized and having problem sets/quizzes forces you to actually do the work. However, this class will take an inordinate amount of time each week. If you're looking to build a website or app, you should spend a lot of time paying attention at the end of the course.
be prepared to work
Don't freak out about this course but don't underestimate it either. It will take a lot of your time. Don't buy into the culture.
You'll come out of CS50 surprised how much you've learned as a programmer.
If you are thinking about taking this course, then take this course! It's very well tailored to various levels of experience. You will struggle mightily through certain psets, but that's when you know you're having fun! Getting anything to work is extremely rewarding. The final project is a particularly valuable experience that really lets you see how much your knowledge has taken off.
This course is difficult. The major issue that most people encounter is that problem sets are extremely time consuming. The class is also large and intimidating. Sometimes office hours are extremely crowed and it is difficult to get help. It can also get competitive at times, whether it is intentional or not. Some people thrive in this environment, others crumble under pressure.
Good luck!
Good luck lol...
Be careful.  If you don't have the time to dedicate to this course, don't take it.  It isn't that the material is ridiculously difficult, it really isn't - even if you are brand new to the subject, and especially if you have a math/science mind.  However, if you do consider yourself a beginner, the time committment is wild.  In order to get As on the psets it is an easy 20+ hours a week.  Really think about if you have the time to take this class before you do.  It isn't really mentioned during reading period or anywhere in the syllabus how much time and effort this class actually takes.
CS50 is an indescribably great course. Although it requires dedication and hard work, it is a fun and rewarding experience. I really enjoyed this class, and I cannot say enough good things about it!
I cannot deny that CS50 is an amazingly organized course. The fact that 150,000 people worldwide were taking it alongside me opened my eyes to the power of education. I recommend this course to people who are truly passionate about CS or don't mind tinkering on the computer--sometimes doing very tedious work--for hours on end. If you aren't interested in the logic behind it, or if you've never been curious about what goes on inside your computer, I'd say that you might find other courses more suited to your interests.CS50 is extremely time-consuming, though I wouldn't call the psets "difficult" until you hit about pset 6. Then, you have about three really tough psets, and it calms down again as the course winds down. Take advantage of Office Hours and CS50 Discuss--I didn't go to them until I really needed them, and, if I'd gone earlier, then I could have saved a lot of time. The two quizzes (aka midterms) are very challenging, out for the statistics that are released (ie. mean, median, standard deviation) because that helps put things in perspective. Starting psets early (ie. as soon as they are released) and working on them for less time each day over the course of several days is a much better strategy than waiting until the last minute!I'd also like to say that, given the fact that CS50 has grown so large, I feel that some of the focus has been taken off of the Harvard course and shifted to the global course that is CS50x. I hope that, in future years, the focus on the students on campus will return, because, over the course of the semester, I often felt that I was on the set of a TV show or movie that was being filmed for a target audience outside the studio. I really think that CS50 can be (and probably was at one point) a fantastic course, but I think it has almost grown too big now. Unless they scale down CS50x or somehow separate it more from CS50 itself, I think that it will continue to become less and less of a personal experience for the students on campus.
Hard work. Rewarding work.
dude, it's hard man.
CS50 is one course at Harvard that everyone should take at some point before they graduate.  The skills taught are useful and applicable in so many industries in today's world and it's taught in a manner that caters to people of all backgrounds with the subject.  The course is tough, but if you take the initiative and seek out help when you need it, it's very manageable.
This course accomplishes its goal of teaching you how to think more critically and programmatically, although its way of achieving this is through incredibly painful psets and midterms.
It's CS50. Everyone knows it's going to take  A LOT of time but that's kind of what you need to learn how to program. Signing up for any CS class means resigning yourself to a few sleepless nights. Don't take it pass/fail. You need to put in a baseline number of hours to get your psets up and running and if you do that, you'll do absolutely fine.
CS50 is a legendary course. Malan is an incredible lecturer, and the culture of doing and accomplishing is contagious from Day 1. Do be aware, though, of the time the psets take and the sheer enormity of the class. The CS50 staff does their best to place everyone where they are comfortable, but it doesn't work perfectly, and sometimes this class can be the most frustrating thing ever. In the end, I recommend you take this course, but proceed with caution.
Make sure the rest of your schedule isnt too heavy.
This course definitely provides a good introduction to CS, especially for those who've never had any CS experience before. Definitely work together with people (e.g. discussing how you might tackle a problem set), and you'll find the class to be a much more enjoyable experience.
For those not naturally scientifically-inclined and with no prior experience coding, this will probably be your most difficult class in the semester. Don't start the psets the night before they're due; do as much as you can before your section and ask lots of questions.  I found talking to a TF infinitely more helpful than using CS50 Discuss, because you will inevitably have follow-up questions whose meaning may get lost on Discuss where they can be immediately clarified in a personal conversation.  I enjoyed this class and I'm glad I took it, but I wish I had come in with more experience than I did.  I also didn't sleep Wednesday nights at all this semester.
It takes time, so budget for that, but it is well worth it.
It takes a lot of time. But CS50 is a necessary evil.
Even if you don't have experience, the number of resources available to you throughout the course make it nearly impossible to do badly.
Take CS50! This course will change your life! You learn so much, Malan is one of the best lecturers out there, and the TFs are amazing! If you do choose to take CS50, know that it does have a large workload, so be prepared to spend a significant amount of time on the problem sets and at office hours. However, working on the problem sets was probably one of my favorite parts of the course, so don't let the large workload intimidate you.
CS50, even if taken pass/fail requires a pretty insane time commitment and isn't necessarily as accessible to complete beginners as they present it to be.
CS50 is a great class, but be prepared to put in a lot of time!
I would only take this class if you are considering continuing in computer science after CS50.
This class is quite challenging but helps develop a very useful skill base.
If you have any passing interest in computer science or programming or even learning to think more analytically, take this course.
If you're interested in computer science, this is definitely the class for you. If you're not and just want to take the class because you've heard so much about it (which I did), it might not be the class for you. I'm definitely not a computer science person and I really struggled through the class. You should also know the class is very hyped up and not as fun and exciting as the first lecture seems to imply.
It's a must-take course at Harvard!!! I recommend it with all my heart :)
Though it starts out light, it will jump to a lot of work in the second half. While it's a great class in the sense that you cover a lot of material, you're going to have to teach yourself a good deal of the material. Still, the class has awesome resources available that will help you learn and you'll finish feeling that you learned a lot.
An interesting course, but you'll be doing plenty of work outside of class and teaching yourself a lot
Be wary that if you have no CS background whatsoever, you will have to work a bit harder than those who do to understand the concepts. But definitely a really fun class and a worthwhile experience overall
CS50 is great, even (or especially?) if you haven't done any CS before. One disclaimer: be prepared to work very hard. The psets get very challenging and time consuming after the first 3 or 4, but they are also the most rewarding problem sets I have ever done (comparing them to math).The class does a great job of creating a strong community, despite the high enrollment. The OHs, events, jokes, and spirit of camaraderie in the face of shared misery (the night before psets are due) really make it a fun experience. Also, if you get a good TF, that is a major bonus (and since section is optional you can just go to whichever you want).Overall, take the class! It will teach you a lot and you will feel like you have accomplished something worthwhile.
CS50 is marketed as "the quintessential Harvard course." I cannot begin to say how false that statement is. I wish someone had told me that CS50 is NOT for everyone. It made my semester absolutely miserable. I was in the "less comfortable" group. People kept telling me it would get better, and it only got worse. My advice would be, if you're really interested in taking this course, try the first couple of psets and if they weigh you down, DROP IT! It's not worth ruining your semester!
This class is not just hard - this class is VERY HARD, but at the same time, it manages to somehow be accessible. If what really matters to you is actually learning rather than the grades, then take it. There are a lot of resources, but at the same time a 700-person class is still a 700-person class (though the course does try to alleviate the problems concomitant with such a massive course). Lectures were fun, and sections were somewhat helpful. Overall, the course zipped by so quickly so we end up covering a lot of material, but at the end, it only feels like I've scraped the surface of everything. It did not feel like there were "breathing" points. This said, start problem sets early. This will save you from many cold, dark nights the night or two before the p-set. Take advantage of the scribe notes since lectures become so much clearer when you see everything on paper. Nothing really can replace the actual process of being at lecture and section - which I strongly recommend you go to. There is quite a bit of discrepancy between backgrounds but I do feel as if more people are in reality "more comfortable" than they claim to be. CS50 was really hard for me and not very intuitive, and I kind of wish I had come in knowing things at the level of AP CompSci. The difficulty for me was not just the sheer novelty of everything but the very pace at which things moved. That said, be sure you can devote a lot of time to this class. Early on, it does not take much time, but by Pset 3 or so, things become intense really quickly. Do take the class with friends - it makes the experience more enjoyable. While I learned a lot from the course relative to what I did not know coming in, what I learned most of all was that I am no CS-er and what I learned is that even after taking CS50, I have so much more to learn. If you are on the fence about taking it, I say take it - it's hard but in a fulfilling way. If stressed, the course is really liberal about pass/fail.
This class is a must for any science, engineering, or math major who has little to no background in computer science and programming. You will come away not only with knowledge, but a skill.
It is time consuming, but it is extremely interesting and useful for the world today.
It's a great class, but expect to spend a lot of time.  Some weeks will be pretty easy, while others will take forever.  If you don't have the patience to spend hours and hours only to find out you messed up something really small and unrelated to your understanding, don't take.
Get someone who knows computer science on hand to help you out.
You will be happy to have taken it once you'll have finished it :)
Legendary intro to CS! However, remember that even if you are good at CS it takes time to code and debug.
CS50 likes to snag you during Shopping Week and reel you in (literally) with songs and dances. Yes, you learn a lot. But I would warn you to be very wary about taking this class. It is ESSENTIAL that you have the time to dedicate at least ten hours a week to complete the psets. Be ready to start them right after the walkthrough on Friday and pull multiple all-nighters just to complete them. Save your late days until you only have five psets to go---you'll need them. Have friends who are either CS geniuses or are TFs, more make them. Consider getting a tutor early on if this is your first experience with CS. This class has many avenues for support that are offered to students--archived lectures, walkthroughs, section, CS50 Discuss, office hours--but the truth is if you have no prior experience with CS get ready to look for other options for help. Office hours are often incredibly difficult to get real help from TFs and CS50 Discuss is only as helpful as sending code back and forth and waiting for hours or days for a response can be. Be prepared to be exhausted and stressed from this class. Be ready to literally fail the "quizzes" that count for 50% of your grade. Just know, above all, that if you enter this class with high hopes there is a good chance they will be shattered at the end and you will end up burnt out and jaded by the myth that surrounds CS50. So start with low expectations. The only way to go from there is up!
Very difficult - if not a CS person, best to take pass/fail.
TAKE IT.  CS is so useful, and CS50 is so much fun.  There's a huge culture around the class, and there's so much support provided, and Malan's lectures are usually pretty good.  Psets are a really long, but they're more like solving a puzzle than actually doing homework.  I always worked on them with a bunch of people in my entryway and it was a lot of fun.  Definitely a bonding experience.  Plus at the end of the course you get cake and free tshirts and tons of free stuff from sponsors.  What other class does that?
People will tell you all sorts of things about this course:  "It's fun!"  "It's easy!"  "You make great friends in it!"  "You learn so much great stuff!"  Well, that may be true for people who are not actually taking any other demanding courses.  I don't know.  However, in my experience, this course is patently a waste of time.  First, let it be known that this is not a computer science course so much as a basic programming course.  There is not necessarily anything wrong with this in itself.  I am skeptical of basic programming courses as a group, since I am unconvinced that you can learn programming effectively unless from a manual or book; however, I am willing to believe that a case may be made that such courses are helpful for some students.  That being said, I don't think that any basic programming course deserves the bizarre cult following that surrounds CS50 and its prophet, David Malan, no matter how good.  For heaven's sake, you're learning to use a bloody "if" statement.  This isn't some great revelation from on high.  This is basic sequential reasoning.From this, one might conclude that one of the oft-repeated memes about CS50, viz. "It's easy!", is true; and insofar as the material is not difficult to understand, that is correct.  However, the class is *time-consuming*, because, no matter how you swing it, writing and debugging code takes a great deal of time.  This is the great problem of the class: unlike Math 55 or Physics 16, which demand a huge amount of time and reward you with a huge amount of knowledge, CS50 demands a huge amount of time and rewards you with a little knowledge, a picture of a muppet, and, if you're lucky, a free extra 2 gig on Dropbox.In sum, spend your time on a worthwhile course, like Phys 16, or at least LS1a or something else that is actually cool and useful.  Don't waste it on CS50, unless you really, really have nothing better to do.
With the way the internet is taking over the world, being able to just understand how computers work and being able to create your own website at the end of the course is incredibly rewarding. The amount of work that's necessary to do so can be unreasonable towards the end of the course. CS50 will teach you a lot, but you better be ready to spend 8-10 hours on a problem set.
This course is the most challenging and rewarding that I've taken this semester. I would definitely recommend it for anyone even slightly interested in finding out how computers work!
Do not be fooled by the results at the CS50 fair, these projects are based on what you can teach yourself how to do, not what the course teaches you to do. You don't learn web programming, you must teach yourself. Unless you need the class for credit, you could learn just as much out by watching lectures and doing psets on your own - the class doesn't provide much support.
It's a great class to learn fundamentals to computer science and how to think like a computer scientist. However, be sure to allocate a lot of time for the class since problem sets will get increasingly difficult and time-consuming.
An extremely rewarding class. However, be prepared to work HARD and not sleep a lot.
Not very many classes have a culture associated with them. C.S. 50 is one that does. The mood in the lectures, the events that are organized, all the cake... this class is really quite a production. In addition to that, it gives an excellent, intensive introduction to computer science; be prepared to do a lot of work, but get a lot more back.
Even if you have some programming experience, this class requires a lot of time. You feel accomplished at the end, but it takes a lot of work to get there.
Great teaching staff and extensive support system. Extremely organized with fantastic online resources.
I think my expectations for the skills I would get from this course were too high, or else I wasn't able to devote enough time to the course to get as much out of it as I wanted to. I would recommend taking this course only if you are prepared to devote a huge portion of your time and energy to it.
TAKE THIS CLASS. I HAD 0 (ZERO) (NO) (ABSOLUTELY NONE) EXPERIENCE WITH COMPUTER SCIENCE AND I LEARNED SO MUCH. Don't be scared!!!
If you recognize early that you will have to do alot of work it will actually be a very manageable class.
Cs50 was a great intro to CS class for students without prior CS experience. However, be prepared to have a lot of work. CS50 is a HUGE time commitment. It is also a very rewarding a fun class.
Most of the things you learn in this class can be easily learned by picking up a book or looking up what you're interested in on the internet. It was helpful for those who had no starting ground in algorithmic thinking or computer science, but otherwise I found it not particularly fulfilling.
This class teaches many applicable skills that all people should know. Its difficulty is overhyped, as there are so many resources available to help you. There were many late nights, but it was always so rewarding to finish a pset. This is a class you should definitely take.
Take the class! I couldn't recommend anything more.
I wouldn't recommend this class because I think it takes way too many hours of your life to learn basic coding concepts, which you end up googling to figure out anyway. If you haven't coded yet, I think this is brutal. If you have, it's great fun until you hit the material you didn't already know, and then it's brutal. I love coding, just not a fan of how this course is set up. The reason you should take this is if you have to in order to take other cs classes.
START YOUR PSETS EARLY. Like start them on the weekend. Then go to office hours if you have issues. And do the practice tests and focus on those for test review because they are very similar to actual tests.
Teaches basic coding, but there is an almost ridiculous emphasis on design and style. Know that for your final project if you code something simple in 10 minutes and it works perfectly and has proper design and style, you will get a better grade than if you slave over making a project as functionally good as possible and don't have time to design it in the specific way they want. I took AP CS in high school and got very little out of this class beyond frustration.
If you ever had the thought, "Man, I wish I had the skills necessary to build an app to solve this problem!" or, perhaps with less hubris, "Man, I wish there was an app out there that would help me solve this problem!" then take this class!
Take this class! But do it in a semester where you expect to have time to learn a completely new skill.
Find a group of people to work with on the psets! It saves so much time when you are stuck on small problems.
This is not an easy course and if you decide to take it you should be ready to work over 10 hours a week on the problem sets.
BE CAREFUL! This class is not very well organized, and if you're looking for valuable help or instruction from teaching fellows especially on a personal level (and not through online discussion boards), you'll be very hard pressed to get any. The class will be a breeze if you are very experienced and will be incredibly difficult if you have zero idea about what programming is. Even worse, if you are somewhat experienced the class will be even worse as it will fore you to work for hours for something you already know.In any case, especially if you have other difficult classes, don't take this. The class is huge and impersonal, and grading is INCREDIBLY subjective. Proceed with caution
This course is just too hard. It combines so many levels of CS students and then makes them all adhere to the hardest standard.
If you don't have previous experience, prepare to spend a lot of time on psets.  I highly recommend getting a group of friends to work on them together.
This is an interesting class, but it can often be frustrating since theres such a wide disparity in background experience among the students, and the undergrad TFs often don't have enough teaching experience.
Find a good TF and go to their section. It's helpful.
The class is more spectacle than substance. If you're a freshman, that might draw you in, but if you're an upperclassman, you may find yourself wishing you could just get to the material and have it presented in a rigorous and structured format. The problem sets are a lot of fun, but you should just stick to the lecture notes. Also, be forewarned if you tend to stress about such things that you will have no idea how you're doing in the class whatsoever until you receive your final grade. All in all, it might be less time-consuming and better for your understanding of computer science if you just work your way through a textbook instead of taking the class. On the plus side, I found the class to be considerably less work than I'd heard before -- outside of one killer problem set, I generally spent 5 - 10 hours a week on the class.
It is not an easy class, but you learn a lot.  You should have an interest in the subject, and have enough time in your schedule to do psets that take a couple hours every night.
It's the most fun you can have while getting graded for it.
It was challenging, but even more than being challenging, it was time-consuming. There were many late nights spent staring at a computer screen, reading and rereading code looking for tiny errors. If you're not patient and willing to power through all of the psets, this course will drive you crazy!
If you do not have prior experience, this course will take up a LOT of time. Learning how to debug quickly and think about programming quickly just takes time. It you end up liking it, it will be fun, trust me. Just be ready to spend some time.
If you love problem solving (puzzles, etc.), TAKE CS50!
Best class I've taken. Ever. I've come to love computer science. Everything is just one big logic puzzle, and the course has a great community and spirit (and spirit wear and slogan) that helps you figure it all out.Downsides: you have to look up a lot of stuff outside of class because lectures are more so entertainment than actual course content, and sections aren't long enough to cover anything.Overall though, fantastic.
I took AP CS in high school, in which I did very well and had a great time. Before taking CS50, I was on the fence about concentrating in CS. Now that I'm on the other side of it, I know I won't be. However, I don't regret it - this is the quintessential CS course, and if you are seriously considering this path as a future for yourself, I recommend taking CS50 so that you can make an informed decision. It basically assumes that you don't have anything else to work on and demands all of your attention. For this reason, I had a lot of frustration with it, as it detracted considerably from the rest of my course load. Therefore, do not take this class alongside any other hefty course, such as one of the tougher languages or one of the other big mean intro classes (Ec 10 is probably an ok companion). Some advice - lectures are a waste of time: they pertain to the following week's Pset, and if you're anything like the vast majority of people taking the class, you'll be so focused on the current Pset that all the info will be lost on you. What's more, the lectures are so quick and so shallow that they're hardly worth watching at all (better to just read the transcript, check the notes, and watch the walkthrough). Make use of section as it's really your only opportunity to get questions answered (office hours are chaotic and over-saturated). Good luck.
This course takes a lot of time especially if you don't have programming experience. However, it's really worth taking and you will learn a lot at the end. It's a really really cool class overall.
Be prepared to spend 15hrs/week on problem sets.
The infuriating stuff you're asked to do in the beginning of this course is worth it - it makes the genuinely useful and interesting stuff you focus on at the end extremely intuitive and exciting.
If you are coming in with no background make sure you do a lot of studying on your own outside of class.
I would not take this class unless you already have experience in computer science and enjoy doing computer science.  Although the course advertises itself as a great way to learn about computer science, it is a truly horrible ordeal for beginners.  The course moves extremely quickly, there is an overload of material, and PSETs will devour twenty to forty hours of your week.  The first week is extraordinarily misleading; do not be fooled by the easy shopping/first week assignment.
I took this as a senior with no computer background whatsoever. I made a project on a whim and a rep from a related company at the CS50 Fair was impressed and wanted my contact info. Anything is possible. Take CS50.
It can be brutal. Requires solid test taking skills for quizzes.
This is a hard course!
Do it!!
This was an awesome class, but very demanding, especially towards the end.
takes an inordinate amount of time, but that's what's required to learn it
It is sooo much work, but it is also soooo worth it. I was completely new to computers and still have a lot to learn, but this class is more than educational, it's an experience.
Amazing class.  The most fun I've had in a class here at Harvard.  Used the work for this class as a way of procrastinating other classes.
You will learn a lot, but be ready to put in the work.
Take it.  It's not as hard as people think.
This course opens your mind to a new mode of thinking centered around algorithmic problem solving. The topics covered in this course are invaluable. Exams are certainly manageable. Problem sets can be frustratingly long at times, but seem completely worth it when the programs finally achieve the necessary end result. All in all, definitely worth taking despite additional time needed for problem sets, which you should treat as interesting puzzles worth investigating.
This was the most well-structured course I've taken at Harvard, and my only regret is that I didn't take it earlier. You learn to think about problems logically. Though it is undoubtedly difficult, you have the support of TFs, youtube videos, walkthroughs, lecture notes, and taped lectures to help you through it.
This class is extremely time consuming and frustrating. Although the skills you will learn are extremely rewarding and applicable it comes at a huge sacrifice. The course has gotten too large for the teaching staff to handle. The TFs and the rest of the staff seem overwhelmed at the number of students especially during office hours. The size of the course has severely effected its quality. Office hours were impossible- if you did not show up within 20 minutes of the start of office hours you will probably will not get any help. CS50 discuss was not always the most accessible way to get help- staff almost always pointed you to other resources that you have already looked at. This course disappointed me because I could not utilize ay of the resources set up for help. Not everyone got to attend the hackathon this year. The staff is trying to accommodate for the size, but they definitely have a long way to go.
If you have prior CS experience, it'll be a fun class to take. If you have no prior CS experience, you will not gain it from here.
Class is NOT taught well. Majority of learning is done by looking up syntax on online forums. Psets are difficult and don't expect TF's or cs50 discuss to provide much help. You WILL learn a lot of programming though.
Great course. Fun, interesting, engaging. Problem sets are most punishing in the minutiae and can be frustrating. While working on them take advantage of CS50 discuss, super useful.
The problem sets are tough, but it is really interesting. You are expected to spend a considerable amount of time each week on the problem sets, but I am sure you will learn a lot during the process.
Make sure you are able to put in a lot of time into this course because it will take a lot of your time. But it is worth it.
this course is very doable for anyone if you are willing to put in the time and effort
Take it if you want to get something concrete out of your Harvard education.
It's a huge time commitment and you don't get many useful coding skills out of it. We only spent 1 week on web development languages, which is what most MBAs care about.
You have to be prepared to put in a ton of time. Make sure you don't have other classes that also have stuff due on thursdays or fridays because you will get crushed by this class. Office hours are hugely necessary as well, so you're going to need to block off either tuesday and wednesday night for those
take this pass/fail before you graduate.
CS50 was one of the most enjoyable classes I've taken at Harvard, but you could probably skip it if you took AP Computer Science in high school, as you'll already know most of the material from the first two-thirds of the class.  And be sure to start your final project early, as I vastly underestimated the amount of time I needed to finish mine.
Great course,doable even with no prior CS experience. Some people get really into the cult-ish aspects of the course, which are ok, but i didn't really see the point. While the lectures were entertaining, it was definitely possible to do the problem sets without ever going. Office hours were almost always very helpful.
I came in with significant but unstructured CS experience. This class helped me put why I was interested in CS into perspective. If you have experience, do not be afraid to join a "more comfortable" section; their TFs are very enthusiastic and will teach you random, interesting things. Designing and coding a final project with my partner was possibly my most rewarding academic experience this semester. I came in considering CS as a secondary, but now I might concentrate in it.
Yes, it's a wonderful course...except. Malan makes it very, very clear that only 10% of the students in this course describe themselves as "more comfortable" with CS. If you're one of them, DON'T TAKE THE COURSE. (If you're not, absolutely do.) It's geared for a zero-to-fifty experience for someone who's never seen a Linux terminal before, and if you would get excited for the "hacker edition" of a pset, you're better off taking CS61 instead. Then again, if your schedule is already overloaded (like mine), and you need an easy course to fill a slot, you could do worse than the two-hours-of-cat-memes, one-hour-of-work per week that was CS50.
hard, but worth it
Not an easy course by any means whatsoever, and very time-consuming. If you find yourself struggling, TFs are SO helpful and encouraging, regardless of what time you need them :P taking Pass/Fail relieves a lot of pressure, it's a very viable option.
This is the most difficult course I have ever taken. You should not take it if you have never taken a computer science class before. It should be clear that it is very much self-taught. You have to do extensive research on your own to even understand how to do the work. The lectures and sections are not helpful, and the problem sets took me well over 15 hours to finish. I was unable to complete some of them. The course has a reputation for being fun and social. There are certainly things that are unique and enjoyable about it, but the course load and difficulty is unreasonable based on how well it is taught. I would not recommend this course.
Don't believe this class will change your life. It will probably make you very stressed for little benefit.
It is a good class for people with little experience in programming, but for anyone who has coded for more than a year (say AP computer science), it is not worth taking a course just to learn C.
If you are even considering studying CS, take this.  It's not totally indicative of the field but it's a fun ride (with many highs and lows) and you'll bond with everyone else struggling next to you.
If you have no experience coding this class will quite possibly be one of the most difficult class you take ever. That being said it opens up a world of possibilities for you in terms of being able to create and express yourself through code. If you get through this class you will very quickly become a better learner and a more efficient problem solver, but like I said, if you have never coded before it will be a challenge.
This class is great, but takes up a lot of time. It will likely be pretty unenjoyable at times during the class, but ultimately it is worthwhile and you will learn a lot. Do the hackathon.
Y'all all need seriously, forreal, need to take this class. It's so worth the time spent - it's like learning how to read or write - you're empowered at the end of each problem set.
This is truly the most empowering course I have ever taken. You can start with little to no experience and finish having acquired the ability to have a great idea and make it happen, assuming you're willing to work hard. Today, computers are perhaps the most powerful objects in existence, and this course gives you the foundation necessary to harness their power.
It is difficult, and all those late nights you saw in Annenburg office hours, they were real, but it's a unique experience. This class taught me, obviously, how to code, but also how to seek help when I needed it, and it made me feel like part of the Harvard Community. There are free t-shirts and more free candy than you can imagine, plus making it to the end is a great, great feeling. Take it!
This class sucks for people who have no experience in computer science and want to learn it.  You won't get any of the personal attention you need for any of the personal questions.  You'll get broad lecture, but be prepared to teach yourself everything that you need to know to be evaluated.  Your TFs will be virtually no help and will scoff at you for being so stupid.  You'll get the same level of help you do on google answers, that is, snarky non-answers that just make you look like an idiot.  Minimize your other course load because this will take over your life.
Time is the most important factor when you take this class into consideration. Time.
I strongly recommend that you take CS50 only if you have at least SOME background in CS; all of my friends who fell into that category found the problem sets very doable and loved the course. If you have 0 prior experience (like myself), take it pass-fail or be prepared for some awfully stressful late nights. I can understand how this class makes certain people appreciate the beauty of computer science - every now and then, when I had a breakthrough while coding, I would catch a glimpse of this light - but I simply did not find it enjoyable enough to warrant digging myself into a hole of confusion and misery for hours and hours. Computer science is a immensely frustrating and exact art; if you are not truly passionate about it, you will only find yourself despising this course.
The work is very challenging and time-consuming but fun, interesting, and rewarding. If you have no CS knowledge, you will be fine- just make sure you know or meet people who know what they are doing and work with them on the psets. Although the tests and some psets are very hard, they are graded generously.
Even though you will work hard throughout the semester, CS50 will ultimately teach you a myriad of tools that are useful in many ways, even though they do not directly relate to your major.
CS50 is a solid choice if you are looking for a class that will be challenging regardless of your starting skill level.  David Malan's lectures were engaging, informative, funny, and fast-paced, and the assignments were interesting and applicable to many different fields in life.  While they were definitely challenging, the collaborate nature of the problem sets and the countless number of staff and TFs always available to help made even the most difficult problem sets manageable and fun.Take advantage of the lecture notes, problem set walkthroughs, video shorts, the staff and CS50 Discuss - I could not have survived CS50 without these important tools.  Get to know your fellow section-mates and TF's, as collaboration is critical to getting problem sets done and understanding the lecture material, which is presented at a very fast pace at times.  Aside from the academic nature of the course, there is a reason why "CS50" has become not only a brand-name course, but an international sensation.  From the weekly CS50 lunches to the seminars and other social events, one finishes the course feeling not only accomplished from having learned so much, but also part of a community of creative, innovative people which is growing every year.  I highly recommend CS50 to anyone even vaguely interested in learning computer science - whether as an elective or concentration requirement.
The problem sets were very fun and the final project highly rewarding, and Professor Malan's lectures, though slightly slow at the beginning of the semester, are always engaging.
Great class, very interesting and lots of fun. The workload is not particularly difficult but it IS time consuming. Each problem set will take longer than anticipated.
If you have no experience in computer science, this is a course that you need to take before graduation. You will not just gain an appreciation of what computer science does for you, but this one course will give you enough expertise to employ it in your own projects, whatever they may be. At the end of the semester, you can do some pretty cool things like make an interactive website, spell checker, etc. I recommend that you look at the previous years' psets to get an idea of some of the things you'll be able to accomplish at the end of the course. You might be put off by the difficulty and time requirement, but I can tell you that it is incredibly worthwhile. Working on the psets is more fun than it is frustrating (in fact, the more frustrating it gets, the more satisfaction you achieve at the end). And there's much to be said about the cs50 community itself - the ~100 staff members and ~700 students will make the ride a lot easier and provide future connections. The sheer amount of resources poured into this course make it one of the best at Harvard. Definitely take it, whether you intend on concentrating in cs or not.
very hard work and long hours but worth it in the end.
Like everyone says, CS50 is "challenging but doable" -- it's a fantastic course that gives you back what you put into it. Be prepared to seek out help the second you feel yourself not understanding something; concepts you gloss over or only understand vaguely can come back to bite you! The support system is great, and will definitely keep you on track if you utilize it; the problem sets are challenging and fun; and the final project at the end is a great way to wrap up the semester!
Great class, well-organized, lots of work. Take it if you don't have too much on your plate (i.e. would not recommend taking with Ec10 and Math21a, if that's what you were thinking). David Malan is a legend. Most of the TFs are awesome too and very helpful. Quizzes are hard.
Takes a lot of time but is very rewarding. Make sure you figure out early who you can turn to if you need help.
Such an incredible class! You don't need to go in with any programming background, but be prepared to learn quickly and spend a significant amount of time on the psets. David is super helpful, enthusiastic, and generally awesome, and having a great TF makes the class all the better. Speaking of TF's, get to know yours since he/she will be the main person deciding your grade. Also, use those quiz cheat sheets!
CS50 is a great class, you definitely feel like you've learned something by the end of the course. There are a lot of resources, and it felt like a lot of self-learning, so take advantage of those resources.Do not slack off on the final project!
Not really worth it for humanities people.
its a lot of work but you learn a ton
This is probably the most iconic course on campus, you would really regret not taking it. It provides a great introduction to computer science, in my opinion much better than MIT's intro CS course. CS50 teaches you how to teach yourself. I ended up with my own fully functional website, and I had no web development experience whatsoever. Everyone must take CS50, especially in light of how some background in CS is highly valued nowadays.
This class is paradise and hell. You will love and hate it with passion so strong almost simultaneously. Be ready to put in the time, and get creative with the final project.
It's a great class, but if you're not sure you like it, take it pass/fail. Save yourself from a B+ / B and tons of stress, because this stuff is actually hard... especially the midterms (their euphemism "quiz" is terribly misleading). But beware that you will still have to complete all of the assignments, so expect to spend at least 10 hours a week. However, by the end, you will understand programming and computers far better than you think a one semester course could teach you.
CS50 was the best decision I made Freshman year. I had no experience and no reason to take it but after shopping the first class i was totally hooked. The TFs make this course awesome- you will get so much help and support. Office hours and CS50 discuss help lots. if you like problem solving, coding (specifically, debugging) is for you! Also, the final project is lots and lots of work but fun and rewarding (like all the psets...)
it's a good intro class.
Everyone needs to know how to code. So take this class, fool. It's awesome.
Take this course if you have time or a background in computer science.
It is amazing! So worth the experience. It's more than just a class it's a way of life. But you have to realize if you take this cs will be your life for the semester! It's a great class though and fun to take with friends or other people you can spend long nights with.
TAKE IT. It is glorious. If you think you don't like CS, you may find yourself surprised at the amazing things you can do in this class.
It's very difficult if you haven't done CS before but it's still manageable. It's definitely a groundbreaking class in the way it is structured and support network is pretty amazing. Malan is an interesting lecturer but Sanders Theatre is the easiest place to sleep and sometimes even his enthusiasm couldn't fight off the drowsiness that working on the pset the previous night until 4 am induced. Speaking of, problem sets are extremely hard and you'll need to get an early start on them and go to office hours monday and tuesday because wednesday and thursday are packed.
First of all, are you:1) An upperclassman?2) Taking this course "because it seems like something you should know"?3) Disposed to procrastinating, even just a little?If you said yes to 1&2, or 3 (or, God forbid, 1&2&3) do not take this course. Just don't do it.  You'll hate yourself.  Anyway, for everyone: The first month of the course is totally doable.  In fact, it's kind of fun.  Which makes it strange when you hear Prof. Malan talk about the Pass-Fail option; for the first few problem sets, it's hard to believe anyone would need that option.  Then, like magic, upon the ad-drop deadline passing, the course gets *insanely difficult*.  I spent 10-15 hours each on the last several problem sets and didn't generally even finish them.  Within like three weeks I went from thinking "why would anyone need P/F?" to "why didn't I straight-up drop this course?" It was an awful feeling.
take this course if you're curious. take this course if you want it to be one of the main, if not most important, courses you're taking that semester, even if pass-fail. you get out of it what you put in. it will get much harder near the first quiz and immediately following. however there is no better feeling than finishing a pset, even though you will pull many all-nighters. CS is definitely a night activity and if you weren't a night owl before, prepared to become one. i will say that there is an unparalleled sense of camaraderie when working on psets and even just talking to anyone else taking cs50 (even though there are so many of us).
This class is AMAZING. Take it take it take it. It's hard, but so worth it.
Take this class as a freshman before you have to worry about the other burdens that come along through the years. You can more fully enjoy everything it has to offer. Take it with friends, and befriend your peers in the class. It helps a lot to have that support system with you going through the course.Also, I think this course is a little bit overrated in terms of how awesome people think it is. Don't get me wrong, it's a great course, but in terms of how much you learn versus how much time you put in, it's pretty much on par with any other class.
Only take this class if you really need it. It is too much work for an elective and the material can be learned independently through edX or itunes. The psets teach a lot of it.
If you're not taking the course as a requirement, taking it pass fail is really, really worth it. Be prepared to weekly all-nighters.
Take it with easy classes, for it takes so much time.
very hard, but rewarding class.
Take it.
Definitely take this class if you can. It's the most applicable useful information you'll ever learn.
This class sucks up your life - and painful trudging in the snow to late night office hours - but in the process, not only do you learn so much, you also bond with so many cool people through the common pain of overcoming the infamous Computer Science 50.
This class is great if you want a broad introduction to a lot of different languages (but it includes the most depth in C).  No previous experience is needed -- I had none and I felt on the same level as most of my friends who had taken AP CS.  However, I feel like the difficulty and time requirement greatly spikes and, if taken with many other time-consuming courses, can often be overwhelming.  Nonetheless, it was a very well organized course and I recommend it.
very hard course but very interesting. if you have not coded before expect around 20 hours of work a week.
If you have no background in coding, start out strong and read ahead. Try to understand or at least familiarize yourself at first with the new concepts. For the problem sets, break them up into parts and start them on the day they are uploaded. Stay on top of this course and you will enjoy it and not stress too much :)
Everyone that takes CS50 is supposed to love the course. That's not truewhile taking the class many people really dislike the copious amount of work, yet once they're done they realize how much they've accomplished and love what they learned.
CS50 is a fun course, but it's a lot of work at can be frustrating at times (but I guess that's just the way CS is). The support from the staff is excellent, and you'll be in no lack of resources. You should take it if you can spare the time and effort.
Wonderful. A fair amount of work but interesting.
You'll learn a LOT if you take CS50--that is, if you don't have much previous experience like me. The problem sets are interesting and unique, but beware: the first few are NOT an indication of the course's difficulty and time commitment, so only take this class if don't have another huge time commitment. Honestly, though, I think this course could be divided into two different courses, one for "those less comfortable" and one for "those more comfortable."
Great course for anyone of any level save advanced students, I felt a little bored and the grading system seemed a little skewed toward beginners.
As others have said, this course is not nearly as challenging or difficult as it is simply time-consuming. Psets take a long time to get done, and programmingespecially for those like me, who had never programmed prior to taking this classcan be pretty frustrating, especially with concerns to syntactical problems that prevent you from easily executing some code that is otherwise, conceptually-speaking, not super-difficult to come up with. It's definitely worth the time and effort, though; overall, this class is plenty of fun, especially if you take it with your friends. In a lot of ways, CS50 tries to sell you an experience by advertising with student testimonials, promise of fun-filled events replete with food and free swag, and with its trademark "This is CS50." In the end, though, there is plenty to learn in this course, and although the experience itself might be a lot more frustrating and time-consuming than you might initially expect from all of CS50's advertising, I'd say it's still worth it in the end.
definitely enroll pass/fail if you dont plan on concentrating
I wouldn't really recommend it to people with busy course loads or who really aren't too much into this because as fun as this course is (and it is super useful), I have seen people be miserable, depressed and cry at 6am in the morning during psets. There will be hard times but you should be ready for them and try to brave through them. But if you can't do that, don't take CS50. But if you can, take it (or take it pass/fail but don't treat that lightly). Ultimately, you'll come out of the course more intelligent.
This class should be taken by all students, not necessarily for the knowledge of Computer Science which it imparts but for the change in problem solving strategies that it teaches.
Computer Science with a fun spin.
CS50 is a fun and rewarding class with a huge teaching staff and support resources.
Take this class.  Though be prepared, it can be very frustrating and will be demanding.  It is all worth it in the end.
I would strongly recommend taking this intro computer science course because it is such an amazing experience that complements such an indispensable tool. Even those who are not planning on studying a technical field should at least have a rudimentary knowledge of computers in this world being taken over by technology.
People might complain "CS50 destroyed my semester." But there's a reason it's that much work. It gives you comparable results in what you can achieve.
TAKE CS50. You will not regret it. If you're nervous about programming, take it pass-fail, seriously. The things you learn in this class are indispensable skills for any profession. The class culture is so fun, and Malan is one of the most passionate and attentive professors at Harvard. He makes you feel like you're in a class of 10, not 600. I can't recommend this class enough. The hard work and long hours spent on psets are worth it. You will learn so much!
There is simply no way anyone should graduate without having taken CS50. It is unlike anything at Harvard in the material that you learn, and the amount of effort put in to make it accessible to all and fun. Without a doubt, it has my favorite course this semester and probably at Harvard. There is misconception that you need CS background to be comfortable in the class - this is absolutely untrue. I came in with no background to speak of, and the course truly does an incredible job in making sure that you are not overwhelmed; there is every possible chance for help if you need it. Lectures are amazing, problem sets are deceptively fun, and the people who teach it are so helpful. Just take it and never look back!
Only take this class if you have a computer science background and are willing to spend about 20 hours per week on the problem sets.  If you don't have a computer science background, take it pass/fail!  I didn't, and I found it so overwhelming that it really soured the experience.  All that being said, it is really cool to go from knowing nothing about computer science to building a website in the end!  (Even if that website only half works and you still feel completely overwhelmed and under-qualified.)
I would think long and hard before enrolling in this course. Now that it is over, I am glad to have taken it. I walked away with concrete knowledge and tangible skills. Obviously, the learning curve is very steep in a class like this, but I feel like I was really gained a skill, which is refreshing and important for a humanities concentrator. My absolute favorite part of the class, though, was how well it was run. The professor and most of the TFs were incredible. The fact that Professor Malan acknowledges how hard the class is and that students are coming in with different computer science backgrounds was so appreciated - he is fair and seems to always be on the side of his students. Most course policies reflected that, and it made the course far more bearable. Professor Malan showed up at office hours almost every night, and he was there for the whole hackathon - I am a senior and I have never seen dedication like that before from a Harvard professor. Also, being a humanities concentrator who has never taken a course like this before, I was really glad for the experience. I am used to sitting alone in the library writing papers, and so the amount of collaboration was awesome. I actually made a lot of friends through this class and it was so nice to see students excited about sharing their knowledge with one another. The computer science field seems extremely collaborative and laid back, which surprised me. I feel like I saw a part of Harvard I would have never known existed, and it's a really nice part. That being said, this was by FAR the hardest class I have taken at Harvard. I have never had to put in this much work, and it had to be on other people's time because I had to get so much help at office hours and outside. I would suggest getting a tutor through the BSC, which was what saved me. It totally consumed my semester, and there was never a break. I loved it at times, and finishing each pset was the best feeling, but I also had enormous difficulty with the problem sets. It is a great experience in that it is so unique, and the hackathon, the CS50 fair, and the social experience are all great things, but you really need to think about the time and the emotional toll it might take on you.
Go to lectures so you aren't surprised on quizzes. Invest a lot of time on the final project, since the grade you get is not necessarily the end of how far you can go with it.
You will regret not taking this course after you graduate from Harvard, if you don't. Also, this comment may be outweighed by others, but for a lot of people this course is NOT actually hard--only time-intensiveand that time you spend on CS50 will be FUN. The concepts are completely straightforward, especially if you have a logically inclined mind. If you're scared that doesn't apply to you, don't be. There are incredible support systems in place to help you any time you're feeling lost. You CAN take this course and do a great job at it.
spend lots of time on the psets...and this class will teach you sooo much soo quickly.
No exaggeration, this course will be your life the semester you take it. THINK LONG AND HARD before you dedicate yourself to this course if you'll be able to handle it.
This is a stellar class for learning to computer program.  Excellent use of a class-spot.  I highly recommend to anyone who will ever own a computer.
If someone sat me down and said: "Alright, you can only have one occupation for the rest of your life. You can either be a software engineer, or you can be a subsistence farmer. Which do you want?" I would choose to be a farmer. That's how much I dislike programming. Or maybe I just really like farming. But still: if you have any significant doubts about taking this class, then you should not take this class.
It is a great class, stressful, but LET'S BE REAL, computers are everywhere and having an understanding of them is good. Taught really well by Malan. Lectures are fun, fun culture. Yes it was hard and dfKJfoaiwow8u@U*#), but still great. Looking back on it, even if I  may not have aced the class blahblahblah, it was a good class to take and definitely good as a 21st century citizen.
Most difficult and frustrating, but also the most rewarding and stimulating class I have ever taken.
It's definitely a great class, provided you have the time.
TAKE THIS CLASS. even if you do not plan on taking any more CS afterwards, this class really will change the way you think about and handle computers. yes it is a lot of work, but what you learn really can't be gained from any other course and you will feel more fulfilled by your "Harvard education" once you have taken this class.
Super useful class. You will learn sooooo much in this class that you will feel like another person after 4 months. If you have never done any programming before, and if you aren't exactly the mathy logical type of person, be prepared to spend a LOT of time on this class. Not a lot of time is needed on the actual coding part, but most of the time you will find yourself spending hours and hours trying to understand what is going on. Quizzes are hard. You will feel stupid. So I work with someone you know, study together. This will make life much easier. (And don't be afraid to take it pass/fail!)
This is a really excellent class. Computer knowledge is totally necessary for the modern world and CS50 provides an excellent introduction regardless of the level of expertise that you come in with. I recommend it to everyone at Harvard.
It's a great class that everyone should take - just be prepared to put some effort into int.
You learn a lot of sweet stuff, but the workload was almost unmanageable for me.
the course overall was very enjoyable; each pset was almost like a fun game/puzzle to solve and also helped you learn a lot
The best class in Harvard.
Dont take it unless you are a programmer.
Definitely prepared to devote large amounts of time to weekly psets and assignments. But also keep in mind that this will be one of the most practical, fulfilling courses you'll take at Harvard. In just a semester, you'll pick up an entirely new skill that is extremely useful in the contemporary world.
Please take it.  Even if it's not a degree requirement for you.  It's a life requirement.
The class's difficulty depends on how invested you are. If you don't go to lecture/section and only do problem sets the night before they are due, it's pretty awful.  Otherwise, you'll be fine.  A fun introduction for anyone who doesn't have too much experience with computer science!
This is the most informative class I have ever taken in my life. As someone with no previous knowledge of coding/computers, I left this course feeling pretty well-versed in the basics of coding and equipped with the tools to learn more coding languages. This course was also a lot of fun overall and has a great support system and multiple ways to ask for help. That being said, this course also required the most work from me (20-25 hours a week), with the time commitment steadily increasing as the semester wore on.
An awesome course where you would learn quite a bit about programming and enjoy one of the most amazing classes at Harvard
There are two kinds of classes you take in college: the type were you learn a lot of facts that you are never going to remember again and the type where you learn some facts that you are never going to remember again but mostly learn how to think.  CS50 is the latter - even if you forget some of the details, you still learned how to think more logically and efficiently about problems.  For that, it is worth it.  Also, as a senior, am very glad I didn't take it Pass/Fail (despite the prof's kind of obsession with P/F) because I would have spent just as many hours on the psets.
This class is the bomb. The lectures are hilarious and David Malan is awesome. The skills you learn in this class are extremely useful. I went into the class not knowing much about computers and now I know quite a bit about computers. The problem sets can be long and demanding, but there is enough assistance to complete each one.
Try to take this class as a freshman when you have enough time to really invest yourself in learning the material and committing the different programming language used in the course to heart. I really skirted by on each pset and found I didn't have the time to take away as much as I would have wanted to from basic programming in the course. I will probably easily need another 2 courses before I would be comfortable programming in the workplace, for example.
After taking this course, you will wish that every other course at Harvard was taught this way. You will spend long hours on your psets, and enjoy it. You will learn skills that will actually help you with just about any career field you go in to. Please do not graduate from Harvard without taking this course - you will regret it. Don't let the idea of long psets scare you. It scared me at first and I'm sorry I only took this as a junior. You shouldnt go into the real world without understanding these concepts; you'll be behind.
There's not another class on campus like it. It's a lot of work, but with great organization and support from the teaching staff, it's totally manageable. Be prepared to spend a good number of hours on the psets, but they're enjoyable hours.
Really good class.  Really good support system (TFs, OH, help.cs50.net, etc).  I knew a little Java before taking it, which helped immensely at the beginning of the semester, but it's totally doable even if you don't have any prior programming experience.  The class is fun, social, interesting, educational.  Basically, you should take it.  Even if you've never taken a quant class before and never intend to take one again, take it.
Teaches you skills usable anywhere.
Take it! Should be required of all freshmen.
It is very hard and time consuming for beginners. This can be fulfilling but if you don't deal well with difficulty understanding the material and sleep deprivation then maybe this class is not for you.
CS50 is something that you should definitely take advantage of if there is a semester in which you have time.  You don't have to love computers or think you're going to do anything with it... it's a great exercise in creative and logical thinking and acquaints you with the computers, which play a HUGE part in our lives these days.  Some programming background can be relevant to most jobs, and aside from that, the course is just so cool.  Malan is great, as are many of the TFs (not all, unfortunately, but you can ask other TFs for help), office hours are sort of a bonding experience and usually really helpful, lectures are generally cool, and the progress you make in one semester is really quite amazing.  CS50 problem sets definitely took over my life each week this semester, quizzes were a bit harder than expected, and the final project was more stressful than it should have been, but I don't regret it at all.  As long as you're not taking 3 other heavy-workload classes, and especially if CS50 can be counted toward your concentration, take it!  Even pass/fail.  I've never felt such a sense of accomplishment like the one I got every week finishing the psets and also recently, finishing the course.
As a completely inexperienced computer scientist prior to CS50, this class will eat your life. It's doable, and there will be plenty of people who know just as little as you do, but be prepared to spend 10+ hours on all of the Psets after week 2 or 3. The psets are very cool, the atmosphere is inspiring, and the material is incredibly useful--just make sure you have the interest and the time!
The course is very time consuming and very hard, especially if you do not enjoy solving puzzles. Also, it is not a good idea to take this course if all your other courses that semester are very hard and time consuming too and you have no prior cs background. However, some good course planning could definitely allow you to fit this in as it helped me and it is definitely worth doing. It's amazing how much you learn and how much you can do after taking this one cs class alone. Last piece of advice: if you do take this course, definitely begin working on your final project at the end of Thanksgiving break the latest - it will make it a hundred times more doable and your project will look nicer and more developed.
Take it no matter what, but consider taking it pass/fail if you don't have coding experience and don't know how good you'd be at it.
Although it's a class with a lot of work, you learn things that are applicable in every field!
CS50 is quite a phenomenon. And it has right to be. Malen makes a huge effort to have a lot of help that provides support for every step of the course. Though the problem sets are hard, you learn a lot, and let's face it, it's super helpful to be vaguely computer literate.
These are the things you need to know to be a smarter user, not necessarily a programer. Malan is a great lecturer and you will never associate "boring" with "cs50." However, this class is a lot of work, so if you're taking other classes that require a lot of time, think about your schedule twice.
A lot of work to take pass/fail
This class will kick your ass. You may enjoy it, or you may hate it. Personally, I have never felt as much contempt for a class before as I have felt for cs50. What I learned from this class is that I will never become a programmer, and that is perhaps the most valuable (and painful) lesson of all.
It's a great experience - take it!
Be prepared to spend hours and hours on this course, even if you're taking it pass/fail
CS50 does have a lot of work, and so if you do want to take it be ready to spend 20+ hours a week on some problem sets if you're new to programming. That said, it is really important in this class to seek help when you need it, I felt that I fell behind a bit earlier in the course and it was very difficult to make up ground afterward.
The class is difficult but definitely if you enjoy logic puzzle and mathematical kinds of thinking. That's what makes programming fun. It is very demanding, however, and does not always feel as accessible as it is billed to be.
This class is as necessary as EC10 for a well rounded student
CS50 is everything it is hyped up to be. It was a lot of fun and gives you some great technical skills. It's difficult, so make sure to start the problem sets earlier than the night before (unlike me). If you put the time into this course you will be rewarded.
It's best if you take it with a friend who really knows how to program, because sometimes when you can't do the pset, you might not get a helpful TF to help you. So having a friend who can help you is a very good thing.
If you have had significant coding experience before, you will be bored out of your skull most of the time. Take CS121 or something instead. The final project can still be fun though.
Great class that everyone should take, but definitely don't take it with other classes that require a lot of time or have problem sets/big papers/final projects
It takes a lot of time but is doable.  Office hours are really helpful.  It's hard to do it on your own but when you're surrounded by friends working through the same problems, it's amazing how much faster psets go by.
In six months, when you've forgotten how to code, you'll wonder why you ever took this course and subjected yourself to hours and hours of meaningless pain. That said, you will never have a more committed professor at Harvard than David Malan.
Best class ever. David J. Malan is my hero!Seriously, though, the work is definitely doable, and you'll gain from it more than you can even imagine.
This class is pretty easy at first, and it kind of is, but it requires many hours consistently until finals period.  With that, it may be best to take pass/fail if you are taking classes that you prioritize highly over CS.  The problem sets are fun to do though, so use your judgment.
JUST DO IT. Do not be afraid of being left behind. All you have to do is apply yourself and ask for help when you need it.
Really time-consuming, and in the end not quite worth it if you have a decent amount of programming knowledge. As far as mathematics/other quantitative majors are concerned, the lectures were not quite intellectually stimulating, and the material is not in-depth. If you have some background, I would consider not taking the class and just following the lectures/notes, so that you don't waste hours of your life programming/debugging.
Good course in principle, but be very sure you want to take it before you do take it. It's a bear.
Just do it! Especially if you are like me (and more than 70% of the students who took this class this year) with no prior programming experience, by the end of this course, you will feel very powerful. Word of caution: it's a lot of work, and throughout the semester you will sometimes feel "powderful." But just remember that you are not alone and the staff is very supportive.
This course combines well the objective of getting students to be comfortable with C and with getting them interested in the more broad field of computer science.
You learn to think in a different and special way after taking this class. That being said, if you don't want this to be your entire life for a semester then it is not worth it. The lectures are funny, but do not always pertain to assignments, you have no idea where you stand in the class until the end, and unless you have a small amount of knowledge beforehand about programming you will not be in the top half of the class, and the frustration and the life consuming aspects of the class are too large to get over if you don't plan on doing CS things.
The quizzes are hard. Be able to code short programs, remember nitpicky details, etc. Problem sets can't always get done starting the night before. WALKTHROUGHs awesome (just looking at the slides is enough), and help.cs50.net is good too.
CS50 is among the best courses I have taken at Harvard. The problem sets are fun, challenging and (sometimes very) time consuming without being frustrating. Lectures are helpful (if a bit slow). The quizzes are very reasonable and the final project is a blast. I had no prior CS background and still did fine. If you identify as "somewhere in between" without any CS background like I did, expect to be among the only people to do so. It's a great class.
This class will kick you ass but it's kind of worth it.
Honest advice: don't take this class unless you have coding background OR you have  a TF friend.  Official support from the class is very deficient, and you won't get a lot of help and you'll be left to figure the stuff out on your own.
Be prepared to put substantial time into completing the problem sets in this class, particularly if you have little/no programming experience
If you are awesome at programming, you can have a lot of fun in this class by doing hacker psets, and kind of going at your own speed.  If you've never programmed before, this is a great class for you to learn something about computer science.  But if you're in the small group with some moderate programming experience, the style of and grading system for the course can screw you over.  If you aren't a fan of grades based on "self improvement" rather than comparison between classmates, be wary of this class.
The workload is slightly obscene, but every Harvard student should take this course.  It's brilliantly structured and managed, assignments are enlightening and practical, and David Malan is a genius.
If you have the time for it, DO IT. You will learn more than you've learned in any other class. Every problem set is SO satisfying to finish, and you'll want to show it off to your friends and family. Malan makes the class into a sort of cult, which sounds obnoxious, but is actually incredibly fun to be a part of. And go to Tommy's section, he's amazing!
TAKE CS 50 IT'S AWESOME!! LITERALLY IN ALMOST EVERY WAY POSSIBLE!!
Take this course.  You don't need to have done anything with computer science/programming before.  There is a TON of help.  It is manageable.  And it will open so so many doors in the future.  If you ever want to work in tech, if you ever want to - or think you someday may want to - be an entrepreneur, take this course.   If you don't, you'll regret it.  (And end up cross registering for it in six years when you're getting your MBA at the business school to make up for it...)
Take CS50! You'll be part of the coolest cult on campus, guaranteed. I had no previous experience with most of the material, and I had no trouble with it. The workload was manageable--just 10 hours most weeks, 17 one week. If you can think programmatically, you will have no trouble. Else, be prepared for a huge challenge.
GREAT PSETS
As someone with no prior programming/comp sci experience, this class can be extremely difficult, time consuming, and frustrating at times.   However, you will learn so much by the end of it that you won't care.
That is a great class! Take it and you will learn a lot!
If your not good at CS, take this class your Freshmen year or whenever you have the most time.
This is an amazing course that will give you so much technical ability to begin learning how to build things and understanding the world around us today.
Best class thus far. I took it junior year. Only regret is that I didn't take it Freshman year.
Learn how to debug efficiently during this course (i.e. learn how to use various debugging tools well and check out some others on your own). It will be extremely helpful in getting problem sets done.
Hardest class I've taken at Harvard, but in the end, you will be proud of yourself for doing it (and surviving).  They put in a lot of effort to ensure that those who are "less comfortable" get the help they need.  BUT, don't take this class unless you have a lot of time to spend on it.
If you have the time...also buy tissues and a stress reliver.
Psets are lot of work even if you have prior experience (coding takes time even when you know what you're doing!) and even more work if you don't. But overall it's a rewarding course with a great culture.
Just take it (regardless of your background or intentions for the future). You will not regret it.
This is the second-best course I've taken at Harvard, and I'm a senior. 4 quick comments:1) Although the psets take forever (average of 15 hours a week, probably), NONE of it is busywork. 2) For statistics concentrators, there is a reason this counts for credit: it's amazingly helpful when trying to do, erm...anything, basically, with all of the conceptual tools you learn. I would say the best way to learn R is to take this course, even though R isn't taught here at all. (R is basically just an easy programming language, which feels very easy and unintimidating after C, for example).3) Consider doing a thesis-relevant final project! I honestly have no idea how I would have collected my data without this class. 4) This class isn't 'hard' as much as it's time-consuming. The problems are conceptually interesting, but far from impossible. Don't be intimidated by the complexity of programming, as it's taught in small enough pieces to be quite managable.
This class is GREAT! For those with no experience, be prepared to work hard, but this class literally starts at the very beginning. The pace is pretty fast so by the end of the semester you're a guru, but be prepared to move quickly. For those with lots of experience, the hacker psets should satisfy your itch to solve more difficult problems. Lectures are amazing, the people in it are awesome, and you get so many opportunities that you would otherwise never get (Hackathon??) No question: take the class.
I would highly recommend this course to anyone even remotely interested in computer science. Actually, even if you don't know what computer science is you should still take it (or at least shop it). The skills are broadly applicable. After just a few weeks I found myself using C to calculate a Riemann Sum for my math class. When you browse the internet, you'll know what's happening behind the scenes. The lectures feel like performances. The office hours aren't just chances to get help on problem sets-- they're chances to talk to other students (and eat LOTS of food). CS50 isn't just another course-- it's a culture. You'll get a TShirt. Besides, how many courses at Harvard will serve you cake?When they say you'll know how to make a website from scratch by the end of the semester, they mean it.That being said, CS50 is a time consuming course. The problem sets are fun and rarely feel like drudgery, but they take a lot of time to complete. Sometimes they will be very frustrating, but you'll feel relieved when you fix the problem. Don't start the night before, and make sure to balance your schedule. But do take the course!
Take it! But do understand that it's requires a lot of time. The teaching staff is amazing so don't shy away from taking it if you've never had any CS experience.
it is incredibly time-consuming. if you have no experience you should definitely take it pass/fail.
TAKE IT! It definitely strengthens you're reasoning skills! Although you can expect some late nights, CS50 was totally worth the work you put into it! I'm considering getting a secondary in CS after taking this class.
Fun problem sets - just make sure you look at previous exams before taking the exams!
CS50 is a rewarding class. At the end of the course, I was very surprised by how much I accomplished not too mention all of the real world skills I have acquired.
have to learn a lot of the language on your own
I came very close to dropping CS50 because I was taking it as an elective. I'm really glad I didn't. It's a great class. You learn a lot. And you will actually enjoy it. I never came close to enjoying a big intro math/science class before CS50. It will teach you how to program and will teach you critical thinking skills valuable beyond the field. The course staff is incredibly helpful. No doubt, it is tough but you will have the support you need if you seek it out.
CS50 is a challenging course that you should take if you want to learn how to think differently about problems. The one stipulation is that you need to be able to dedicate the time necessary to complete the problem sets. It'd be a good idea to take it with a friend or to have friends who are able to help you or else you'll be spending a lot of time at office hours. That said, if you do have the time and motivation, definitely take it and you will come away feeling accomplished and finally understand the epic-ness that is CS50.
A fantastic course that provokes passion in students
I would recommend this course if you are very motivated to learn computer science and put in the necessary time. I would also recommend taking this course during a semester where your other courses aren't that difficult. Or at least, don't have lengthy, weekly assignments as well. I took it senior fall with 3 other classes that were not very busy during the semester, but very busy with final projects/papers at the end of the semester. So taking cs50 was very manageable (though reading period was awful since I had 4 different final projects/papers to work on). Definitely take advantage of office hours and watch the walkthrough videos! You don't need to go to lecture to do well in the course, but I'd recommend it anyway since Malan makes lectures very interesting and engaging. Start problem sets early, as doing last-minute coding can be very frustrating and difficult.
TAKE THIS CLASS! You will not regret it. Whatever your concentration or interests, you should definitely take this class. It's a lot of work, but the work is rewarding, and you gain so many useful skills from it.
This is probably one of Harvard College's best courses. It is challenging and nerve racking but all the while you are interested and constantly learning. My advice is to just know what you are entering into. This is a course that requires a lot from you and thus be sure to plan accordingly.
Start your psets early in the week
Though somewhat plagued by logistical setbacks, especially the ambiguity around grades and the lack of standardization of sections, CS50 nevertheless has a well-polished appearance and is genuinely a fun class. That being said, CS50 is also the type of class that you get as much as you put into it, and I feel a large part of my enjoyment came from putting in significant work and getting out just as significant results.
A good class for beginner programers, probably less so for those with more experience. The class features interesting and somewhat fun problems sets, and an open-ended final project, which is nice. CS50 is clearly Malan's life, but whether or not you like his teaching style will vary.
It's a great class, a lot of work; definitely lives up to the hype (and fear)
Take it. It'll change the way you think.
CS50 is probably the best course I will ever take at Harvard. David Malan generates an incredible amount of enthusiasm for the course and makes it accessible to even complete beginners (such as myself). The amount of online material (videos, lecture notes, section slides/videos, etc) and the four nights a week of office hours means that you will almost always have somewhere to turn when you are stuck. The course is definitely challenging, but it is an experience no one should miss. CS50 problem sets were one of my favorite parts of the week, and I always preferred working on them to doing any other homework. You learn real skills and solve real problems. If you are a complete beginner however, be prepared to take the class with a large group of friends who can help you out with the problem sets, or frequent office hours. The CS50 hackathon, CS50 lunches, and the CS50 fair are some of my most memorable experiences this term.As a freshman, I have made some of my best friends here because of CS50. I even met my boyfriend because of it! CS50 is a course I wouldn't hesitate to recommend. Everyone at Harvard should, at some point, take this course.
Every Harvard student should take CS50. It's an incredible amount of work, but it is well worth the effort. You'll walk away not only with the programming skills you need to create your own projects, but also with a strong grasp of the basics of computer science -- something that's rewarding in its own right. Don't let the workload and time commitment discourage you; if you're unsure about the class, just take it pass/fail!
Although some psets may be challenging and some fundamental concepts may take a bit of time to fully grasp and understand, the knowledge and the insight gained from this course are very valuable (and interesting).
Please, pause and think about all of the fanfare and promotion that a spectacle such as this performance engages in. If you still are interested in taking the course, then consider how much you know, what you want to get out of it, and how much you plan on using it in the future. If you have some little experience but are already able to teach yourself with the many resources available and do not plan on taking further coursework or using the skills for a semester, then I would recommend strongly against taking this course. At that point, you would already have all of the fundamentals that this course would teach, and you would be better served by not giving up a course (or two, along with hours of your life and considerable stress) to take CS50. There are many other courses here at Harvard to choose from, and you might want to expand your horizons different. You should especially also be wary of the notion of "things you can do after taking CS50" because due to the expansion of the course, you're in rather the same position as many of those who have passed through. I say this particularly because the course is heavily filled with people who have no experience, filled with a strong component that have quite a bit (AP compsci), despite the self-reporting where the 'no experience' section can have students who have as much as, if not more, experience than the TF. Honestly, the CA's/TF's were the one redeeming feature of the course, but if you know one/some, they'll generally be enthusiastic and helpful enough regardless to help you if you need to struggle through some things on your own instead of taking this course.
I had no CS background before this course. It was challenging but very rewarding!
It's a lot of work but it is definitely worth it.  It is a lot of fun and they work hard to make the material useful and engaging.
Be prepared to work hard and get frustrated, but it is rewarding and useful.
CS50 is a great course for any student no matter the intended concentration, but keep in mind, if you are just taking it as an elective and not for any particular credit/requirement, David does encourage the Pass/Fail route. It does take a lot of pressure off you during the year. There will be times when the problem set is really stressful and frustrating, but power through when you finish and look back, the sense of accomplishment will just be that much greater. You do learn so much in the class while having fun. It's remarkable!
My most demanding course this semester, but also my most satisfying. I came in with some CS experience and found the first few weeks pretty simple. But I definitely learned a lot, especially in the later portions of the course. Learning C may be annoying at times, but it really sets you up to be able to teach yourself any other language you want to learn.
make sure you have enough time in your schedule to devote to this course.  this is literally like taking 2 classes at least if you have no prior experience
An essential course to be an informed human being in the 21st century.
best class I've taken at Harvard!! you must take it, whatever your programming background!
One of the best courses on campus with one of the best instructors.
This is the hardest and most demanding class I have ever taken at Harvard. Do not take this class unless you are ready to sacrifice something else in your current schedule (usually another course). This course is manageable with 2 other courses and almost impossible with a full 3 courses, especially if those 3 courses take any significant amount of time. That being said, this course is also the single most useful course you will ever take. That and the sheer amount of knowledge you will gain is astounding. I recommend the course to anyone who is prepared to take it.
It's so good. Just do it and man up. As an idiot, I can say that it's worth it even if you think you know nothing about programming.
Fear the coding.  It is doable, but do not take this class lightly.  You will work.  You might cry, but you will learn a lot.  The class takes much of your time. Learn quickly or fail.
Knowing how to code is eventually going to be required for most high paying jobs so you might as well get some exposure now.
This class is great!  The psets and lectures are very interesting.
It's much more work than you think. It's possible to spend 20 hours a week on a problem set and still have to turn it in incomplete. I know many people who had a great experience with the course, but I personally found CS50 impossible to succeed in without any prior programming knowledge. My semester was disappointing because I wasn't left with much time to devote to my other classes. The enthusiasm surrounding the course makes me really wish I could give a more positive opinion, but CS50 left me feeling really discouraged from programming in general.
It's CS50. 'Nuff said. It's one of the few classes at Harvard that feels like an extracurricular experience. Definitely do not let people who tell you it's too much time dissuade you from taking this class.
It takes a lot of time.  Seriously.  I took it as a senior fall elective and it was a lot.  But, I think worth it?  Think seriously about whether you're willing to make it a priority.
Take it. You won't regret your decision. It can be a lot of work at times, but is immensely rewarding. You might end up a CS concentrator!
If you are a humanities person, take this course pass/fail. There is just too much work to manage it and a ton of reading.
It was tough for me, honestly. I came in with no experience and watched with frustration when classmates soared ahead of me, apparently. That said (still waiting on how I'm actually graded to see if this holds true) they emphasize that this is a class for everyone and even if you struggle, your ultimate grade is based on your relative improvement. I feel like I learned a ton though and it was a good insight into the field. Will probably be taking 51 as well to see if computer science is for me.
This course teaches you real skills, it's one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
Don't make the mistake of taking 5 classes with CS50 as one of them.  It is a recipe for disaster.  This class is a huge time commitment and if you don't start the psets at least 3 days before they are do you will probably not finish in time.  Take this class, if you must, with an easy schedule to avoid a potential mental breakdown.
It's great! It's really practical and you learn sooo much. Be prepared to work EXTREMELY hard, but if you put the work in and are interested in making a website/learning how this whole new language works, then you'll get so much out of this course. But make sure you're prepared to do 12-15 hours at least of work on psets per week.
Take it.
CS50 was a huge challenge but so worth it! I made a fully functional website and plan to keep it up - the community in this class may seem cheesy but it is really fun, and there are so many resources to help you get through the tough work, including TFs and peers. I wanted to learn useful skills during my senior year, and CS50 gave me that and more!
You must take CS50.From the enthusiasm of my fellow classmates and the inspirational final project to CS50 lunches and David Malan's general brilliance, CS50 is the best course I'll ever take at Harvard. (That's difficult to say as a first-term freshman, but somehow I know it's true.)Other CS50 bonuses:* lectures, sections, and other helpful tutorials are filmed, so if you miss anything or need to review for an exam ("Quiz"), you've got it in the bag* free stuff (like 50 CS50 stress balls and balloons)* hackathon* final project (The ability to apply the knowledge you learn through the term with the final project at the end of the course was paramount to the CS50's excellence.)* girlfriend (Also, I met my girlfriend as a result of taking the course. Thank you CS50.)So, basically, CS50 is awesome!!! My soul was crushed when it finished.You must take CS50. Do it for yourself. Do it for David Malan.
It's a lot of work, but worth it.
Definitely take if you think might be interested, especially if you like independent work. If you're unsure, take it pass/fail.
I took this class on a whim, but truly enjoyed it. I feel like I'm a more well-rounded person, and will definitely take with me many of the lessons learned in this class. Still, it requires a ton of time and hard-work, and often leads to neglect of other coursework for a few days a week.
So much fun! Can be difficult at times, but really a fabulous class. Challenges you, frustrates you, but such a good environment and so much support and that absolutely fabulous satisfaction when you get everything working.
make sure to work hard good course though
It is really hard. You will spend many, many hours working on the problem sets. BUT, it is also really AWESOME! The lectures are entertaining, David Malan is amazing, and it is easily one of the best run and organized courses I've ever taken.
It's really hard.
Don't take it just because everyone else is.  Do it if you feel like you might use it in some way in the future.
It's a great class but it'll be your life for the semester.
great class, psets are time consuming and lots of the time require help from friends/tfs.  course is well organized and definitely taught me a lot!
the workload is tremendous
The tests dont really test material, the  psets are good.
As much as the material is definitely good to know, it's an extremely difficult and frustrating class with a large workload that you will basically be forced to figure out on your own. This is a class to take only if you're actually interested in the material, rather than just in knowing the skills, and only if you know that you have a low workload.
I have mixed feelings. On the one hand I learned soooo much about basic CS subjects. And it's not just that, what I learned in this class has provided me with a jumping board, which makes it possible for me to learn certain things on my own now. Also I've been part of a quintessential Harvar course with a great culture of its own. HOWEVER, this has come at the expense of way too many sleepless nights, which took a lot of time away from my concentration-related classes. If you are techy kid, don't hesitate this is the right class for you. If you're one of the less comfortable like me, just make sure your schedule allows you to spend around (at times more than) 10 hours on a pset.
An awesome, incredible, life-changing class if you allowed it to be.  This means starting problem sets early and using the abundance of resources provided.  Don't take CS50 simply for your own edification.  Know what you are getting into, commit to the problem sets, and it will be the best class you take at Harvard.
It is a lot of work if you don't already have programming experience, but it's a lot of fun. The satisfaction you get out of completing an assignment (and the course) makes the work worth it.
Great class- just be really honest with yourself about what you are willing to give up.  Taking this class definitely hurt my other coursework and I definitely arrived to morning practice with little or no sleep more than once.  My social life was also sacrificed...
start the psets early so that they are fun and you get the most out of them
Programming is such a necessary skill nowadays and this class definitely gives you a good foundation. It is however, extremely time consuming and even more so if you have no programming experience. Problems sets can take upwards of 20 hours and the quizzes are extremely hard; however, the class and lectures and cult of the course is extremely fun and silly. Take this course when you have a light course semester and if you can try to learn stuff over the summer!
CS50 is a great course. Take it when you have a creative idea for a tech start-up because it will equip you with the technical knowledge and skills you need to succeed.
Overall a well-taught class. A significant amount of work, but the work is well thought out and there is lots of support as well - definitely worth it.In terms of your final grade though - the "quizzes" are worth much, much more than the class makes them out to be. Also, if they keep grading the same, grades from exams and problem sets are normalized across sections, so you are at a significant disadvantage if you choose an "in between" or "more comfortable" section. It's not a good system, but unless you are very very pro, you're best off choosing the "less comfortable" section.
Malan tries to be funny but sitting on an angry hedgehog is by far more amusing.
The class is more time consuming than it is difficult. Be warned that you could literally spend hours trying to find a single misplaced semicolon. There's just no way to get around the massive time commitment that this course demands of you, and the reality is, for most of those hours you spend on your pset, you won't be grappling with big logical reasoning issues. Instead, you'll be pouring over your code, looking for the syntax errors that are keeping your program from working. My biggest problem with the course was that I didn't feel like the time I spent on it corresponded to the amount I learned, for that reason.Be sure of your reasons for taking this class before you commit. Feeling like you "have to" before you graduate won't get you through the hours and hours of work. If you're looking for a challenging and rewarding course, the Classic Phase of the Novel does just as much to validate your college experience as CS50.
Take it pass fail.
Don't start psets the night before they're due. It'll save you a lot of trouble.
This class took up a LOT of time and was much more difficult than I anticipated. Although I'm glad I learned what I did, there was VERY little in the way of outside help, although I know they tried to offer additional resources. At office hours, I routinely waited about 2 hours before I was even able to speak to a TF for a few minutes. The class lectures were interesting but had very little to do with actually completing the problem sets and even sections were not that helpful in that respect (one of the problem sets had the listed objective of 'teaching you to teach yourself' PHP. I found the lack of guidance and the hands-off approach to be extremely frustrating given that I had no background in CS and had to initially learn all of the basic material.
Quizzes are essentially midterms, so make sure you're on top of things when they come. Also, this course will change your life.
Everyone says it's hard, and it is, but it's one of few courses that teaches you a skill here.
this course, if you do not understand much about the way computers or programs work, will give you a deeper understanding of computer-related technology, as long as you put in some work.
TAKE IT. If you're on the fence about taking the class, take it anyway. This was the highlight of not just my semester, but my Harvard experience so far -- and I say this three years in. Amazing class.
Hardest class I've ever taken, but definitely worth it!! I've always liked messing around with websites, now I have the skills to do it for real. There's so much support given. Definitely take advantage of office hours, lecture notes (rarely will you find a class that will write notes for you and give you a transcript of lecture videos). I met so many amazing people through CS! Loved this class! Definitely take it! But be prepared to work hard!!
You can get a lot out of this class, but the workload is crazy. I spent more time in the average week on CS50 than on my other three classes combined
If you buy into the culture, you'll enjoy it more. GO TO HACKATHON!!
This class is important to take because it affects how you look at your daily interactions with your computer and the internet. You have a slightly better idea of how the technology we take for granted works which opens the door for future exploration if you choose to do so. The class really does take a lot of time out of your semester (especially on Mon, Tue, Wed night) if you have never had computer programming experience so be prepared for that.
Its great if you have some experience with C.
As a person with no programming experience, this class was bearable when I worked with a friend on every pset AND hired a tutor to help said friend and me.  I did terribly on the quizzes, and it's necessary to teach yourself beyond the lecture info in order to get through psets.  You learn how to learn better as you go, though, and my pset grades improved along the way (improvement is supposedly what they grade on?).  I was very miserable on several occasions along the way, but the people were nice and helpful and good at listening to/fixing problems!  You accomplish a lot in taking this course.
don't take this class without previous experience
Take it. It's not really as difficult as everyone makes it out to be; it's just time-consuming. It's fantastically taught, though, and you'll enjoy hacking away at all of the psets.
You will put in a lot of work but it will be worth it because you will learn sooooo much and become a better person.
Professor Malan really likes to emphasize the fact that CS50 is largely made up of people who are "less comfortable" with computer science, but what he doesn't know is that apparently a lot of people lie and have actually had a lot of experience. It sucks to have to be compared with these people if you're in the same section, EVEN IF the teaching staff emphasizes self improvement. I would say that most people have touched CS before, and you should at least watch some lectures and check out the first 3 problem sets to get a feel for the material if you have NEVER encountered the subject before.
You've seen the tshirts. You've heard the hype. You'll probably even shop it on the first day and eat the cake and be hooked. Just be careful that you budget enough time to spend on this class. If possible, I would highly recommend getting a jumpstart on the problem sets. It's very doable since the lecture videos are all available, the pset walkthroughs are very informative, and the material is unlikely to change. Ultimately, CS50 is not necessarily very difficult, but it's a matter of adjusting to the slightly nitpicky things about CS. In my opinion, doing 2/3 of the psets over the summer was the best decision for me because I still got to experience the phenomenon that is CS50 while not killing myself every Wednesday night. If you're interested in CS at all, I would recommend taking this class. Make sure you have the time though!!
Wonderful Course, great introduction to CS if you want to continue or just get a sampling of different areas and an understanding of the basics, lots of time though with pests (if you are new to CS), tons of help and resources
CS50 is an amazing class; you feel incredibly powerful coming out of a single semester with skills you can use to solve real problems.
prepare to work hard!
don't procrastinate on psets...it's hard to code under a time crunch
The work load really isn't as bad as lots of people say, especially if you start working over the weekend. Lectures are lots of fun, and the course as a whole is great, even if you already know some programming.
This class is difficult, especially at first. But, as someone who had no prior programming experience before this class, I felt like I learned a lot over the course of the semester. There are also great resources available (office hours, help.cs50.net, etc.) for when you are stuck and need some help.
you won't regret taking this class - good info to know for life
This is by far the best course that I have taken at Harvard and will very likely be the best course I ever take. You learn more in one semester than you could have ever thought possible. It is very challenging but even more rewarding. You have to put in a lot of hours for the class, but you enjoy it. Amazing class!
It is an incredible amount of work. But definitely worth it.
In both an entertaining and challenging environment, CS50 equips you with computational skills that will be of great use to you regardless of the career path you pursue.
It's a really great class because the teaching staff is helpful and David really tries to make it a community. That being said, it can be very time consuming and sometimes just requires lots of hours to get things done. Coming out of it, you do learn a lot and realize you have the ability to program some cool stuff.
Okay. There's a lot of opinions out there, and CS50 is probably everything you've heard it is. So I'm gonna cut right to the chase and tell you straight: You will probably regret taking this class. It's difficult as hell. Your other classes will probably suffer. The psets (number six in particular) are extremely liable to make you cry (guys, don't think you are exempt from this). If you still really want to take CS50, ask yourself if you want to a life this semester. If you are okay with the answer being 'no' then go ahead. But don't say I didn't warn you.
This class is awesome, well taught, engaging, interesting and you learn a lot. However, be prepared to devote all of your time to the problem sets, and it will screw you over for other classes that require a lot of time.
CS50 is an exstremly challenging, yet rewarding class. Malan and the TFs manage to create a community rare in classes of that size. Finishing problem sets instills in you a sense of achievement, and you leave CS50 equipped with more than you dreamed possible.
It's a class that everyone should take, regardless of interests and concentration.
TAKE IT! That is, if you'd like to expand your skill set.
Looking for fun and a structured environment to learn how to code and think pragmatically? Take this course! But - definitely don't expect effective lectures. Malin spends entirely too much time playing irrelevant clips and making superfluous jokes. I think the gimmicks are what initially draw the large crowd, but I know personally that many of my classmates, especially those less comfortable, became extremely frustrated with this aspect of the course.
This class dominated my life this semester. I loved getting the chance to learn everything the course went over and the feeling you get when you fix a line of code is divine ("It's working! IT'S WORKING!") but I regret taking it with other tough classes this semester. I never knew a class could make one feel such great joy and pain all in one semester.
You will learn useful skills in this course -- writing algorithms, understanding how the web and programming works, and web design. You will need all of these skills in the future. Take it.
This is a hard course, if you don't know some comp sci beforehand. Possibly harder than you think  (I know it surprised me). And more than that, coding is time-intensive, and you do a lot of it. Be warned.
This course is difficult and time-consuming. However, it is a valuable course that teaches you very technical skills (something that most Harvard courses do not always offer).
There is, both on the Q guide and in the general student community, a lot of whining about the work load in this course. Allow me to discuss this fallacy. If you have ever taken a math or computer science class, it probably required more work than cs-50. DO NOT let the work load stop you from taking this class, because it has been the single most revelatory experience of my Harvard career. I changed my concentration because of it. I changed my career aspirations because of it. I changed my life goals because of it.
CS50 is definitely a time-consuming course.  Also, it can be really frustrating at times.  However, the feeling you get when your code works...its pure bliss.  This course does a good job introducing those with no prior experience to the world of cs, it also creates a strange but cool cult feel among its students.  If you're mildly interested, go for it.
Take this course if you want to learn this material. It will be endlessly helpful if you want to do anything like this yourself in the future.
Take it, its worth knowing.  Just know that what you'll get out of it is directly proportional to what you put in... in a class of 700 students, nobody will hand you anything on a silver platter.
Prepare for this class and maintain a strong work ethic through the problem sets.
Lectures are fun, but be prepared to figure out the material outside of class.  You have all of the resources that you can possibly need at your fingertips - the support system for CS50 is amazing.  You get a fairly good handle on C, and a brief but incomplete exposure to several web-based programming languages.  It is a good introduction to programming in general, but the final project will be a bit difficult because you never really learn how to begin a project in cs50.
I think CS50 is an awesome class mostly because of the Psets but the problem is that you might not want to take this class with many other challenging classes.... it can be quite difficult sometimes.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard!!! If you have no programming knowledge whatsoever, TAKE THIS CLASS. Professor Malan is so cool and engaging and fun, and you'll not only learn a lot about computers/programming/the Internet/other important stuff, but you'll also be exposed to the world of tech, startups, and venture capital through the numerous out-of-class opportunities Malan manages to procure for the class (i.e., lunches with cool people and other ad hoc events).
Wonderful class. Fun and you really learn a lot of important and useful information and techniques. Do plan to spend a lot of time though - that is required to complete assignments successfully and that is how you really learn the material so well.
A must for a harvard undergraduate experience.
It's an experience, that's for sure.
Endless hours of work on the psets sometimes culminate in the satisfaction of completion, but can also end in pure frustration. One of the greatest challenges I have undertaken, and I took this pass/fail. Do not be ambivalent about taking this class, you must be willing to devote even more time than you expect. Talk to someone who previously took this class with no prior CS experience.
You don't need any background and it is the first step towards understanding what we use every day.
This class will make you want to gouge your eyes out, and dance around the room in happiness (simultaneously sometimes). I struggled like crazy in the first few weeks, to the point where everyone told me I should take this pass/fail (if at all), but being the stubborn freak I am, I persevered, and I am so glad I did, because I would feel like crap getting "only" a pass in this class after dedicating my life and soul to it this semester.
My favorite course that I've taken so far at Harvard. Just make sure you come into it realizing that the psets can be a bit long and frustrating at times, but it is extremely rewarding to work through see how much you can learn in just 15 weeks.
Just take it! It's extremely useful to know at least some CS for the future that lies ahead, and this class will teach you that. If you've never done anything CS related before, then yes, this class will be a lot of work and fairly difficult, but it's worth it.
I would love to have taken this class during freshmen year; may have changed my concentration or at least makes me want to do a secondary. As a senior this class is helpful but perhaps not as worthwhile as it could be, especially if you do not plan to pursue the field. However, since all of us cannot leave technology, I believe that the knowledge gained from this class will probably come back to help me sometimes in the future. Overall, take it if you have the time and passion, and understand that the course does not often hold your hands when you most need it. However, also know that for this class you can choose when to attend lectures and sections, and can easily get helped by the numerous TFs and help sessions. Finally, if you are not a senior, finding a job through this class is also possible, making this class an excellent investment.
Everyone should have at least some understanding of programming and this class provides an amazing opportunity to learn a subject that is traditionally esoteric.
None, but be prepared to spend a TON of time for this class each week
~20 hour per week problem sets, every week, if you've taken zero or one CS classes before. Some are fun, some are not. Overall, with so many students taking the course, it was extremely well organized, always a lot of fun to work in groups, late into the night, with generally a lot of TF support. You won't really learn how to make websites except for 1-2 weeks at the end of the course (its glossed over) but you will learn about the logic of coding. SUPER RECOMMENDED TO TAKE FRESHMAN/SOPHOMORE YEAR instead of later. (1) You might switch to CS- seriously. (2) You'll be more focused on concentration things Junior year, and a thesis (maybe) senior year, so don't leave it till then. Just take it ASAP, especially while the quality's high. The hackathon was also incredible. A+
Tough course, you won't learn that much in lecture so definitely attend section. You will learn a lot, and you will hate the end of the course because they fail to teach you a lot and you are forced to learn a lot by yourself. But overall, the course was an amazing experience- you learn how to build and develop stuff and learn skills you can use in any field.
This class takes a lot of time and can be very frustrating.
CS0 is an amazing course. That said, I strongly recommend against taking it unless you already know that you want to major in Computer Science (and presumably have some talent in the area) or are a quick learner with facility in mathematics. I am a pure Humanities person, but I took the course wanting to learn about this important field in our current world and satisfy my math requirement. That said, I have never programmed before and found myself floundering on a daily basis with CS50. The problem sets could take up to 30 hours of my time, but more than half of them never worked and I got terrible grades on all of them. The course is graded on improvement, so I'm not sure how this will affect my final grade, but it is incredibly disheartening to devote all your time and effort to something only to see it fail to come to fruition week after week, especially because it made me put aside all my other classes. Again, I would caution all Humanities people or people who don't have a ton of time with other classes against taking CS50; you might emerge with a lot of knowledge, but it will ruin your semester in the academic sense.
If you have real interest and a desire to learn about computers and programming (even if it seems like a mystery and makes you nervous), check this class out. No background in programming is necessary so long as you are willing to go to office hours and section and ask for help when you need it. Also, if you, like me, don't have much of a background in programming, expect to spend a lot of time on this class each week (14+ hours) if you want to get the most out of it. At least, that was my experience. Also, start the psets early so you can go to office hours before Wednesday when it's crazy and the TAs don't spend as much time with you.
A lot of work, but very rewarding and empowering.
Be ready. CS50 will require a large time commitment, and a serious psychological one: problem-solving for hours on end can be draining. Start the Psets early and you won't have any problem. Reach out to your support network of TFs, TAs, fellow students, and the web at large. You'll be rewarded with a solid foundation in programming, regardless of your previous experience. Also, David is the best.
Take this class if you are willing to put in time and want to learn how to talk to computers, how to design and implements programs and think like a computer scientist
Not worth the time unless you have a genuine interest in the subject.
A lot of work, and worth the pain
I would recommend this course to almost anyone. If you are not a math and science person, this course is an interesting way to experience a math/science course in a way that is both interesting and applicable. If you are a math and science person, this course is a must. It's a look into a field in which you apply the same thought processes that you love about math and science courses, but that is also unique in its own way. It is a course that you must shop at the very least.
Consider taking it pass fail!  Especially if you are a senior
just be committed to crank, and you will be fine.
This is a really fantastic course, with a wonderful team of teaching staff. This is probably one of the most applicable courses you can take at Harvard! Be prepared to devote quite a bit of time every week to the psets. Often though, you'll barely notice as the hours fly by, because the homework problems are a blast to tackle.
Learning about how computers work and how to program them is very important these days. You won't regret taking this course.
Take some time to talk to people before making your decision to take this course.  Understand how much work you need to put in to get certain grades if you have/anticipate and want to maintain a high gpa.  The work load will strain other parts of your life.
Definitely worth the work, I learned so much and it was a very valuable experience. Just be sure you have a manageable course load!
Awesome class, but do be prepared to spend 15 hours a week on problem sets, particularly if you're new to programming or not particularly gifted at it (like me!). It will be better if you don't procrastinate - try to hit office hours earlier in the week when they're not so crowded. The thing with each problem set is that you never really know whether you're five minutes away from finishing, or five hours away from finishing, or maybe five days away from finishing. But it was an epic experience. Do it. And maybe take it pass/fail if you're sure you're not concentrating in it.
Take CS50!  You will work hard, and you'll enjoy it.
Awesome class, take it as soon as you can. It might make you a CS concentrator.
CS50 is an amazing class that is accessible to anyone. Computers, especially the Internet, are so important in modern life, so it is really important to have some understanding of how they work. It is incredibly empowering to have one's eyes opened to the world of computers, even if you don't plan to take any more CS courses.
You learn A LOT but most of the learning will be done on your own, so be prepared to spend time on this class.
definitely one of the most difficult courses at Harvard. at times frustrating, but it is worth it.
This is a great course for anyone looking into computer science, especially those who just want a small foray into the business just to have experience in the field.  This *will* be a tough course for about 80% of the students who do not have any prior programming experience or at least some "programming logic," but there is such a great support system in place of both staff and peers that it will be an awesome experience, however difficult it may be.  If you work hard in the this class, this could be one of the most rewarding intro classes you'll ever take at Harvard, and you'll feel like you've been part of a really cool society.
You can take CS50 with no prior programming experience but expect to work hard. Go to office hours early in the week and start problem sets close to when they are assigned. Office hours get congested later in the week.
Be prepared to set aside a lot of time to work on problem sets.
Maybe now you're wondering whether to take this course or not.Take it.It's going to take you some time as you may have heard, but if you're enthusiastic about CS, you'll have a lot of fun doing the problem sets, and at the end of each week you'll be quite amazed by how complex and cool the program you've just written is, and how amazing the things it can do are.
This class is a lot of work and be ready and willing to teach yourself most of the material. You get out what you put in, so if you want to learn a lot you will have to put in a HUGE amount of time. You can get away with putting in about 10 hours/week, but you won't learn nearly as much. The lectures also don't have much to do with the problem sets, so be sure to utilize office hours.
Even though it's a lot of work, it is worth it.  You'll come out with an amazing new set of skills that are applicable to many other fields.
It is a class of grand scope that you do not want to miss. It will change you.
try it. and do it for a grade for peat's sake
It will take over your semester but was definitely worth it.
This is probably the hardest class I have ever taken/will take at Harvard. Take is pass/fail if you have the option to, it makes a huge difference with stress. You will still work on psets 20+ hours a week, but you won't have AS MUCH pressure to get everything perfect. I'm glad I took the class, but I never want to do it again. Take it if you're interested, just know what you're getting into. Seeing your final project at the end is really rewarding and I feel like I actually learned something applicable in this class.
Rarely will you find a course that singly provides so much working knowledge in such a useful skill.
It is a good class but I had trouble taking a lot out of it due to its pace. This may have been my fault through how I approached it or my learning style but regardless of that it is a good class.
a lot of work, but worth it
It's easy to let the hype and ridiculousness of the course obscure its material, which is actually interesting and relevant.  The experience is needlessly overwhelming and stressful, but overall the class is definitely worthwhile.
Be prepared for a lot of work, but it's worth it.
Highly encourage people to take if even remotely interested in computers or programming. Definitely a lot of work, but also certainly doable, and there's a lot of options to get help from the staff.
Take this if you know you will be using CS in the future.  If you're not sure that it would be helpful, then this class is a lot of suffering for little reward.
Rewarding, but SUPER time consuming
DO NOT, I REPEAT, DO NOT GET SUCKED INTO THE HYPE. CS50 is kind of like a cult on campus and there are many people out there who will sing its praises to no end. But if you are planning to take this class, know that it's not all that it's cracked up to be. I do recommend this class. In fact, I think that everyone should give a shot at taking the class. But it does have its flaws. For one thing, the office hours are almost completely ineffective. There are just too many students clamoring for attention for the TFs to pay much attention to any particular student. Plus, the nature of programming is that you can run into an infinite amount of little bugs before your code will work. If you have to ask the TFs about every little bug, you will never be able to finish the pset. Then there is the fact that the course throws a lot at you at once. From day one, coding vernacular and terminology start flying around and it is really hard to keep track of what is what before something new comes along. You begin to get so confused about remembering the concepts that you start to disregard them in favor of finishing the psets (which will take you forever because office hours are so inefficient). Thus, you will be unprepared for the midterms, which test primarily on concepts. Students eventually catch on midway through the semester that the only way to survive is to turn to other students for help. And it is true that there are quite a few students in the course with a good deal of CS background. These students fly through the psets and can assist beginner students who are struggling. However, while learning from your peers is a great strategy to have, it is really sad that a course marketed towards beginners is ultimately so reliant on the experienced students. Nevertheless, there are people who love (worship) CS50 in spite of its flaws. These are students who genuinely fall in love with the material. When you love the subject, who cares about terrible office hours or confusing concepts? But then there are students like me. I could not get into the subject at all. Therefore, all the flaws of the course building on top this distaste for the material made the semester distinctly painful for me. However, I will still recommend the course because there are people who truly love it. It is a risk to take and I got the bad end of the deal, but I don't regret taking it. At least now I know CS is definitely not my thing.
I love computers and have been programming for a while but was hesitant to take this course because of its reputation on campus as being very difficult. Taking this class is one of the best decisions I made thus far in freshman year. If you are a pre-frosh reading this and are on the fence as to whether or not to take this class (like I was the summer before starting at Harvard), do yourself a favor and enroll. You will learn a bunch through challenging but rewarding work - the kind where when you finish a pset you smile and feel like you can do anything you set your mind too. If you are worried about getting a bad grade, know that the curve is tremendous and is based on your own, personal, progress throughout the course. Please take this class!
Get ready to work until your eyes start to bother you from looking at a screen for so long
It's an enormous time commitment. The first half of the course was challenging yet doable, while the second half was extremely difficult.
This is a superb course and EVERY STUDENT AT HARVARD SHOULD TAKE IT... David is an amazing professor and is always willing to help students... By far, my favorite course in Freshmen fall.
Great class. Obviously killer in terms of work load. DO NOT TAKE THIS IF YOU HAVE MORE THAN ONE OTHER BIG/SERIOUS COMMITMENT (or two other sizeable enough commitments). It eats your life away...but in the end it's worth it. AND TRY THE PROBLEM SETS THE SUMMER BEFOREHAND! It's all online
CS 50 is unlike any other intro class you could take at Harvard. It is one of the only class I have left feeling like I've actually learned tangible, real-life skills. The class is also a community, in that you feel like anybody not taking CS 50 could not fully ever understand your life. Because they won't understand the frustration of getting error message after error message at 4 in the morning in some dining hall while trying to work on your sudoku pset. They also won't understand the lap of victory you'll run when that pset is finally finished. You will spend more time on this class than any of your other classes....but in the end, you won't regret it.
Take CS50! It has become a rite of passage at Harvard. Even if you think that you'll never go into a computer science related field, take the class. Malan and the teaching staff make it accessible to everyone!
Incredible class, great support for students at any programming level, and a sweet lounge. There's no good reason not to take CS50 (except for maybe lack of time - the psets can get grueling if coding doesn't come to you naturally).
This class is great. Be ready to work your butt off on problem sets, but it is 100% worth it. It is the only class at Harvard where you learn real skills that be applied to the real world.
Make sure you're taking this during a semester when you have a lot of time to work on CS. It's a great class but you need to spend LOTS OF TIME on it.
This course is tough, but if you work hard you should be fine. Do make sure you take it with friends though, it definitely helps.
Even if you are taking this class Pass/Fail like I did, be prepared to invest upwards of 10 hours a week on the psets just to get them to a stage where you can submit them without risking a really awful grade.  Keep in mind that some people do actually fail this class and you should be careful.  It's a great community though and you learn practical programming knowledge via the psets and the awesomely fun final project.
Take it only if you really have a desire to learn the material. It's a lot of work if you aren't already more comfortable with CS, and it won't be worth it unless it's a labor of love.
start psets early!  do the readings and at least watch the lectures - it will help a lot.
Yes, it does take a great deal of time, but don't let that deter you from taking this class. If you begin your work, seek help if you need it, and not start at 12 pm every night, this class is super enjoyable!
Definitely take this. Regardless of your programming experience, this course will teach you something about programming that you haven't known and the best part of it- the skills are going to be useful some point in your life.
I had heard that CS50 was both hard work and a lot of fun, but I would stress the work more than the fun.  Lectures are entertaining and psets tasks are interesting, and learning programming is awesome; but that doesn't really matter if you don't want to stay up till four several nights a week agonizing over your code.  (I had no programming experience coming in; others found it easier.)  If you're okay with this I'd still recommend it: it's one of the only courses I know that you come out of with a definite skill set that you didn't have before.  But make it your main class ... DON'T take it with Physics 16 and Math 23, or anything like that.
You work a lot, learn more, and have even more fun
My recordation of cs50 to future students will be: "Definitely take cs50 it is an incredible class that teaches you so much about computers and allows you to create virtually anything. However, it is a very challenging class and if you do not believe your goals for computer science will guide you through the tough times take it pass fail.
If you are going to be a CS concentrator and already have some background you may get more out of another class.  If you are an outsider, just DO IT!! It's not a small workload, but you can then teach yourself a lot of web design things on your own, and you can converse somewhat with other cs-y people.  Both of these are useful skills in this day and age.
Awesome course! Be prepared for a lot of work, but it's definitely worth it
If you have no prior experience, really, really think about what your getting into. I spent between 20-40 hours on every single problem set every week, which I was totally prepared to do going into this class. What I didn't realize was that, even after putting in so much effort, I would still do poorly on the problem sets and be completely lost and confused in the class. And this is not a criticize of how the class is taught, I don't think the lectures or sections or even office hours could be ran any better. They did a great job with it, I just think some students should be dissuaded from taking this course.
you'll work hard but be thankful after
This class is extremely difficult. Take it pass/fail if you do not need it for a requirement.
CS50 is great, an amazing introduction to CS that literally can't be found anywhere else. Be prepared for it to utterly dominate your life... all of your other coursework will surely suffer, but you will learn a tremendous amount about coding.
Start your problem sets early!! And get to the office hour queues early and sign in as fast as you can because once you wait, you'll be #76 and it'll take hours for you to get seen. I took this course with Organic Chemistry and while it was doable, it was very difficult and time-consuming, so be wise about your other 3 classes that you choose.
CS50 is more than a course. It's an experience where you learn things so much more applicable than what you learn in 90% of other Harvard courses. In today's lifestyle, understanding computers is necessary for so many things. Whether you love or hate computers, CS50 will provide you with invaluable skills to succeed in this information age.
CS50 is tough. Don't go it alone. However, it's also practical and highly rewarding.
If you're looking at this right now, you're probably debating whether or not you should take this infamous course, the so-called "cult" course at Harvard. I'm telling you right now to take it. I had zero programming experience and joined late (unfortunately). But if you make the most of the class, it will cease to simply be another course on your schedule - it'll really be an experience in itself. Don't take it if you're simply in it to learn some programming skills and jump out as soon as possible with a grade as high as possible. Take it if you really want to try something new, to take advantage of all the opportunities that the class offers you, and you'll be tearing up when you exit the last lecture. This defined my Harvard freshman fall, and if you put in the effort and enthusiasm that this course will draw from you, it will be an amazing experience for you, too.
I learned a lot in this class, but the time commitment was brutal and WAY too much time was spent on C.
Try some of the work over the summer on cs50.tv. It helps prepare you and see if you like it.
While the skills you get from the class are very valuable and I enjoyed the class, just know it is an enormous time commitment and will be very difficult throughout the semester
Expect to be challenged if you have no experience in programming, but expect also to be thoroughly rewarded along the way.
A really great class, but you will benefit immensely if you have some background in programming before taking this course.
Make sure that you have a fairly light schedule when taking this course due the high demands of the class.
Amazing course. The staff is amazing and the course is fantastically well run and well-structured. Take it!
CS50 is a must-take class.  It makes you think about problems, both computer-science related and not, much more analytically.  It also gives you the tools and the confidence to tackle new problems on your own, particularly after the final project.  This class requires different amounts of work for different people, but is also as challenging as you want to make it (with the availability of hacker editions on the problem sets and flexibility in your final project).  No matter what, you will gain a lot from this class, but make sure that you have the time and energy to devote to it!
It's a lot of work, and it's completely worth it.
Very challenging and very time-consuming. Don't take it unless you are absolutely certain you want to learn CS.
This is a great class to introduce you to the wonders of computer science,  and the culture surrounding the class is unique. However, I wouldn't recommend taking it with any other time-intensive classes, as the problem sets will expand to fill any amount of time you have available.
#define STUDENTBODY 1600bool hasTaken(int student, char* class) {}void sanityTest(void) {for (int i = 0; i < STUDENTBODY; ++i)........if (!hasTaken(student, CS50) {........sanityTest();}
EVERYONE READ THIS: This course takes a hell of a lot of time. I wish I listened to people when they told me this. Not only is it VERY time consuming, it's also very frustrating. You can write codes all night and only get part of it to work or none of it to work. It's not like doing a math or science problem or writing a long paper, it's HARD and so many things can and will go wrong while doing the psets. Thus, make sure you have time for this course (20+ hours/week) and that you can deal with failing a lot before succeeding.
It sounds cliche, but this was the most rewarding academic experience of my life
get ready to do A LOT of work
homework takes 20+ hours a week, be prepared. take it pass/fail and you'll be so much happier.
Malan designs the class incredibly well. There are a lot of resources for help, such as multiple office hours throughout the week and an online help portal that the TFs usually respond to within 3 hours. The problem sets take time to complete, but they felt more fun than my other work since I was designing something interactive. The two quizzes, which counted for 40% of our grade, were challenging, but in comparison, the final project, which counted for 10%, is pretty relaxed, and the Fair makes it an enjoyable social experience.
It will take over your life, but it's worth it.
CS50 is an awesome course. It's difficult, but definitely accessible. It is very worthwhile.
Shows you not only a new way of approaching the world, but also an entire other half of it that you never knew existed.
CS50 is an amazing course with a great support structure--definitely go to the office hours, especially those less comfortable with the subject matter. You'll learn a lot and the work is worth it.
Be prepared to put in a lot of work and that having a CS background is a definitive plus.
It will be one of the hardest, most time consuming classes you will take, but it's super fun and totally worth it!
This class was super time-consuming. I pretty much spent all of my free time doing the problem sets from this class. Even when I was not working on the problem sets, I worried about whether I was ready for my "quizzes". The material can be kind of difficult for people with no prior CS experience. However, with a little diligence and persistence, anyone should be able to manage it (don't expect it to be eaasy though if you didn't have any CS background.)
You're going to be reading a lot of reviews that tell you that this class will take up a lot of your time and that you should be ready for the commitment that you're going to sign up for. They're correct. However, I strongly encourage you to take this class. I had an extensive self-taught CS background before taking this class and was amazed at how quickly my friends caught on to programming. By week 5, you'll be implementing programs that took me months to figure out on my own. It's amazingly useful to know that you can quickly write up a program that can solve a multitude of day to day problems in other classes that would have taken hours to solve by hand. As for the class itself, it's perfect. I'd be shocked if you can find a professor that is more enthusiastic about CS that Professor Malan. If you have a question, email him. He'll answer in a few minutes. If you're worried that you won't be able to handle all of the work, don't. There are many resources that will help you get through this class. Furthermore, grading is not an issue as you're only graded on how much you improve. I'm honestly having trouble explaining how amazing this class is. No matter who you are and what your background in computers is, take this class. You won't find a better one at Harvard.
That cliche quote they put up everywhere ("Demanding, but definitely doable. Social, but educational. . .) actually is pretty accurate. It's a cool class. Although the material can be pretty tough, but the grading is on a mysterious curve (not based on the others in the class). This curve can be good and bad. Unless you're at one of the extremes, you really do not have a good idea of how you stand throughout the semester. On the other hand, the fact that it is curved based only on yourself is nice, because it allows for an atmosphere where students help each other and socialize much more unlike more cut-throat classes.The teaching staff is great and really wants to help you succeed.
Take this class, and take it at the same time as a couple of gems, so that you can really give cs50 all the time you'll want to.  That's probably my biggest regret.
CS50 is a fun and engaging class. Unfortunately, sometimes simplification of concepts or focus on syntax gets in the way. If you're new to programming, it's a great introduction.
This is one of the best taught classes at Harvard.  It is not your typical class; it is an experience.  Throughout the semester you will do things that you never would have thought you would be able to do.  It is the most challenging, but also the most rewarding class I have taken in my 3 years here.  If you have no experience in CS, are not interested in CS, and do not wish to spend 20+ hours a week on problem sets, than this class is probably not for you.  However, it is definitely
Don't take it for a grade if not for a concentration or secondary. It's not difficult, but it is time consuming -> there are easier ways to learn this stuff without the the threat of a hurt gpa.
A lot of people will tell you this, but TAKE CS50. And if you do, really immerse yourself in the culture. Talk to many TFs and David Malan, go to lecture, go to office hours, and geek out. It really is an awesome course to be a part of, and by the end of it, you'll be able to do things you never imagined. I had never coded at all before this course, and created an Android app from scratch for my final project. It will take a lot of time, so make sure you have room on your schedule, and start problem sets early (preferably right after they come out). Spend late nights eating curly fries and coding, and have fun with it. Give yourself room to do the problem sets, as coding through a night is definitely not easy. Sometimes you have to step away from the computer, get some rest, and the answer will come easily. CS50 really gives you great tools to learn other languages, and gives you a way to think that no other subject than CS can give you. Go big or go home. Take CS50.
Be prepared to put in time and work.  This class will seem impossible at times, but it becomes more manageable as it goes on.
take it take it take it take it take it.  it will be worth your time, if you take it seriously.
go ahead and take it if you are studying anything science-related. you learn alot of crucial basic programming skills.
You are better off teaching yourself CS, because this class makes you teach yourself pretty much everything anyways but doing it on your own will let you avoid the incredible agony caused by the P-Sets.
Great course, it is quite a bit of work, but very rewarding in the end. After everything, you really feel like you accomplished something.
Every Harvard student should take this course. Every Harvard student can (a.k.a. has the ability to) take this course. Regardless of previous experience (or lack thereof), CS50 is truly the class that caters to both the noobs and the hackers alike. As someone who's had a  considerable amount of CS experience in high school, I still found the course engaging, challenging, and fun. Note that this class does come with a considerable time commitment: For those with no prior experience, expect to put in 12-15 hours a week; for those with prior experience, expect 6-12 hours a week. The only people who don't enjoy the class are those who don't enjoy putting in the time. Once you allocate sufficient time for this class, by term's end, you will definitely feel accomplished at your newfound skill set in programming and logical thinking as well as proud of your final project. Make sure to take this class, even if pass/fail (if you don't need it for Gen Ed, concentration, or secondary, this might actually be smart to do, because you'll still need to do the psets, but you won't have to worry about the "quizzes" [aka exams] that are one of the class' less shiny aspects)
A great class that really makes picking up computer science a feasible task. You'll have to invest more time in the psets than you generally would with other classes just tinkering and debugging, but it's never the difficulty of the class that stumps you. Just invest the time, and you'll find the class rewarding.
If you can't take it in person, do try the free online stuff! It's a wonderful introduction to programming, starting assuming no knowledge whatsoever, but offering hacker editions of the psets for people with background!Actually, you're probably using HarvardCourses. Anything I can say here will probably have been said better by HarvardCourses' constant advertisements.I would like to say that you might not want to try to learn an entirely new language for your CS50 project...
if you like solving problems, take this class.  it's fun to learn to make computers do your bidding.  programming has kind of an elegance to it that you come to appreciate, and besides that you learn a ton.
If you are looking to challenge yourself or have an interesting experience at all on this course, enroll in the more comfortable section.  What section you enroll in the end has less to do with your experience and more with how much you hope to learn in the course.  Enroll in more comfortable if you expect to enjoy any fun challenge in this course, as lecture material will not provide that.
Be prepared to spend a significant amount of time on the psets if you haven't coded before, but in the end it's a very rewarding class because you get exposure to a lot of topics in computer science. I liked the last three weeks most, which was when we learned web programming languages. The final project is also fun because it's very open-ended and you can collaborate with your friends.
I think that every Harvard student should take this class. This class has an awesome culture, is extremely useful and fun, and I think it would be a shame to graduate without having taken it. I had no CS background, and I might not even take another CS course, but I would definitely take this class again if given the choice. It is a lot of time, but totally worth it.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time working on psets if you have no CS background, but it'll be worth it when you look back and see how much you've accomplished at the end.
CS50 was an awesome course.Pace:  It moves very quickly and not all the relevant material for the problem sets is covered in lecture, so there is a moderate amount of learning needed outside lecture and section.  The last few weeks of the course cover web programming but barely skim the surface, so if you make a website for your final project you will need to do a lot of research outside of class.Workload:  If you allot enough time for your problem sets and start them EARLY and make use of resources like the help forums and office hours, you will do fine.  If you always start your psets the night before, you will burn out very quickly.Other comments:  The hackathon is amazing!!  It's a really fun shared experience and they constantly throw food at you, and you can actually get a lot done.I was very intimidated by CS50 before I took it but it ended up being more fun and slightly less stressful than I expected and I loved it!
This course very useful if you go on to study more CS, but not so much if you don't.
As long as you're interested in the subject and have the time to dedicate to the class, then CS50 can be very rewarding. Be prepared for it to take over your life though.
More than just earning credit or learning about computer science, CS50 provides students with invaluable skills and tools that are useful in many fields.
If you're up for it, take it.
Didn't have a chance to learn about Computer Science before? This is your chance. This is CS50.(ooh, ain't that catchy!)
I took this course as a freshman because I was so excited- but I wish I had waited until I was a sophmore and had better study skills. This class is so awesome- but the workload caused me to drop out of everything I was comping.
Coming from someone that no prior programming experience whatsoever before this course: Be expected to go to office hours (9pm-12) two or three nights a week. Be prepared to pull an all-nighter mostly every week. Sign up for a peer tutor from the BSC immediately. Rethink taking this class if none of your friends are taking the course. You will need their moral support. I initially was excited by the course. My excitement peaked and then declined about 3 or 4 weeks into the course as psets kept taking longer and longer to complete. I spent an average of 18-20 hours on each pset each week (9 of them in total) and I got each of my psets to fully function without bugs. However, I did poorly on both "quizzes" because I never had extra time to prep for them in the weeks leading up to the "quizzes."Tips: 1. "Quizzes" are actually just huge midterms disguised under a different name. They call them "quizzes" and together are worth 40% of your grade (each is worth 20%)2. Your section leader is the one who gives you your final grade, not the professor David Malan.3. Don't take this course unless you have a lighter load that semester
CS50 is a really well organized class with a great support staff. Lectures are not always necessary, the psets are where you will learn most everything. Try starting them before Wednesday night. I didn't, and it usually led to a late night.
This is not just a class, it is an experience. It's difficult but extremely rewarding. Definitely take it before you graduate.
This course aims to inspire you that programming is fun. But be warned: it is 1% fun 99% perspiration.
Loose all your fears about computer science. Build real stuff and have fun.
You will learn a lot, but you really need to be dedicated to it.  It must be a priority for you.
Great, great class. I didn't know jack squat about computers before this course, and now I'm the 'computer whiz' in my house.
TAKE THIS COURSE. I think it should be required of all freshmen. This class has the ability to change lives. It was absolutely amazing, and I've learned so much. Go to a good TF's section, and you'll learn even more. However, be prepared for frustration and that feeling that the machine hates you, because it does.
Definitely a worthwhile course if you have the time to dedicate to it.
Difficult, but doable
This is one of the most exhausting, time consuming classes I have taken at Harvard, but if you have a good TF - it'll be the most rewarding experience of your life.
JUST TAKE IT, it will change your life.
Even if you're not planning on concentrating in computer science, you should take CS50.
It can be challenging, but in a mostly enjoyable and manageable way. Help is always there when you need. Also Malan is a boss.
This class will change your perception of the world, and it is quite amazing, but be prepared to spend hours per week debugging. I wholeheartedly recommend this class, especially for those who have never really considered CS as a path, but make sure to balance out your schedule with some less time consuming classes.
tons of fun, with lots of work, but definitely worth it when you're done.
AWESOME CLASS!! TAKE IT.
Overall, an interesting class but obviously a lot of work (but don't confuse this with difficulty, since the course isn't too hard). I'm not sure how useful what is learned in the course will be for most people, although web-programming (e.g. learning to make your own website) is probably the most applicable.
It's a great course, but either have some CS background, or be prepared to spend a LOT of time on it. Generally though, a lot of fun!
Spend sufficient time on the problem sets and take advantage of the office hours. Ask for guidance on the final project and start early.
Very challenging but can be very rewarding.
Really fun problem sets! You definitely feel like you "own" the final project as something you created. However, if you aren't a self-starter/aren't used to Googling around to learn how to learn, then you'll struggle in this class.
I've never been so happy to finish a class. I had absolutely zero experience. Taking it pass/fail was a fantastic decision. Nothing feels better than figuring out a problem set. And I was on top of the world when I turned in my final project. There is SO much help available. The biggest thing I learned in this class is how to ask for help. And also how to google well.
Only take this class if you're willing to devote all of your time to it. It will take over your life whether you want it to or not. If that doesn't sound appealing to you then don't let yourself be tricked into taking it. The first few weeks are pretty easy and inviting but it gets very hard very quickly.
Be prepared to work hard, but also to learn many incredibly useful skills.
This class, while extremely rewarding and interesting is VERY HARD. As a first semester freshman, I don't think I was ready to take such a rigorous course.  Students new to computer science should expect to spend over 10 hours a week on the p-sets.
Painful but worth it
TAKE CS50!!!! Seriously, you will get a ton out of this class. It's definitely a lot of work, so think about how it balances with your other classes, but if you can make it work, do it. The teaching staff is phenomenal, and completely committed to helping you learn so much as possible. I took this class just for fun, and am now considering a CS secondary because I enjoyed it so much. You will get a ton out of this, and seeing your completed problem sets/final project is one of the most rewarding feelings ever.
It does take time, and prepare to spend some nights each week at office hours, but it's not nearly as bad as people might lead you to believe. On the other hand, the class is AMAZING, doing the problem sets is incredibly fun and you'll come out of it glad you took it - and, if you're like me - with a new interest. Put it this way: if you're on the fence because of the workload, do it.
CS50 is a truly great class.
This class is incredibly satisfying and you should take it if you have a chance and think you will have enough time to appreciate it. Even if you aren't that interested in computer science per se, the concepts taught emphasize problem solving skills and innovative ways of thinking that will help you in most subject areas. I'm a humanities concentrator, and while I was at first really intimidated by the course, I found it to mostly be fun and helpful. If you need help, go to office hours. The TF's are incredibly helpful and can save you hours of time.
Great class to take, super useful, but definitely a major time commitment
This class is absolutely fantastic, and I would recommend it to anybody who is even mildly interested in programming. Malan is a fantastic teacher and almost every lecture is extremely interesting. You do, however, have to be prepared to put in the effort the class deserves, but you'll come out of it feeling satisfied with how much you've progressed in the class from where you began. Problem sets can take over twelve hours to complete, and for people who are very busy and will start them the night before they are due may find themselves pulling several all-nighters. If you put in the work, however, you will find that the very nature of the course is extremely satisfying and rewarding.
CS50 is a great course. If you have the 5-10 hours a week to put into it, definitely take it.
Time spent per week will be completely random and unpredictable as it is mainly determined on how many bugs you make and how long you take to find them. Depending on how lucky you are with this, the same week's pset can take from as little as 1 or 2 hours to more than 10.
A must take course at Harvard.
The course has the steepest learning curve of any course I have taken at Harvard. That being said, I have learned a lot, and have thoroughly enjoyed the process. It's worth working late into the night once the program works! I do wish that there is more of a focus on practical application. Despite spending a large amount of time on the final project, it counts for a relatively small percentage of the grade.
A great course for anyone. A ton of hours of work but worthwhile. I think this is the one course at Harvard that I think I got the most tangible skills out of. The whole class is run well and is set up so that anyone can succeed. Would recommend to anyone looking for a challenging but highly rewarding class.
even if you've taken AP CS in high school or other intro cs classes, be wary of the work in this class. especially the last section on web-based programming can be very new and different.
I had some experience with programming in Java in high school, but never did coding very seriously.  The class was definitely manageable, and you should save yourself the grief of late-night coding by doing the psets around when they come out.  It's just not a pretty sight when you're debugging on a deadline.  For those with a stronger math background but perhaps less cs background, I would still suggest this course if not only for the component where you learn about the web and web-programming.  It's a very practical thing, and this course is nice in that if you understand the material, you're not forced to waste much time on it.  Also, definitely pick a more-comfortable section even if you're not sure if you can handle it.  If you're worried that it'll be harder to get a good grade, don't let that affect your decision, because it won't!  You'll definitely learn a ton more and have more fun.
It's the class everyone should take at Harvard. Engaging, fun, and somewhat difficult at times. Its the introduction everyone should have to programming.
If you're already pretty comfortable (took AP CS and have done some other stuff as well) perhaps look into taking a higher level course.
This class will push you. The problem sets take time; if you schedule your time correctly you learn and gain the necessary experience to be a good programmer by the end of the course. If you procrastinate on psets and leave everything to the last day, debugging and last-minute errors are going to make the course horrible.
Take this class at some point before you graduate; you will regret not having partaken of the CS50 experience. Don't start psets at the last minute- try to at least read the pset specification over the weekend so you know what you're up against.
I tell anyone looking to learn computer science to just take the class online on open course ware and do the problem sets. I spent way too much time on the class.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on the problem sets, and be prepared to be frustrated when you spend hours trying to fix a bug.  I would suggest taking the class pass fail if you are worried about time -- the course is just as valuable if you don't spend hours searching for the one missing semicolon that makes the entire program not work.
Take. This. Class. You'll be glad you did.
It is a fun and useful class that is definitely worth all the work that you put into it. Like any other class that is really worth taking, it takes a lot of work. I would only recommend it if you have hours to dedicate to it. CS50 really takes over your time and your life but if you put in the time you walk away with hard knowledge that will be useful regardless of where you end up in the future.
The problem sets and final project are time consuming but rewarding.  Watch out for the midterms; just doing the problem sets will not thoroughly prepare you, and lecture material actually turns out to be important
This is a great class and you are actually learning a language as well as a skill. If you like computers and want to know how they work, definitely take this class even though it may be challenging. Help is always available.
This class was extremely time consuming. While I did learn to do some cool things, the amount of time that went into psets and the difficulty of exams (average 62 for the final) made the class demoralizing and ultimately made me resentful of the class in general, which cast a pall over the rest of my semester. The only thing I can say for the course is that Malan is very dedicated and a good lecturer. (It's when you're not in lecture that your life is hell.)
It's alright. Don't get sucked into the cult of omg I took cs50, I'm such a boss because I survived. It's honestly not that hard or time-intensive.
The course is an excellent way to gain substantial programming skills, and Malan does an excellent job explaining things so people with no experience will understand them. However, problem sets are difficult and can be extremely frustrating. Definitely worth taking, but be prepared to work hard. That said, I didn't find the course as difficult as its reputation suggests; although some people do spend 30 hours on problem sets, I don't think that's normal.
It is not true that 70+% of the students came in with 0 programming experience. They just say they did. That being said, know that the course gets difficult very quickly after the first midterm, so be ready for that. If you are on the edge about this course, look up the material for up to the 5th week to see if it is stuff you want to learn.
To all seniors:I took this class because I told myself I couldn't graduate without taking it.  I knew it would be a lot of work so I even took one fewer class this semester.  This was akin to preparing for a tsunami by placing a single row of sandbags in front of your house.  You will spend more than 20 hours a week on problem sets even if you're taking it pass/fail.  That all being said, I am pretty satisfied with my final project.
BEST CLASS EVER. you will regret it if you graduate without taking cs50 and knowing david malan. and take it early. or you will hate yourself for wanting to switch concentration as a junior or senior!
You will be challenged, but you will love it.  Enjoy the class.  Nothing else is like it.
Just take this class. Prioritize it as the class you will need to put the most time in and only take maybe one other p-set class (that is NOT also due on Thursday, like physics was for me this semester) and a few easy gen eds. Then get started on these p-sets early, especially if you are a n00b and will have lots of errors in your programming that you need to get through. The great yet simultaneously scary thing about this class is that you can ALWAYS put more work into your projects.
Demanding, but definitely doable. Social, but educational. A focused topic, but broadly applicable skills. CS50 is the quintessential Harvard course.
Contrary to what people might say, I don't think this class is for those who don't have an interest in computer science. It's certainly designed for people who are unsure or have no idea what computer science is about, but nevertheless its material deals with stuff that a first year computer science student would need to learn in a semester. That means that if you decide to take the class, you have to stick with it, even if you find out that you don't like computer science halfway through the term. Plus, the class is heavy towards the end of the semester so you might not realize this until too late. Personally I thought I liked computer science but didn't know much about it, so I took this class. Now it's the other way around. I know a lot more about what it, but I'm not sure if I like it.
The positive: it's very useful, so even if you don't like it you come out with skills that will help later in life. The negative: it's very poorly taught, and so you will spend 10 hours per week on psets instead of 5 because the professor spends lectures on CS theory instead of on how to program.
take this class.  you'll learn tons and have a great time
The most amazing and rewarding class I've taken in my life. Although very difficult, the benefits of having an awesome teaching staff and learning this valuable skill outweigh everything.
ITS AWESOME. Pay close attention, especially later in the semester.
Great class!! Start psets early. You'll work hard and get a lot out of it.
It's going to be a lot of work, but you will leave the course feeling empowered.
This class will demand an absurd amount of your time. However, partly because of this, it is the most rewarding class I have taken at Harvard.
Buy a textbook and read the suggested readings before doing the problem sets, and even better, before lecture because the lectures are very fast and don't go into much detail about some topics.
CS50 gave me the skills and confidence necessary to teach myself any new computer language or skill and taught me a new way of thinking which I can apply to solve any real world problem I encounter with technology- definitely the most useful and interesting course I have taken at Harvard so far
If you get stuck with a bad TF, switch out!
CS50 is like going to the gym.  During the course, you feel the strain and burn of your muscles, but after each problem set you feel more and more accomplished.  Better yet, you walk away with an applicable talent like stronger muscles.
Only take this course if you're willing to put in lots of work.
It's a lot of work. Be ready.
Take this course. You will be better informed about the machine (aka your computer) that you use on a daily basis. Be ready to put in a fair amount of work, but it is indeed worth it. And the course provides tons of resources for your help. Avail of them.
Don't be scared off by all the horror stories! While there will indubitably be moments where you want to throw your computer out the window - as with most programming courses - the class is incredibly enlightening, and you'll learn a lot! The problem sets also do not require as much time as rumored - on average, I thought they were fairly equivalent to a typical life sciences problem set. So long, yes, but not excessively so. I regret not having taken CS50 earlier.
It's a ridiculous time commitment, even if you're taking it pass/fail.
CS50 is by far the most enjoyable and rewarding class I have taken so far at Harvard. True, it often requires 10+ hours a week for problem sets, but Malan does everything in his power to provide all the resources and assistance that you need. Students certainly do not need any programming experience to take this class, but you will still be challenged even if you have outside experience. This skills you will be taught in this class are applicable to virtually any field. This is a class that should be taken by every Harvard student.
Get a tutor through BSC before they run out.
It's going to take a lot of time.
Drink deeply from this course; Go to section, even if you're experienced. It's helpful and fun. Attend lecture. Do the various social-y things.
This is a great class if you are at all interested in programming.  If your primary interest is in web design or something else, you might find another course more fulfilling.  The class itself is really a phenomenon though, so I would strongly recommend it overall.
Good class.
CS50 is a must-take class, even if you're a humanities major.
The word I would use to describe this class is empowering. Not only do you walk away from it with an actual skill (rare at Harvard!), but I also left with a newfound ability to teach myself and not be intimidated by things I don't at first understand. David Malan rocks, plain and simple - he is an inspirational and really cares about the class and the students. Nobody should graduate without taking this class. Yeah, it takes a lot of time, but it is more than worth it.
OMG this class was awesome. It kicked my ass so many times, and yet it left me feeling great.Never before had I dealt with the level of frustration that I faced when one of my programs repeatedly failed to work. But once I did figure out the solution to the problem, once I made my program work, it was as if all of that time had been leading up to that moment of achievement. And I could look back and think "Yes, real learning just happened."If you're going to wimp out and not want to take on the workload, then fine - don't take the class. If you're up for the challenge and you think you can handle it, the opportunity is at your fingertips. You'll be typing a lot.
Google is your friend.
The only reason I recommend this class with reservations is because it was possibly a bit too easy.  While my background is not extremely extensive(I took a few years of CS in high school), I was able to do the hacker sets relatively easily and never needed help.  For anyone who has a decent amount of background, I'd recommend CS61.  Most of the stuff can be learned even if you aren't in the class anyways.
Such a rewarding class! David Malan is a baller. You learn so much about CS and this course will definitely make you more tech-savvy--you'll be able to make your own website by the end of the course! Definitely take this class!
Know what you are getting into: you are going to work extremely hard and come away feeling very useful. It's not just happiness and candy, so try to figure out what you want before enrolling. Malan and all of the course staff are super cool.
It's true what they say.  It consumes your life.
CS50 will be one of the most challenging courses you take at Harvard. It is not difficult in the conventional sense, but rather demanding of your time. That being said, I have yet to take a course which grants a greater feeling of accomplishment than CS50. A problem set has the power to make one feel worthy as a human being.
I'm a senior and I really wished that I had not put off taking this class. I wouldn't have changed my concentration because of it, but possibly a secondary. Take it! CS is one of the most useful and practical things you can learn here.
Prepare for a lot of work, a lot of figuring things out for yourself.  At the same time, it's really quite thrilling to get a computer to do what you tell it to, and the skills- programming and general problem-solving/logic- are applicable to an extraordinary variety of fields nowadays.
This class is AMAZING. Take it, do it. Don't think twice about it. It'll suck up a lot of your life, but trust me, it's worth it.
CS50 FTW
Great introduction to programming.  Lots and lots of work, but not bad if you start the problem sets early.
CS50 will steal your time and give you little in return. I came in with previous experience and walked out feeling like I had learned nothing significant. Grading totally depends on whether your TF likes you, and lectures are entertaining but teach barely enough to even start the problem sets. Take it if you want to - your mileage will vary.
You will learn a lot about computer science and get a lot out of the class as long as you are willing to put in the work. Make sure you look at the problem sets early so you can get a sense of how much work you will need to put into them.
It's a Trap!
CS50 is an experience well worth having. Dont pass it up!
Whether you want to concentrate in computer science, English, philosophy, psych, or anything else, you should take this class. Is it time consuming? Yes. Is it challenging? Yes. Is it worth it? Absolutely yes. I've never learned more in a class than I have during this semester of CS 50. I would recommend it to anyone with enthusiasm.
Do not take this course if you do not absolutely have to.
Please take this class just for the new skill that you will get which is useful no matter what career you do in the future. In addition, the psets really aren't that hard. I didn't have any CS experience before this class, and for all the psets, I was able to complete them in under 5 hours and get perfect scores. This is a well taught class and you won't regret taking it.
You will, hands-down, love this class if you take it. It is demanding, difficult, and frustrating, but by the end you will feel like you've learned not only some computer science but the ability to think critically.
Take it! It would be a mistake not to--it's a fun course and you learn a ton.
Be prepared for grueling hours but a rewarding semester. Everything you need to know about this class is encapsulated (NO PUN INTENDED LOL) in the CS50 song, "Pranksta", which you can find either on the cs50 site or at www.facebook.com/shwyntax.
Please take this class. Do not leave Harvard without taking it because the experience--the professor, the community, the liveliness, the pain, the triumph, the panic before Friday 7pm, the Fair, the Hackathon--is truly phenomenal.
This takes a lot of work, but is fun. You need to be able to think logically.
Markets itself heavily as a beginner's course. It is not.
Psets take a lot of time. Don't wait till last minute, because you will not be able to get help from TFs as there are a lot of students and there will be overcrowding. The course is a lot of fun and is very worthwhile if you are willing to put up with frustrations when you can't figure out what is going wrong with your code.
It is a looooottt of work, but you learn a lot.
Some people find this class easy others find it hard. If you are one of the ones who find it hard and require help, that may be a problem for completing work. Office hours were sometimes overcrowded with names being added to the queue faster than the TFs could take them off. I have had and have heard horror stories where the TF doesn't know what to do and has to get help or the student waits over 2 hours to even see a staff member. Keeping all that in mind, I still recommend this class because I have learned massive amounts from it and had an amazing time at the Hackathon.
Be ready. I did not expect to do as much learning by myself as I had to. Devote as much time to it as possible, and then some. Keep at it and you'll be fine. Be pro-active about learning the material.
To repeat what everyone else will say, this class is difficult and a significant time commitment, but it's worth it. The material I've learned in this course is the most useful I've learned at any course at Harvard by far, and I've already put it into use in other classes and in general. I had no experience with coding, programming, or anything computer science related, and the course definitely understood that and catered to my needs. That being said, the course is definitely a time commitment, so be prepared to spend long hours on your problem sets and understanding the material!
Be prepared to work hard and spend many hours on this class, but ultimately learn a lot about programming. Also, lecture is not very helpful, but sections are. Shop around for a good TF if necessary!
This class gives a solid background in basic computer science, but the grading is often difficult to understand, and you should expect to put a LOT of time into the class.
takes a lot of time, start the weekend before its due or at least at the beginning of the week so you can go to section with questions. walkthroughs are extremely helpful
I know you don't have the time this semester. You'll never have the time. So take it and you'll just make the time. Also, CS50 will make you a better, smarter, hotter person.  Oh and sexier. did I mention sexier?
It's really a lot of work as I'm sure you've heard. And most people would recommend it but there are other ways to delve into programming than CS50. However, it is the easiest way to do so and there is a lot of support (both staff and friends). So of course I recommend it, but just beware, it'll be more work than you think.
You will learn computer science if you put in the time required to complete all assignments.  However, if you have no prior experience, it will take you an inordinate amount of time to complete these assignments.  This course is incredibly poorly designed as a course for both people with prior experience and people with no prior experience.  It is almost insulting how overblown Prof. Malan makes the course and how much of a show he turns it into (i.e. CS50 clothing, the CS50 Fair, CS50 online applications, etc.).  As far as I am concerned, this is all a farce.  Don't be fooled!  Know exactly what you are getting into, and seriously consider taking the course Pass/Fail.
A great, interesting class BUT this is something you can do on your own if you're really interested in computer science. The fundamentals of C, HTML, PHP, and Javascript are totally teachable to yourself. My advice? Do the class at your own pace using the awesome resources and materials online. Don't bust your butt on all the stress. Teach yourself -- after all, that's what David Malan says is the best way to learn.
Everyone should have this knowledge. Take it Pass Fail and you can do it without risk. Or step up and take it for a grade. Sure, you might not get an A but you will come out a lot smarter about technology/computers than you ever could imagine.
This is a really rewarding class and it is certainly worth all of the time and effort.
Be careful what classes you take with this class.  The problem sets are so time intensive that I rarely ever got to my other work.
Don't be intimidated by what you've heard about this class. Whether you've programmed before or not, this class is fun and manageable for everyone. I think this is one class you have to take while at Harvard because it's such an amazing experience.
This class is one of the most useful classes at Harvard. You come away with a very solid basic understanding of computer science and the ability to teach yourself more. However, it is not for those not willing to work. Problem sets are a time commitment, and to get the most out of them, you should figure out how to do it on your own. Sitting in the science center computer lab and waiting for the TF to come help you every time your program doesn't compile will not teach you anything.
This class is amazing. It should be required of every Harvard student. You will learn the basics of how to use the most powerful tool of human existence to this point.
Though problem sets may take quite a bit of time each week, CS50 is a great introduction to CS, especially for those less comfortable.
This class is the bomb for so many reasons. First, the Professor is fantastic! The problem sets are a blast (and addicting). The number of resources available is super. You learn so much in so many different ways. And don't forget the fun; it's a hell of a lot fun! This school puts so much money into this course and it is really more than a course, it's a life experience. Bottom line: if you want to be in the awesomest class and don't already know how to program in C, then most definitely take this, it would be a waste of coming to Harvard if you didn't.
I am a social studies concentrator, but I highly recommend this course to every student regardless of concentration. It is incredibly useful and well-taught; I have never learned this much in a two-month period - I know that I will be using and hopefully expanding these skills for the rest of my life.
You learn a lot.  When I began this course, I literally knew nothing about computer programming and now I can make my own website!
Start the psests early and try to go over the material as much as possible.
don't take as a fifth class. it destroys your gpa and leaves no time for other classes.  don't take unless you're serious about committing all your time to it.
Although you'll have to battle budding computer scientists for the top grades, if you apply yourself you'll learn plenty regardless.
This is a good introduction to computer science, but remember that it is an introduction - you won't become an expert in any one thing, but you'll get the tools to teach yourself programming and computer science. Be prepared for the time commitment - this course asks for a lot. Also, study hard for the quizzes, as they can be quite challenging.
This course will change the way you look at computers and programming. These things become trendy and edgy.
it's hard, and it will take over your life.  whether that's good or bad depends on the person.
Take the class, and take it for a letter grade!  It is possible to do well in the course regardless of background level - the grading system is set up for this to be the case.  CS50 is AMAZING if you give it your all, but I've seen people dislike it and find it too difficult because they did not put in enough effort in the beginning to learn the basics.
Definitely take this course freshman year.  If you have to take it when you're an upperclassman, make sure you adjust your workload accordingly.  Remember, many freshman have the time it takes to devote to this course because most of them enroll in this course at the same time as they enroll in ungraded Freshman seminars.
CS50 is the best class I've taken so far... and I ain't no freshman.
This class is amazing, it's a ton of work, but it's excellent how many classes can you take where you come out knowing four more languages?
It can be frustrating or difficult at times, but it is the best feeling when you finally solve the problem set.
For anyone who is not familiar with CS, there is no better way to be introduced to the exciting and addicting world of CS. Definitely prepare to put in a fair amount of time, but it will be worth it.
Everyone should take this course!
Start the problem sets early.
If you take CS50, you will either complete it to satisfaction or perish.  You won't perish, but handling it on a week-by-week basis will not be a walk in the park.  Nonetheless, putting in the hard work yields great satisfaction on a regular basis as you see yourself tangibly becoming a better person -- an individual more and more capable of critical, discerning thinking and some really cool tricks.
This is probably THE best course at Harvard. Every Harvard student should take CS50 no matter what concentration they are. Yes, it is a lot of work, but it is all rewarding. You will see how much you learn and everything you do is fun. I never thought that a crazy workload and the best course ever could go together but CS50 definitely lives up to its reputation.
This class is epic in every way. You will learn a ton. You will be challenged a ton. You will feel extraordinarily accomplished. And you'll have a lot of fun doing it. Just make sure you are willing to put in 15-20 hours a week for the Problem Sets. The problem sets are really well-designed and this is where you will learn the most.
Cannot say enough good things about this class and Professor Malan. Lectures, sections, and even psets are all  fun, engaging, and educational. I came into the course with a solid CS background (AP Computer Science).  Although a lot of the course was review, I do not regret taking the course. It helped me realize my love for CS. I highly recommend this course to everyone, especially to someone with no CS background. If I hadn't known anything about computers, I would have been even more blown away by this course.
Absolutely take this class, but make sure you budget time for it.
Unless you are a computer whiz, only take this course if you are willing to devote the time and effort to understanding subtle concepts and applying those concepts to time-consuming and challenging problem sets.
This is a fantastic class that will definitely give you a pretty thorough introduction to CS. That said, there are so many students taking this class that waiting for TFs at office hours during the harder psets makes this class a ridiculous time commitment.
This is an excellent class that gives you practical skills, especially if you attend lecture, go to section prepared (e.g. have started the pset), and do the psets with the intent of learning. Grading is very opaque, however, and not necessarily correlated with the amount of time you spend on the class, which can be a lot. Coming out of this class having no previous programming experience, I feel like (unlike in some classes) I've actually developed the skills that they tell you you will develop in the beginning, and I'm very satisfied with what I've learned.
Make sure you have time everyweek to devote to this course. Otherwise it could become a nightmare!!
You are giving your life away.
CS50 is a cult. You will make instant friends because you took this class. It's a lot of work. I ended up pulling all-nighters almost every Thurday night to get the problem sets done. Office hours can get rushed so get there early if you can, but do go to office hours. I reccomend you get a good chunk of your pset done before going though, and user their help if you're stuck somewhere. Don't stress out too much. The extra late days are so helpful, and helped me keep my sanity. The lectures are actually a lot of fun, and it was the only large lecture class where I never almost fell asleep. Plus you learn a ton of useful skills for the modern world. Take this class before graduating!
It's one of the best courses at Harvard, especially if you've never programmed  before. The tools the course will provide you with are ridiculously useful and you will learn everything through fun and exciting lectures and hands on problem sets. Definitely recommend.
The last 4 PSets can take about 10 hours of coding (or more--but not in most cases).  If you just prepare for and accept that, you will cruise.
CS50 is definitely doable. Don't feel like you're at a disadvantage because you don't have CS background. CS50 teaches you everything you need to know to be able to do the work. And the staff support is great!
good but overrated. if you want to try and devise solutions to problems by thinking through them yourself, as opposed to just going to office hours or looking online for the best, most concise implementation, be warned that your grade will suffer for it. that weird incentive aside, cs50 teaches you useful stuff, and is a solid intro to programming
This course is what I imagine childbirth would be like: you are so happy with the end result, you almost forget all the blood, sweat, and agony that went into it, but you will still cringe at the sight of a terminal prompt.
this is the best class i have taken at harvard.hands.down.
Start the psets early; it takes some problem-solving and learning on your own, but it's well worth the effort!
CS50 is so much fun. Admittedly, it is a lot of work, but you'll have so much fun - from the lectures to the lounge to the 24/7 office hours to the Hackathon to the Fair and much more, CS50 is more than just a course, it's an experience! Don't be scared off if you haven't programmed before, take it pass/fail! If you have to take it with a letter grade, then be sure to take advantage of the amazing support system. Everyone comes out with the power to make awesome websites, apps, and much more! You'll start to recognize potential ways that you yourself could implement different technological features that you use every day. You'll be able to understand nerd humour (the best kind there is!). You'll have fun. Just take it.
Work and you'll have a blast. Don't and you'll pay.
Even though its incredibly time consuming, I will admit that you do learn A LOT. The CS50 fair is also incredibly rewarding.
Make sure you have enough time for the class (problem sets take a while). Don't take it if you already have a hard class load. The problem sets will end up becoming your obstacles instead of opportunities to experiment and learn.
A survival course for the digital era, it actually empowers you to do things you wouldn't have thought you could accomplish.
If you have the time and are willing to put in the work, it is a great class
Take it and commit to it :).
This class is amazing - both the most challenging and rewarding class I've had, where the work was hard but I still felt like I was learning things (instead of being hard for the sake of being hard). Lectures are fun and exciting, and there's a lot of "show" to it, but you learn a tremendous amount in one semester.
It is most definitely a love-hate relationship, but I am very glad I took the course.
CS50 is a good introduction to programming. I enjoyed it and learnt a lot. It helped me to round out and shore up my programming skills.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU HAVE NO COMP SCI EXPERIENCE...YOU WILL HATE YOURSELF.
It's really really hard, but very much worth it. It will be useful literally for ever more.
This class is AMAZING.  It's a ton of work and will take over your life, but you won't mind, because you'll be so busy tracking down the last big in your code so that you find the secret message or make your website look just the way you want.  You don't need to know anything about programming going in.  I certainly didn't.  The teaching staff is really helpful and supportive.  It's a great experience all around.
You must be willing to put in over 15 hours a week, even if it's pass/fail. You also have to realize that a lot of the website-oriented learning only takes place in the last three weeks of the course. Finally, most of it will be self-learning, which is why it takes so long--this can be really frustrating. It feels great when you do make something finally work, but it was harder than I expected. Also, class hours contribute nothing to how you do in the class on your psets and quizzes.
beware of the time commitment, especially as as senior. even taking it pass/fail will still mean you put in 10+ hr for some of the later, harder C psets. this course is doable but DO NOT attempt to take this with other demanding classes
It's an awesome vlass
I learned a lot, but it was a very painful process getting there. Lecture is a production, but you pretty much have to teach yourself everything. Even as a P/F elective, this class was very difficult and my most time consuming course.
Be ready to work
To prepare themselves before hand because everyone else sure as hell has.
Programming is a very marketable and for that reason I would advise people to take this class.
Superb class. You'll learn lots and it will be worth the hard work. Take it.
This course was very good, and one of my most enjoyable courses. However, it was also one of the most difficult courses I have taken. There will be no good time to take it, but if you can't honestly spend the effort and time required, it won't be worth it.
It's tough stuff if you're new to the field. It takes a long time, but it's always rewarding. Most importantly, this course allowed taught me a skill that I'll be able to use in the future. The staff is VERY supportive, though. Also, David Malan's a G.
This course is extremely interesting, but be prepared to put in hours upon hours for the p-sets.
tough, but a lot of fun, and there's tons of help along the way
It's time-consuming but well worth taking
Definitely have to be willing to put in the time. Also, the grading scheme is weird (5 point scale for all the psets), so I know a lot of people who ended up really disliking the course because they couldn't get used to it.
Don't be intimidated by the Q guide's workload component. The problem sets and final project will certainly take up some time but this is the most FUN work you will do in your schedule. In addition Malan and the TFs do an excellent job of helping you along while speeding through material.
CS50 is hands down the best course I have taken at Harvard. It's fun, informative, engaging, and generally awesome. No matter who you are, YOU SHOULD TAKE THIS COURSE! Trust me, you will not regret it.
Take this class! The problem sets are very fun, and the staff is extremely helpful. Make sure you get help if you need it, because otherwise, the class will take over your life. (the online bulletin board, help@cs50.net is AMAZING)
This class was amazing and you MUST TAKE IT. I had almost no background and by the end I felt like I could go out and work in a job that requires coding skills. The problem sets are NOT BAD at all. Yeah, they may take 10 hours but so do problem sets in any more-intense math/science course. Just start them on sunday, and you can just do it over a couple hours each day. Please take this - it'll change how you view computers and the world and maybe even your concentration!
It's very good class to get exposure to, and learn the basics of programming. Malan is very enthusiastic, and the staff there to support you is immense. The Hackathon (an all nighter at MS in Kendall during Reading Period) was more fun than any all nighter has any right to be. Though it feels rushed, the class does a great job of exposing you to many different computer languages and empowering you to work with them. Programming is much funner/less frustrating to learn with others helping catch the small bugs that you make. Only word of caution is that the course is very time consuming, even if you have had CS experience before. Also, it's an introduction to programming rather than computer science - so sophomores who love this class should take a few further classes in CS before deciding it as their concentration.
Do not take if you have other time-consuming classes. If you cannot commit to spending at least two nights/many many hours in the basement of the science center to be helped for a few minutes at a time, then do not take this class.
This is my favorite course at Harvard so far.  Find some buddies in the class with whom you can code, someone who will point out that missing semicolon at 2 in the morning and save you hours of confusion.  Develop a vision of something you would like to be able to implement in the future so you can use that vision to pull you through the difficult moments of CS50.
I think that CS50 is a great intro class. However, in order to succeed you really need to be prepared to devote a significant amount of time to the class. I would not recommend taking this class with another work intensive class.
You need computer science experience to survive this class.
Challenging, time-intensive, and somewhat overly involved, the class is definitely a must for students with little or no prior experience in computer science and understanding technology.
Take it! It's the best class you will ever take at Harvard. There's a lot of work, but there is no shortage of resources to help you. You will learn and master the material, and there is nothing more satisfying than presenting your final project at the fair.
Take this class iff you are going to have at least 10-15 hours every single week for the psets. It may take you more or less time than this, but thats about the average.
It's fun! Don't be intimidated by the first few problem sets because they get better once you learn more material.
Definitely take it. Don't think twice.
If you're really motivated to learn programming, and have a manageable schedule, take the class.  You definitely will learn very quickly some very practical skills.  Be sure you have enough time for it though, problem sets can be very time consuming, though it's extremely satisfying to get them done.
takes a lot of time!
This class if definitely manageable if you put in the time required, which is a lot. It is not an overestimation to say the class takes 10-20 hours a week.
It is extremely interesting, fun, and engaging, but it is also very time consuming.
CS50 is an all-encompassing experience; it's not guaranteed to turn you into a full-on hacker, but it'll get you close.  However, what you get out of it depends on what you put into it.  As a thesis-writing senior taking the class pass-fail, I could have learned a bit more from the class if I had spent more time on problem sets and taken advantage of more of the resources the class has to offer.  Even so, I understand computers, memory, internet lingo, web design, and programming so much better after having taken this course, and I'm really glad to have a new arsenal of tools to tackle everyday problems.  This is probably the most useful course that I've taken at Harvard.As far as the workload goes, it's a pretty serious time commitment to take this course, even if it's pass-fail, but it's fun and rewarding work.  I especially appreciated the time and care that the course staff took in answering any and all questions, including panicked ones at 5 AM.  The course is also peppered with fun things like references to memes, special talks and events with the course's sponsors, explanations of XKCD comics, and of course the CS50 fair.  David Malan is a great showman, but make sure you get a good TF, because they will do the bulk of the explaining.  I highly recommend this course to anyone and everyone, especially people who start with no previous programming experience (like me).
If you take CS 50, make sure you know what you are getting into.  This course will take over your life.  Problem sets take longer than in any other class I've had.  However, if you are prepared for the time commitment, you will learn a lot of interesting and useful material that will help you in all different fields and aspects of life.  There is a lot of hype around CS50--don't let the great marketing campaign suck you in unless you are sure this is what you want.
This is a great class, but it takes a lot of time. Its only worthwhile if you can afford to dedicate a significant chunk of your schedule to the course.
Be prepared for it to take up many many hours of your week, especially towards the end of the class.  In order to really get anything out of this class you must be prepared to make it the center of your semester, possibly at the cost of your other classes and extracurriculars.
if you gonna put the effort itll be one of the best classes you ever take
You will need a LOT of time if you want to do well in this class. Very carefully consider how much time you can realistically devote to it, because if you are not very experienced in computer science, as I wasn't, this will most likely be your most time-consuming course, regardless of what else you're taking.
This class is rigorous, but reading texts beforehand and afterwards helps.
Just do yourself a favor and learn a little HTML, maybe make yourself a basic webpage or something using some of the tutorials on www.w3schools.com .  Then, you'll be much better off when the web programming part of the course kicks in.
AMAZING class! Its a great introduction and the best part is, if you put in the work, you can do well. Lecture is very engaging at the beginning...that fades...but Malan is a superb lecturer. I would try to make sure you get a good section leader because you learn the most in section. I dont think anyone, especially math or sci concentrators, should be intimadated by this course bc you have the resources to succeed...its up to you to use them. If you don't have 10+ hrs every week to spend on a problem set then rconsider, but I was pretty busy and just managed to make time.
CS50 is an excellent course that will greatly improve your knowledge of computers and computer programming. The material was of moderate difficulty, but a substantial amount of time (approximately 10 hours, in my case) was needed to complete problem sets every week. The course's support network is impressive, and help is always provided to students when required. Professor Malan is very enthusiastic about teaching, which is evident in his lectures.
If you have previous programming experience, it'll be doable.  Otherwise, you'll just have to wait and see.  Either way, it's really fun!
It is a must-take course at Harvard.
This is a very work-intensive class.  It is doable if you are willing to put the time in--and it is very rewarding once you do--but it is a serious commitment.
You will never take a more challenging, rewarding, exciting course. Definitely go for it.
Amazing class. The problem sets are so much fun and the staff will hold your hand through many long nights if you need it. I've never taken a CS class before and I was amazed by how much I learned by the end of the semester. You will feel so accomplished at the end but it will be a long and sometimes painful process. The support and the enthusiasm in this class is amazing. Take it!
If you know that you struggle with programming an computer science in general, do not take this with multiple hard classes. It eats up a lot of time. Otherwise, its a great class to take...if you prepare yourself
Don't hesitate. Take it or you'll regret.
This is the course that every Harvard student should take.  Malan is an incredible professor, and the material is interesting enough to motivate even those who thought they would hate computer science.  Take it as soon as you can.
This class is a MUST-TAKE for any Harvard student. Whether you are majoring in computer science or in english, this course will open your mind to a new method of problem solving and possibility.
Be prepared to work your butt off. I feel like this is one of those "drop you in the ocean and watch you swim" type courses. I'm really glad I took the course and learned what I did, but I think there needs to a be a lot of improvement in the office hours and sections. Also, I found the vagueness about their grading policies to be pretty stressful.
If you want to invest 20- 30 hours a week in one class then go for it. With or without experience this class is tough, especially if you didn't come to Harvard designing websites for fun. Don't believe the hype, this class is not easy, nor is it fun and it definitely has the potential to kill you GPA if you let it. With that said it was surely an experience at Harvard that I will never forget.
Don't believe the hype. Though students may rave about CS50, the reality is that many are responding to the showmanship of David Malan, not the actual quality of the course. Frankly, this class was a miserable experience that completely ruined my semester. If you take CS50, you can expect to spend a large number of your weeks caught in an infinite loop of sorts, shuttled between incompetent TFs who cant help you and pompous ones who will refuse to help you. Dont expect the walkthroughs to save you either; if you implement the version suggested by CS50 girl, theres a good chance youll get a 3 on design. Oh, and never expect grading to make sense, since some TFs give straight 5s for a working program while others nitpick on absolutely everything (grades are all supposedly normalized at the end, but that would only make the grading fair if there were some semblance of a normal distribution in every sectionwhich there isnt).The side effect of all this suffering is that you will, in fact learn how to code. But Malan puts a much higher premium on getting students to take the class than he does on the experience that they have or the fairness with which he grades them. I spent most of my semester regretting taking the class. If you want to avoid a miserable situation, take something else.
Be prepared to spend 20+ hours a week on this course. The community feel is alluring, but it's not at all easy.
This course will put you through the most grueling time of your life, but you will learn a lot. If you don't have the time to sit down and dedicate 10+ hours a week to this course, then don't take it!
If you're a senior or just taking it as a pure elective with no interest in pursuing CS, take it pass/fail. You may end up spending the same amount of time, but it will take the pressure off of some of the more difficult, less applicable problem sets.
Don't let the amount of work discourage you from taking this class - it's an absolute must for anyone even marginally interested in how computers work 'underneath the hood'.
It's definitely not worth the time commitment.
EPIC. WIN. I love this course, so much.CS50 is fantastic. Please take it, even if you aren't a math/science person -- the class is well-taught and extremely accessible! The skills you learn are very applicable to all fields, and the results you see by the end of the year at the CS50 Fair speak to just how tangible your improvement is, regardless of prior experience.Besides that, the culture is just great. With stuff like the CS Lounge (http://photos.danallan.net/Architecture/CS50-Lounge) and the CS50 Fair (http://photos.cs50.net/Events/CS50-Fair-2010), I guarantee, you will find no class that treats its students as well as this one. From many of my friends who chose not to take it this year, and attended the Fair to check the class out, almost all of them regret not having taken it! Don't be that person: be there shopping week to hear David Malan say: "THIS. IS. CS50!"
The only times I've enjoyed pulling all-nighters have been for this class's problem sets. Homework is legitimately fun in this course, and that is quite an achievement.Also: I look at everything I do on a computer completely differently now. This class provides essential knowledge for someone living in the 21st century. I recommend this course for every undergrad.
You learn so much! I look at myself now and where I was when the class first started, and I can't believe it. And what's funny is that Prof. Malan said this would happen but I disregarded his comment as propaganda for the class but he's right.
Be ready to stay up late.
Take this class-you will learn computer science, and be very inspired.
Best class at Harvard.
The only course at the end of which you would say "I'm gonna miss it." Please don't miss this course.
Make sure you have a lot of time on your hands.  This is a great course though - an essential tool for anybody intending to work in almost any profession in the future and this fact will become more and more apparent as computers continue to form the basis of our workplace.
CS50 is a fun and engaging course that teaches you highly applicable skills. The problem sets are a little tedious and frustrating at moments, but they can also be quite fun and are very satisfying to work through.
This class seriously takes a HUGE amount of time. Even with only three classes this semester, CS50 made me constantly stressed about deadlines and led to many a sleepless night. If you plan to take this class, brace yourself for hours of frustration every week and stock up on whatever your choice of caffeine source might be.
It was certainly a difficult class and required a lot of time, much more so than any of my other classes at Harvard, but most definitely worth it. If you aren't willing to put in 15 hours or more each week on the class though you shouldn't take it.
Everyone should take this course!
If you are willing to put in the time. But don't take it if you're busy this semester. I was not able to put in as much time as I would have liked into my other classes because of CS50. But regardless, I still loved it.
Everyone should take this course. It's a Harvard experience, and probably the most worthwhile course I've taken at Harvard so far.
go to office hours early in the week if you need help
This class introduces you to things that everyone should know, especially since technology is taking over our society. You learn how computers work, how memory works, how the internet works, as well as learning how to make a website which is super helpful for any start-up you want to create. This class is a great introduction, its only fallback is that you never learn how to actually improve your code to become a better programmer. I think everyone should take this class before they graduate though, and its especially a great class for improving your problem-solving skills.
If you have no prior experience in computer programming, think about your course load and whether you have the time to take this class seriously before committing. It will be very difficult if you have other time intensive courses.
you will work hard but you learn a lot.
try not to do this with more than 1 reading course.
If you want to go through cs50 and gain the useful tools that the course offers all of its students, make some serious time for these psets.  They will take over your week, every week.
Though this course is advertised as requiring no experience, students hoping to take the course should still have a basic level of computer proficiency. Knowing how to do more than browse the web is essential, and a student should be comfortable learning how to use new programs, move files around, etc. In other words, this course isn't for the computer-illiterate and won't teach you how to use a computer. However, if you know how to use a computer well and enjoy using it, you'll find this class incredibly rewarding and educational.
It is the most rewarding class I have taken... ever!
VERY HARD!
This course requires a lot of work and those without any computer experience may find it even more stressful. Still, you learn so much about computing in this class and Malan is a fantastic professor. If you're worried about stress and difficulty, consider taking CS50 pass/fail.
You do learn a lot, but don't buy all the hype from the beginning of the course. Lectures seem fun and approachable, but problem sets are very difficult. And for those difficult problem sets, the course offers plenty of support structures, but they are commonly overloaded. It is a course that has its heart in the right place, but at times, I fear it is a tad too ambitious.
This class will introduce programming pretty well, but I think that's all it does. Won't really give you a holistic sense of what C.S. actually is, and it won't make you a better programmer if you already know the basics.
This class is an amazing class if it aligns with your interests. If not I would not recommend taking it.
The class is a very good introduction to CS.  The problem sets are well-designed and teach you a lot, and the final project lets you really see how much you've learned over a semester, which is a lot.  Malan really shows you how CS can be powerful and useful and definitely increased my enthusiasm for and interest in CS.  The material could be presented more clearly in lecture, but the support system for the class is great, and there's a nice social atmosphere, especially with things like Hackathon.  Overall, a really great class, as everyone probably already knows by now; something everyone can and should take.
One of my friends put it best, "CS50 is one of the only classes at Harvard that teaches you something useful."  Regardless of other classes, CS50 is well worth the effort.  You feel like such a champ when you finish it.  The t-shirt that you get at the CS50 Fair is the closest thing to a medal of honor you may ever get.
Great class, difficult but well worth the while
Although it is a difficult and time-consuming course, it is quite rewarding. I highly recommend it, if not just for the wonderful staff that are involved in the class.
Consider taking this class pass/fail.  You will learn the same but avoid most of the headaches.
Do not take this class lightly. This class is very informative and provides you with a useful skill but be prepared to work to acquire that skill. And make sure your final project is reasonable and start early on your psets and final project.
This the best class I've taken at Harvard. Only wish I'd taken it before senior yr.
CS50 is the best class you will take at Harvard. If you are scared by the workload, take it pass fail. There is no class that will better prepare you for the increasingly tech heavy world of tomorrow. It will not only give you a very in depth intro into programming but will inform you on the limitations and capabilities of computers and technology in the world around you. TAKE IT OR YOU WILL REGRET NOT DOING SO!!!
this was the WORST class possible to take as a freshman. playing a varsity sport and taking this class was like committing SUICIDE WITHOUT DYING! if I could redo anything about a fantastic first semester, it would be NOT taking cs50
Be prepared to work, but also learn more than you have in a semester in your life. And it's USEFUL!You'll feel able to tackle any programming languages you want on your own after this course.
takes up a LOT of time. very useful and applicable skills to learn though.
Be ready to let this class consume all of your free time.
this is a great class if you want to learn basic computer science. but be ready to put in a lot of work
One of the best, fun, and most practical courses at Harvard.  Teaching staff is fantastic and the course is work every hour that you put into it.  I would recommend making sure that you have a balanced courseload and can devote a substantial amount of time to the course.
CS50 is really hard. Don't take it if you don't want to put in a lot of time every week.
Take it pass/fail if you're interested. Take it for a grade if you've taken it in high school once already. Or else, don't take it.
This class is such a pain to get through, but at the end of the semester, you look back and you realize you did learn something. This class is why Harvard should teach more practical courses. It was a great experience.
Lots of hours, but it helps change the way you think, the way you solve problems. The skills you learn are broadly applicable.
Take it only if you have the time. I loved it, but it took too much time.
This course is an essential part of the Harvard experience!
CS 50 is a blast, and David Malan is a rockstar!
It took about 75% of my time during the semester.
THIS CLASS WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE. TAKE IT NOW!!!
You MUST be prepared to really devote yourself to this class in order to really get the most out of it - yes, it's difficult. It's not your typical intro course. That being said, if you have the interest and the dedication, IT'S WORTH IT. Even as the problem sets became increasingly time-consuming (and at times incredibly intimidating), something about the course kept me addicted - perhaps the combination of staff and peer support. I have never managed to love a subject so much in spite of being frustrated with its coursework virtually all of the time.
You HAVE to be mentally prepared to spend your life on certain problem sets. Some of them will take you DAYS. If you are willing/able to put in the time, however, this is a GREAT course. Most exciting and fulfilling I've taken at Harvard.
If you do not have experience in programming, you may want to consider taking CS50 pass/fail.
don't be afraid - take it
This is by far the best class I've ever taken.
Don't be afraid to ask for help!
This class will change your life. Once you spend time in the cloud you will never want to go back. Unbelievable support (I had no prior experience) and very inspiring. Best class at Harvard.
I agree completely with the ubiquitous quote that CS50 uses in its advertising campaign.  Everyone should take this course!
CS50 is a fun-loving, educational cult. But a cult nonetheless.
CS50 is a great class!  You will learn useful skills that translate to extracurriculars and life in general.  Lectures are fun and THERE IS CAKE ON THE FIRST AND LAST DAY!  Lectures are a fun place to hang out with friends, but you also have the flexibility to watch them online.  Definitely be sure to start problem sets early and go to Office Hours early because on Thursday nights, the day before they are due, they are ridiculously packed and you'll wait for two hours and possibly not get any help.  Earlier in the week you'll have less focused help but more of it nonetheless.
if you're a beginner, you should make the rest of your schedule easy to keep up with the workload
It is one of the best classes you'll ever take (if not the best), but be prepared to spend huge amounts of time on it. That being said, it's actually pretty easy to become obsessed with the problem sets and just naturally spend large amounts of time working on them.
You must have time to devote to the problem sets.
If I took it senior fall as an elective for a grade, and am recommending it with enthusiasm, nuff said.
Start problems sets as early as possible and work in increments
This is, as reputed, a fantastic class in every way, entertaining, educational and a really unique experience. Just make sure, if you have no background, that you take it in a semester where you have ample time to complete the problem sets (the hard ones took me 30+ hours on the weekend).
Good class, but not worth the work. Are you willing to have a semester without a single stress-free weekend? If so, take cs50. If not take CS1.
Take this class if you are willing to put in the work, willing to be frustrated, but also willing to learn new, interesting things.
this class is as hard as everyone says it it, but it's definitely worth it in the end.
I would recommend not taking CS50 with other courses with heavy workloads.  It should be THE hard class that you are taking.
Like a semester long party, only you have to spend a lot of time doing homework and debugging. Students in the class are more or less a mob.
Pray you get a good TF. If not, find other resources! There are MANY.
This course is a CHALLENGE - there's no denying it. But I'm a government concentrator with zero experience in CS prior to this course and I LOVED it.
Take it; it may take you a lot of time, but it's worth it.
it's amazing. you HAVE to take it. even if you're not a cs concentrator or secondary and won't touch a computer again ever in your life. you'll fall in love with cs50. really. i sure did.
Great for concentrators and for those who never plan to take CS again.
CS50 is the most empowering course I have taken, albeit the hardest.  I learned skills that will serve me through my life.
It is a really hard class. I liked it, although it can be frustrating sometimes. Be ready to spend 20 hrs or more on each homework! But you will come out of the class feeling smarter, I guarantee.
If they are willing to put in the hours of work, this class is amazing.  Overwhelming, yet, amazing.
A LOT OF WORK
Good class, you learn a lot that is useful. There is a workload but it is definitely manageable. There are a TON of resources available for those who need help, just start your problem sets earlier and ask for help when you need it
Even though it can be really hard at times, there are a ton of resources available for help. It's a great experience and teaches you many important skills.
I don't get what the fuss is about.  The course is fine, but not great.  The teaching staff is large, but many members of it are quite inexperienced.  A few of the problem sets are unreasonably robust, but not much more so than in other quantitative courses.  As far as the overall learning experience goes in a quantitative course at Harvard, this class is SUA: Straight Up Average.  Could be better.  Could be worse.
Knowing some programming is great. I get all the chicks now.
You'll work really hard but it's worth it!
Know what you're getting yourself into. Finishing this class is a huge accomplishment. Sometimes you will love it more than anything you've ever taken, but other times you'll want to snap your computer in two.
Most of what you hear about cs50 is true... the grueling 15+ hours of hw a week, the show-like lectures, the feeling of being in a nerdy cult. I can't say I regretted spending that much time on this class. It's one of the only classes I've taken in three semesters here that I actually feel like I've come away with a new skills set (especially after making my own website for the final project). It's up to you whether you think the work is worth it, I personally loved it!
It's definitely worth your time
This is an amazing course that will give you a solid foundation for further exploration or for just messing around in your free time.
It's a very fun and interesting course, but you should only take it if you have a lot of time to put into it to do the work well.
Extremely difficult and time-consuming but one of the best and most practical classes you'll ever take at Harvard
Not a whole lot of work if you've had exposure to programming. In any case, expect a lot of independent learning and trial-and-error to get through the psets.
This course is amazing!  I came to Harvard dead-set on biology, but now after this class I want to at least minor in CS.  I added this course and dropped my freshman seminar because I watched a lecture online and decided that David Malan was an incredible teacher.  This class has a personality.  Because there are so many people taking it and so many TFs, they have developed a culture around this course.  The hackathon, an all night event to work on final projects, was amazing.  This class even has its own store that sells clothing.  Every lecture is engaging and unique.  Taking this class was the best choice of my Harvard career.  As long as you study hard the first three weeks and really understand the first few lectures, then you'll do fine.  This is literally the only class I talk about to people outside of Harvard.
This is the quintessential Harvard course. I came in as a freshman looking for the amazing college course that introduces you to something new, the course that challenges you but has the support there for you to do well. This is that course. CS 50 is slowly becoming a Harvard institution (my friends and I joke that eventually you will be "admitted" to CS 50, not Harvard, since CS 50 has shuttles and rooms and such). Yes, it is hard. Yes, it will take time. But there are people there to help you. The TFs are AMAZING, and you will never be left alone for too long, just long enough to grapple with the problem. David Malan is the BEST lecturer I have ever seen. Dynamic, funny, intelligent, and quick on his feet, you can tell he knows his stuff. The class is fun and treats you well...when I hosted prospective students in the fall, I made sure they came to the CS 50 lectures. Take CS 50. You won't regret it.
You should take this class -- you will learn how to learn about computer science, and it will inspire you to continue in the field.
Phenomenally taught and designed around people with no prior programming background, this is a course that all students should take during their tenure at Harvard.
You must take this class. If you're like me and have any interest in computer science at all you will like the problem sets so much that you do them to procrastinate on other work.
Make sure you set aside enough time in your schedule, and you will be able to pick up several useful programming languages while working on fun problem sets. Completely worth the significant time commitment it takes to succeed.
SERIOUS PROGRAMMING KNOWLEDGE IS AN ADVANTAGE.  Without it, expect to work tirelessly.  With it?  Take less than comfortable like a bunch of students did and you'll get great grades with little effort.
It's a lot of work, but a lot of fun!
Be extremely careful before signing up for this class. You are basically signing away your semester. If you don't think you're a computer person, you're probably right. This class was insanely difficult for me. And I'm, like, a Math major (!!!). Being good at math or science or analytical thinking in general does NOT by any means guarantee that you will find this class manageable.
Very, very frustrating to someone who has never done any computer science before.
This is a great class that, while it can be somewhat time consuming, offers some flexibility.  The class is set up to offer something to everyone regardless of programming experience.
Take it!  It's not as much work as you think it is, I promise.
you'll learn a lot , amidst difficult psets, you'll find a lot of support to get you along
Go ahead and take this class. You will definitely learn something, and you will have fun.
Take this class--it will teach you how to teach yourself concepts and think more logically, and it will also allow you to be familiar with basic web programming, which is a great skill to have.
Cs50 is life changing. It's probably one of the most well taught classes with so much support. CS50 is a cult (in a good way) because you definitely feel accomplished once you finish a pset or the course. It's a fast paced class but really really rewarding. I didn't have any experience in cs (I didn't even know the name of programming languages) but again, there's so much support. It's definitely doable. The workload is pretty big but manageable.
This course is very useful! You learn stuff that you can start using right away in other fields. But be prepared to put in some real time and effort to the problem sets and learning the concepts taught in the course. This was so awesome!!
Take it if you want to learn CS, its great for that.  It is a lot of time however, so don't add it as a 5th class, or anything like that.
Be prepared for long hours sacrificed for little result during problem sets.
Tons of work, fantastic learning curve.
You might hear that it's incredibly difficult, and that's completely true. But it's also the most worthwhile class I have ever taken and has made me decide to secondary in computer science. The work is tough, but it's the best and most rewarding work you will ever do.
Get started with problem sets early.I didn't think that the lectures were too helpful, and most of what I learned was through doing the psets.
It is a lot of work, but it is useful and fun work.
Be prepared to be very dedicated to this course.  It's very rewarding and can be really fun, but you'll spend many hours on it.  The hours will pass by faster than usual and you won't notice them passing quickly, but make sure that you have the time set aside for this class to get the most out of it.  It's a fantastic introduction to the world of Computer Science and can get you really excited, and teaches some really great skills, but if you don't make sure you have enough time for the commitment, then this course will only cause you stress.  A good rule of thumb is to treat this course like a part-time job - it's really serious and you need to put in the hours, but you'll be greatly rewarded and will feel amazing at the end when you can look back and see how far you've come.  I've learned more in this one class than I have in any other semester as a whole.
Everyone should take this class because programming is a useful skill to have for all disciplines. However, be prepared to dedicate a lot of time to this class. Office hours tend to be overcrowded so start problem sets and get help early. The staff does a great job of fostering a nice CS50 community. The Hackathon and CS50 fair are great experiences you don't want to miss.
Be ready to spend a lot of time on it, but I got more practical knowledge out of this class that will stay with me than any other class I've taken at harvard.
If this is a requirement, you have no choice, you have to take this class and crunch through it like I did. If you're taking this as an elective, take it pass-fail. CS50 is not a course you want to take for a grade. It's tough, the hours are long, and there isn't always a light at the end of the tunnel. Sometimes you have to just hope that one will turn on. Looking back, I appreciate the course (it was a requirement), but it was one of the more difficult courses I've taken here at Harvard.
They have to be the type who can teach themselves stuff. And they have to really want to take the class
Be prepared for a lot of work,
Lots of work, but completely worth the effort
Only take this class if you are willing to put in the work.  This class requires over 15 hours a week to really understand the material.
Great class. You are overloaded with work, but it's all worth it because you learn so much.
Take this class. You will feel quite accomplished at the end.
As a senior I have never given a course a 5 before in workload. I've been saving the 5 for something that truly takes all my time. That said, CS 50 is a 9 in workload.
This is an absolutely amazing class. It is challenging, but Professor Malan does a great job teaching. He has designed a course that is a lot of fun to take but also makes you learn an incredible amount. The class does require a lot of time, but I enjoyed it thoroughly.
It's a must-take course! Every one should have some knowledge of computer science.
(please see first answer)
Really not very useful. Too much work to justify just taking it for fun.
If there is one course at Harvard which you should not miss out on, it's CS50.
It's hugely time consuming but worth it if your other classes can stand it.
The thing about cs50 is that your experience will vary widely with the amount of effort your put it. And sometimes the whole operation will seem rather kitschy. Lectures are mostly useless, but fun.
CS50 is more of an experience than a class. Everything is meticulously organized, from the lectures to the problem sets to office hours. The lectures are amazing; Malan is an excellent speaker and uses demonstrations and videos effectively to help explain what can be complicated concepts. Working through the problem sets is a great way to help cement what you learn in lectures, and events like the Hackathon and CS50 fair are informative and above all, really fun. I cannot recommend this course more strongly to everyone, even students not interested in majoring in computer science. That said, this course takes up a significant amount of time in your life. I had never taken CS before, and the problem sets often took about 15 hours, so you may have to sacrifice a Friday night or studying for another class here and there (but you'll enjoy spending this time on CS50). However, even though time consuming, CS50 has numerous resources available from virtual office hours online, to TFs etc. to help you if you succeed in the course, you just have to be willing to put in the time.
This course will teach you a lot, and the material is pretty interesting, but if you find yourself really struggling a week or two in, you should take it pass/fail. Or take another class. Also basically everything related to the course is online, so if you want to learn the material and are motivated but don't have the time, teach it to yourself on your own time. I really enjoyed the course, it made me manage my time very well, I think part of the reason I was able to enjoy it so much was that I had some previous experience.
Be ready to spend 15-20 hours a week on problem sets. But it's absolutely worth it, because the skills you learn and the things you learn how to make are awesome. I took it as an elective as a senior, and I wish I'd taken it sooner.
Take this class if you don't hate CS --- if u have any slightest interest, then take this! It is not only useful from direct application but also useful from the learning process
Do NOT take this class Pass/Fail. Repeat: Do NOT. Otherwise you'll regret it for the rest of your life (Or at least for the entire semester)
This course will suck all of your time but you will definitely learn a lot about programming.  Plenty of TF's and friends to help.  Grading is vague at best.
tough but definitely worth it
The class size is too large, hence can be impersonal. Help is limited.
CS50 is a fantastic course, but it requires a lot of your time. With that said, you should know that if you put in the effort you will reap the rewards of that effort.
You can learn some great skills, but be completely devoted to this class.
Take it. You'll be glad you did.
Extremely challenging and time consuming, but well worth the effort. The class is unique in how engaging and accessible it is - it is an experience in and of itself.
If you have the time, this class is a must take.
CS50 is one of those classes you will regret not taking after you graduate.  It's a lot of work but the work is enjoyable and the skills you come out of the class with are well worth the time.
Best class at Harvard
This course is an excellent course, by any measure, for those who seek a non-concentrator's introduction to computer science and would like a survey course. It is quite possibly the best Harvard has to offer (which may not be saying much) for those who seek to learn casual programming for their own purposes without intending to go in in the CS department, although there's probably too much C and technical/theoretical matter if that is CS50's intention. For those who seek a serious introduction to either programming or computer science, this course is at best unproductive, and at worst comes at the cost of a more meaningful academic CS experience.
There are very few classes at Harvard I think everyone should take (for how awesome they are, and/or because the material is incredibly useful and important). Those few are Ec. 10, SLS 20, and CS50.
This class is amazing. Take it even if you're not a CS concentrator. Especially if you're not a CS concentrator.
This is an excellent course that I would highly recommend to anyone, and especially anyone in the sciences. Even if you think CS is not a subject you are interested in, this class may surprise you. Learning to deal somewhat seriously with computers is an extremely useful skill, and this class gets you to a fairly sophisticated level in only a semester. The material is not inherently difficult per say, but be prepared to spend a lot of time doing problem sets. The hardest part of this course is the amount of time it requires, not the material itself. Malan makes the class a lot of fun as well, and ensures that the material is accessible to people of all levels, even with no CS background.
take it to learn practical skills that are so essential to the modern world. even if you dont become a CS expert, you will be a more intelligent consumer and user of computers and their products/software
You will be able to do anything you want with a computer afterwards.  You will learn an incredible amount.
Do not think this is an easy class. If you take this class, be prepared to work really hard.
CS50 is legendary for a reason.  Starting with the fifth problem set, you'll be pulling some all-nighters, maybe consecutive ones, just to find that last bug.  And it will suck.  And you will be tired and hungry because you've been coding all day and haven't made time to eat or sleep.  And you'll reread your code from top to bottom AGAIN, because you're SURE you'll find the bug that's preventing you from finishing this week's pset.  The pain will be tremendous, but the corresponding euphoria that follows this pain will be so worth every ounce of suffering, you'll never regret taking the class.  You'll grow a ton in these twelve weeks, if you put in the effort you'll do well, and you just might get a secondary field is CS as I decided to after taking the course.  (Word of advice: If you start the psets really early, like on Friday or Saturday, you'll save yourself 90% of the pain described above.)
If you have a lot of free time take this class
take it!! i've never had any programming experience and tend to get frustrated by the constant bugs in programs, but they're really good about grades since they do it on an individual basis. take it pass-fail if you're really worried (i wish i did!)
This class will take a lot of time, but it is pretty cool.
Computers are going to take over the world someday. Take CS50.
The most rewarding class I've taken at Harvard, but don't go into it unless you're sure you've got the spare time for the 20-hour problem sets!
Let's be honest. This class was the hardest class that I've ever had to take. It put me through hell for all of those weeks when problem sets were due. I don't know how many times I went to bed feeling dumb because I couldn't get my program to work. Having said that, I am proud of the fact that I completed this course, because of how challenging it was. I really feel accomplished that I did all of the problem sets and the final project. So if you're looking for a challenge, you've found one. I would recommend it to people who want to challenge themselves, but warn them that this course was extremely difficult and time consuming.
Make sure you start early! And go to all the events.
DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE!! If you're interested in taking this "for fun" or "pass/fail," just. don't. do. it.
That it's a lot of work, but you also learn more than you will in most of your other courses.
If I had taken this course alone and been free to dedicate all my time to it, it would have been a perfect course. In reality, the amount of work required to gain a thorough understanding of the material is such that I would recommend this course only as part of a schedule of otherwise less taxing classes.
Good class if you want to learn a lot about computers and programming - but make sure you don't have a too busy schedule of other things
Make room in your schedule for this class--don't get cute and try to schedule this with other hard classes thinking that somehow you might pull it off.  It is not that bad if you have the time to dedicate to it.
make it your priority and it will be fantastic, but make sure you have the time to do this.
Challenging but very rewarding and most definitely do-able
It will kick your ass and leave you feeling great.
It's a lot of time and you will be tough during the semester, but when you look back you realize how much you have learned.
lots of work - needs to be at the top of one's priorities unless one has prior experience with computer science and programming
I would recommend this course unconditionally, except for the fact that students must be very willing to work hard.
This course will give you a solid foundation in several programming languages and it will empower you to create your own useful programs. The course is also a good exercise in problem solving skills.
Lots of work!
Go to lecture more in the beginning
You learn a lot if you put the effort in.  But don't take the course if you can't devote enough time to it.  You'll be miserable and won't get out of it what you should.
"OMG! CS50 is teh AWESOMENESS!!1!11!!oneoneone" (exactly like that, with 'teh' and all) Actually, it's a very useful and fun class. You get to learn how those machines everyone has now works, and how to manipulate the wide world of the InterTubes. You also get to find out about the crazes going on, like lolcats. You meet great people and bond over debugging programs.
If you're interested in learning about Computer Science and have a significant amount of free time, I highly recommend.  If you're not willing to dedicate a large portion of your week to one class, do not take.
AMAZING. redefined how I think about computers. made me want to be innovative and realized how much a good computer program can simplify matters.
This class is amazing! Take it!
Be prepared to teach yourself most of the material if you are a beginner, lectures go very fast. Sections might be the best place to learn material. Get a tutor!
CS 50 is very useful, and gives you bragging rights. It's a super fun class, the TFs are great, and the professor is amazing! The problem sets are addictive and extremely satisfying when finished.
it's fun.
Don't take with other demanding classes. It will not work out.
Class is enjoyable and teaches you a lot about computer science and computers. Problem sets are time intensive.
I would tell them that this class is very useful, interesting etc. but that there is a lot of work to be done in the course, to take easy classes at the same time. If taken for a letter grade, NEVER take this class if you are doing five classes one semester. NEVER.
Only take this class if it is THE ONLY class you'll be taking this semester.  Unless you're doing CS50 and then 3 guts you'll have so much work that you won't sleep for weeks at a time and will begin to live in the terminal room.
It's really well run and gives you much practical and relevant knowledge that everyone should experience.
Really really hard and time consuming, and simply not worth taking unless you're seriously considering majoring in CS. If you take it, clear your schedule and prepare to have some pretty miserable weekends.
Don't take if a) you've never programmed before, b) you're a senior writing a thesis and/or looking for jobs, or c) generally, if you're not willing to have this course take over your life.
Take it if you really enjoy challenging yourself and spending a lot of time doing problem sets.
Incredibly hard and time consuming. Great professors and TFs.
A pound of effort weighs the same as a pound of reward.  Never mind, that doesn't make any sense.
If you have a CS background, skip this course.  You'll be able to teach yourself C within a few days.
It's a great way to get a basic understanding of what programming is, and will help you no matter what field you are in.
It's really useful to understand the basics of computer programming, even if your field of study has nothing to do with it. It'll help you to have that basic skill with all sorts of jobs and disciplines.
Time consuming, but absolutely worth the effort. Rewarding, fun, and interesting.
You learn a lot but its a lot of work so you have to be prepared to put in many hours and quite a few sleepless nights.
This is a really good class to learn a lot about computer science and to apply those skills to problems. The professor is amazing and really generates enthusiasm for the subject.
If this is the only CS class that you will be taking here than it is great, but if you have some background and plan to take other CS courses than I would skip this class.
Take it, you'll get a lot out of it.
Take this class as soon as possible, whatever your concentration. CS50 should replace Expos. as a freshmen requirement
Be prepared for a lot of work.  But also be prepared to learn A LOT.
Only take it if you want to be a CS major, or if you are required to take it by your department.  Some of the material was useful, but the material in the middle of the last half of the course seemed useless to me.
be ware. the road is very rough. but the fruits at the end are delectable.
CS 50 is a course where, if you're willing to put in the work, amazing things can happen.  In Week 1, I couldn't have imagined implementing a spell-checker, a mashup with Google Maps, and writing code for my own website.
Start problems sets by Monday and get a tutor!
Some of the most interesting and practical material I've encountered. I learned so much!
Be prepared to put in the work and you'll have a very rewarding experience.  Don't put in the work and you'll be lost as Alice in Wonderland.
I would tell students the class is very rewarding, but is incredibly challenging.  I would tell students that if they take the class as an elective, they should strongly consider taking it P/F.
Too much time required for senior fall when you're trying to write a thesis.
This class will seem simple on a conceptual level at first, but the problem sets will get extremely long very, very fast.  Worth the effort, but don't take it on top of other work-intensive classes.
CS50 is an experience I think everyone should have at Harvard. Does a class count for QR even if you take it pass/fail? If so, then I'd recommend everyone take it, from math majors to philosophy majors.
Take this class, and you'll learn more than you can possibly imagine. You'll also be a lot cooler.
If at all interested in computer science, take the class.
CS50 is like this little cult that everyone in it devotes a bit of their lives to and when it's over you feel completely gratified and like a huge nerd.
Take it if you like CS, or really want to learn C.
EVERYONE should take it.
if you're a cs major or want the skills, go ahead and take this course. If you're taking it for fun or for reqs, keep in mind it'll be a huge time drain.
It's a lot of work, but overall, it's worth it.
If you have time and you like a challenge (or computers), this course is awesome.  If you don't have, or want to give up, the time that needs to be dedicated to this class...it's just not a good idea.  By enough, I mean have something around 20 hrs of space for this class alone.
The things you learn in cs50 are very interesting and when you walk out of the class you will see the world in a different way. Be prepared to work though.
do every problem set even though you can drop one, try to do as many hacker editions as possible, take the competitive psets seriously if you have the time, and make sure you pick a final project that 1) really interests you and 2) isn't just a modified version of a pset
I can haz your life?
too hard. takes too long.
Be prepared to work real hard! Especially if you take this with another hard class. But it's so worth it and completely fun! So don't look at the work as daunting but a fun challenge!
This is a fun (but hard) course that will teach you a LOT.
I think this is a great and incredibly enjoyable course if you are considering getting into computer science. I think it is a decent course if you just want to learn some computer science because you think it will be useful, in the sense that you will learn a lot, however, if you don't care about this class as much as the other classes you are taking, you won't get as much out of it even though you'll learn a lot, just because the class is meant to be for people who will put a lot into it.
You must love your computer screen.
you will love it.
Only take it if you have the time to spend on problem sets. If you don't, it won't be an enjoyable experience.
Consider it as 2 classes. The workload is extreme. You WILL learn from it, and you CAN program! You just need to devote hours and hours to it.
It has a heavy courseload
That it is a fun class, but that the workload is too mcuh; you are left with little time for other courses.
awesome course if you have a little programming experience. i would recommend taking pass/fail because the information is worth knowing but if you don't have experience, your grades could suffer.
It's fun and highly useful, but be prepared to log in the hours.
very time consuming.  only take for a grade if you need to
Timeconsuming
The only reason people don't take this class is because they are afraid of the long problem sets. Boo hoo. This is the best damn class at Harvard, everyone should take it.
The experience and the reward are worth the time.
I would recommend with enthusiasm to anyone interested in CS and willing to work hard.  I would not recommend it as a distribution requirement if the person wasn't also interested, because it doesn't reward someone who is just trying to get through it.  Which is a good thing.
-One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.-If people ask me what I got out of college, I'd respond 'CS50'!-super rewarding
take it
Do only if you have enough time!
can change the way that you think about life. just takes a lot of dedication. get help early. don't spin your wheels.
It's a huge commitment.
Great class, learned so much, but it will ruin your weekends.
Beware. It is a black hole that sucks in all of your spare time and sleep time.
TAKE IT.
There's a slight chance you might get sick of it by the end, since a nihilist undertow tended to creep into my Lifeworld as the world turned dark in winter months, but it's an excellent, very well-run class, and I would consider it if you want to learn about computers.
expect to spend lots of hours in the computer center basement
Only take it if you have time to put in, but if you do, it will be amazingly good
It's time consuming but fun.
Best class I've had so far.
Homework
That it's a good class until the last problem sets, which are insanely hard compared to the earlier ones. I never spent more than six hours on a set until the last one, which took me 40+.
Be prepared to work hard but know that you will have a good time.
Be willing to work hard, but it's worth it.
Be prepared to invest a lot of time into the class!  It'll be worth it in the end, but just be forewarned.
This class is very time consuming, so be ready for it!
Take it if you wish to suffer. A lot.
It's useful, challenging, interesting, and manageable. I don't have any real interest in computers, and it's honestly the best course I've taken at Harvard.
If you want to learn about computers, this is the best intro class you will EVER find. But be prepared to feel as if your skull has been forced open and information dumped within.
Only take CS50 if you are willing to put in the work required for the class. If so, you will get a lot out of it. If not, you will struggle immensely.
It was fun, but difficult. It was definitely worth taking! I actually was kind of sad on the last day.
stick it out and you'll learn a ton.
The feeling of accomplishment at the end makes working so much completely worth it.
Hard, timesuck, wonderful.
Useful, but only take it if you have the time
Take this class even if you will be worked to the bone! This class is not only fun but also teaches you more than I've ever learned in a single class before.
If you want to put the effort in required to do the work, you will get more back from the course than you could ever get in any other class.  You will not just become a better computer programmer, but a better problem solver and thinker.
It is a great course for computer science majors and nonmajors alike! The skills learned are absolutely necessary in today's culture.
It's tough, but it's also really cool, and the amount of programming experience it offers is well worth the work.
If you are at all interested in computers, you should definitely take it.
A lot of work, obviously, but not difficult--extremely rewarding.
TAKE IT! It's the best class you'll take here, it's so useful.
The problem sets take a long time but really make this class what it is.  Just start them early and everything will be great, otherwise you'll be struggling with code at 5 in the morning the day it is due.
very demanding and time-consuming, it is cool to see what you can ultimately do, sometimes the work is overwhelming and can be very frustrating
Take it!! =)
It is a wonderful class because of the professor, lectures, TFs, and assignments, though be prepared to commit a lot of time to the class.
This course will take a fair amount of your time up, but if you put the work into a whole new world will open up to you. Amazing how much I learnt in only 12 weeks.
they should definitely take it even if they have the slightest interest in computer science. this class may change their thoughts about computer science in a positive way.
Please expect moderate to heavy time commitment depending on your previous programming experience. The course is definitely rewarding and does expand your thinking and allows you to learn a skill that is highly valued in the technology dependent world of today.
It is a very rewarding class in that it makes you think differently than most classes at Harvard.
The course is a lot of fun, and provides you with skills and knowledge that are very helpful in the modern world.
Time-consuming but overall, very worthwhile.
Get ready to do a lot of work but come away with a lot of really useful tools!
Only take this course pass/fail if you have never programmed before.  If you really want to be miserable every week, take the course letter-graded.
If you're looking for a challenge, this is it, but it's so rewarding.  If this isn't how you normally think, though, be ready to give up some nights...and weekends...but it's all worth it in the end.
If you like computer science take it. But if you don't, it is the hardest class you'll ever take.
Difficult and frustrating, but worthwhile.
The course required a huge amount of work, but it was worth it.
Applicable to all areas of study.
you better take this or you gonna regret it
That it's a fantastic class as long as they're willing to put in the time.
This course will take time, but it will teach you a lot of practical, useful things about your computer, the internet, and problem-solving in general. You will also become addicted to useless internet-memes, but that is expected, as with great power comes even more creative ways to procrastinate.
If you are very interested in pursuing computer science and are willing to put the time into learning it, then this is an amazing class to take. This will NOT be your easy class in the semester and may even be your hardest. Make sure you have the time and energy to take it.
It can be frustrating and you absolutely have to be up for going to ask for help or going to office hours or waiting for help.
Be prepared.
great course, challenging but not impossible, time consuming
A hard class, but useful and interesting.
be prepared to put in a lot of time.
Make sure you have a lot of time in your schedule if you've never done compsci before
Only go into it if you are very enthusiastic about learning programming and don' mind spending lots of time in front of the computer
You will learn programming with a capital P.
It's a really good class, but don't procrastinate and fall behind on the work.
Only take if prepared to do a lot of work
take it & enjoy it!
If you are fashion sensitive, be prepared for the fact that Professor Malan wears the same thing to every class.
IT'S REALLY HARD!  But totally worth it. I had a ridiculously difficult time with the class but didn't regret it for a second.
Only take this class if you're willing to really devote yourself to the work.
Take it if you like to program.  I personally hate programming, and no amount of good professors, good TFs, or good psets can mask the fact that you will program A LOT in CS50.
Get your nose to the grindstone and prepare for long hours that can be frustrating but in the end are invariably some of the most rewarding you'll spend at Harvard.
focus on this class
It's lots of work, but it's worth it.
be prepared to work hard
Don't be fooled by people telling you the class is "fun"..it's actually really difficult and very time consuming. be prepared!
If you are looking for a challenging course and if you have 20+ hours a week to put into this class, then take it. It is a lot of work.
It is a bit like hell when you're going through it, but whatever doesn't kill you only makes you stronger. I learned an incredible amount from taking the class, and even though I shed tears over its assignments, I have come out of the class feeling like I know so much more about not only the coding/programming but also about myself. I hated myself for choosing to take this course while I was going through it, but now I realize that I don't regret it at all. Plus, the CS community is just so funny and close-knit (we bonded over our torture) that I even feel somewhat sad that CS50 is over.
be prepared for a lot of work and, at the same time, excitement
requires a huge time commitment, but immensely rewarding in the amount of stuff you learnstaff actually manage to make lectures fun
This class may be good for students who have a background in CS, however, it took too much time to complete problem sets and the class wasn't able to teach well trying to accommodate three different groups.
It's a lot of time but a lot of fun.
Make sure you organize your classes allowing you to allot a solid 15+ hours on this class every week.
This class is interesting and will teach you many valuable skills, but in return it demands your time.  The problems sets become progressively harder and you have to be disciplined to not fall behind.
This course is good, but only if you have lots of time to commit to it.
Worthwhile material, but the time required is a little ridiculous (my recommendation would depend on whether quicker access to help on psets had been made available).
CS50 is more than a class. It is an experience! It has definitely been one of my best academic experiences.
be sure to leave enough time to do the problem sets
Reserve a lot of time for it; enjoy it! Put in a lot of effort in order to enjoy it properly.
The course is extremely rewarding and teaches you a lot. However, it does require that you put in a good amount of work and effort.
Be prepared for long hours in the computer lab and a lot of time-consuming work. Patience is definitely a requirement for this course!
Be prepared to work a lot, get excited at seemingly small things, speak LOLcatz, and have an amazing time... And Cansu/Malan rock.
As I was told myself, this course is very rigorous, but I really enjoyed it and learned a lot.  The final project is a great way to learn more about a specific area that interests you, instead of doing the prescribed homework problem set.
I wish I would have taken this class sooner.  I am a junior now and, had I taken it freshman or sophomore fall, I'm pretty sure I would now be a CS-related concentrator.
Be prepared for some very long problem sets, especially near the end.
Start assignments as early as possible. Sometimes unexpected bugs come up that slow your progress. Also, eat lunch with Dave on Fridays :-)
The course is very demanding, but in the end, rewarding.
it is a lot of work
It's a wonderful course, but really be prepared to dedicate A LOT of time to it, especially if you've never done anything like it before. Be ready to be frustrated and for tedium.
If you have time to devote to the class, it can be so rewarding and amazing and fun.  However, if you already had a pretty difficult class load, I recommend to wait a semester to where you are a bit more free.  Otherwise the hours and hours really just becomes more of a chore.
It's too hard to take in a semester unless you're wiling to give up a good share of your life.
Great way to learn the basics of programming and CS
i recommend it highly for anyone who has lots of free time on their hands, doesn't care about getting very little sleep, wants to learn a lot and be rewarded, and doesn't care about failing all their other classes. i do not recommend it as an elective for seniors writing theses. really, seriously, if you haven't done any CS before, it takes 40+ hours a week. be prepared.
It is an awesome class, you learn a ton and there is lots of help available -- if you have the time to put into it. However, it is a terrible class if you don't have a lot of time to spend on the problem sets every week. Don't take it if you have other time consuming classes, or you want to take more than one class a week. Don;t be scared of it if you don't know anything about computers.
A tutor helps...a lot.
You have to have the time to devote to it but if you do, it will be the most rewarding and genuinely exciting class you take.
This class has incredible spirit and will make you smile even as you're debugging at 2 a.m.  Take it early in your Harvard career while there's still time to change your concentration or secondary to CS!
be prepared to put in a lot of time and work hard
Even students who have no remote interest in Computer Science can love this class. It teaches students a new logic that is comprehensive in all applications of life and work. Even if it is the only CS class one takes, it is very rewarding and rarely regretted.
Be prepared to work and learn.  The class can be time-consuming, but its nothing that is impossible to learn and you truly get alot out of it.
If you're prepared to do the work, this is a great class in which you will definitely learn tons of useful stuff!
This is a course that is satisfying to finish and the material you learn is very practical but be prepared to invest a lot of time in it.
great introduction to programming and CS, very useful and applicablegreat professor
I would tell future students that the time which the problem sets demand from you on a weekly basis is astronomical and to think very carefully about their workload that semester before deciding to go ahead with CS50.
If you don't mind sacrificing a weekend every now and then to crank out a problem set, CS50 allows you to learn a lot about how your computer works. It's interesting and a nice level of challenging.
A fun introduction to cs.
It is really really really difficult.  It takes up a lot of time, but on the other hand you definitely learn a lot and the course is run extremely well.  Make sure you have ample room in your schedule if you plan on taking this course.  If you want to learn how to program, then I would highly recommend it.
If you want to party on Thursday nights and stay sane...don't take it. If you are willing to sacrifice and are the type of person who can work ahead, this class is an incredibly positive experience.
Be prepared to work hard and much, more than you think even. Also dont take it with other high workload classes.
d
It's an amazing class. Probably the class that I have learned the most in at Harvard. However, it does take up a lot of your time, and you can't really get away with not putting a lot of time into the class, so I wouldn't recommend taking it with a lot of other time consuming classes unless you're okay with a lot of all nighters. ; )
If you want to learn CS take this course - terrific introduction or refresher. However, be prepared to commit to work on it even if you think you are smart...
It will kick your butt, but you will like it
This course will make u l33t.
A lot of work but you will learn equally as much.
You need to take this - should be a required class for all Harvard students.
This course isn't as much work as some people claim. Everyone should take it.
Be ready to work, have fun, and learn about a very applicable field.  CS50 is a great course!
No experience necessary, but basic programming experience is helpful.
A great course - but may eat up more time than expected. Often inspires extreme emotions. Sometimes I would relish the material, all the psets, etc - other times I would feel lost, and a little overwhelmed. Definitely worth it though. Note: TFs/prof amazing and all have wonderful attitudes. Warning: if you take this class with friends with more programming experience, never ask them how long a pset took them or you may become rather depressed.
This will be the most fun class you take at Harvard. CS50 is not a course, but an experience. Live it.
If you are interested in the subject it is an amazing class but requires patience and a lot of time, which will only be an enjoyable or reasonable sacrifice if you are really interested in what you are doing.
There is a wide variety of skill levels in the class. Some people literally know absolutely nothing about code going into the class while others know lots.
One of my favorite courses so far at Harvard...and it doesn't even count for anything for me. Great professor, great TFs, great community. Make sure you set aside enough time for it, though!
Take CS50! It's fun, interesting, practical, and necessary for life in the 21st century.
This course is one that you will remember for the rest of your life. Every Harvard student should take it at some point in their careers. Expect to work your butt off, but approach the class with a motivated attitude and I PROMISE you will have a blast and come out feeling smarter. This class teaches you how to think logically. basically, TAKE THIS CLASS. Computer programming is an invaluable skill, and Malan will make it fun to learn!
The feeling you get when you finish your problem sets is the best feeling in the world.  I LOVED THIS CLASS, it made me change my concentration to computer science.
DO NOT TAKE CS50 IF YOU HAVE NO EXPERIENCE. IT'S SO HARD. IT SUCKS.
This class is a lot of fun and you learn a lot but you need to be prepared to spend a lot of time on stupid mistakes because it can be hard to get help.
If you have any interest in computer science, or think you might have an interest, take it! that said, it's not for everyone; don't take it if you're not willing to work hard and take each problem set seriously.
This course truly does have something for everyone.  Also, don't let your computer distract you in lectures; they really are helpful.
Sick.
It really opens your eyes, and is surprisingly useful even if computer science isn't your "thing".
OMFG THIS COURSE IS AWESOMEEEE. But be prepared to work. The work won't be difficult but there will be a lot of it!
If you have no experience in computer science you can still do well in this class> BUT this class WILL take up most of your time and can easily become your first priority.
Only take if you have to or if you are very interested.  If you have doubts make sure you are willing to put in 15+ hours a week.
If you are willing to put in the work, it's great fun
Painful. Painful, painful, painful, thrill ride. Enjoy it.
This is THE best class you will take at Harvard. It's pretty painful while you're taking it, but was more than worth it in the end. Don't graduate without having taken it!
It is very hard.
It's a good programming class that teaches you relevant skills with a reasonable though somewhat intense workload. Its chief strong point is its ability to teach students of many different ability levels well.
Choose this course wisely. Make sure that you have a big enough time commitment for the course.
so great. lots of work but lots of resources. if you're willing to put in the time it is such sweet exquisite pain :O
Great class; p-sets may seem scary at first but they're not difficult, they just take a lot of time
It requires a lot and a lot of work. Never put it in a semester that you're busy in.
Best class I have ever taken at Harvard. David is an amazing prof, and the course is unbelievably organized, with the TFs, CAs, office hours, walkthroughs, and sections working as if they were parts of some futuristic transformer robot-machine. It makes you learn so much in the end, even if you already know a bit about CS.
it'll eat up all your time but it's worth it.
It really fun; take it and you'll feel so l33t!
A good introduction for people with no CS background. If you know even a bit of CS, don't expect to find lectures interesting. Still, the problem sets are a great exercise.
CS50 ftw! It really is worth the time, however much you choose to put into it. Really.
CS50 is an excellent course for anyone looking to acquire the basic skills necessary in any environment which involves extensive interaction with computers. Despite the reputation it has gained as impossibly difficult, those willing to put in a little extra work will discover that it is very much doable. Make sure to use the resources made available to you!
This course is very helpful as an introduction to computer science and is possibly one of the best introductions you will ever have the opportunity to get. Definitely consider taking it, even if you have significant amounts of programming experience (have fun with the Hacker Editions!). It might even cause you to change your concentration to CS.
It may be a lot of work if you haven't done any sort of programming before, but can be very rewarding
A lot of people complain about the workload, but if you start your problem sets at a responsible point in the week and make good use of the MANY, MANY resources available, you shouldn't have any problem.
You will need to work really hard and put in a lot of time to get the most of this class.  But if you do, it can be eye-opening and really fun :)
Whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger (don't take survival as a given).
worth it.
Absolutely the hardest class I've ever taken at Harvard. I've never put more time and dedication into a class. It eats up at least about 20 hours a week outside of the classroom. BUT, CS50 was absolutely the best class I've ever taken at Harvard. The most rewarding class out there. It's so fun, and the entire staff wants to make you LOVE computer programming and truly wants you to do well in the class. If you put in the time you're going to get the results you want. And the programming experience is the most rewarding experience. Totally take this course before you graduate--even if you take it Pass/Fail. Just make sure that whatever fall semester you take it that you have a relatively easy workload otherwise, b/c CS50 will definitely take over your life!
CS50's reputation is accurate - it is a huge amount of work and far from easy, but well worth it at the end.
It is a good class whereyou learn a lot, but it is A LOT of work that will take over your life and weekends especially if you have other courses and activities
More work than you think it will be, but doable for anyone. Much less individual help available than one would expect. Internet resources very helpful. Course resources (office hours, bulletin board) neither timely nor effective, so be prepared to help yourself with independent resources. Fortunately, links are made available.
This class should be a graduation requirement. In our technology dominated world, everyone should have a basic background in computer science. When else in your life will you have the chance to learn this stuff in such a fun and awesome community setting, and with cake?! Even though I took this as an elective, it was the most valuable class I've taken yet at Harvard. If you have any doubts, take it P/F. It will require a substantial amount of time but every second is worth it. TAKE THIS COURSE!
Computer science and knowing how to program is an awesome skill to have, and it enables you to do things that are otherwise impossible or very daunting and/or tedious. For people who have never taken any CS before, there is probably no better way to get your feet wet.  It's hard work, but you learn A LOT.On the other hand, if you have prior CS background (esp. AP Comp Sci), this course is probably not worth your time.  You can do all the Standard editions with your eyes closed (it'd be more worthwhile doing them in Dvorak to learn it), and there is very little help for you if you get stuck on the hacker editions. Most of the TF's can't even do them, since Malan is too busy billing the course as being accessible to anyone.  You'll get out of the course what you put in, but be prepared for at least a little frustration with the course staff. Hopefully they'll improve it for next year.
Nice class.
Just do it, wimp.
You work really hard, but learn a lot, and it is incredibly rewarding.
Be prepared for sleepless nights and lots of work, to the point that your effort in other classes might suffer.  Expect some weekends to be lost to programming.  And expect to learn a lot.
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
It is challenging yet incredibly, unbelievably rewarding. The simple feeling of knowing exactly how to build a website by the course's end is reason enough to take the course, but in general, the course opens so many doors for you, but teaching you how to learn about more computer science. I feel like the possibilities of things I can do, now, are endless.
It was an extremely demanding class that required a lot of time and commitment, but it was interesting and very useful. Take this only if you have the time and try to study up and learn about programming in C before starting the course so that you will not have that much of a learning curve to catch up on.
A great class! You get to build lots of interesting things and also make new friends.
This is a great class which, while very demanding in the coursework, is also very rewarding in the knowledge and computer skills you gain.
i would only recommend this course to people who have a ton of time to focus on it
The most practical class you will ever take at Harvard. Even without any experience, you can pick it up quickly. It's time consuming, but all the assignments teach you very useful things. TAKE IT!!
This class was extremely difficult, but I have never learned so much in a course, worked so hard, or pushed myself to such limits. It was the best class I have taken at Harvard.
It's hard work, but it's rewarding!
CS50 is the quintessential Harvard College course: although a student must commit to hard work and long hours for problem sets, he/she will learn SO much he/she will not regret taking this course.
If you are ready to put in the time and the work, this is a phenomenal course.  Very interesteing, well-taught, and will teach you things that will really be helpful going forwarded.  Also, has a great community surrounding it.
It is a ton of work, so don't take it unless you're interested in programming or need it for your major.
b ready to work ur butt off. kthanxbai
Wonderful class. You learn a lot and feel very accomplished after getting through. Teaches you a lot of what you need to know about basic programming and is taught in a very exciting manner.
consider this when planning your semester, just when all your other classes get difficult, ie there are midterms, papers or you just fell behind, this class becomes your life. The last few problem sets will take your entire weekends or 20 plus hours. Just keep it in mind, but overall you'll learn a lot.
it's a great course.  good intro to CS, the professor is very engaging
Be prepared for the gauntlet. You will sacrifice a lot of sleep for this course, and in the end you will probably be thankful for it. But while you are taking it, it is BRUTAL.
It is probably the most fun class you will ever take at Harvard.
You can becomez the haxXor.
for me, as someone who entered as 'less comfortable,' it felt like taking 2 classes in terms of times commitment.
You will learn a lot after completing this course, but the work load is large so make sure you have enough time to do it!
This class takes up a LOT of work and you really have to stick with it each week.  You will lose a lot of sleep over CS 50.
A lot of work but very well worth it.
It is well worth it if you have the time and interest.
Just get ready to spend all your free time on CS
If you are a freshman, don't take it unless you are absolutely sure that you have 40 hours a week.
It's not that bad, HARVARD. Yeah, you, person-whom-I-refer-to-by-their-college-name. You can handle it.
Do it. It's a lot of work, but so worth it.
CS 50 provides you with a good understanding of the basics of programming. You also learn how to implement websites, which can be a valuable asset. It is definitely a very interesting course. Only drawback is that it is a lot of work and can be very stressful; however, finishing problem sets (successfully) is very rewarding!
It's really an epic of a class - take at your own risk because you can drown if you let yourself, but if you come out alive, you'll definitely think it's worth it.
Tons of work!
Soooooo hard but totally worth it -- btw it will take over your life if you're a n00b
It's a fantastic class, really. You learn more than you thought possible in a semester. Your final project can actually have an impact. You need to realize, though, that all of this is only possible if you're willing to get continually violated by coursework.
This is the funnest course at Harvard and I say that without a doubt in my mind.
It takes a lot of time, but it's the only class at Harvard that's enjoyable and practical
CS50 is so much fun.  As long as you like solving puzzles and problems, you will love this class.  Just be prepared to spend a lot of time on it =)
Engaging course that requires a substantial amount of work but which remains fun and interesting throughout.
You must take Cs50.  Whether or not you are into/become into computer science, Cs50 has the flexibility to accommodate you.  You have not really had fun doing a problem set until you've done a Cs50 problem set; and David Malan is the best!
It's a lot of work. But so worth it.
Let's face it, any work in science fields today will require at least some programming.  This is definitely the best way to get into it.  CS50 is one of the best classes you'll ever take at Harvard, and one of the only ones that will be useful no matter what you end up doing.
take it. no course at harvard like it.
If you are not going to mind putting in the time (and working friday/saturday evenings if you have to), it is worth it.
The course WILL kick your ass. Be prepared to spend up to 20 hours of solid work at your computer EACH WEEK.
This is a very nontraditional course in that instead of teaching programming from the basics, its focus is more on what you can do with programming--many psets give you framework and concepts and expect you to work out the syntax yourself.
This is an amazing class for students of all levels.  Even if you're a programming genius, don't skip it!
If you have even a little bit of a programming background, consider signing up for a "more comfortable" section; you might be bored in a "somewhere in between" one.Also, use the Bulletin Board! It is incredibly helpful.
When people say cs50 is crazy intense, they really mean it.
I originally took this course as an elective, but I will now be pursuing a secondary in CS.  David Malan and the CS50 team put in a great effort into making the course feel like a stage production. Large Cast (300+ students).  Lots of practice hours(office hours for psets). One final show (The CS50 Fair).
It's one of the highest workload classes you'll take at Harvard, but it is easily the most rewarding.
You learn a lot, you enjoy it, the lectures are great.
Unless you have absolutely nothing else to do, or are already a cs genius, don't take the course.
This class is really really really hard. And a little soul crushing at times. Be prepared to give up your social life for awhile. It's definitely useful though...
It's a very good introduction.
You really will learn how to program computers after taking this class.  However it is a huge time commitment and you should only take it if you are willing to invest your time.
You will get a lot out of this class...but at a price. Take the warnings you hear seriously. This class isn't easy and it will take up a lot of your time. The time will be well spent, but you will have to cut back on other things that you would normally spend the time on (sleep, social life, other homework, etc.).
It is one of the most time-consuming but also most rewarding classes you can take at Harvard.  You will be astonished by how far you've come in the end, and you likely won't remember the all-nighters, though I would not recommend this course to someone who is taking a number of challenging classes at the same time.
I liked the course a lot overall, but there were times when it was incredibly frustrating and demoralizing.
This class is by no means easy, but it is fun and you learn a lot by the end of the semester!
Be prepared to work and have fun doing it.  But still work.
You will learn a lot in this course, and not even just about computers, you can only learn so much about a machine in 6 weeks of C, but what you learn most about is problem solving, what to do to take a big problem and map out a solution, implement it, tweak it, etc.  Learning how to troubleshoot takes time, put in the time to learn the debugging helpers, and you'll be a better problem solver.
Find someone who knows CS because OHs wont be helpful, but it's worth it.
It is very challenging, but teaches a great deal. It is not a waste of time, although you must be ready to commit that time.
Get ready to learn so much about programming your head will hurt. Also, get ready to give up your weekends for the entire semester for the psets.
You CAN take this course, even if you've NEVER programmed before.  Don't let anyone tell you otherwise.  There will always be kids in CS50 who are CS geniuses, but a real strength of the course is that you're never competing against them, you competing against yourself.
CS50 will prepare you extremely well for a College career (if a freshman) and it will do an exceptional job at introducing you to Programming. It will take over your life, rob you of sleep, inhibit an extensive social life, and make your friends think you have turned into a robot, but the moment you exit the Science fair, will be the most rewarding experience EVER!(moderately sarcastic but fundamentally true)
Fantastic. One of the courses you should absolutely take in your college career, regardless of your major or previous experience.
Man up and do it, it's not that bad at all.
The course is fun, challenging and rewarding. Malan is great and a lot of fun. If you have no experience, be prepared to spend a lot of time on problem sets further into the semester.
I think CS 50 is an amazing class and Professor Malan is a fantastic lecturer and great teacher. That said, I don't think it is the class for everyone. As a beginner to this subject, I struggled through the course and found the knowledge I gained helpful, but very very hard to attain. Definitely make sure you have the time to devote to the class before signing up, I spent 15ish hours every week, which was something I didn't expect.
Though I would certainly warn students that the workload is difficult, especially for those who have never studied computer science before, I would enthusiastically recommend the course to anyone who would enjoy this exhilarating intellectual puzzle!
You kind of have to take this course, because there is nothing else like it at Harvard, but be prepared to learn a lot of things on your own.
I'm definitely not a potential compsci major or minor, but I think this is the BEST class I took this semester- content-wise and experience-wise. And that's something coming from somebody who used to hate computer science passionately in high school. CS50 is legendary.
iz awesome
You will work extremely hard in this course. You will have all-nighters because of problem sets. BUT YOU WILL LOVE EVERY MOMENT.
Make sure you know what you're getting yourself into when you decide to take this class. It's ridiculous. It's most ridiculous class I've ever taken. However, that being said, you will come out of it a different person than the one you were when you went in. You learn a lot!
Take this class! Yes it is demanding, but it is so completely worth it. The quintessential Harvard course, as someone said. No matter who you are, this will be the most rewarding course you take at Harvard.
Hard but fun
All the work you put in will be well worth it, both in usefulness and in the satisfaction you get from completing a problem set or project.  Expect this class to make up a large component of your work that semester, especially if you are not used to taking problem set classes.
This class is incredibly demanding. I have never spent so much time working on the assignments for a single class, but I felt genuinely satisfied every time I completed a problem set. And after the final project, I couldn't believe that I had progressed that much in just a semester.
It's an awesome class. The lectures informative yet entertaining. Definitely a lot of work, but worth it in the end, because you really come out of the class feeling like you learned a lot.
Take it if you have ANY interest in computers or the internetz. its awesome!! I had no prior interest or experience but learned so much, loved it, and will probably end up doing a secondary in cs. its hard though...the psets take AGES. dont do it during a semester where you dont have time to devote to it, because you straight up wont be able to do the work without a large time investment.
It's very time consuming. They should be wary of taking it along with other intense classes. It is very easy to neglect your other work because the Psets though time consuming are quite exciting and addictive. You just wan to get it to work. ftw!
It is not so much difficult, as time-consuming. But that said, computer science is something extremely important to learn, both for its practical applications and the way that it makes you think, and this is a really good way to be introduced to it.
This course will consume most of your time, but you learn an incredible amount.
ftw!!11!!The course is time-consuming and occasionally frustrating, but is correspondingly satisfying.  It's the first class I've taken at Harvard that successfully snuck past the Ivy League's strict policy of never teaching us anything with direct practical application.  Definitely worth it.
Be prepared to work heard and learn alot of useful skills
Do it if you have to, but if you don't, consider taking another CS class before this one. But you will come out being able to do a lot.
It is very interesting but prohibitively difficult if you are not naturally good at abstract quantitative thinking.
It takes a certain kind of person to enjoy CS50. I happen to be that kind of person, but if you aren't much of a problem-solver/logical-thinker, this class is not for you.
must be willing to put in the work: definitely consider taking it pass/fail if this is an elective!
It is a challenging but helpful class.
Don't underestimate the amount of time you need to spend on the final project!!
It's one of the hardest classes i've taken, but it's super rewarding and interesting. I would probably take it as a sophomore as opposed to a freshman.
Hard but good.
Awesome class. but A LOT of work.
CS50 is probably the most enjoyable course I have taken.  The work is fun and interesting, though difficult at times.  The staff are excellent (make good use of office hours!).  However the strongest aspect of the course is the quirky and bizarre culture and community that encloses it and your classmates.
If you're willing to work, this course is worth it.
HOW TO SUCCEED IN CS50:1. Do not take more than four courses in the semester, including cs50, of course.2. Pay attention during lecture, and follow what David says with the printed handouts he gives out before lecture. THE VAST MAJORITY OF WHAT YOU NEED IS COVERED IN LECTURES, believe it or not. If there was something he said during lecture that sounded like Chinese, definitely take the time to go back over the lecture ASAP with the lecture video online.3. Also after lecture, take 20 minutes to go over the handouts to be sure that you understand what's going on with programs he may show you, and if not, find a helpful friend or TF to over them with you.4. READ THE SCRIBE NOTES FROM LECTURE when they are made available. They are spectacular, and often they clarify things that David didn't have the time to delve into. They are also PERFECT study guides for the quizzes, as are the section notes.5. When working on problem sets, don't get overwhelmed and you should NEVER feel incapable of finding an answer to a problem you're having. The answer is out there on the internet certainly. Which brings me to my next point:6. DON'T BE AFRAID TO USE THE INTERNET AS A RESOURCE - all of the functions, syntax, and methodology you need to practice programming is certainly found there, as simple as a google of "how do I...". seriously, it's that simple.7. REVAMP THE WAY YOU THINK ABOUT PROBLEM-SOLVING. Take the problem-set piece by piece (don't move past something until you fully understand what's happening, because in the end, it will end up hurting you bigtime), and remember that all of the material you need has been given to you in lecture, and it is up to you to delve deeper into it and perhaps use it in unique ways (sorry if that sounds really vague, you'll understand what i mean later).8. ABOVE ALL, START THE PROBLEM SET NO LATER THAN SUNDAY NIGHT IF IT IS DUE FRIDAY. You will love yourself if you take a few hours on Sunday night to read through the problem set and begin a little bit of work on it. I don't care if you have an exam Monday, an essay due at midnight, or anything like that. Start it Sunday, or you'll be screwed, and you'll be hating yourself later on in the week. Don't say I didn't warn you. Plus, if you find out the problem set was easy and you have more time than you need, you can optimize it!9. If all else fails, USE THE AWESOME CS50 SUPPORT NETWORK that's given to you. You have David and Glenn by email, all of the TF's and CA's, the tutors at the bureau of study council, and of course all of the buddies of yours who are more comfortable with computers who might be in the course or around campus. Realize that THEY WANT TO HELP YOU. Just get started on the work EARLY so that you aren't at office hours on Thursday night (where about 150 others will be vying for the attention of only about 5 TF's there at a time)10. REMEMBER, START THE PSET EARLY! I'M TALKING SUNDAY AT THE LATEST!I am a literature concentrator, and I took cs50 because I was interested, and I think that it's so important in our modern world to understand the way a computer works "under the hood" (as David likes to say). If you're a humanities person like me, your mind will be completely re-shaped, and it will be painful. I will say that cs50 is NOT FOR EVERYONE. You have to be a little bit of a glutton for punishment, and also, you will have some really, really late nights throughout the semester, and you may have a couple of existential breakdowns. So, unless you REALLY REALLY want to know what's happening, I would NOT take this course. For those who really want to know what's happening though, I'll say that it's really really tough, but the reward is huge. Follow the steps above though, and you'll be SO HAPPY!
It's time-consuming but well-worth it!
TAKE THIS COURSE!!!  Don't listen to people who say it's too hard or too much work--It's absolutely worth it.  You can't fall behind because all the lectures, sections, walkthroughs, and notes are online, and office hours are almost every day from 7-11pm.  One caveat: don't take CS50 and another really time-intensive course at the same time.
Take this class. It's the best class I've taken at harvard so far. You'll learn a ton and it feels like an accomplishment.
The perfect Harvard class.  Applicable in all fields, and the staff and support system is built so that everyone can earn A's, as long as you put the time and effort into your work, (which may be up to 30 hours a week).
Definitely the best put together and well-coordinated class I've ever seen.  However, it's more difficult and more time consuming than you'd expect for a first course in cs.  If you've never done programming before in your life (lik me), you might want to try taking it with friends who have background in comp sci if you don't want to stress too much.
Very time consuming. You get what you put in!
Take it.  It's a lot of work, but you learn useful, practical skills, and the community is fun.  Plus lolcats.
It's a great course if you don't have any background, but if you're a solid programmer it's boring
Very good and helpful course
Make sure you have some time to dedicate to this class :)
This course makes you think about the world differently. It makes you understand the difficulty and preparation that goes into making something great. You learn to take so much pride in your work, and that nothing can stop you from achieving something important (as in the CS50 final project).
Don't take this course unless you know for certain you have enough time to devote to it. This class can be very rewarding if you give yourself enough time to complete the assignments. If you try to take this class with other work intensive classes, you are setting yourself up for failure.
Ask for help early in the semester. Start psets early.
I wouldn't recommend the course to anyone unless they had two of the following: (1) prior CS experience, (2) a perfect score on the Math SAT, (3) understanding that one will spend at least 20 hours a week on problem sets. If you meet these requirements, go ahead and take the course, which you'll probably enjoy by semester's end.
CS50 is a great class.  It moves very quickly, and it's important to keep up.  The problem sets go far beyond the problem sets of most other intro CS courses I've seen (but they are also much cooler).  Don't take this class and expect to cruise.
The class is extremely useful, but does require a large time commitment and can be frustrating at times.
Be prepared to put in long hours on the psets, but don't let that stop you from taking the class! It's all worth it in the end. It will quickly become your favorite class!
Prepare to work, be extremely stressed out, bang your head against a few walls, pee on the statue with rage, and then complete the weekly problem set. Take this class if you enjoy learning useful, applicable, and entertaining things. You will come out of this experience alive and better than you were 3 months before, and trust me, when you're done with your final project, you will let out a huge sigh of relief for each time you streaked naked across the yard in attempt to figure out how to recover a JPEG, and say: "This was CS50. This was worth it."
It is a great class, and although it can be difficult and time consuming, you will be surprised with what you can do by the end of the semester
I think that you have to have the schedule to take this course. If you have done cs before, you can take this course with other time consuming classes. However, if you have never coded before, I would think twice about adding too many other problem set classes on your schedule along with this one.
a class not to miss!
Do not be intimidated by this class. If you're looking for a challenging yet ultimately rewarding course, you really should not miss out on CS50. Don't take this your senior year either, because it might make you regret not concentrating in CS earlier!
This is one of the most useful courses a student can take, but be prepared to work your butt off.
I took it because the lectures looked exciting, I had some vague notion that it would be cool to learn about computers, and I wanted to pick up some useful skills. The lectures were exciting, I know a lot about computers, and I've already applied the skills to things I care about. So the course fulfilled all my expectations, I guess. It was just painful -- not even hard, really. It takes a lot of time, and most of that time is spent trying to figure out why things don't work. It's ALWAYS a typo, not some exciting intellectual challenge, and that's frustrating. Part of me now hates computers.
A LOT of work. You will feel like giving up at times, but it's incredibly rewarding once you get to the end of the course.
A lot of work.  but if you have time for it, it is worth it.
Everyone should take this course. No joke.If you're reading this, that means you're considering it. So don't think about it anymore, just take it. Now. Seriously. It's awesome.
It's a good course that teaches you how to think, and I think everyone should be exposed to the material introduced in this course.
Prepare to put in a lot of time, but the rewards are certainly worth it. You will learning a lot on the subject.
I'm happy that I know how to program, but you have to be prepared to put in hours and hours and hours when you least expect it in order to make your programs run correctly
This is a very difficult and time intensive class. Please be cautious because reading period does not accurrately reflect the class
It is definitely a lot of work, but it's so worth it. You go in knowing nothing about computer science, and you come out knowing over 5 different languages, which proves to be very useful in the real world.
Takes a lot of time.
This class is going to kick your butt. Knowing that don't take this with 4 other classes, even taking it with two other tough classes was a chore. It can be fun at times but at 1 am on a Thursday night in the Science Center basement fun is definitely not the word you'll be thinking of...If I was a freshman taking this course I would've thought I was going to fail out of Harvard.
TAKE IT. NOW. K THX BAI.
Take this class if you have some time in your schedule and want to learn the basics of programming
Take this class if you need to take a computer class for credit.  If not for credit, take pass/fail.
Do the work. It's totally worth it.
I would venture to guess that no other computer science class is taught like this anywhere in the world. When I started CS50 I had no interest in CS and now I'm considering changing my concentration. This course is hard and very time consuming, but tremendously rewarding. Anyone graduating Harvard in these times should have some background in computer science and this course is the perfect way to get it. You will leave a more confident student.
Awesome! You haven't been to Harvard if you haven't tried CS50.
You will leave feeling thoroughly defeated. But you will be feel awesome afterward. It pushes you to accomplish things you never thought you could do.
Take it!  If you don't, you'll be missing out on one of the best courses at Harvard!
Great class if you allot the appropriate amount of time for it.
Be prepared for a heavy workload. The course is very interesting, useful, and stimulating, but does require a lot of hours of work.
if you don't mind 7 hours of work each week and the not infrequent trip to the science center basement, take this class. It won't hurt your grade at all.
Take it, it's one of the best courses on campus and is VERY useful in the real world.
It's not as scary and time-consuming as people would have you believe.
You will cry during your first few C psets, but towards the end you'll be glad you took the course and will be sad when it's over.
Be ready to dedicate a lot of time to this course and really work at it. It's all worth it in the end.
If you are taking it as an elective, take it pass/fail.
This class will make you sweat and swear, but it is completely worth it when your program successfully runs.
CS50 is a class that will cause you sleepless Thursday and Friday nights, but atleast you will be in good faith that on Harvard FML and in the basement of Science Center, there will be others along with you. It is a class that will make you think logically, and to take things in little chunks, and provide you with the necessary skills to analyze and figure out problems. It is also a class in which you will finally understand xkcd and all those lolcat references. But most of all, it is a class about how you can produce something pretty amazing after just 12 weeks.
This course is only difficult in that it is very time consuming. The actual content of the course is very well taught and there are a lot of available resources. The CS50 staff is very helpful and you learn quickly.
Prepare over the summer.
Take it only if you want to learn about computers and how to program because you will learn.
It will take a lot more time than you expected. Only take it if you can balance it with other easier courses.
Great course. They should take it.
i would caution against taking this if you have a really busy schedule
It's is a lot of fun, but a lot of work. You can get by doing just the minimum requirement, but it is very easy to stray from the path and be very creative. Those that love logic, computers will adore this course and those that love the artsy, creative things in life will grow to love it once they've mastered the logic.
Even though this will probably be the most time consuming class, its worth every bit in the end.
If you have any programming experience, this class is enjoyable and not too tough.  If you don't have any experience programming, it'll be much tougher.
It's hard work, but taking it will be very fulfilling.
Have fun with it.  Put in the time and you'll love it and learn a ton.  And LOLcatz ftw!!!!!11
Take this class!  Even if it has nothing to do with your major, you will understand so much more about how computers work and how programmers think if you take this.
Make sure you are ready for this course. This is not something to take on a whim -- it will eat up your whole semester and your social life and your soul and you will still struggle.  But it can feel enormously rewarding at the end.  Just make sure to think if you actually need to take it -- if not, better spend yout time elsewhere.
Demanding but fun.
The lectures are not that valuable, but the problem sets will really teach you the basics and more of programming.
If you've never programmed before, this is a good course to take.  If you have any significant amount of programming experience and will not have time to complete the hacker editions, DO NOT take this course - you will not get anything new out of it.
It's a lot of work, but the skills learned are well worth the effort.
You should take this class. No matter who you are. It takes time, but you learn a huge amount of useful information and gain very practical skills.
Do not take this course! Even if you are smart, this course will be a challenge and require 12, 15, or even 20 hours a week to complete the psets.  It is fun at first, but after the 3rd week, you start to realize just how much time each homework assignment requires, and you begin to regret taking it.  If at all possible, avoid taking this course unless you need it for your major or you have aspirations to be the next Bill Gates.  Even if you took some CS in high school, this material still presents a near impossible challenge.  By the final few weeks, it is no longer about understanding the material, but rather going to office hours until a TF is nice enough to give you the answer.  You do not learn through this method, but it is the only way to complete the psets in under 20 hours.If you aren't convinced, let me concede that Malan's first few lectures are superb, but after the fourth lecture, Malan loses his touch and you get sick of the vapid videos that interrupt class every 5 minutes because Malan believes they are entertaining.Avoid this class if you want to have a social life!
good class, but you'll have to work hard. you get out of it what you put in. lots of resources and opportunities for people who want to work hard and learn a lot.
It's a great class, just be prepared to do a boatload of work!
