Regardless of whether you end up teaching an undergrad section or not, this is a wonderful course. It's a fabulous opportunity to learn and get feedback on your teaching in a low-stress environment.
This course is a great use of your time.  Even if you don't end up being a TF for another few years, the teaching experience and various other pieces of information that this course provides will be invaluable.
This course is an excellent introduction to teaching. Anyone interested in being a good TF, rather than simply fulfilling their TF requirement, should consider taking this course.
The course is very effective in making you a better teacher, while not requiring a lot of prep outside of the class time.
You'll be a better TF for putting time into this class and thinking about your teaching.
This class should be required for everyone.
The class requires active participation to get maximum benefit. Put as much effort as you can into the practice teaching segments, as these are less common.
You will learn a lot on yourself in this class. Take it, not just for the benefit of the undergraduates you will be teaching, but for yours also.
This is a good chance to get you to think about teaching if you have no previous experience.
This course is very helpful if you ever need to TF for a course. If offers useful advice and helps avoid common errors and pitfalls as a TF.
For all the reasons mentioned above, I highly recommend this course. It is interesting, you definitely learn a lot, the discussions are helpful, the atmosphere is not strict or teacher-versus-student based, there's room for a laugh, and while laughing John (Girash) even manages to teach you something.
You will learn quite a lot about teaching, more than you thought there was to it.  Highly recommended to anyone who will TF or is considering any job with some aspect of teaching.  Which is almost any job, even if it doesn't have a direct teaching component - you will still need to know how to effectively hold people's attention and convey information to them.
If you want to learn more about teaching, this is a great course. You don't get a ton of time to actually teach however, but it's ok; it really makes you think and will ultimately help you become a better teacher. I definitely recommend taking it if you have time, it does not take too long. I found it quite enjoyable and a nice break from the daily grind.
It is a class that does't take much time, but really helps with learning how to teach. Good learning to time required ratio.
This class provides a great opportunity for you to think about how you can do better.  The time commitment is minimal.  The benefits of the class vastly outweigh the small amount of time required.
you get a lot of out of this class with a low time commitment. seeing yourself on film teaching is not comfortable but is helpful for you to assess yourself from an outside perspective. think this would work better if you took it while TFing since you do practice teachings and you could use items from your sections and improve them
It really helped my organization, which influenced how smooth my teaching opportunities went. It also made me think about making my lesson plan off of the homework, which I think is helpful for the students. It gave me some confidence when I do TF.
This course will help you become more conscientious in your teaching/lecture preparation and help you identify what you need to practice or change. It will make you think a little differently about teaching as well.
This is a recommended course for those interested in teaching, and a necessary course for those who need help with teaching.
You get as much out of this course as you put in.
This class will help you be much more prepared going in to teaching your first discussion section. It will also give you numerous ideas for how to reach your students better and give evaluate your own teaching.
This course provides a friendly and gentle environment to hone your teaching skills, and where there is lots of practice and feedback! Recommended enthusiastically to anyone who wants to be a good teacher.
This would be a great prerequisite for all SEAS G1 students in preparation for being a TF as a G2.
It's a fantastic way to practice your teaching in a helpful and safe environment. The feedback you get from the instructors and your peers is great and extremely useful. I walked out of this class feeling like I learned a lot about how to be a more effective teacher.
