Do the reading before the lecture, work hard and start early with the problem sets.
go to office hours if you're struggling. everyone was really nice.
Covers lots of useful topics. Put thought into your final project idea because you'll be spending a lot of time on it.
This class was kind of a pain. The problem sets were extremely long, but most of your time was not spent on doing the interesting math, but rather on debugging infinity errors in your code. The class has a bunch of cool topics but it needs to be tightened up before it becomes a great class.
This is a really hard class with pretty bad course logistics. The staff wasn't very supportive, the problem sets were unreasonable, logistics were poorly communicated, and grading was very bad. That being said, the material is pretty important, and there's a lot to be learned, especially for anyone who hasn't taken 181 yet. Also, by the next time it's offered, I assume a lot of the kinks will have been sorted out, either via a new professor or Finale having improved as a professor.
Don't take it. Try to take the advanced machine learning at MIT. This one is a mess and I am severely disappointed by it. The lecture style is horrible - Finale constantly tries to explain proofs on the blackboard but messes up more than anything and has to concentrate so much that you might just read about it in a book. Halfway through every proofs she just skips to another topic or simplifies something so unreasonable that it does not make sense anymore.Assignments are a pain. They are very unclear and way too long so that they require attending pretty much all the office hours. The grading for them is also very arbitrary and you get points taken off for nothing. The final project, pretty much the best part of the course, is interrupted by not one but two assigments, leaving you with just one week to finish the whole thing.The quizzes at the beginning of lecture are a joke. They ask you about something that you can't possibly know so it is just a googling task. TL;DR: Don't take it in the current form, wait for a revamp or take the MIT course
Good math background is a plus
This course was a great rigorous overview of machine learning methods. I really learned a lot, and it was great that there was a strong foundation on probability throughout the course. Finale is a great instructor and really clear at presenting the lecture materials. The TFs were great in section as well: they were really clear at teaching and were very helpful with questions. You have to do a final project for this course, so it's good if you have some ideas coming in beforehand or if you can use it to work towards your thesis. There's not much feedback on homework or the project, so be prepared for that. Overall a great class but just watch out because there's not too much feedback given.
This class gives a good foundation in statistical machine learning and is mostly isomorphic to Stat 111 + a couple of algorithms. There is much tedious algebra on the problem sets, which are occasionally missing a crucial instruction and end up taking much longer than they should (e.g. "this operation often causes numerical instability so instead..."). But discussing and implementing state-of-the-art techniques is a valuable experience.
This was an excellent course. I feel much more confident in my ability to do machine learning, especially independent research. The final project is essentially an independent machine learning project, and people develop some very cool stuff. Keep in mind, this is not an easy course - the assignments are pretty challenging. You will have to implement some pretty nontrivial algorithms from scratch, which are much more complicated than the stuff from CS 181, for example. So, make sure you are okay with that. That being said, it was definitely a super interesting course, I learned a ton, and I highly recommend people to take it! Finale is a great professor as well!
It is well worth the work (and there is certainly *a lot* of work). The course covers a lot, and for someone who like me is from another field with little background, the material isn't always comfortable, but you will learn a lot. I internalized <70% of what was covered, but even that has dwarfed my previous knowledge. If you're interested in machine learning or think that learning statistics shouldn't just be memorizing a bunch of tests, this is the class for you.If you do take the class, know that some of the later homeworks are fairly time consuming and involve computations that by themselves take a while, so if you need time to stew about how to vectorize computations, start early. They can get a bit tricky to balance with the (very time intensive) final project.
Be prepared to work hard and learn a lot.
Excellent class, I learned a lot from doing the problem sets. Don't wait to do those until the last minute.
Lecture material is shallow, not practical, and not more that what you would learn from a textbook. Psets way too long, riddled with errors, staff didn't seem like they had done them, full of technical issues with installations. No comments on psets or code, not even why points were taken off. Some sections were awful and useless. Way too many students in the class, not enough TF support, students didn't have enough coding or statistics background.
This year's offering of CS 281 is quite weak, comparable to CS 181 in 2013 (see Q-reviews there; other than specific details, almost every comment there applies for this course). However, I see the potential of this course and am optimistic that it will improve in future offerings, just like CS 181 did.
great for learning more in-depth about machine learning
This course is still nascent. The assignments are very good if you're the kind of guy who learns by doing. Finale is very cool, and very accommodating. However, she still uses a black board and a piece of chalk for the lectures, which is sub-optimal.
Very good class and I learned a lot. Most of the homeworks take A LOT of time because you need to code up ML algorithms from the ground up. Other than that, great course.
This is the best class I have taken so far at Harvard. The instructor is fantastic, the material is fascinating and useful, and the course strikes the perfect balance between theory and application. The homeworks teach skills that are useful beyond the course. Anyone who wants to learn how to analyze data with modern techniques should take this class!
This is a difficult class if you have not taken 181.
You won't learn anything you can't learn from just reading Murphy. The assignments are poorly designed. The quizzes are too easy to help with understanding, and are just frustrating attendance-checks. You will not receive any feedback on your final project until it is ultimately due, even though you will submit a status report and a poster, which is unbelievably frustrating, especially if you receive a poor final grade but your status update and poster receive high marks - you'll never know why. Ultimately, how well you do in this class has very little to do with how well you understand the material. Therefore, this is not a great class.
be prepared for a lot of work
This is a great advanced machine learning course! Definitely take it if you like probabilistic and Bayesian approaches to machine learning, and want to get a better feel for how the topics of 281 fit together, rather than learning a bunch of specific tricks.That being said, this course is noticably harder -- my year the assignments took a really long time to do, but was incredibly rewarding. I came out of it feeling prepared to do Machine Learning research, and able to tackle problems in a principled way.Finale is also a great professor, and really seems to care about students learning and doing well.
Be prepared for a lot of work, but well worth it.
An extremely solid introduction to machine learning--if you want a comprehensive first course in machine learning, and you are quite comfortable with statistics, I would highly recommend this course.
This class is extremely difficult, but you learn as much as you put in.  You will become comfortable with Bayesian thinking in an ML setting. Finale is pretty good at explaining things, though some of the more difficult topics will require significant extra self-study if you want to do well.
Its a lot of work. Did not take cs181 before this and I think I could have gotten more out of it if I did. That being said, I still did get a lot out of it and understand in depth at least the math that goes behind a lot of ML algorithms, as well as how to approach certain problems.
This class was a lot of work, especially for someone with no CS background. If you're a domain scientist, CS181 might be the better option. That being said, I learned an incredible amount in just one semester.
Course was easier than I expected, but not an easy class. It was Finale's first year teaching, and she clearly invests a lot in the class, so I expect it to get better. Although it's a CS class, stat background would make the class a lot easier!
Finale is a fantastic professor! The lectures were clear, the assignments were interesting, and the class was never tedious. I feel like I learned a lot! Anyone interested in serious ML should take this class. After this class, you won't be a joke data scientist. Note that this class is very time consuming and extraordinarily difficult. But it's totally worth it!!!!!!
The course isn't perfect, but it is pretty good and machine learning is both interesting (a new way to think about things than other computer science classes) and practical (lots of new research in the field, new startups, and popularity is on the rise). If you feel ok about your linear algebra and probability background you won't have any problems taking this before 181.
If you have taken basic machine learning before (or related statistics courses), you can take it, but be aware of the assignments will take a long time to do and lectures are hard to follow if you do not have time to read three chapters of textbook per week
CS 281 gives a motivated and probabilistic perspective to a host of topics in machine learning, which otherwise may seem like an ad-hoc collection of computational tools. It was a bit dry with quite a lot of mathematics and few concrete examples, but otherwise gave a great in-depth exposure to many important topics.
This course is hard. The material is really cool, but it's hard of the lectures to go in depth because the subject matter is complex. Finale did a great job of parsing out the main aspects, but I still feel like I have a ton of reading to do to really understand most of the topics. Great for unifying the field in my head though. The course staff was undermanned relative to the number of students in the class, so prepare to fight for their attention.
Definitely take it with Finale (or probably even w Adams). Finale is a great lecturer, and builds intuition for the subject very well. In terms of grades, it can be unpredictable - everyone does well, so in machine learning classes, cutoffs for an A can be as high as a 95
This is a fairly difficult course. You will need to put a significant amount of work outside of class in order to fully understand the material, especially if you don't have all the background (in ML, Linear Algebra, Statistics, Programming) coming in. The available resources (textbook, online, sections) are okay, but not outstanding, so you'll have to do some learning on your own or from peers/TFs. Some of the topics are interesting, but some of them also seems kind of random and very esoteric. The psets often take a long time to run the code, which is annoying because sitting and waiting for your computer to whir away doesn't teach you much. The final project can be a good opportunity to explore some aspect of ML that you're interested in though.
very, very hard, and doesn't focus that much on applications
It's a great course with great staff but you might feel like you just overlook a lot of topics...
If you're reading this, you may be a grad student contemplating the different machine learning and statistics classes at Harvard/MIT/HSPH. If you're wondering which single class may give you the most to think about and apply in your research, here's why CS281 may be the one: It covers far more breadth than most graduate statistics classes (i.e. you will fly past linear models in the first few weeks and won't just learn the geometry of linear regression), while sacrificing less on depth than other machine learning classes (i.e. you have to derive, implement, and potentially invent new methods; not just throw data into scikit-learn). Lastly, the final project in the class can be a great opportunity to apply some new-found statistical thinking to your own thesis research while getting helpful feedback from the teaching staff (they're great). By the time that our class got around to the poster session to present final projects, it seemed like several students had produced work that could lead to a publication. But, aside from all that, what's the real reason to prefer this to other stats classes (which of course you should still take)? Machine learning is the wild west of statistics right now, and freeing your mind from worries of confidence intervals, asymptotics, and Bayes risk may give you a lot of room to realize that there is a lot of statistical structure out there, and it's going to require bigger, less linear, and more latent models to discover and interpret.
I loved CS 281! It is a thorough treatment of machine learning with a strong probabilistic/Bayesian flavor. Insightful problem sets. Note that the course focuses heavily on directed graphical models. We never spent any time talking about other popular methods such as neural networks. The last portion about Bayesian nonparametrics felt quite rushed.
This course was incredibly challenging, and 100% worth it.
Work very hard
The course is great! Just dedicate the time and make sure that you have a good background in statistics! That's mostly what the course covers -- it will also help alot if you have previous programming experience (mostly in dealing with large data sets!).
really interesting material. make sure to understand that grading will not be done in time - you won't get feedback on your proposals/updates before the next part of the project is due. Also know that some assignments will be graded really harshly (like the project proposal), but others will be graded really leniently, such as each of the homeworks. As a result, the grade breakdown isn't really representative of how much each assignment will contribute to your final grade.
Be prepared to spend a lot more time than you would expect on this course, but you will learn a lot. However, this course is not about learning the latest and greatest methods in machine learning; it's about learning everything else that precedes it.
If you put in the work this class will be very rewarding.  Be sure to at least skim the optional readings - they can often be more informative and at the least will give you some valuable perspective on what you are learning.
This course covers an excellent range of Machine Learning concepts. Many of the code implementations are very difficult and require time consuming debugging. Overall, though, the course is excellent and provides an excellent set of tools for applying machine learning concepts to other research or work.
This course is great if you've already seen a bit of machine learning and have academic interest in it. For those with interest in just applying the methods, there is a lot of academic stuff that the applied student probably will not care about.
I learned a great deal from this course -- particularly from the homeworks and from studying for the midterm. But people looking for nonparametric machine learning will be disappointed.
The biweekly assignments are tough, so get started early and seek out the help of the TFs and your peers. Adams makes the course difficult but it's worth it if you want to get a deeper understanding of ML beyond CS 181!
This course will stretch you in a good way. Either be good and maths + programming or be good at programming + ML. The more mathematics you know, the better, but you can survive with a lower level than you'd think as long as you have helpful friends and work hard.
For the undergrads taking the course, there are some good comments at http://qr.ae/GVBpM.
This class is extremely difficult, and the workload is extremely demanding. It should probably not be one's first experience with Bayesian statistics. Class tended to be very theoretical, while assignments were much more applied. Prof. Adams is excellent and the course material was highly relevant and worthwhile.
If you are wholeheartedly willing to put in the time, it will definitely be one of the most rewarding courses you will take.
This course will teach you how to rigorously handle uncertainty and stochasticity in data.
Please do the reading for the class, as it really gives you the necessary background to understand lecture. The problem sets are awesome!
Fun, lots of interesting Bayesian methods, long and boring homework
This course is a challenging but highly effective way to quickly introduce yourself to a variety of Machine Learning techniques from the consistent perspective of describing uncertainty with Bayesian probability theory.
Free up your schedule accordingly. You need lots of time to do the homework assignments and the readings/videos. Also, the textbook by Murphy has many errors and only adds to the confusion.
Take this course. It is probably one of the difficult courses, but I learnt so much from the class and homework. Machine Learning is useful in many of my other courses too, so the hard work pays off. The course is not easy, you are expected to put in a lot of efforts. If you didn't know Bayesian statistics, you should learn some basics before the course starts.
It's very difficult, but doable, if you have a typical CS background (not much exposure to stats).
Anyone interested in machine learning would benefit from this course. It is a thorough exposure to techniques that have been recently formulated, and the project component gives you the ability to carry out research level work.
You'll work a lot, but it's a great class.You should be comfortable with linear algebra and you MUST be able to code well and have a good handle on probabilities basics.
it takes a lot of time to finish the assignments
section was terrible, material was interesting, psets were a lot of figuring out stuff on your own barely talked about in class
CS281 is a great class, but it can become a nightmare if you make the wrong choice. I will try to help make the choice with my experience. In the rest of this "review" I will assume that you are new to machine learning: if you're not, and you want to learn more, CS281 is for you. Go ahead and take it, it will be worth it. Just prepare to work hard and make sure to brush up on bayesian probability since prof. Adams is *very* bayesian.Let's start with the prerequisites. Ideally you should (in order of importance):1. Have a very good knowledge of  probability, especially of bayesian probability.2. Be familiar with advanced linear algebra (norms, gradients...).3. Remember how to do math by hand (don't laugh: I took calculus about 100 years ago).5. Have some experience with Matlab.If you don't fit this profile perfectly (as I, and many other people in the class, didn't) it doesn't mean that you shouldn't take the class, but it will be harder. Much harder. Especially if you lack 1 and 2.Alright, prerequisites aside, how is the class? The lectures (2 per week) are great. Prof. Adams is a very good lecturer, he engages the students and manages to always give the intuition behind the technique he is explaining. The math can get hard to follow sometimes, especially if you are not too well versed in probability and/or linear algebra, but it never gets out of control. There is also a weekly section, basically another lecture by the TAs, which are all very good (Dougal is awesome).If you've come this far, you've probably guessed where the problem lies with this class... The assignments are HARD. Which is not a problem in itself: it is good to face challenging problems, especially in an advanced class like this one. The thing is, the gap between what you're given in class (an intuition of the techniques, and some of the math behind them) and and what you're required to do (solve several problems in Matlab, often by using specific and advanced techniques that require both code and manual work on the math) is huge. If you add on top of this that the reference textbook is very poor (Murphy's: avoid it and use Bishop's  when you can), the lectures go at a breakneck pace (over 300 pages covered in the first three weeks, and that's not including the optional materials), you can see why this class will require a lot of your time, and it can become unmanageable if you also have to get yourself up to speed on the prerequisites.So is it worth it? If you are comfortable with the prerequisites I listed and your other classes for the semester are not too demanding, go for it. If you're not, but you are still interested in machine learning, you might want to consider this class' little brother, CS181. Just one final piece of advice: work in group on the assignments. You will learn much more, and you won't have to spend every other Friday night alone (yes, that's when the deadlines are).
Make sure you can dedicate a significant amount of time to this course's work and readings. I found that difficult with a full-time job.
Machine learning has changed my view of looking at everyday problems. It is used very widely in any quantitative field of science and social science; one would not regret having taken this very applicable course.
This is a class that covers a lot of material and requires a good amount of work.
Go to all the lectures.  Start on the assignments early because you'll invariably get stuck on a programming bug that will take you a disproportionate amount of time to fix.
If you want your mind blown about machine learning, this is the course to take. Bring all your brain tools with you and leave your grade-worrying at the door, and you'll have a ridiculously fun time discovering why those ML researchers are always so jolly. You'll leave the class wondering why you hadn't discovered the fantastic world of machine learning sooner.
The homeworks are fun and the topics are interesting. The lectures are somewhat biased but highly informative.
Great overview of the Bayesian approach to machine learning. Starts with basics and goes all the way up to the cutting edge. Lectures are clear and well-organized and problem sets are fun and practical.
I really learned a lot in this class.  The lecture is more about abstraction and high level description, which explains the ideas behind algorithms.  Then, the assignment asks you to work out the details.  I think the class is very well-balanced.
Course focuses almost exclusively on probabilistic/Bayesian techniques
The coding part can take up a fair amount of time.
machine learning is fascinating, and ryan adams helps give you a great survey of what's being done
This is a really fantastic course. The material is engaging and widely applicable and the professor is a leader in the field and so is very enthusiastic about the material. The course is not particularly demanding, so you will get out of it what you put in, but if you are excited about cutting edge techniques in machine learning, this is the course to take.
The material is very useful and the professor is very good.
This is a great course, but make sure you have a good background in probability and Bayesian statistics before taking this course.
Great class, providing an hands-on approach to advanced machine learning and applied statistical analysis techniques.  Excellent professor, effective teaching style to illustrate difficult concepts.
