Very interesting course exploring where AI research has been and where it is headed. The final project component is also great. Professor Grosz is a great professor and Adam is an excellent TF -- highly recommend.
Excellent course! If you're into artificial intelligence or are just interested in group dynamics and team organization, this course is a must-take. I learned so much about good agent design and the considerations that go into creating multi-agent AI systems, it was a fantastic course!
This class is interesting and relatively low-pressure. You will learn a lot about existing work in the field of multi-agent systems and about some of the characteristics of good design for these systems. Professor Grosz is terrific and you should take this class if only because she's teaching it.
One of the best classes I've taken here. Extremely interesting material and the class discussions were always engaging
Great course; papers at the beginning of the course can sometimes seem really abstract but are important to understanding the theory behind later readings.
This course served as an excellent follow-up to CS182! Professor Grosz's enthusiasm for the material was contagious, and my peers in the course made for interesting discussions.
Great class that covers the research in the open mixed networks/multiagent systems AI space. Steady amount of work (read papers before every class) but interesting papers, good environment for discussion. Professor Grosz and Ofra are very supportive and accessible/flexible.
This is a great seminar. I have taken many Harvard courses in which I have felt that after I had completed the readings, I gained nothing by going to class. This is not one of them -- Professor Grosz in particular imparts a great intuition for how to design research such that it has the most impact on a discipline.
Honestly one of the coolest classes I've taken here. Fascinating material. Class really depends on the people in it, and thankfully I had some of the brightest classmates I've ever met.
Barbara isn't teaching this class any more so it'll be different the next time around. Make sure you read the syllabus and like the topics covered or you won't like reading the papers.
Barbara says this is her last year teaching this class, which is sad.  This has easily been one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  The discussions were very lively, and we all learned how to read papers at a deep level.  Barbara and Pete are great.  Barbara's had a long and illustrious career in AI, and it was really great getting the chance to be in a small discussion class with her.  I'm very glad I got the chance to take this course.
SUCH AN AMAZING CLASS!!! A very archetypal 200-level CS seminar with readings and a research project.
Great class to take as an undergraduate if given the opportunity. CS is a very technical field but has a lot of non-technical aspects that are not given much importance in most undergraduate courses. Reading papers and discussing their high-level aspects is crucial to understanding trends in CS and being able to keep up with the extremely fast-moving field.
Barbara Grosz does this class really well, so I wonder what will happen to it. The readings can take quite a bit of time if you do it properly, and you have to put real effort into the precis, but it's worth it.
This is a must. It is such an honour to learn from Barbara and to have the in-class discussions about the new and exciting horizons of AI.
CS280R was absolutely incredible. Highly recommend. In this class, we discussed fascinating topics: from the origins of intent, to adhoc agents in soccer games, to crowdsourcing platforms for taxonomy. The professor and TF are experts and very engaging.
This class is a really amazing class where you learn a lot about a diverse selection of topics in AI.
