This was a great course. Prof Grosz is a great person, and a solid lecturer. I think this course really highlights what she is best at teaching (as opposed to CS 182, which I heard got sub par reviews last year when she taught it), as she is able to talk about ethics and have a higher-level discussion of the topics.Assignments are pretty straightforward, and the final project can be as interesting as you want it to be. This course brings up lots of topics that I think CS students should know, in terms of making sure we have the right mindset when building intelligent systems.
This class was awesome! The assignments are very manageable and Professor Grosz was great at facilitating discussions in class. All of the material was interesting and relevant to AI, and we talked about a wide range of topics including movies like Blade Runner and Ex Machina. Definitely a great, low intensity class for a CS secondary or an elective
Good introduction to the topic with fair grading and goof feedback. The course has a well-designed syllabus and will succeed in having you engage critically with a lot of current developments in AI (autonomous weapons, claims of the Turing test being passed). Hopefully future iterations of the course will feature more well-organized lectures, as the boardwork lectures were quite difficult to process.
For a new class, this course was very good. Prof Grosz is amazing and extremely knowledgeable, and a lot of the topics we addressed were really interesting. Class discussions were usually pretty interesting. Some of the psets were a bit tedious and annoying, but overall the workload was extremely manageable. The final project was also really interesting and open-ended.
Really interesting intersection of ethics and CS -- not super organized, but this was the first year. Lectures were interesting and Grosz is an awesome professor
Take this class if you are either concentrating in computer science or trying to get a secondary. Even if you don't fall into those two categories you will not regret taking this class. It is not difficult and extremely interesting. The assignments take a few hours maximum (and there are only 6), and the final paper is not bad at all. Those make up the majority of your grade, and the material is extremely interesting, so there is really no reason not to take this. The topics we cover are both relevant to real world problems, and conceptually pretty cool to think about. Highly, highly recommend this class.
Definitely the best class I've taken at Harvard. Fascinating subject material, real-world issues and examples. It will change your perspective on the future of technological development. The small almost-seminar style classroom leads to extremely engaging discussions. The assignments are manageable and not very difficult. You should absolutely do the readings in order to participate in class discussions, but they are typically not very long and always extremely interesting. Barbara and the teaching staff are great. Lottery for this class and take it!
CS108 is a diamond in the rough. This is an absolutely brilliant course with a few rough patches that will inevitably be smoothed out in subsequent offerings. Prof. Grosz is a force of nature who knows how to stir up engaging and complex debates. CS108 strikes a good balance between the ethical and technical sides of AI. You'll explore different normative frameworks like utilitarianism and deontology, and then dive into the algorithms that actually implement AI decision-making. Some of the assignments that involved running extensive software simulations were somewhat tedious. However, the though-provoking readings, great class discussions, guest lectures, and a fantastic final project make this class extremely worthwhile.
this was one of the best classes I've taken at harvard. was the first opportunity to take a very humanities based approach to a very technical subject, which helped me develop a wider perspective on the subject of AI and generated a lot of enthusiasm for the material. in general was an incredibly interesting class but was never a burden with work since assignments were manageable and the teaching staff was always very willing to help. also the teaching staff is simply unbeatable-- make sure you get to know barbara, she is one of the most thoughtful and passionate teachers I have worked with, and is worth getting to know especially in this small classroom. IF YOU GET INTO THIS CLASS, YOU MUST MUST MUST TAKE
You should absolutely take this class! It was one of my most favorite classes at Harvard. The readings are interesting and not too long and the psets are unusual and very cool! Barbara is such an incredible professor! If you have the opportunity to be in this class you should 100% take it, you will not regret it!
This class covers pretty interesting material. The organization is not always the best, and some of the readings and assignments don't seem all that related to the course, but none of it is that hard. Lectures are generally pretty enjoyable.
This is an awesome course, you should definitely take it!
This class is great at showing students how artificial intelligence has been developed in the past and how it will shape our future in many areas of life. Minimal coding knowledge is necessary, which is great for allowing people from different concentrations to take the class and learn a lot from it.
Professor Grosz is extremely enthusiastic about the course material, is a great teacher and is just a great person to know.  She is great at running discussions, and isn't shy about (respectfully) saying when she disagrees with you.  She obviously put a lot of work into making this course happen, and I would say it was a resounding success.  Take it!
The class engages a wide, interdisciplinary variety of topics related to AI, but (partially because it was the first time it was offered) often they feel as if they are not explored enough in depth or tied back to practical applications. Since most of the classes are discussions based around readings, you come out of them with questions but little sense of how to reach an answer or what tentative answers are right now. I wish we had explored a few examples of AI development in depth rather than simply generating questions.
Very cool, interesting, and easy class. Professor Grosz is cool and fun  and loves the material she's teaching. Sometimes technical discussions can be a bit of a drag and they don't come through very well, but in all honestly the technical discussion is not that important in the large scheme of the class. The class is more about general AI design decisions and ethical implications. Overall I strongly recommend especially if you're trying to find an easier way to fulfill your CS degree.
This course did a fantastic job of fusing the technical basics and ethical underpinnings of artificial intelligence. Prof. Grosz is one of the EXPERTS in this field, and this combined with her humility and kind nature fosters a great classroom environment. Sometimes assignments could be a bit tedious (even if there wasn't any coding), but this will probably work itself out in future iterations of the course. Grosz does a good job incorporating both technical and ethical information into each course, but sometimes it is difficult to fully grasp either one since the time is split, but this is just a natural result of how the course works. Really great class that deals with issues that are relevant and pressing. You'll have plenty of talking points for the dining hall or dinner parties. Also will make you think about the world differently. Having a strong, small, multidisciplinary class is also really nice, and a breath of fresh air from many other Harvard courses.
