H.T. has got some great anecdotes to tell.
take this class just to hear HT speak from his experience
If you can bear with painfully slow lectures and a simplistic textbook, you might gain some insight into computer networks, but you'd probably just be better off taking a different CS elective and investigating the material on your own.
Interesting enough, but not a terribly engaging course and not much feedback.
You get out what you put into this course. If you are looking to cultivate interest and experience in computer networks, it is a good way to do that. If you are instead looking for an upper level computer science course that won't consume your life, it's good for that, too.
Very relevant topics with interesting assignments and chance to work on interesting final project.
A stress-free yet informative and interesting overview of computer networks. Useful if you are interested in networking and want to learn more about what research topics are available in the field.
Great programming assignments if you want to get some experience with socket and network programming.
Don't put off the assignments; start nice and early, though the late days are generous.  Be prepared for your final project to be harder than you thought to actually implement.  Keep up with the reading even though there's really no quizzes or anything.
The quiz format/schedule was very annoying.  Did not get much out of lectures.  Overall, the class kind of felt like a mess.
One of the worst courses I have taken at Harvard. The class is very poorly organized. Don't take it, unless new prof. teaches it. Cool material though.
Computer networks are a very essential part of CS. Since there is currently no other good substitute for this class that teaches networks and distributed systems, this is a must take. The course could be more organized, but you pretty much get what you put into it.
I took this course because I wanted to fill a void in my knowledge regarding networks. While I did learn some from the course, I gained all that knowledge from textbook readings that I could have done on my own. I found it really hard to learn anything during lectures. HT Kung is brilliant but it is sometimes hard to understand what he is saying or how he is explaining concepts. That being said, the course is not very demanding. And it will give you motivation to read a textbook about networks. Also, some of the more modern things we talked about (e.g. vehicular networks) were pretty cool towards the end of the semester.
I would say if you're interested in the material, try to learn it yourself. This course is poorly structured and you'll end up learning very little of the material. Everything you learn is despite of how it's organized, not because of how it's organized. They through a ton of readings at you and you have to complete quizzes for every class (and you're given a very short amount of time to complete them). There's only one programming assignment in a semester and there's almost no assistance for doing it. It doesn't feel like a CS class at all, but like a poorly organized ged ed.
This class was a mess. Dr. Kung's lectures were always well attended, but by students who were just on their phones or laptops all the time. The readings for this class were completely unnecessary. You can just google the midnight quiz questions. I didn't think it was possible, but this is a CS class that you can just basically BS your way through without having learned anything along the way (besides some networking buzzwords). In retrospect, this class is pretty easy (especially in terms of grading), but, if you actually want to know about networks, just cross-register at MIT instead.
Not very structured, but some interesting material
Lectures can be bad and they assign an overwhelming amount of readings sometimes, but the material is very good to know -- it fills a very big gap in most students' CS knowledge
Great lectures and really interesting materials. Assignments and final project are a tad disorganized
Material is extremely interesting and grounded in current events. However, the lack of organisation is astonishing. It's impossible to plan ahead and a lot of things are made up on the fly, but definitely learned a ton and would recommend the class.
If you are looking for a course with little work during the semester, then this class will probably be annoying but bearable. If your primary motive is something else (like learning about networking) you will likely be disappointed.
This class is good for people who learn better by doing stuff (as opposed to by reading or listening to lectures), since even for the reading you have to complete a short quiz which helps you get a better idea of how to think about the material, and there are significant programming projects. I think it's a vast improvement on traditional computer networks courses since we weren't just reading 30-year-old RFCs for weeks on end, we were learning about relevant technologies today that we'll be working with when we enter the job force. The main drawback is that the teaching staff were pretty disorganized and it seemed like assignments were always getting thrown together right before we got them. This was the first offering of the revamped course though, so in future years it may be less of a logistical mess.
Hopefully, they will make this class better/organized in the future. Granted it was in its first stage of redevelopment, but it still felt too disorganized for a class. I loved that we got to interact with Dr. Kung and the teaching fellows who were amazing, responsive, accessible, and helpful. The class itself needs so much work especially in terms of material and assignments. I think more of programming assignments like the one given (there is only one), but shorter and more organized would be better than the quizzes (which need to be clearer and have a uniform answer key so we can study for quizzes). I felt like there was a lot expected out of us for the final project even though the fundamentals were not taught well at all. I understand the goal of this course, but it was honestly too ambitious and disorganized. I would not recommend taking the class until these issues are fully addressed.
The topics we go over in this class are actually quite relevant and interesting. Dr. Kung is a brilliant computer scientist and he knows so much about computer networks. However, the class itself was extremely unorganized. You could tell it was because the TFs took over 3 weeks to hand back quizzes, some were never returned, project instructions were given the week before, etc. You have to really read your textbook and the assigned papers if you want to learn anything (and believe me this stuff IS ACTUALLY RELEVANT despite what the class makes it seem like) or pass the quizzes / midterm. Make sure your final project is understandable and that you are making some real world application. My advice: instead of doing something that sounds complicated and involving gazillions of algorithms and protocols, do something simple that a normal, non-CS person would understand and use. (Think about how you'd apply network technologies in everyday life). Dr. Kung seems to like projects that serve a tangible purpose in the real world. Other than that, nothing was hard.
Study day by day.
This class gave an interesting introduction to the field of computer networks. Do not expect to learn (much) implementation-level networking stuff though; you should view this class as research into what modern networks are like, and what opportunities/challenges exist in this realm. You will also have the opportunity to dive into one aspect of networks in a group final project of your own design. Overall I would say this is a unique type of CS course at Harvard that isn't for everyone, but could be, provided you go into the course with realistic expectations.
It's a pretty boring course, you could just watch the videos that we have to watch and learn most important things. Not too much guidance is given during the final projects but you have to do 3 presentations? Overall, the work you put in is not worth what you get out.
Really interesting course. The format takes some getting used to though: don't expect much by way of course structure. Make sure to do the bi-weekly quizzes, it's a great way to get the material to stick.
Kung is the man and the TFs were relatively accessible and helpful, but unfortunately the course, which was undergoing a ton of updates and changes to be fair, simply lacked focus and tried to teach way too much.  If they can narrow the scope of the class and have it organized better, I'd recommend it since some of the papers you read are very interesting and it definitely has some real value. Unfortunately, the course does have issues and is not a painless CS course.
This class is a great introduction to networks, but Kung doesn't really speak English so he can't articulate much. He is great and seems to care about network but the language barrier is almost unbearable.
This class has a ton of busy work when you aren't doing the programming assignment or project.
Pretty easy and painless but didn't get that much out of it that I couldn't have learned from skimming a networks book. Class is better than it used to be but still a work in progress and not very engaging. HT is a real famous guy and nice though.
You should be someone who knows about current trends and news in computer technology.
I didn't put that much work into this course and got a decent grade, so it is easy, but it was pretty disorganized this year and the expectations for students were often unclear. I did learn from the course, especially from the papers we read and presented. The midterm is take-home and the final was a project, so the lack of exams was pretty nice. Overall, I'd take this course if you have a busy schedule and would like a relatively easy course to satisfy a CS requirement.
Although lectures were dry at times, the class was excellent. The readings are cutting edge. The final project is a great way to implement what you learn about. There could be better structure and things could be explained more clearly up front. Hopefully this will change in the future since Professor Kung piloted a new class style with us.
Professor Kung has a lot of great anecdotes and perspectives into the state of industry and research into computer networking. You'll pick up a lot of random knowledge, and get some decent practice with tcp/ip. However, the course is pretty disorganized, and more of a random seminar class than a structured overview of networks. This year we spent the majority of the class reading papers ranging from Twitter data-mining to Crypto to Network Filesystems to OS virtualization.
This class is, above all, very poorly taught. Lectures are rambling and nearly impossible to follow. They try to remedy this by going through all the content 3-4 times (you are shown literally the exact same powerpoint slides for at least three classes before moving to new content), though you are still left with not the faintest clue what is going on. I resorted to Googling words on the slides that looked important and reading the corresponding Wikipedia articles, which I found to be a far more productive use of class time. Apparently "restructuring" this class means "making it up as we go along," as projects and assignments were pulled out of nowhere with formal requirements being hastily thrown together (the final "guidelines" for the final paper were released three days before it was due). I highly recommend reading Wikipedia articles on network technologies and learning network programming on your own time as an alternative to this class. You'll find it to be much more rewarding.
This class is excellent!  You will learn a large amount of very important and interesting material.
This class was amazing. Professor Kung is legitimately hilarious, and I learned a good amount about networks. Shop the class before you enroll though, since Prof. Kung's teaching style might not be for you.
The class approaches anything associated with networking from a high level. Kung knows its more important. The class was kinda cool in that we read whatever paper Kung thought were interesting. Actually learning low-level networking? Forget it. The class does not teach you, and Kung thinks it's unimportant in this day and age. Midterm was absolutely dreadful, but the open final project was sweet.
Don't take it.  You could go to every third lecture and hear all the material (we repeated things ... a lot).  So we didn't get through very much.  Teaching staff is very disorganized.
The class did not require a lot of work week to week however the final and midterm took over 30 hours to complete. You have to learn the open flow api in python  to complete. The grading was highly subjective and scores were posted almost a month after the assignment. I did not learn much about networks
Do not take this. I wish I had listened to the responses from previous years. This course has no structure, no guidance on important assignments, and the lectures are both mandatory and incredibly boring.
MAke sure you go to class
The course material was cool but assignments were difficult without background.  However, the Professor was very involved in the class and accessibly, which is a pretty awesome experience.
Read the wikipedia page for the network protocol, and TCP/IP. You will probably learn everything the class has to offer.HT is a wonderful person, but unfortunately, not a great lecturer. The TFs are pretty cocky, and seemed pretty unclear on the assignments themselves. The final project is tedious, and has you working on things that you could not care less for. The midterm's questions are weird; it's a poorly designed test.In short, don't bother taking this class.
Only two problem sets but they are long as hell.  If thats the same schedule, be prepared to spend those weeks working your ass off.  Hopefully they change the structure.
Relatively painless. Learn network basics. HT is the best.
Be prepared to spend more time than advertised on the first assignment - it was very time consuming due to the lack of direction provided.
A great intro to networking.  Gives you the knowledge you need to go forward in the field.
Take this class if you really want to learn networks and are an independent programmer. If you really rely on a lot of help from a support staff (classes like cs50 and cs61), then you should not take this class.
Do not, under any circumstances, take this class. This class singlehandedly ruined my conception of the Harvard CS Department. With 100% confidence I can say this was the worst class I have ever taken in my life, and here are the reasons. You use the book for the first few weeks, and then realize that you pissed that money away. The teaching staff is the least competent of any; they do not deserve to teach at such a prestigious university. The assignments are incredibly arbitrary and time-consuming, the grading is unnecessarily harsh (class averages for everything were around 50%), and the lectures are so boring and ineffective that you may as well not come to class. You won't understand half the words Professor Kung says. It took the TFs 2 months to grade an assignment that took 60-80 hours to complete over 2 weeks--and then they actually spent the last class explaining to us how to do it. This begs the question: shouldn't you learn the material, and then do an assignment to showcase your new abilities? They also emailed us the arbitrary reading assignments a day before they were due, and scheduled final project meetings the night before class (around midnight) and never took into consideration whether we had class during those times. Look at the old course website and tell me that it doesn't look like a 4-year-old experimented with HTML. Well, surprisingly, that's the only organization the course has to offer, which is painfully sad. The teaching staff is nice, but they are so bad at running a class that it's irrelevant to the nonsense you have to go through. It is incredibly time consuming and depressing as well. There are no real guidelines to any of the assignments (including the final project and writeup), which makes me wonder how Harvard actually allowed this to become a class. At the end of the day, you will learn nothing other than how frustration and poor mental health really feel, and that's my guarantee to you. The sheer unfairness of this class will make you go insane (I did for most of October). To sum it up, I'd like to say that if you want to end up paying immensely for the total lack of competence of others (and believe me, you really will), you're welcome to take this class. But do your sanity and GPA a favor--do not take CS 143 with HT Kung. I hope for Harvard's sake that these people never teach again. They're a disgrace.
It's a great class a teaches a huge amount. Don't underestimate the amount of time you'll need for the programming assignments, though.
It will teach you the most useful and interesting aspects of modern computer science
The two problem sets are full of ambiguities, and HT will make you do a final project he likes. The first 7 weeks of the class had no work, but it picked up.
The course is not very well organized; first assignment is very large, so don't start late, though late days are generous. The lectures are enjoyable, though sometimes not very connected to the assignments. The book is good and you should read it. Some assignment/exam questions are very confusing. Feedback on assignments is minimal and late. You can learn a lot from the class, though.
Watch out for socket programming. Expect to spend no time on this course for most of the term, but 50+ hours during the week when you have socket related assignments.
