This class is one of the hardest I've taken at Harvard - the material is interesting, but make sure you have the time to dedicate to the class to learn properly.
If you are interested in cool algorithm in big data, take this class! Jelani is really knowledgeable and knows his area super well. You will learn a lot of different areas in big data. However, Jelani has an obsession with JL lemma and will spend 50% of class time on JL. It is really cool but also demands you to know a ton of weird probability inequality. I feel like by the end of the semester, the probability inequality I know is way more than what graduate students in statistics will know lol Most importantly, you will have a chance to do a final project related to big data. Some of our classmates even solved some open problems. I did an implementation projects and had lots of fun while implementing it.
This class is undeniably difficult, mostly because Jelani lectures at the speed of light. It requires your attention almost throughout lecture, and this is a good thing. I burnt 4 or 5 hours of energy in every class but it felt amazing.The only question is whether the material is useful or interesting enough at the end of the day to be worth all the time. It's not quite clear but I learned a lot of methods early on that are likely useful.
The course material is very hard.  There is a lot of course material.  The work is manageable.  The topics are extraordinarily interesting, and many results are taken from papers published only a few years ago.
Excellent course. Well worth taking if Jelani Nelson is teaching.
Be prepared to do a lot of work. The psets are generally easy to write up, once you solve it; solving it may take hours of staring at a blank piece of paper. However, the tools and techniques covered are very cutting-edge, and I have already found applications of them in my research.
A lot of topics are gone over, but often incredibly quickly. The amount you get out of this class will hugely depend on how much time u spend on it outside of class.
I learned a lot about state-of-the-art in big data algorithms, picking up useful analytical tools (in linear algebra, probability, complexity analysis) on the way.
Cool class! But..pretty hard, lots of work.
Jelani knows his stuff. Great class. Lecture can be difficult to follow, but one can learn by supplementing the lecture by reading the papers presented during the lecture privately as well.
If you're interested in sketching, streaming, or numerical linear algebra, I don't think you're going to get a better introduction than this course. The material is not easy though, so definitely plan on putting time into the problem sets and final projects.
The material is recent, interesting, and well-motivated. And there's cool math. Jelani is super cool, and very approachable and helpful.
Jelani's a good lecturer, and the material in the course is generally quite interesting. However, I would not recommend it to students interested in more algorithms similar to the ones in (for example) CS124 - the algorithms in this course are mostly probabilistic, and working with them does not "feel" similar to working with typical algorithms (there are some exceptions to this though).
Cs229r changes every year. In general, take this course if you're1) excited about the topic; and2) have the mathematical maturity required (which can also vary)As for algorithms for big data, there are many parts to this course, and each has a different flavor to it. My advice would be to check out the other topics (especially dimensionality reduction, which was a major part of this year's big data algorithms 229r) in addition to going to shopping week.
Students make the course. If you have a good group, you will enjoy it. Low work, low stress, interesting topics.
You have to teach yourself in this class.
Professor Valiant is wonderful, though be forewarned of the course's format: many of the lectures are student-led, and their quality and clarity will depend upon the quality of students in the course.
229r is one of those truly inspiring courses that you rarely find in college. Professor Valiant creates a collaborative, seminar-like environment in which we discuss research topics such as evolvability, computational neuroscience, network stability, and self-assembly. I've learned tremendously from this course. Students present some of the topics in the papers and are given very helpful feedback the after lectures. The final project is another strength of the course - you may choose your own topic as long as it's related to the course and you may find a topic to pursue in your thesis. I recommend with enthusiasm the course and I would very much enjoy taking another research course with Professor Valiant in the future.
The class is an easy way of satisfying your concentration requirement, but not terribly much else.
Salil and Jon were both great instructors.  Their lectures were really clear and they clearly cared about the students a lot and made our lives focused on learning.  This course was cool in that it started from the beginning but got us to a point that we felt like we could do research in differential privacy.
The topics class in theoretical CS (even though it's mostly theoretical math, but well, that's better for me since I'm a math person) is a wonderful opportunity to do some exciting problems/readings/research, and can easily turn into the beginnings of a thesis/research paper (if you're an undergraduate). If you have strong preparation in math, don't worry about the required background too much; even if you're not sure if the year's topic suits your interests, give it a try for a couple of weeks!
Material is tough and readings very dense. Salil explains  stuff well in class, but its just really tough if you arent extremely into math/theoretical cs. Material is cutting edge but not that applicably interesting imo
Differential privacy is an interesting topic in theoretical computer science with plenty of connections to other areas. I very much enjoyed the course. It wasn't too difficult or time consuming, although the final project was harder than I expected. Make sure you are comfortable with proofs and probability theory if you are taking this course.
As a graduating senior, this is by far the hardest class I've ever taken. That being said, I learned an incredible amount in a short period of time, and I feel like I have a much firmer grasp on CS theory in general.
I would take this class if you enjoy theoretical proofs.
This class is an excellent introduction to a cutting-edge research field.  Without assuming any prior knowledge of differential privacy, the course ends up reading papers on the subject that were published in the last couple of years.  It's also a great chance to try pursuing a small research project.  This is a rotating topics course, so it may vary a bit from year to year.  Any course taught by Salil is well worth taking and should be both challenging and highly rewarding.
As in many 200-level CS courses, you read papers and produce an original final research project. These courses are great training in research for interested undergrads. Unlike some of the other courses, this one does not spend time discussing "how to read research papers" or "how to produce research". For that reason, it might be suitable for a more experience/more mature undergrad. Differential privacy is a great research area for young people because it recruits insights from many fields of CS and has many accessible open problems. This is a great course to expand your general skillset.
The readings chosen by Professor Valiant were excellent, and the final project was very enjoyable. That said, the lectures after the first week of evolvability and the first week of cognition are entirely student-led, so the quality of the lectures can range from wonderful to tragic.
The topic is fascinating and if you get into your project, it can be a lot of fun. The quality of the lectures depends on the level of students enrolled in the class. It's a lot of weekly work because of the article summaries.
This class, though not ideally run assignment-wise, introduces you to some of the most interesting, cutting-edge material in the field of CS and biology research and puts you in an environment of brilliant people who teach you more than you learn from the work.
Really interesting material. Not much weekly work until the final project, and the class presentations were always great.
This is a class that's ultimately good, but requires such a huge amount of cross-disciplinary understanding to fully grasp. I recommend this class only to those with either the time and interest in the subject matter to tough through it, or those who have already achieved some level of mastery of both neuroscience and theoretical computer science independently and are now trying to tackle the intersection.
It's an easy class that covers some interesting topics (and some less so). Material is somewhat scattered. I'd recommend having a project topic in mind from the beginning, because the papers we covered were not that inspiring.
You'll read a lot of interesting papers in this class.  Most of the work is reading journal articles, and the course provides a wide selection of great ones.
Take this if you actually want to read the papers, and do the project. Don't take it it you just want a satisfy a requirement.
It was pretty good, but the quality of the course varied a lot depending on how good the student lecturers were. This semester, Professor Valiant didn't really lecture much, and instead the students gave lectures and he asked questions along the way. This meant that there were lots of variability in how interesting the lectures were.
Madhu is an excellent lecturer and does a great job presenting the structure of coding theory throughout the semester. This course was a great introduction to a field I wasn't very familiar with before.
Madhu taught this semester on coding theory (error correcting codes). He is really a fantastic lecturer - we covered a lot of interesting topics and focused mainly on the intuition behind ideas, which I appreciated. Plus, the class is not too much work. I highly recommend it!
I took this course when the topic was information theory. The material is interesting, and the class seemed well-executed.
Madhu is one of the chillest, nicest professors you'll ever meet, and he gives extremely clear and focused lectures. On top of that, information theory has proven unreasonably effective in modern TCS research, so if he teaches this course again, definitely take it.
Information theory is really interesting and important. I think this class would have been better if more time had been spent early on learning the foundations. We had about two lectures on the basic definitions and then we dove right into students presenting many of the lectures on recent and advanced material. This style leads to a class without much cohesion and some of the lectures were much clearer than others just depending on the presenter. Professor Sudan was always there to help the presenter and answer questions. He is super nice and approachable. I would have preferred to have him give a larger percentage of the lectures.
229 is a really good way to get exposure to an area without having to go into the details of every proof. Madhu teaches a very low-key, low time commitment, high learning-to-BS ratio version of the class. The content is interesting but at times a bit unapproachable. I'd recommend a fairly advanced background in math, CS theory, and stats if you intend to get  a lot out of it.
Make sure you have a genuine interest in the topic. In this year's incarnation, I felt that you had to have a research area you were interested in applying the topic to, so it wasn't a good setting to just learn about information theory and do some problems with it.
Since the topic and the instructor changes every semester, it might be pointless to talk about this class, but it was mostly MIT graduate students and the material was very dry and not very interesting. I wish we'd looked at more foundational information theory.
