CS262 is a great class to take! Professor Waldo is very engaging and the material itself is quite interesting as well. As mostly a paper class, you will read 2-3 papers every week of varying lengths, so if you do take it, be prepared to get a taste of computer science papers. I thought some of them were difficult to digest because of notation, but each of them have their own importance. Only after these papers, do you realize how important distributed systems are in the world of computers today. There are also a few coding assignments and a final project, which were pretty fun and interesting.
Waldo is awesome!!!! You will get out what you put in, and if that's not a lot of work you can still do well. Waldo is super chill and a great person to get to know.
This course is a lot of fun. There is not much graded work, so make sure to put the effort in for the few assignments. Waldo is a fun and engaging lecturer. This year, final projects were a bit odd (via a "pitch and recruit" process, but it turned out fine for us in the end.
The class is very engaging, and the topics are important to one's understanding of CS. However, you don't go very in depth. It is a great survey course though. I now feel more capable of designing systems in the future.
Read the papers, they are interesting. Listen to Waldo, he is amazing. And he is right.
Waldo is a very knowledgeable professor. He's done a lot of work in the professional world and has a lot of stories to tell. That said, sometimes, the work done in the class is a bit dry and boring. The projects are lackluster, though the paper readings are pretty good. Waldo tends towards telling about a lot of mistakes other programmers have made during his time in the professional world. However, he never discusses his own experiences, which I think is important and I hope he starts to do more of in the future. The final projects were mostly boring and simple, and I feel like there was potential to be had.
In every lecture Prof. Waldo confronted us with basic issues and concepts that must be mastered in order to competently design and implement distributed systems. His lectures go down easily and he effectively digests the often dense readings.  This is critically important material, from a gifted teacher.
Take it! Waldo is the man and you'll learn a lot about an area of computer science that you wouldn't pick up otherwise.
This is a CS class with Waldo. Why haven't you already added it to your study card? Jokes aside, this was an incredible overview of distributed programming techniques. Waldo is an incredible professor that uses a few seminal papers to teach very interesting topics. You'll learn amazing concepts and theories that are actually in use by AWS, Google, etc. As a word of advice, make sure your group functions well together. A lot of assignments are in groups and you don't want to be responsible for all of the project.
waldo is a boss, super cool material unveiling mysteries of servers and Google. You learn a lot about engineering, how to read papers so that you don't try and do the impossible and the class is generally just super fun and laid back. And then you can make a SICK final project.
In this course you will read a lot of foundational papers in the field. Most of them you will not fully understand. Waldo will impart his humor and wisdom on you in every lecture. This part of the class is great as Waldo is a true pleasure to listen to. On the other hand, the grading scheme in this class is very strange. There are very few grades and the grades you do get are mostly from your peers. While taking the class nobody has any idea what their grade is, so if this troubles you then you shouldn't take the class. If you care more about the content you learn and the discussions you have then this is a really interesting, entertaining class on distributed systems. Lastly, it is very theoretical and doesn't development a lot of distributed systems implementation skills.
You learn about distributed systems, but there really isn't anything gained over just reading the papers by yourself. The assignments were fairly trivial and don't really help you understand distributed systems better. Honestly, a course like 161 will teach you far more about the issues like concurrency and consistency than this course.
This course is what you make of it. Very little is required in this course, but if you do all the readings you will actually learn a lot.
This is an overview to distributed systems, and you read a couple of neat papers. There isn't much of an opportunity to see the ideas in practice, which leaves the course feeling somewhat unsatisfying. Lectures are entertaining.
Not a terribly interesting course as a whole, but there were several interesting sections. Be ready to ready papers that are at least 20 years old. This is nice because you get to see original work which was impactful. It's also boring because it feels distanced a lot of the time. I would have preferred if we could talk about some of the more cutting edge work in this area.
Jim Waldo is a great guy and if you take this class, it should be because of him and the students he draws (the class became a great community). It's a very easy workload, although perhaps overly so - I don't think I learned too much in this class.
It is useful and necessary to know something about distributed systems if you plan on doing much in CS, since everything seems to be becoming a distributed system now. The material is interesting and the lectures are great. The assignments are also cool and relevant, but since we weren't given much warning for when they would happen it was a little hard to plan around them.
Take this class. The experience of taking a class with Waldo is, on itself, worth it. It's an easy course, the papers are great, and you should talk to Waldo a lot!
Make sure you take a class with Waldo before graduation; an amazing professor.
The list of readings was phenomenal. The engineering tone set by Jim and the insights that accompanied it were fantastic. Class discussions were engaging though sometimes just reiterated the papers. The few assignments were all worth doing and had minimal junk mixed in. Feedback was also good. Delightful material!
Great class that will teach you a lot about both distributed systems and general engineering principles
This is a great class. There is some interesting material and the amount of work required is not as overwhelming as most CS classes.
I think this class is enjoyable for people with some experience and inherent interest in the subject matter. I don't think it is the "must take" class that many students paint it to be. The lack of syllabus was very frustrating. We had no idea when our next assignment would be or how big it would be. The feedback was also frustrating. You could spend many hours building a challenging system that you were proud of and then get slammed for poor documentation. This made the assignments less enjoyable.
This course was absolutely amazing. Of all the Harvard cs courses that I've taken, it was definitely the most applicable to software engineering and the real world. Professor Waldo is hilarious and brilliant and knows so much about distributed systems. I think he definitely accomplished his goal of teaching both the theory and practice of distributed systems.
Meh, the class is fine, not particularly time consuming, but also not very interesting. I do hope Prof. Waldo changes that in the future.
Whether or not you'll enjoy this class depends almost entirely on whether or not you enjoy Jim Waldo as a person. I promised myself that I'd never take another systems class after the last one I took, but the draw of taking a course from the former CTO of Harvard was too much for me in the end. I definitely enjoyed they way that lecture was packed with stories and asides and digressions that reflected Prof. Waldo's significant and storied history in the industry; other classmates were rubbed the wrong way by his at times ascerbic teaching manner and dry humor. Your mileage may vary, but I enjoyed 262 a lot!
It is not difficult, but is useful for students heading into industry. Professor Waldo is awesome.
Very systemic intro to distributed systems. Not too much work. The papers are very helpful.
This was a good introductory course to distributed system. Prof. Waldo is engaging and has some interesting stories to tell. The assessments can be somewhat unfocused and unclear, but the workload is not too high.
The class is relatively easy, but you get exactly what you put in (which can be nothing if you want). The papers you will read cover many important topics in distributed systems, but the assignments and lectures may disappoint.
This class isn't too much work and offers a great blend of theory and practice for anyone who is interested in distributed system's or just wants to hear Waldo's advice on software issues.
You have to take a class with Professor Waldo at some point at Harvard. But, unless serious changes ar made, I wouldn't advise you take this class. The course is very unstructured, and unless you really motivate yourself to put the time in, you won't come out having learned much.
This is *the* class at Harvard to learn how to design systems in the real world.  The material is also very engaging, and the readings are phenomenal.  Waldo is also quite excellent.Some advice: when doing the programming assignments, always go the extra mile.  When that nagging voice in your head says, "I guess I should do that, but I don't really want to... it'll be ok, right?" the answer is no, it will not be ok.  This class has a higher standard for code quality than any other CS class you've taken at Harvard; treat it as such.
This class has a lot of potential but it wasn't really reached this year.  The class was too big for a meaningful discussion to take place, and the assignments were kind of random and didn't really teach us about distributed systems, and were graded almost randomly.  That said, Waldo is a really friendly guy and a good communicator.
I was really excited to take 262 given both its subject matter and professor. Unfortunately, the class doesn't add much value over just reading the papers by yourself, as Professor Waldo's lectures are often unclear and take many entertaining but non-instructive tangents. In addition, he became angry with the class for insufficient quality reports, despite providing only a three word spec about them. I have taken several graduate course in the CS department at Harvard, and unfortunately, this one was by far the least instructive and yet most frustrating.
This course is a great way to hear about lots of interesting topics in distributed systems and engage with many of them.  The work load is not meant to be incredible, and much of the work you do aside from reading offers a high degree of freedom.  This is especially true of the final projects which are a great part of the course and offer you a chance to get a supervised experience in diving into a topic of interest and tackling a cool problem.
This class is good if you're looking for an ultra-chill class in which you won't actually learn a ton.It's really disorganized, and sometimes it seems like Prof. Waldo doesn't even know what he's talking about. This can be very frustrating. If you actually want to learn about distributed systems, I recommend reading a few things online to learn more about the fundamentals. Otherwise, I'm not sure if taking the class is actually worthwhile  there are probably better ways to spend your time. Unless, of course, you're looking for a really easy gem class to balance out a hard schedule.
