Graphics is a really fun class, and Prof. Gortler (aka Shlomo) is great. My one criticism is: because of the complexity of using systems like OpenGL, this class provides a substantive code base/infrastructure to get you started. This is good because it means you don't have to start from scratch, but I also found it meant that I didn't learn as much as I'd hoped to.
This is an amazing class. You learn how computer graphics works. The assignments were well-defined and all built off of each other.  The grading is fair.  It requires a little less time than most CS classes but you get a lot out of it.  My only complaint is that the assignments were back-loaded in terms of difficulty and concepts covered.  This created a busy end-of-semester.
Incredible class! This is insanely fascinating material for the Math and CS types out there - you'll learn about what's really going on behind that video game or movie you've always loved. Knowledge of linear algebra is helpful but don't worry about the C++ - you'll learn what you need to know in the course. Shlomo is a great guy who really knows what he's talking about - rely on his notes and his textbook all semester as they're super helpful and you won't find similar stuff on the internet. Lecture is basically just a live version of the notes (plus Shlomo's jokes) so if there's a certain way you prefer to learn you can choose your style. And you get to implement cool stuff for the psets, like Matrix-style action sequences (in the keyframe animator) and a bunny with physics-based fur. Definitely a must-take.
Please make sure you dedicate the time needed for this course. Debugging takes longest.
Not a great class in my opinion, didn't feel like I learned all that much.  Lecture wasn't that interesting, didn't get much out of psets either.
Steve is a fantastic teacher. You can hardly fall asleep in the class. The homework is not difficult because of large amount of helper code. You should take it if you're interested in graphics.Well, you should take it anyway. Enjoy!
This course is super fantastic if you're interested in graphics. I was really fascinated as a VES concentrator because we learned a lot of the coding methods behind animation and game software, and the lectures on color and vision were enlightening. Do make sure you can code reasonably well and are familiar with matrices, though, and that you have time to fit the work in.
I would recommend taking it pass/fail. The material is interesting, but the work is frustrating.
Be prepared for terribly created problem sets, no solutions to problem sets despite subsequent problem sets being based off previous ones.
It's tough.  But very rewarding and very relevant in any number of areas...
Good course on graphics but be prepared to learn a lot of the OpenGL yourself... this leads to many frustrating hours where you can get the correct graphics concepts implemented in psets, but still have bugs solely related to OpenGL issues
It's the sort of course where you spend the whole semester looking forward to writing about it in the Q guide. Now that the moment has come, I can tell you: it wasn't worth it.
A bit of a hodgepodge at times, but you get a good idea of how 3D computer graphics are generated, back to front.  It's a good class, but I wouldn't recommend it if you're not particularly interested in details in graphics.
it is a fun course but pretty time-consuming
This is a great class and you'll learn a lot about how graphics works. The workload is not very heavy, but you do need to be somewhat competent in linear algebra.
At the end of the day, I feel like I just went through the motions of doing pset after pset after pset to be done with the class. I didn't really learn much that I can use to apply in future contexts. To be fair though, I felt like I was able to hack something together for my final project that was pretty cool using code I became familiar with from previous assignments.
Like many more practical fields of CS, computer graphics is made up of lots of little bits and pieces of other theories and subjects, which are strung together to accomplish the end goal (creating pretty pictures with computers). Because of that, it's sort of impossible to teach it as one cohesive and well-connected subject. This course tours you through many of the nuts and bolts that make up modern computer graphics in a very practical way, sequentially working your way through different sub-areas of the field. You won't come away with a comprehensive understanding of the field, but you'll at least have a lot of things demystified, and you'll have a lot to go on if you decide to work with graphics more after the course. The course itself is pretty relaxed, and it's one of the few CS courses at Harvard I've taken that balances laid back administration (no exams, friendly professor and TFs, no terrible grading curves) with assignments that are challenging, substantial, and educational (also the only Harvard CS course I know of that uses C++, a very good language to know). If you're curious about graphics and want to learn, I'd recommend this course.
You probably won't learn that much.
Be prepared to be thrown right into the coding
Overall this is a pretty good class. I went in not super excited about graphics, and I came out with a new appreciation for the field and some pretty sweet knowledge and skills. Professor Gortler and Yuanchen are both great. The problem sets can be a little time consuming sometimes (mostly trying to wrap your head around some of the linear algebra stuff; implementation isn't so bad), but overall totally manageable. I'd recommend this course.
Class can being boring at times because it's pretty math heavy, but a good intro to graphics
Lectures can get pretty dry, but the homework is interesting, reasonable, and it feels good to end up with something cool looking rather than trying to impress your roommates with text output on a command line window. A little linear algebra and C or C++ would help. It's possible but probably harder without either.
This class is a solid introduction to concepts in computer graphics. The problem sets can be challenging but are mangeable. You need to have strong programming skills and a reasonable grasp of the major concepts of linear algebra, but beyond that, everything is spelled out for you in lecture/the handouts. The textbook is excellent but isn't an absolutely mandatory buy as all of the information is also in the handouts (though the textbook fleshes it out a little bit more).
Very manageable class with cool material. I thought the math would be too much for me, but I got along fine. My only complaint is that it's very possible to go through all of the problem sets without actually learning anything, since in most cases everything you need to do is explicitly spelled out in the spec.
I would definitely recommend this course for anyone interested in 3D graphics. It provides a great introduction into a very applicable skill. This class is a must for anyone looking to pursue video game development, special effects in movies, or graphics of some sort.
Great class! I would recommend especially if you are a CS person interested in game design and/or movies production. It's really time consuming, but totally worth it.
More of a math class than a CS class; make sure you are very interested in graphics
For sure take this class if you have interest in computer graphics at all. Will you learn a lot about OpenGL syntax and the plethora of commands? Not at all.But you will learn a lot about the different theories/concepts behind CG, as well as a lot of how OpenGL is working behind the scenes. And you'll definitely have some of the cooler psets to show people. Also, it's pretty easy, honestly. Both grade-wise, time-wise, and hardness-wise. The hardest part is usually if the pset description is a little vague. And the written assignments can be tricky.But it's a pain-free, if sometimes boring, course that will teach you a decent amount about CG.
Graphics is a cool applied course. It's one of the few courses that I've taken in CS at Harvard where the applications are immediate and the end products are extremely satisfying to create. For the final project, find a topic that you're personally interested in and find cool, and then make it.
Computer graphics has a very steep learning curve, but this course is a solid foundation. It's easy to get confused at first, and it's not until later in the course that every piece starts to fit together. I enjoy the course, but walk away feeling there are a lot about graphics that I still don't know.
Pretty good class overall and a good introduction to graphics. Very linear algebra intensive though.
Be prepared for the weekly assignments, and set aside time to do them.  Go to every lecture and make sure to understand the notes.  The assignments can be quite tedious.
Be confident with C++!
The professor went through both the fundamental mathematical theories and the practical programming codes in detail. It's a great opportunity to see how the ideas are supported by mathematical theories, and how the mathematical theories are realized as programming codes. This realization provides great experience to human beings. I highly recommended this class.
Well-designed assignments, but bewarned that you have to spend some time really understanding the code. Don't underestimate the advantage of knowing some C++! Having some extra knowledge and experience will let you focus on the concepts of the course much more easily.
The lectures were not super helpful with the problem sets at time, but usually interesting.  Don't put the psets off until the last minute, some of them take quite a bit of time.  Do not take this class unless you are truly interested in the topic, else it will become a major struggle.
The class is great in that you get a solid foundation in graphics. The psets are a lot of work, however, and most of it is left for students to figure out in their own time.
Taught in C++, which is pretty easy to pick up if you know C. Make sure you take the time to get to know it though! Sort of mathy, but nothing too complicated. Problem sets aren't especially lengthy, but not trivial by any means.
The course isn't painful. However, you walk away feeling like there's a lot you still don't know how to do. I had difficulty with the final project, and would still have difficulty on a graphics project, since we never actually learned much about how to use OpenGL.
Read the book! There are useful things in it.
A lot more work than I expected, but rewarding nonetheless.
You will learn a ton but you will work for it for sure. Not at all easy but the reward makes it worth it.
Take this course if you want a good introduction to 3D graphics.  The course primarily uses the OpenGL pipeline (aside from a small section on ray-tracing), but since the emphasis is on the bigger picture / theory of graphics you come out of the class with something that would be useful with DirectX as well.  Some of the programming assignments are fairly easy while others are very time-demanding, so be prepared for this.  Gorter and the TFs are great.
If you're really into graphics you should take this course. Keep in mind though that lectures are boring and for the most part unnecessary. I feel like the same knowledge could be gleaned from online tutorials with much less headache.
great class - you will have to put in work, but it's very rewarding
The psets are easy enough, but make sure you're understanding the material, because you can get lost very easily on the final project.
175 with Hanspeter is probably one of the easiest CS classes in the dept, but beware that 175 with Gortler is probably very different.
This is an excellent course for learning the fundamentals of computer graphics, and teaches the theories behind it by having the students program in OpenGL and eventually build their own raytracer. The lectures are a bit heavy on math, but very useful, and the guest lectures were all fantastic.
Prof Pfister taught the course this year. His style is very different from who typically teaches this course, so take this year's q guide with a grain of salt.
Very cool. If you're into applying simple physics (optics) and linear algebra (vector transformations), you'll love this class.
take for a VERY general introduction to the subject.
Be ambitious with your final project and enjoy it!
It's an opportunity to learn something new and come up with a fun project. I imagine the course will improve as they figure out more reasonable assignments and tweak the schedule.
Use the forums.
Outstanding course, will teach you how to make awesome projects in graphics. Surveys a lot of modern research areas in graphics, CGI and film industry, photography, video game industry, through guest lectures and the expert teaching staff. The teaching staff are very helpful and the assignments are very clear and well written. This course can definitely get you a good job in the graphics industry. Professor Pfister is a wonderful teacher and makes the lectures a lot of fun. Final projects for the class can turn out very impressive.
Check the graphics hardware requirements - it's a real pain to have to work on lab computers!
Don't take it with Hanspeter. Take 171 for your middle digit. If you want to learn graphics, wait for Gortler to return.
If you're a concentrator, why wouldn't you want to take this class?
Take this class if you are looking for a lighter CS class that's on an interesting subject.
Attend lecture, get the most out of Hanspeter, have fun with the final project and use Google!
This course is a broad introduction to the field of computer graphics that combines both teaching the basics and getting you started as well as demonstrating some interesting real-world examples of graphics.
If you're interested in graphics or how video games are made, this is a great class to take!
The course was rough around the edges, since this was Prof. Pfister's first time teaching it in years, but I still enjoyed it enormously. The lectures are good - slightly mathy at times, so you may have to go back and read the slides on your own to understand the concepts. Working on the p-sets can be very, very frustrating. If you start late, expect to spend a couple of solid days working on them until the deadline (that's where late days come in handy, but if you use them, your weekend will be shot). Sometimes, you will get stuck on one problem for five hours, until you're ready to toss your keyboard out the window. But imagine how awesome it feels when everything finally works! These are the kinds of p-sets you can show to your roommates and have them regret their orgo and quantum classes.
You're better off going through one of the many OpenGL (or better yet, DirectX) tutorials on the internet and learning that way.  You can just crash the few interesting lectures, and the feedback on assignments doesn't make them worth doing as part of the course instead of on your own time.
If you're interested in graphics as a field, and want an easy overview, take this course. Don't expect a whole lot of math or detail.
Great class, painless, very interesting if you like computer graphics.
CS175 will teach you some really cool concepts in graphics, and will leave you with a basic understanding of how to do graphics programming. That being said, I feel I could have gotten much more out of the course. A lot of the problem sets have heavy handholding, making it easy not to learn the concepts.
If you are looking for an enjoyable yet constructive Computer Science class, this is the class you need.
Fun class with every interesting material. One of the assignments is to draw fur on a bunny. That's awesome.
Watch out for rorocheese.
This is a fun and not too time-intensive way to fulfill the departmental distribution requirement. It is also a good introduction to graphics.
It is an extremely enjoyable course with very fun work.  However, expect yourself to be a bit confused and do some outside research to fully understand some of the topics you'll be covered and to become fully comfortable with them.
Definitely a very cool class.
This course is interesting, well taught, and the assignments are fun!  What more could you want?
This class provides a good overview for the considerations necessary in Computer Graphics. It is a good class for those interested in graphics for both artistic and scientific purposes.
excellent class for the right people, obviously computer graphics is a bit of a specialized field, but the course was excellent.
Be aware that the amount of time for each assignment is not balanced at all; you can spend one hour on one assignment, and fifteen on the next. Be prepared to ask a ton of questions to make things clearer.
In retrospect the concepts aren't incredibly difficult, however when you're trying to hack through them in the context of the labs, they take a lot of time to figure out. You will spend much more time working on this class than you expect.
This is one of the best classes I've taken so far.
its a low-impact CS class.  not too useful unless you want to go into animation or graphics, but interesting to know what's going on.
This class was great.  I really liked that the focus was almost entirely on getting our programs to work and seeing results.  Having a final project instead of an exam was awesome.
Good class for those interested in computer graphics
Lectures hard to follow but the assignments are fun
Lots of fun to take, you get to create cool-looking stuff.
The problem sets are fun, but also quite a bit of work as they are every week.
Most people are of the opinion that graphics is really cool and useful.  This class fully meets those expectations.
This course gives you a nice and exciting first step into the world of computer-generated graphics, but be prepared to spend a significant amount of time reading/understanding code to figure stuff out on your own.
Being an electrical engineering concentrator, this was a great course to take for credit. I think it is entirely manageable for someone who has only done CS50. I found the material to be very interesting.
The class is very great. The professor is a relatively boring lecturer, but he genuinely cares about the material and wants you to learn it.
If you want to get into the theory of computer graphics, and then have to deal with endless office hours to finish the psets, this is the class for you. If you want to actually be able to make cool graphics on the computer, do not take this class. By using the horrible language of C++ instead of graphics software, you will not be able to make anything that cool even by the time final projects roll around.
Learning C++ is great. The class itself is relatively straightforward, but I didn't come out of the class enthusiastic about computer graphics. Lectures weren't that effective for me, but sections/office hours are a MUST for your psets.
I recommend this course to anyone who wants to be introduced in the fascinating field of Computer Graphics. The course will equip you with the necessary tools to continue on more advanced topics in CG.
it's great! take it and i thought buying the book was helpful!
Take it if 3D modeling is relevant to any of your passions.
This is a really great course that teaches you the basics of computer graphics. The problem sets are fun to do and don't take too much time and the material is very straightforward and easy to understand. If you are looking for a broad introduction to computer graphics and a course that isn't too time consuming, then this is the perfect class.
You'll probably enjoy it if you're into art and CS, or if you want to learn more about how your favorite games/digitally animated movies work. You might find it boring if you just randomly decide to sign up to fulfill the CS depth requirement.
Schlomo is amazing and runs very interesting lectures, but the PSets are slightly frustrating. It's a good introduction to OpenGL, but I don't know how much better this class is compared to an online tutorial. Given what I know now, I probably would have just taken another class. There are probably more interesting CS classes that you could take at Harvard.
Honestly, it's kind of a bore. But it's low-stress. And the final project is open ended. And no exams.
Gortler is an extremely down-to-earth professor who cares deeply about his students' learning about the field of computer graphics. He's awesome! So's Yuanchen, for that matter.
If you're interested in computer graphics, this may be a good way to learn the fundamentals. However the lectures and material are not the most inspiring.
A lot of math, most of the time being stuck on homework assignments came down to not getting the math right rather than coding problems. Gortler is an animated lecturer though, and a super chill dude.
If you find graphics interesting, you will like this course. If you don't, you won't. It will not challenge you too much, but you will learn.
If you're at all interested in computer graphics, consider taking this class. The lectures are often fairly dry and theoretical, but the problem sets are great and the TFs are super dedicated.
This class serves as a nice intro to and overview of the field of computer graphics, which you'll learn is very rich. There are a lot of potential careers involving graphics, and if you're interested in any of them, this is a good place to start. It's also a nice way to pick up some C++, which is pretty widely used in industry.
