Good class with engaging instructor.
Professor Kohler is awesome! He genuinely cares about his students, and goes out of his way to make sure his students are getting a lot out of the class. He is extremely knowledgable about computer systems, and is really good at explaining the concepts presented in class.
One of the best classes, Eddie is a great professor.
You should take it because it's Eddie's class :)
This is an awesome class!  Eddie teaches you how to *really* read research papers.  He also is great during the final research project.
This class is awesome -- Eddie makes it very open to people at all different skills/knowledge in systems research, and no matter what, you'll learn a ton from the papers in the course, the brilliant students you get to discuss with, the final research project/paper (which sucks up practically every moment during reading period, if you're really into it), and, of course, from Eddie himself!  Definitely not a trivial class, but one clearly worth taking, just by looking at how much you learn from it.
If you are at all interested in the focus topic the year this course is being offered, I highly recommend this class. Make sure you start the project early and choose a good group!
If you have the opportunity to work with Prof. Kohler take it! He will force you to sharpen your thinking and make you feel like research is an exciting process of discovering. He is an incredible teacher and will help you produce work that you did not know you were capable of. Don't wait until senior year take it as soon as you can.
Know the topic before you take the course and make sure you are interested in this topic. Expect the class to be planned as it goes.
Easily one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard!
This class is very fun and entertaining!! You read really interesting papers and have great discussion. The final project is time demanding but because everyone loves it
1. Absolutely take this course.2. The workload for this class is HIGHLY variable. The first two months will be light, reading three to four research papers per week, plus classtime. Assignments are maybe twenty hours total in the first two months. The last month and a half (including reading and finals period) will suck up every available hour to work on your final project. It'll be worth it, but budget accordingly.
If Eddie's teaching this class, take it!!
This class is a lot of work, both in reading and coding. Do not attempt to bullshit your way through it or give high-level, hand-wavy answers. Both will fail. Also, just do what Eddie says, even if you disagree. It's not worth the fight.
Eddie is an excellent instructor and brings both incredible enthusiasm and well-thought out lectures.
Prof. Kohler is very enthusiastic and has a great sense of humor. Both of these are contagious. He is also one of the few professors who writes a ton of code and is very very good at it. He is the main reason to take this course. Don't be afraid of reading research papers; part of the point of taking this class is to learn critical reading of dense papers. The topic will change in the future, but you can expect a significant amount of programming, probably in teams. This is a good class to begin learning about "real" software engineering (collaboration, testing, bug fixing, building on existing libraries, evolving code and adding new undesigned-for features). Fun!
The discussions in this class were some of the best I've ever had and resulted in a deep understanding and appreciation of distributed systems with a focus on distributed consensus algorithms. A brilliant mixture of people made for great conversation and Eddie did ignited topics and kept us on track.
Best class I've ever taken. Actually, so great (unfortunately, who knows if it will be the same course/professor next year). We read all the big papers in distributed systems, and Eddie really makes you understand them (I went to the second class having only skimmed the papers, and definitely realized that simply wouldn't cut it).The coding is cool too (yep, we code up Paxos) and pretty hard. Recommend thinking about the design of the system a fair amount instead of just jumping into coding like we did.Eddie also is a great brainstormer and will help you come up with great ideas to make something awesome for your final project and just plain learn a lot.Also it is a pretty serious/hard course so get ready ;)
This is a great class.
Eddie is great as always, but pay attention to what the topic of the course is.  This year was formal verification, which is a very unique, difficult beast and is not for everyone.  You'll definitely come away with a much better understanding of the readings at Coq, but it'll be non-trivial throughout.  Definitely come on the first day and take a look at the readings.  FYI, this class does have psets, unlike some other 200-level classes that are mostly readings.
Eddie is a great professor. But the problem sets are hard...
Eddie runs an excellent seminar. I enjoyed hearing his insights into the papers we read, and being exposed to his thought process has definitely helped me think about research in new ways. The class was difficult but very rewarding.
Eddie makes this course great. He really cares about it and puts a lot of time in. The final project is a lot of work, but ultimately pretty rewarding. You'll leave the course having a pretty strong of Coq, and understanding of approaches to verifying systems more generally.There are a few Coq psets here and there. Most of the lectures are based on a reading, with some of them also having a "let's learn more Coq" component, especially early on. Eddie leads the discussion for some of the readings, but most of them are student-led. Some of the student-led discussions were a bit rough, but on the whole I was impressed with how well they went.
If the topic is formally verified systems again, be prepared to spend a long time on Coq psets.
Eddie is an incredible lecturer, as many people know from 61. However, he also excels in a seminar setting. The papers chosen for this iteration of the course were about verified systems (i.e., Compcert, Boogie, concurrent Hoare logic, etc.), and Eddie selected an excellent mix of PL-theoretic and systems-application papers. Eddie also hand-designed a set of (slightly-agonizing but amazing) problem sets in Coq. These assignments, as well as the final project (which most people did in Coq), were immensely helpful in gaining a deeper understanding of many PL concepts (however, don't expect to become a Coq expert---we learned much more about how to *use* Coq than exactly *how* Coq works). This was my second iteration of the class (the first being robust systems in 2015), and although it felt very different this year than before, Eddie's seminars have been some of the few classes in which I feel that I am both truly challenged and rewarded. Although I'm sure the next seminar Eddie offers will be as different as this year's seminar was from 2015's, Eddie will, undoubtedly, make it a course worth taking.
If you want to learn more about formal verification, this is a great class to takeOtherwise, you should take with reservation
Eddie is awesome. Take any class he teaches. Also, verified systems are cool. Papers get a bit "too much of the same", but it's a new field, so we gotta give it time.
This year the topic was verified systems which means proving things about a computer system (for example, proving that an operating system works correctly or is secure). Be prepared to spend a lot of time learning how to use the Coq proof assistant and working on problem sets. Proving things in Coq is fun and very rewarding but it is a slow process especially at first. Highly recommend if you are interested in systems and programming languages and are comfortable doing proofs
