Salil's really great and it seems like he genuinely wants you to learn the material! The workload wasn't that much, but sometimes the problem sets could be a bit semantic meaning you could spend an hour or two trying to write the details of something perfectly.
Professor Vadhan is a fantastic lecturer. The material was innately interesting, and Professor Vadhan's clear enthusiasm for the material made the course all the more exciting.
Salil is such an awesome teacher. He is one of the few professors who can provide crystal clarity to complicated subjects. Some say that if you cannot explain your research in a language that 10 years old could understand, then you don't really understand it. It's easy to throw your students a bunch of strange terms and appear intellectually superior (which many Harvard professors do). It's difficult to teach with the same level of simplicity and clarity Salil does.
Cryptography is extremely interesting and Salil is a great lecturer. I don't know if they plan to offer this course again soon, but if they do make sure to take it. Salil also cares a lot about his students and is very approachable. If you are interested is cs theory, then any course taught by Salil is one you should seriously consider.
Great course, interesting topic matter. Salil was a great lecturer and has a very clearly organized lecture plan.
It's hard and can get confusing later on in the course with many definitions, but it is a very rewarding and interesting theoretical course. I definitely learned a lot, and it is so amazing to see how so many different protocols can be constructed from such low-level assumptions.Lectures / lecture notes are very clear, and office hours are super helpful as well. Problem sets can be challenging, but I wouldn't say overly challenging.
More work than expected (compared to the 2006 iteration of the course). Interesting material and assignments. Salil really cares about the course and his students.
This is a very proof oriented class similar to the reduction proofs done in CS 121.  Every assignment involved proofs.  If you did well in CS 121 or liked the style of proofs then this class will be easy to understand since the language of CS 121 seems to directly apply here.
Salil is an excellent lecturer. He makes the class. If the subject matter seems difficult to you, at least know that (in my opinion) the grading and especially the testing was very fair.
I HIGHLY recommend this class because (1) Salil is an absolutely fantastic teacher. You will learn a lot from him. (2) I discovered cryptography is a really interesting field with very important real world applications.  (3) You will get lots of practicing in reasoning about protocols/"games" (especially through reductions) in the abstract in order to construct proofs of security, which really teaches you how to think and solve problems in a different way.
Cryptography with Boaz was a phenomenal experience for anyone who is both interested and is ready for the mathematical arguments and proofs. We covered a healthy amount of standard undergraduate crypto (private key, public key crypto) as well as really interesting and exciting recent topics and developments. I would highly recommend this class for anyone interested in the topics who has the background for it.
This year's iteration of the course was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Boaz chose to give a doable but fast-paced introduction to cryptography (definitions of private key and public key crypto and basic constructions and applications for each) in the first half of the course, and spend the second half talking about extremely cool advanced topics such as lattice-based cryptography, zero-knowledge proofs, fully homomorphic encryption, and obfuscation. Boaz is awesome. Take this class.
This class was a whirlwind through cryptography, starting from scratch and going through modern research topics including quantum computing, fully-homomorphic encryption, obfuscation, etc. The class was rather fast paced and involved (though the grading structure on the problem sets and final exam was quite generous) so be prepared for that. Boaz is a great professor to get to know, he's really cool!
Excellent course! Boaz is an extremely kind professor who understands that the material he's teaching can be incredibly difficult.
Instead of psets, class contained typos. Would not take again.There are very large numbers of typos on the psets and even the final exam. Some are obvious, but there are usually one or two problems on every pset (other than the one from the textbook) that I'll spend several hours on, only to realize I was solving the wrong problem because it was stated incorrectly. If you're willing to do that, read on.Overall, you will learn a lot of theoretical crypto. Most of this class is figuring out how to build algorithms that are secure with respect to X based on other algorithms that we already knew were secure with respect to Y (or showing such a construction is impossible). For instance you will learn how to build secure encryption algorithms given a secure random number generator. However, the class does not usually describe in detail the algorithms that are actually used in practice.
With Barak, this course is very challenging. But it's extremely rewarding to meet the ideas, especially in the latter half of the course, and to have the mode of thought used to analyze them thoroughly.
This is a great class for learning the internal mathematical structure of public and private key crypto. The psets are challenging but low-pressure, which is great.
The class was great. Prof. Barak made it more akin to a combination of undergraduate class, graduate class and graduate seminar, teaching the basics, but quickly moving on to advanced topics. I very much enjoyed taking the course, but it was a fair amount of work.
If you are interested in the theory of cryptography, contemporary developments in cryptography, or even contemporary applications of cryptography, seriously consider taking this course if you don't mind putting in a fair bit of work. You will not regret it!
