Excellent course, fun projects, challenging material, no busy work. Great class.
You get to learn cutting-edge methods and get exposed to new directions in graphics research
This class is about theoretical geometric modeling. Mostly state of the art, cutting edge stuff. Nothing super-applied. Professor is extremely smart.
The workload is low, but spend a lot of time trying to understand the concepts so that you can handle the assignments.  A strong background in linear algebra and differential geometry really helps.
Schlomo makes this a great class.
I liked the class a lot, especially the materials. The materials and the papers are super cool. You may need to know some diff geo, but Prof. Gortler does a good job unpackaging the machinery. Great class.
It's a laid-back class. You'll learn some cool things about discrete geometry but the pace is reasonable and the workload light. Expect to present a paper over one or two classes and complete one programming assignment. Some understanding of differential geometry is really useful, graphics background helpful but not necessary.
Dr. Gortler is AWESOME.
Great course to get you exposed to different concepts and ideas in geometric modeling. Lots of cool papers to read. The workload is not bad, mostly just reading papers, 1-2 programming assignments, and present one or two papers to the class.
The course covers a lot of interesting material. The programming assignment could have been given out earlier though.
Every Harvard student should take at least one graduate/reading seminar. As an undergraduate in computer science or math, it is often hard to get a sense of where the cutting edge of knowledge is. It feels great to read, discuss, and understand current research papers with a great professor in a small class setting.
I really enjoyed 277--we read some interesting papers and I liked the format of the class, with student presentations on the reading and discussion. We got a lot of feedback on our work for the assignment and learned a lot doing it
The material is pretty interesting, though the learning is mostly self-directed, and you won't get any kind of feedback.
Spend time understand the nomenclature used in class notes, otherwise you's end up just being a silent spectator.
Geometric modeling is more about math than anything else.  If you're someone with a mathematical bent, then this class might be interesting for you.  A really good grasp of linear algebra really helps.  However, it did seem like you really need at least a semester's worth of differential geometry to get the most out of this class.  Dr. Gortler does a quick overview of the basic concepts at the start of the semester but it's really not enough to truly understand the math behind most of the papers.
If you like geometric modeling and graphics programming, this course offers you some exciting theoretical developments in the field.
