We learned about lots of interesting algorithms, especially linear programming.
I enjoyed the class as an overview to advanced algorithm. Prof. Nelson gives a clear, in-depth explanation of the topic and the lectures gave me a good grasp of most of the topic discussed. This year, the problem sets weren't great though I assume they will be redesigned in future iterations as I believe they were newly created for this year's course. There is a final project at the end, for which there really isn't that much time, since there's problem sets until two weeks before reading period. Overall, I'd recommend the class, especially if the last few rough edges can be worked out.
It is a good course to get to know a wide range of works in theoretical computer science related to algorithm design.
Very enjoyable and useful if you intend to study or apply state of the art algorithms.
Amazing class that was tough but rewarding. Would highly recommend for anyone with sufficient math background.
This is a challenging class. If you love algorithms and did well in CS124 it's a good logical next step. Keep in mind that these will much more abstract and you won't be actually implementing these algorithms as you might in CS124. But it's fascinating material and you learn about some pretty recent research that's being done in algorithms. If there's any change you'd consider doing research in algorithms, definitely take this course!
It takes a lot of time but you learn many new and interesting things. But if you are that much not into algorithms, better not take this class. If you are into algorithms, then with no doubt enroll in this class.
Material was very interesting, but problem sets were very difficult.
This class is generally taught pretty well. The problem sets tend to relate to problems solved in papers somewhat recently, but Jelani provides enough hints that they're pretty reasonable.

For those who were interested in CS124, the main difference (apart from the fact that the material is more advanced) is the lack of coding assignments.
Beware: the material in the first third of the course is quite different from the material in the latter two thirds of the course. There's a lot of LP  like half of the course is LP. So if that doesn't excite you too much, then you might want to reconsider taking the course.
Hard class but you learn a lot.
Incredibly difficult, but entirely worth it if the material interests you
This is a great algorithms course! Prof. Nelson is a great lecturer, explains concepts clearly, and makes class very interesting. The workload is very reasonable.
Jelani is awesome and presents beautifully a broad overview of the field. Problem sets are challenging but illuminating. Loved the structure of the final project too!
An excellent but challenging algorithms course. Take it with a friend or two for help with psets. No midterms or exam, just psets and a final project.
This course is very hard. Only take it if you thought CS 124 wasn't too bad.
It's a really fun course if you're into data structures and algorithms. The psets are not too long but they definitely help you understand the material better. Unfortunately, a lot of time spent on LPs, which I don't find very interesting.
This class is very helpful but also a significant amount of work. To fully understand all the material, I feel that it is usually necessary to review the lecture notes and to consult definitions/background material from outside of class.
1. Read past lecture notes before every class, if possible.
This class requires a truly strong background in math and algorithms. Don't go into it from cs124 or cs125 expecting it to continue at that level: it requires a much higher level of math and perseverance to handle. Expect many students to be graduate students studying something related to algorithms, and undergraduates who have an impressive math background. Find a group to work with. Take this class only if you know you are truly passionate about the subject and willing to put in the work.
This is an excellent course. Covers very interesting material and is very carefully put together. I would definitely make sure you are interested in the material and be prepared for the time required. It will help if you have a strong math background and possibly a group of people you can work with. Also, the final project (encouraged to be some form of original work) is very time consuming. Something else to be aware of.
A very good class. Jelani is phenomenal and the psets are very well designed. Be prepared to be confused in lecture though, but otherwise find a good group of friends to work on the psets with and you'll have a good time.
If you enjoyed 124/125 and were thirsty for more, definitely take this class. You can tell that Jelani really thought over the course material (lecture content, pset problems) carefully, making sure each problem on the homework helped further your understanding of the concepts taught in class. After doing the problem sets, I was always struck with a sense of "wow, that was a cool problem!" which is not something I can say for all classes I've taken from the CS department. The hw is manageable (1.5 weeks per pseet) and if you're having trouble keeping up, you can always read scribe notes from years past before lecture so that you can anticipate what's going on/digest it more fully during lecture. Topics were really cool (though I felt like we spent a little too long on LP's...) and overall, I was super glad I got to know things like Fib heaps on a deeper level than 124. Highly recommend.
This is an awesome continuation of CS124/125. Jelani's passion to the material is apparent and the content is interesting and engaging. Be ready to learn A LOT on LP tho. LP is one of the heavy focuses of the class. The final project portion is a good way to learn the frontier of the algorithm and also do contribution of your own. Give yourself plenty of the time to work on it. HW is not too difficult and some of it is kinda cool. Overall, this class is great and I highly recommend to take it.
It's hard. Treat it more seriously than I did. Even though this course wrecked my CS GPA I still recommend it 100% - I've never found a better lecture experience than Jelani offered at Harvard or on the internet. The problem sets are Tough But Fair and you will come out of each of them with a deep appreciation for the topic of the week.
This is a well taught class that explores some data structures and algorithms beyond what 124 coves.  The math in this class is much more intense than in CS124.  A strong background in Linear Algebra is necessary to understand all of the material.
This is an awesome class in algorithms and you will learn a lot. Take the final project seriously and start early.
