You will work a lot and you will work hard, but you will also come out with a strong understanding of the purpose and methodologies of data-science.
Just take Stat110, CS171, and CS181 instead. This tries to do all of them at once and fails miserably. I feel like I learned nothing.
Hard psets, not too much work outside of those
Get a group of people to work through psets with and to wyork on the project with.  Going to class is not really necessary.  That's one of the major issues I have with this class... Grading on a 10 point scale can be harsh and unforgiving if you get unlucky with a more "hardo" grader.  Overall, the work you put in is the grade you'll get out.  If you have no CS or R programming background, do NOT attempt. You will struggle for hours (or days) on parts of assignments that will take your classmates no more than 30 minutes.  A stat background is less crucial.  Just know the basics.  Take this if you want to learn python.
This class covers some really cool concepts. I'm glad I took it because it made me fairly comfortable with Python/Pandas/Numpy. However, it's a huge class and the instruction is kind of frustrating. There are very limited office hours and there's got to be a better way to learn section material than listening to some guy read through ipython notebooks in a monotone voice.
Take this class if you want to block out time in your schedule to learn key concepts in data science on your own.
I would recommend this course with reservation, because the lectures can be somewhat scattered, leaving weak intuition upon which to work on the psets. However, the lab materials and pset format is very straightforward and explanatory, which was very helpful throughout the course. The biweekly pset schedule is something to be careful with if you have other courses also on the same cycle, but overall, the course is very reasonable.
Be aware that the homework assignments will take a significant amount of time to complete, due to both the complexity of the program and limitations on your own computer's operating speed.  However, the skills that this class teaches you are exceedingly worthwhile.
Don't take this course unless you're definitely prepared for it. There's a lot going on, and a lot that is assumed from the beginning. Take all information about prerequisites seriously.
The psets were so long and difficult to understand. Luckily, the Piazza posts were extremely helpful and well-organized, which was the only way to make progress on the psets. I would have liked open-ended coding challenges and theory psets (like CS181) much more than the IPython torture of this class.
Worth taking if you want an easy chance to apply machine learning techniques in a practical manner. This work is very similar to that of real data scientists at top companies. The programming and machine learning is brushed over at a fast pace so it helps to have previous experience with the material in order to get as much as possible out of the course.
This class was like a car fire inside of a train wreck. Terrible organization and incredibly erratic grading. Terrible sections. This class is everything that is wrong with Harvard - it nominally attempts to cover lots of material while genuinely teaching you nothing. It over-promises and under-delivers. It is cross-registered in 5 departments. It had more than half graduate students despite being a "109" numbered CS class. This class bit off more than it could chew and then substituted irrelevant grading metrics. If you're a CS person, you will probably find this class easy but tedious and time-consuming. If you are not a CS person, you will probably find it hard, as well as tedious and time-consuming, and then frustrated that you are being graded alongside people with many graduate students and people with a much deeper background in CS. Ultimately this class is about fixing mistakes in the problems sets based on your classmates' posts on Piazza.
If you've taken Stat 110 and 104 you're decently prepared, but definitely expect to be coding quite a bit.
I'm glad I took it, but I have reservations. First, I felt like 40% of the hw code was copy and paste from the section labs. Another 40% was pre-written code that was way over my head, and I didn't understand the complex stat and machine learning algorithms. Only about 20% was code I wrote where I felt like I was learning something new and challenging myself at the right level.
This class is really hard. It's super interesting and useful because data science is really cool. The psets are really long and hard, but they are like 2 week project that have you do real life things. But this class doesn't do a great job of teaching you how to do those things. It's really disorganized and like a lot of CS classes give you a bit of theory and then let you struggle for hours and hours to figure out the coding for yourself.
Not a very well put together class. Take it if you want to learn about data science (which you will), but it takes a lot of time and you don't get much help. It didn't seem like the teaching staff really cared about the students at all.
I really enjoyed this course, but with the caveat that you really get out what you put in.  There's so much content in a lot of the psets (blocks of text really), that very often you have no idea what you're actually implementing.  If you're decent at coding, you can get away with solving these problems really easily honestly.  When I got to the final project, some people still had no idea how to implement a logistic regression or even understand what it really is.  I have no idea how people were spending >25 hours a week on some of the problem sets.It's really cool that they put so much effort into providing extra materials for people who want to learn more.  They have links/pdfs to tons of additional, high quality resources and compiled them into one place.  This course should really be followed up with CS181 but I haven't taken it.  I enjoyed the lectures on storytelling and the resources they linked to - they've already been helpful in my own work outside of the class.  Don't underestimate how important they are!
The lectures were not very helpful and ultimately many people stopped going. The psets were helpful and you learn a ton doing them.
This class taught me very little about data science. The homework was oriented towards generating results with black-box library functions rather than understanding concepts, and it didn't seem like we were supposed to understand much of the stats or the computer science behind what we were asked to do. To its credit, the course was a low time commitment and it did make me more comfortable coding with pandas and python.
This is a good class, with a reasonable workload. The biweekly psets are definitely manageable, especially if you actually start the week they come out, even if just a little. The lectures are alright, most of the learning happens when you do the psets.
The class lectures cover a lot of good interesting material from both the statistics and computer science. However, the homeworks had a much narrower focus, mostly on computer science and implementation, but not statistical insight. If you are someone who learns mostly through homework, you will learn primarily coding skills, not statistics.The homeworks have an issue where they are coding bits, but later problems call on the solution of earlier problems. In 9/10 instances, the homework must be done sequentially which can be problematic if the earlier parts of the homework are tricky to implement (especially syntactically).Definitely try to start the homework early. While this reviewer managed to complete almost all the homework assignments while starting them 2 nights before due, it was incredibly stressful and hampered the learning experience. Additionally, you may run into technical issues with your computer and you want extra time to resolve those, as necessary.
Data science, big data.  I enrolled in CS109 because I was curious to learn more about these topics.  Still waiting to figure out what they mean.  Maybe that's the point, that these topics aren't really things that you can be taught, but rather skills you pick up while doing.  But I digress.  What you will learn in this class, however, is that you'll either love or hate pandas - the Python library, not the animal (although I guess they're pretty polarizing too, not as much as the polar bear though...okay I'll stop).  Having no exams is a nice benefit, but be warned the problem sets are quite tedious, so when good ole Joe Blitzstein (god bless his soul) warns you that the problem sets are not to be breezed over he's not kidding.  That's not to say they're difficult, just a bit disorganized.  Final Project can be quite cool though, depending on how much time you have to put into it - unfortunately I had a project due the same day, another project due the day after, and an exam the day after that, so my MO was "get something passable done ASAP."  Overall this class feels like a poor man's CS50 - irrelevant lectures, learning primarily through the problem sets, and a final project that you'll either love or hate.  At least there weren't any pain-inducing office hours, and thank god we used Python instead of something like C.  As a CS concentrator, I'd say take it if you want, but it might be more useful to the Stats concentrators.  I was personally disappointed by the lack of real math used in the class - if you're looking for something mathy perhaps look at one of the AMs, such as AM121 (which now counts for the CS concentration??? Thanks Harry -_-).  Good luck!  Meanwhile, I'll still be trying to figure out what "data science" really is.
Lectures are not helpful and assignments require a lot of trying to figure out on your own.  If you don't have prior CS background, you'll also struggle a bit to catch up with programming in Python.
If your goal is to learn to use specific data science tools in Python (e.g., gensim, sklearn, pandas, etc), you'll get that out of this class. If you'd actually like to understand the underlying concepts, it's a waste of time. The instructors are fine, but the rest of the course staff is horribly disorganized and not very responsive.
Yes, it is time consuming class. And the lectures are alright. But, unlike almost any other class I have taken in the CS department, I spent the entire semester learning a real, tangible skill that will help me as I enter the professional world. There could definitely be a better support structure for the class, but they seem to really be taking student feedback into consideration and improving the class year over year.
great materials and i learned a lot. psets can be tough at times, but worthwhile.
If you want to learn Python, then unfortunately this course is the best way to do that at Harvard right now (or at least was when I took it). The assignments will force you to learn Python, and you'll even pick up some statistical understanding along the way if you're a) very attentive and b) lucky. For that reason alone I would say take it if you really want to learn Python. However, be warned that this course has several horrendous shortcomings. Firstly, the course staff, at least this year, was completely uninterested in students' development and learning. They were aloof, unresponsive, and unreasonable. Section is a complete waste of time; my TF was always completely unprepared and visibly upset to be there. Grading is totally arbitrary. That said, the professors are very smart and their lectures were interesting. So if you REALLY want to learn Python, do it, otherwise I'd say stay away at all costs.
This semester, at least, it was not as interesting as it has the potential to be. I didn't really enjoy the course, but I definitely learned things I wouldn't have had I not taken it.
So, if you can dedicate 30+ hours/pset, then take this class. You'll learn some really cool things about modern data science. (no need to go to lectures though)
Be prepared to work hard and learn a lot
This is an awesome course. You'll learn a lot, and you'll have fun. The lectures and lab components aren't helpful, and the psets are sometimes confusing, but overall I had a great time. It definitely helps to have some CS experience, but you don't really need stat.
Is a very interesting survey course overall of a number of useful skills.
This class is really applicable and you'll learn a lot about how to use Python to manage and analyze data. However, teach staff is so small compared to number of students--this leads to staff being lazy on grading (which makes a lot of people submit re-grades, which are also graded lazily), and staff is harshly and unfairly strict on certain guidelines that can make you frustrated and annoyed with how the class is run. Great material, poorly run.
As much as this course is suffering from a serious problem of biting off more than it can chew, you will come out of this course a better data scientist. I hope the instructors reduce the problem set lengths, add a midterm and/or final, and make section optional next year. This course has the potential to be amazing.
This class teaches very relevant material if you plan on pursuing a career in data science. However, it does require a lot of self drive and a will to learn on your own.
I did all of the work and attended exactly zero lectures.  Maybe I would've finished them more quickly if I had?  I generally received good feedback, however.  It's a good introduction to data science, and of course with no tests it's hard to say the class was particularly stressful, but do expect to put in some work every other week.  Start early!
This class is very interesting and rewarding if you are interested in learning how computer science (Python) can be used to do machine learning and statistical analysis of datasets.
If you are interested at all in the Data Science field and want to leave a class being able to complete Kaggle type classification problems and more, I recommend this class. If you are interested instead in learning the actual math behind the machine-learning algorithms then I would recommend considering CS 181 instead. This class is structured so that you get a brief overview of whats happening inside the black-box algorithms, learn how to code them in Python in the labs, then reproduce that implementation on a different problem on the psets; therefore, you can easily never go to lecture, know nothing about whats happening on the inside of these ML algorithms, and still manage to get an A. At the end of the day, you learn how to build a find data, clean data, and build classifiers which, from my experience, are skills you can also transfer from Python to R very very easily.However, if youve just always been wanting to master Python, this course is a great way to do that. The key to this class is really just being good or getting good at Python, to be honest. The majority of the data science/mining process is cleaning/wrangling of the data and the engineering of new feature variables which is often just writing functions and doing string manipulation in Python. Youll also become decently comfortable with scraping websites, which is an unbelievably useful skill to have. If you are coming straight out of CS 50 and know zero Python, there may be a slight learning curve at the beginning, but almost all of my friends in that situation felt comfortable coding in Python after struggling a bit through the first pset. Overall, great class! Very fast-paced but extremely useful.
A good way to learn a nice mixture of Python, statistics, and machine learning.
CS109 is a great course to take if you are interested in getting a basic understanding of data science and you will come out of it with a great knowledge of the resources out there to start on a cool project. That said, the problem sets take a long time (due every 2 weeks) and are not that rewarding because you lose out on a lot of depth by going for breadth. It is pretty accessible for a non-CS concentrator, and your most useful asset may be the ability to read documentation. Even though the lack of depth was overall frustrating, I would recommend the class since it's the only one I know of that really will let you dive into data science.
Only take this class if you like statistics. Data science isn't for everyone. Don't just do it because it's sexy. You'll end up hating it.
I can not comment too much since I almost never went to class and never watched lectures. Blitzstein is not nice. Everyone else is awesome.
It's a ton of time
This is as rewarding as how much you put into it! Since most of the learning takes place in the assignments, which are artfully crafted, then it is on the student to pay attention to what they are doing. You will learn how to do things in python either way, but if you want to understand the things you're implementing, you've got to pay close attention. All in all worth it though. Start your final project early...
CS 109 has a noble intention, because the ability to work with and analyze data in a meaningful way is incredibly important. The course does successfully teach some relevant Python syntax and teaches the basics of how to use Python libraries related to machine learning and visualization effectively. However, the class doesn't treat those topics with any significant rigor (which might be a good thing or a bad thing depending on who you are), and the problem sets often aren't very good at making you learn the material. That being said, the final project did offer an opportunity to apply (and learn) a lot of the techniques taught in the class. Overall, you'll learn something about analyzing data statistically, but the class could be structured much more effectively.
It's nice having psets due every other week, but the psets can be fairly long (depending on how well-versed you are in the material and in python). Also, you get out of the course what you put in; if you don't read a lot of the optional sections of the psets or pay attention in lectures, it is an easy class to do well in without learning much, but the opportunity to learn a lot is definitely there.
Do not take this class. Ignore the comments that tell you that there were good parts of the class, or that it is what you make of it/it is good if you put in hard work. That is not true. The psets are very poorly done (interesting ideas, but essentially just you running 80% code written by staff, 15% copy pasting code from previous year's problem sets that they link you to, 5% code that you barely understand). You rarely understand the math that is going on, or the reason they make certain design decisions, or anything at all because you never go to lecture, because there is no NEED to go to lecture. They are dry, uninteresting, and provide no technical insight into the material it is supposed to be teaching you. The course aspires to be a lot but falls so short. In an effort to make it accessible to as many people as possible, they end up teaching you nothing. If you want to learn the material here in a better class, take cs 181/281 and learn web scraping/pandas on your own. it will be much more worth it.
It's a dece class.  Psets take a bit, but are manageable.
tl;dr - fun class that introduces you to data science and a little machine learning, but it's very easy to breeze through the psets without really learning anything.This is an applied cs class, which means you'll get what you put into the class. On one hand, it's really easy to do the psets without actually going to lectures or paying attention to section. However, I'm sure the material is very interesting (once I get the chance to go through it myself...) and you'll gain a lot from the class if you actually pay attention. In terms of coding, the psets are pretty straightforward, though there are mistakes from time to time, so pay attention to piazza. You'll come out of the class with a good grasp of python and a fun project for your resume. Make sure you're comfortable coding and reading code, or at least have a friend who is, or you'll struggle with the class. Some of the cool topics you'll be familiar with include web scraping, data engineering, making classifiers and linear regression models, and some text analysis
It seems like they've definitely improved this course from previous iterations. They try to cover a lot of material, so it's not a surprise that some of the more complicated stuff won't stick. Otherwise, they teach you to think really deeply about what you're doing on the psets. Labs are also super helpful!
The material in this class is worth learning.  However, the course is run terribly so prepare for that. PSets are every other week which is nice, and you can use a late day on each one.  Work is very manageable and final project is pretty easy.
This course is what you make of it. Go to lecture if you want to learn. Otherwise, you'll just spend time every couple of months, mindlessly coding for something you don't understand/care about just for the sake of doing homework.
Although the lectures were sometimes not very engaging, the problem sets were a lot of fun to complete even if they took a long time.
In the end, I'm really glad I took this course, as I learned a lot of useful skills about data science, and completing the final project was really satisfying. Throughout the semester though, there were some really painful weeks with the HW. It's not bad in the sense that there are only 5 HW's and a final project and no exams, but completing each of the HW's felt like completing a project, as they'll tell you at the beginning of the class. If you're interested in data, I'd definitely recommend this class (knowing Python really helps), although I also hope that unlike me, you'll have more motivation to go to lecture and really learn the material so that you get more out of it, as otherwise the incentive to do so quickly drops off.
The homeworks are brutally long. The professors are so esoteric and such poor lecturers that you're better off teaching yourself. The work builds up, with lab and section, but the course heads will pretend like everything is manageable. You should be very comfortable coding before taking this class. They'll tell you that you have a ton of time for the final project, but that's also a blatant lie. The last homework is due right before Harvard-Yale and then it's Thanksgiving. Prepare to get lost. Rahul and some of the otehr professors will drive you insane with their horrendously esoteric rants where every other word is a technical term they never bothered to define.
It is a worthwhile class, but the assignments are very long so you should count it as a time-consuming class.
This class is all about what you put into it. The labs and psets are chock full of information about machine learning algorithms, classifiers, regression techniques, and lots of other data science material. If you spend the time reading them, you'll gain a lot. Rahul does a good job making the labs and psets (even if they often are like a book in length). But know that if you don't make the most of section and spend the time to read and learn, getting through the psets will be slow, aggravating, and much less informative.
Overview of lots of methods, but the assignments don't really force you to really learn material. Plus doesn't go into detail about how methods work.
Start thinking about what you would like to do for your final project in the beginning of the semester! CS projects never exactly end, so start early!
It is a lot of work, but very real world and very rewarding.
Take this course because your grade is largely determined by homework and the project! Piazza is really helpful when it comes to completing homework. Make sure you confirm your project group early on and don't assume everyone is on the same page with the project.
Super relevant class in the data age and pretty easy, but not the most efficiently run. Psets sometimes felt like busywork because you could easily get through them without understanding any of the theory. That said, if you're diligent about going to lecture (which almost no one does) I'm sure you could learn a lot.
This class has all the typical problems that come with a class that's too big, although they were exacerbated by the fact that a lot of non-CS people took the course and therefore needed extra attention in order to make it past the Python learning curve. The staff take AGES to reply to your emails or they never do (has happened to me in many cases). TFs have no say in anything and just always direct you to the head TF--they're utterly unhelpful when you have a grading dispute because everything is black or white and determined by the head TF, who happens to think that if your method of coding or presenting something is not his way of doing it, then you are wrong and you will be penalized for it. The material was fine, although if you're just taking this class as "an easy filler CS class", which I was, you won't be incentivized to learn anything, which is pretty bad because then the class becomes a waste of your time. I got through the psets having learned only the minimal amount about the stats methods behind them because the psets tended to abstract out the statistics into black boxes, so if you're a very logical person and you know how to code, you can finish the pset just fine. This class will teach you cool skills to manipulate extremely large data sets and analyze them with statistics, but if you're a CS major and you've already had some experience in data science, especially in industry, you'll find it boring.
Take this if you want to learn python and get an intro to data science and machine learning.
CS109 was a huge improvement this year! Homeworks were super interesting, and brings you through the entire process of data science of discovery - from data cleaning to gaining actual insights through running models. Skeleton code given was just the right balance of allowing us to skip over the more mundane parts of coding but not giving everything away as well. The cool thing about this course is that it teaches so many of the most important and fundamental things in data science/machine learning and you get a glimpse of everything through the homeworks. Subsequently, we get to apply whichever you're most excited about for the final project! The project, though stressful, was a highlight as well. Our TF ensured we were on top of things all the way through, and gave more than sufficient guidance. The professors and Rahul lectured in an interesting manner as well (lectures get more interesting as the semester goes on in my opinion)! 10/10 would recommend.
Start your psets early! They always take longer than you think. Go to office hours, the staff is very helpful!
Only take if you're interested in data science; if not, the disorganization and other frustrations might not be worth your time. The best part of this course was the homeworks. Though they were quite long - definitely do not wait until the night before - they were interesting, tangible, and thorough (for the most part). Feedback, however, was quite sparse; rarely do you receive more than a few quick notes. Even though each homework had ~5 problems, each with ~3-5 subparts, they were graded out of 10 with only integer values possible; often, people lost many more points than they felt they deserved. In addition, the Piazza was an absolute mess; part of this was caused by the participation grade, which required posting answers and/or questions to the Piazza. Instead of resolving questions, this led to many unhelpful responses, such as "checking the code" and "reading the assignment". The instructors maintained most of their communication through Piazza, so the additional traffic was quite burdensome to everyone. The labs were interesting and sometimes helpful for homeworks, but they also made the amount of course material pretty overwhelming. I can't say much about lecture, as I rarely attended - the material in lecture was not necessary, as the labs were much more helpful for the homeworks.
This class has a lot of potential to be really cool, but it's definitely not there yet. The problem with this course is that it didn't really work to build on itself, but instead felt like a lot of unrelated topics and a lot of exercise in coding in python rather than learning techniques that data scientists should be using. The material is pretty cool, but it's easily lost in the mess that is cleaning up data, but then again I guess that is a big component of data science.
It's a good intro to data analysis in Python, with some intro machine learning techniques thrown in as well. If you have prior experience with Python, it will be really easy. The problem sets were very unclear at times though, which was very frustrating. It seemed like the course staff didn't even bother to proof read the assignments, and just answered the floods of questions after the fact on Piazza.
this class is great for beginners who don't have perfectly advanced cs skills and who are interested in statistics. stat 100 is good enough preparation, although be prepared to look up a few things that are related to statistical algorithms. Course graders take into account cs background
It's a very easy class, but you're unlikely to learn a great deal.
As long as you've taken the prerequisites, this class won't be difficult. However, it's terribly organized and the problem sets take forever because you have to spend hours on Piazza for each one tracking down corrections for all the typos and poorly worded questions in the pset specs. Seriously, all the problem sets would have taken half as long to complete if an English-speaking TF had bothered to proofread them before releasing them. Lecture is wildly uninformative and honestly not really worth attending. This is one of those classes you can forget about until a couple days before each biweekly problem set is due.
This class is about as community college as it gets at Harvard. Some of the skills you may pick up are useful (scraping, basic ML concepts).
The material this course offers is extremely valuable. Its a wonderful commitment device for learning data wrangling and pythons most useful libraries (numpy, scipy, pandas, scikit-learn, matplotlib). That said, the problem sets were often unclear and unnecessarily tedious. They did get a bit better over the course of the term  the course heads were learning  but be ready to rely heavily on piazza for clarifications and additional direction. Im extremely thankful that I took this course. I did not know python before it and now feel extremely comfortable.  I can do so much exploratory data analysis and apply machine learning algorithms from libraries without difficulty. I must say its one of the most useful courses Ive ever taken.
A great course on data science, but the lectures are not very helpful or instructive. The homework is definitely stimulating and is the main thing that teaches you the material.
Okay, but assignments are really buggy and the course feels half-baked at times.
Really interesting material. Psets are fairly straightforward to get done but can take a lot of time (difficult, but graded leniently so it balances out). No tests, just psets and final project, which is a great setup.
Spend time on the problem sets and you'll be fine
This class is really interesting -- I definitely learned a lot about how to collect data from the web and how to use it for analysis. While you do need to know how to code (CS50 is enough) you don't need to have any python knowledge to do well. The lectures are not required, but are actually very interesting if you go and pay attention. The problem sets are only every other week (which is amazing!!) but are somewhat frustrating. It's not always clear what you're supposed to do, so piazza will be your best friend. The final project is also a ton of fun and a great way to apply what you've learned on something that matters to you!
Expect the homework sets to take a long time, but the questions are usually interesting and real-world applicable.  Lectures aren't always the most useful but lab (which no one went to?) was great for practical tips on how to complete the homework.  You'll definitely get a working knowledge of how to use ipython notebooks for statistical models, which I hear is practical in the real world...
Be prepared to learn on your own. Start problem sets early.
From what I heard, this class was really really good last year; however, with the changing of professors, its quality dipped... I would say that it's worthwhile to take this class to learn how to manipulate data in python, which is very applicable to other classes. That being said, it wasn't the best taught course and it required a LOT of self-learning. Also, the lectures were mostly irrelevant.
A decent course, but at this point in time potentially not worth the substantial time commitment it requires.
To be straight to the point:
1) Lecture is irrelevant and unnecessary. I attended one lecture 3 weeks before the semester ended and counted less than 5 undergrad.
2) Problem Sets are somewhat of a mess. For example, one pset was so poorly written that piazza essentially blew up. Instead of rewriting the pset, they gave a 3 day extension. I really don't understand who thought that would be an acceptable solution to the problem.
3) This class can best be summed up as "CS people don't really learn anything about Stat in this class, and Stat people don't really learn anything about CS in this class". Class was pretty easy overall once one figured out to use pandas and python. 
4) Office hours for this class are a disaster. 1 TF for >15 students, assuming the TF actually shows up (which didn't always happen)
Lectures were more useful than I thought they'd be for the problem sets. I really liked what the problem sets were trying to teach. However, they weren't well written and I felt like I spent way too much to trying to understand what the question was asking. It's an okay class that can definitely be improved a lot.
I'm pretty sure this class didn't teach me a single thing.  I became more aware of data science terms and the tools that exist, but that's about it.
The topic is absolutely relevant, and depending on the instructors the course could be (and has been) done really well. Prospective students should see videos of the current year's instructors teaching, if possible, to see if it fits them.
Definitely approach this class at your own risk. The homework assignments sometimes required too much "clariifcaiton" and there are a wide range of skill levels. Nevertheless the grading for the homework was extremley fair.
This course has very interesting subject matter, but the course components still need to be improved. Lectures were often not very engaging, and problem sets were unnecessarily confusing and unclear. It is a highly marketable class for interviews but I would not recommend it unless you have a very clear interest in data science.
This is a very cool and practical class. The problem sets are all based off interesting real-life examples and are fun to complete. Having them due every other week (with plentiful late days) certainly does make the class more manageable. Lecture can seem simple, but go anyway - it's sometimes very cool. It's very manageable without CS50 experience - just be prepared to work hard to master python in the first few weeks.
This course is awesome!
The psets were horribly done. The topics are cool but the psets are structured in a way that does not teach the material. Also lectures are pretty irrelevant.
I learned a lot of extremely useful material (python, data manipulation, pandas library, how to make a website for the final project).  However, the class was extremely frustrating because up until the final problem set the questions on the problem sets were very unclear. I spent about 3/4 of my time trying to understand the questions, and only 1/4th of my time actually answering the questions.
This class has the potential to be very beneficial. Unfortunately, this was only it's second year, and both the original first year teachers were on sabbatical. The class felt grossly short of what I expected it to be and what I had heard from first year students. There was no reason to go to class, the assignments were unintelligible, and the material we learned was heavily based on Machine Learning, even though this class is not CS181. It is not hard to get good grades, but you could learn this class in a weekend from a Python for Data Analysis O'Reiley book.

Note that I took this class with the replacement teachers, so everything I say could change when the original professors come back and teach this class for the second time.
Good class only if the problem sets are written with more care.
Pretty interesting intro to data science. If you've had CS before, this class won't be too time consuming, but it can be tough otherwise.
This is a great intro to data science and the different methods it employs. You'll also realize how useful statistics and algorithms are in solving really interesting real world problems! Psets can be very time-intensive at first if you're not familiar with python/pandas.
Good class. Prepare for the final project ahead of time.
This class was an absolutely abomination of bad planning. There was literally zero organization, the TFs were not accessible and honestly extremely confused. No one seemed to have any idea what was going on. The problem sets could have been interesting, but ended up being tedious rearranging of dataframes. The professors were ineffective lecturers and the material presented in lecture was pretty much irrelevant to everything else in the class.
Some interesting topics and problem sets, but organization and materials need a lot of work.
The course this year was disorganized. The lectures were not useful and over half the TFs did not host any office hours. This is completely unacceptable because for many students office hours are essential to answer lasting questions and completing the PSETs. The PSETs were often riddled with vague problems which would require constant checking on Piazza to confirm one interpretation of the problem over another.

I am also not sure why Stephanie Hicks is listed as the head TF if she  does not perform any teaching duties. If "teaching" means administrative duties like checking if PSETs are submitted and sending them off for other TFs to grade, then I guess I may stand corrected.

The content of the PSETs and the applicability of this course to real world problems are the redeeming factors of this course. I really enjoyed how the course forces you to learn python very quickly in order to tackle predictions and problems such as predicting the result of the 2014 Senate Midterm Elections. 

Biweekly PSETs took about 15-20 hours for me to complete, but I think this time could have been shaved off if provided organized resources, access to the office hours of all TFs, and if we had more instructors who actually cared about making the learning experience a fruitful one. I am sure the professors were well intended, but unfortunately the result for students has not really reflected their well intentions.
Take it if you're interested in data science. Taught poorly in my opinion this year, but the professors will be different next year.
Take it if you're interested in Data Science. Also one of the only classes at Harvard that teaches something practical.
The Fall 2014 offering of this course was mediocre at best. The assignments were very vague (except for the very last one). For the final project, I didn't feel like we were very well prepared to perform exploratory analysis or machine learning techniques. The intuition for each step of the final project came from prior experience and logic rather than stuff we learned in class. Overall, unless Blitzstein and Pfister teach this class again, I would recommend it with reservation.
The material is extremely interesting, but I think the department is still working out kinks on how its best taught. I'm sure that the course will keep evolving to be an even better class.
Only take this if you are very comfortable with programming and statistics, it's honestly completely self-driven and you just have to figure it out for yourself. If you can do that, it's really easy.
This class will teach you a lot about practical and useful techniques in data science, but the lectures were often unsatisfactory and felt irrelevant to the matter at hand. But if you're willing to teach yourself Python, then it's a class worth taking.
Take it to practice your skills on the problem sets. Data science is really really important to science, finance, and a lot of other fields. That said, the course didn't seem to be very well organized. Lectures are a waste of time.
CS109 was almost completely a waste of time. Other than learning how to generate plots and work with dataframes in python, you don't really get much out of the class. If you want to learn about data science, you should just take STAT139/149 and CS181. The psets were fairly easy, but mostly because they were pointless.

For the final project, having both a website and a video is total overkill.
Never went to class. Psets are quite badly written. Maybe if you put more work into it, it would be more useful, but otherwise it's not the best taught class.
Pretty easy, knowing python before is a plus.
It would be possible to take this course without experience in Python (I did not have experience in Python), but it is extremely difficult, and will require using outside resources to learn.
The stuff you do in this class is objectively very, very cool. We had problem sets that had us analyzing MLB players' salaries, looking at poll results (in order to predict the midterm elections, which we had a contest for), building a good/bad wine classifier, and more. It's not a very challenging class if you have basic stat knowledge (basically the equivalent of AP stat in high school) and coding experience. The lectures are kind of boring but like I said they're more than made up for with the problem sets in which you look at real data to draw conclusions and feel like a true data scientist. Highly recommended!
I liked this class a lot. It was a bit disorganized and the psets were often not clear, but the instructors and TF's are really nice and helpful and I really enjoyed the material.
A very fun and easy class (depending on your background) that teaches you the basic steps in order to be a data scientist.  I had taken several APMTH courses and CS50 and didn't find the course very difficult.  That said, if you start the problem sets early, you'll run into some problems because the staff would continually email out changes to the assignments.  Piazza will be your friend and the TFs really do try to help everyone out, so it you a stuck, the answer to your problems will most likely be on Piazza.  Start the final projects early because the data collection will take the most amount of time!
This class is a great introduction to what data science is like. You'll be able to use Python by the end of the course to work with and analyze data.
This is an excellent course for anyone trying to learn Python from scratch and combine it with statistical understanding, especially of predictions.
This class is excellent from a practical perspective. You get out of it what you put into it, and if you put the work in to learn not only the computer science aspects but the intuition behind the statistics, you will be ably rewarded.
What you get out of this class depends entirely on the knowledge you have coming in and the amount of time you put into the course.

If you have minimal CS experience (e.g. just CS50) then be prepared to learn a lot of Python. This is actually a really good thing, and this class is a great way to get a handle on standard Python use. However, it will take a lot of time and I'd imagine it will be frustrating as well.

If you have a decent to large amount of programming knowledge, then this class will be easy but frustrating.

In short, take this class if you have a lot of CS experience and want to put in a few hours every two weeks for an easy class, or have a small amount of CS knowledge and are ok with putting in a lot of time to learn a lot of practical computing skills.
it is not particularly organized and the lectures are not particularly engaging. moreover, the lectures do not relate fully to the coursework and the problem sets. the final project is very vague and abstract as well.
This class will improve your Python skills, so it might be worthwhile for that reason. Otherwise you won't get a ton out of it.
This course should be great. The subject matter is very interesting and it is great to be able to do actual data science on real data sets. However, it is poorly structured. The lectures were pointless and very poorly taught. The homework assignments were graded almost at random. And I didn't feel like I actually learned much. I wouldn't recommend this class unless you already know you wanted to do data science and even then just to have a class on your transcript named data science.
This is a truly great class.  It's definitely work and very challenging especially if you don't have a lot of experience with programming languages.  It is so worth it though, because you gain a specific, interesting and important skill set.  Your grade is entirely based on homework and the final project which is nice.  The homework sets and lectures don't necessarily correlate a ton.  Most of the learning is done in doing the homework.  There's lots of TFs to help with the homework.  If you have a solid computer science background this class will be a breeze.  Otherwise, it will be a great challenging class.  Worth it.
If they want to learn about the basics of machine learning, how to use python and strengthen their statistical knowledge, then this is the course for them. Doing the problem set is the most helpful feature in this class.
A fun course teaching very practical and applicable skills. It is good for learning how to wrangle and clean datasets, but the statistical material is covered in a somewhat superficial manner. I would have enjoyed a greater level of rigor. It might be worth taking this and then CS 181, for greater depth on the topics covered.
Think about it carefully if you do not have stats background. You can learn a lot from this course, but it will be hard.
Be warned that this class is a lot of meticulous work that is not necessarily very satisfying. You'll spend hours searching how to correctly enter a single line of code. Too much of your time is spent on details, and too little of it actually understanding the concepts and strategies behind data science
Probably one of the most useful classes at Harvard. Learning Python and applied statistics will change your life.
work on interesting psets... don't really need to go to class though.  it is good for getting familiar with pandas and data science questions.
The professors who taught the course in my year were not engaging, motivating, inspiring. Lectures were very dull, and to be honest you do not need to go to any lecture to be able to do well in the HW assignments and final project. But the topic of the course is interesting, and if you're willing to teach yourself Python and explore things on your own, then you get the most out of it, without needing great, engaging professors.
This class has high aspirational intentions, but it does not really cut it. The lectures and the homework assignments barely tie together, if at all. The homework assignments were confusing to follow, and they don't really teach you how to apply methods in data science. However, the last assignment became a little bit closer to being comprehensible. The overall problem of the course might stem from the problem of making the class general enough that students without CS and/or stat background can take it, so that it breezes over both concepts without much depth.
This class is good because it is really applicable and the classification/data analysis portion was actually very interesting. Drawbacks are that psets are graded very randomly and truly depends on your tf.
This class provides a good foundation for doing data science. I think the most valuable takeaway was the final project, which includes creation of a website which I plan to show to employers. If you want to do data science or even software engineering, it's good to start building your portfolio of projects, and this class will give you one to add to the list. Make sure you get a good team you can learn from. I recommend being the second-dumbest person on your team so you're not completely overwhelmed but you're learning from your peers.
This course is a busy work kind of course that won't really teach you any statistics if you don't already know it. Also the TFs are extremely unfair when it comes to grading, and grading in general is very subjective... one TF graded me extremely leniently while the other extremely harshly.
This class a lot of space to improve. The idea behind it is very interesting and would be super useful but I think they either need to only focus on a couple of topics instead of all of them. The final project specifications could be more specific.
It's a very interesting class but you should be prepared to put a lot of time and effort into the final project!
You can do pretty well in the class without going to any lecture.  That said, I wish I had gone to lecture because I think you get more out of the class that way; the psets don't cover everything.  The problem sets take awhile but are not CS50-level crazy to the point where you need to go to office hours to iron out every little issue.  I completed all of the assignment with just me and Piazza; one assignment had two technical issues that I received help for from another student, but otherwise very doable.
Perhaps one of the most practical classes I've taken at Harvard. Big data is the future and this course does a pretty good job of teaching you how to work with it. Additionally, I came in not knowing any python at all and feel pretty comfortable with it now. That said, there seemed to be a bigger emphasis on computer programming than data analysis.
Awesome course.
Be prepared to work very long hours on the assignments.
One of the most useful and interesting classes I've taken at Harvard. It's a lot of work (no more than a regular CS class), but well worth it!
Lots of useful stuff to be learned. Try to keep on top of the readings, lectures and labs as best as you can if you want to get the most out of the course.
Brilliantly useful class. Definitely take it if you want to do anything with data analysis in the future.
Although the subject matter is really cool, this class really doesn't live up to its potential. Lectures try to do a survey of most of the major methods in data science, which ends up spreading too many topics over too few lectures with too little detail on anything. As a result, I don't feel like I learned much about the statistics of data science.
It's a pretty good class. But expect to dedicate some time. You get out what you put in.
Assignment feedback from my TF was pretty useless--they typically involved "you could have made your visualization better by ..." -0.5. I thought this class was about data science, NOT visualizations, but that's exactly what the TFs were looking for.Another typical Hanspeter class (note: all his classes are EXACTLY the same; his lectures are exactly recycled from his other classes). The class was definitely tailored more for people who had VERY little experience in programming (judging by the large amount of noise on Piazza and very low quality questions), and I learned nothing from this class.This class does not fulfill it's promise of teaching "data science", rather it's just a mix of web scraping, making some ad hoc histograms and plots, and some basic machine learning using existing library functions. Disappointing.
This was one of the most useful classes I've taken at Harvard. Even though the lectures were not as cohesive as I would have liked, the material and assignments made me really comfortable with handling and analyzing data. These skills are useful in virtually any field from the sciences to economics, and even history.
This ended up being a much larger time commitment than I expected. It was on CS50 levels. The topic was interesting but personally the class taught me that I don't care to be dealing with the nitty gritty work of cleaning up data and getting finicky Python statistical packages to work with it. The psets were LONG for someone like myself who had only taken CS50.
Take this course with the goal of improving your grasp on python. Personally, constantly writing python code in this class helped me land my job. That said, there is very little 'data science' that I learned (then again,I never went to lecture). The psets walked you through stuff.
It will require a tremendous amount of work and time.
Hard, but definitely worth it. This class is time-consuming, but you will develop some very valuable, employable, real-world skills.
data science is very much a topic that needs to be done in order to be learned. this class creates a good environment to do this while learning a lot of the more common techniques, but of course, is not the only place to do so (ie, doing the homeworks on your own or reading through the lab notebooks could achieve the same goal). the homeworks are an instrumental learning tool and much of the knowledge and education is developed by completing the problem sets.
a good class, but could be much better if they tightened up the lectures and you actually did more of the stat instead of just letting them do it for you
its a doable cs class. its still kind of a lot of work if you're not a CS or stat whiz.
Please do not take this class if you don't know how to code or haven't taken Stat 110. You make the final project incredibly difficult for the rest of your group members. Some of the lectures will be too advanced for you and too boring for those who have taken 110. Lecture is not helpful.
This class covers the very important topic of data science. The problem sets were challenging but fulfilling. You will learn to code in Python very well and learn some of Python's most important packages.  However, the lectures were not very effective, and I feel like most people in the course did not learn the conceptual material very well.  In other words, you will be able to code a Naive Bayes Classifier by the end of the class but you won't really know what it means or what it does. I think the reason why the conceptual teaching failed was because the course tried to cover too many concepts. If the professors had just focused on one or two big classifiers and actually went through their derivation and implications in detail on the chalkboard (rather than just whizzing through them on PowerPoint), I think I would have learned a lot more.
This is both the most challenging and rewarding class I have ever taken. I loved every second of it!
This is a great, easy CS class to explore Python and Data Science.
Do not judge it by this year's Q scores. It was a new course but it will get better and you should give it a chance. It teaches really cool ideas.
This was a fun class and I feel like I learned alot but the course often felt cluttered and could be more focused on learning certain data science methods, rather than trying to teach them all. A good course, but don't expect to leave with a clear understanding of the methods you'll see.
This class is lots of work, though not as hard as some of the other CS classes I have taken. Stat 110 is not really needed--in fact if you have stat experience dealing with data (as opposed to probability), that is better. Know how to program or this class will be really hard. Overall, it was a lot of fun and I finally learned Python! You will learn how to scrape data and analyze it. Labs are great for hands-on work, a welcome change from often boring sections. But if you are looking for a class to teach you the different statistical methods, this is not it. Take a stats class instead. I loved this class, though, and am glad I took it. I enjoyed doing every pset. It was set up well.
You learn to do cool things, but you don't necessarily learn how they work. Overall, I'm glad I took this class.
Unlike many CS classes at Harvard which are either very theoretical or low-level, this class has obvious real-world applications to a wide variety of fields. Graph algorithms, map-reduce, and recommendation algorithms are some of the most useful topics in CS today. The homeworks are long but very guided and you have 2 weeks to do them. I would not recommend this class if you aren't very comfortable coding, but if you're ok with python this is one of the best and most useful CS classes you could possibly take.
This class was really helpful in teaching about broad concepts of machine learning, data cleaning, etc.  The problem sets are coding-centric but also teach you about the concepts behind what you are coding.  It is super helpful for Stat majors who want more CS.  In terms of CS majors who want more Stat, I am less convinced that it teaches anything that CS181 doesn't.
Do start problem sets early because as with any CS problem sets you never know what problems you'll run into...and they're fun.
This course is a great course. You learn a lot from the PSets and you accomplish some cool stuff.  At the end of the course, my project group was able to build a predictor for stock prices.  It actually beat the market in our trials.  How cool is that?  We went from having no idea how to do that to being able to get data and make predictions.
This course was extremely disorganized and not cohesive (ie: lectures did not relate to each other and did not relate to the psets). The psets were intellectually simple, just plugging numbers into equations and debugging for hours. Overall, I didn't learn much.
Useful class--learned lots of Python. Emphasizes implementation rather than theory.
The homework assignments are excellent and extremely interesting, however the lectures are only loosely connected to the homework assignments. Instead you're expected to attend an additional lab which is the only real help you get on homeworks. One of the best things about this class is how much you learn while struggling through the homeworks, but the worst thing about this class is that the homeworks were graded out of 4 points. I do not think its possible to fairly grade a homework like this out of 4 points. Other student responses will probably talk about this as well.
The class is good as an intro to CS class and good to fulfill any requirements one might have for a secondary or concentration credit. That said it doesn't involve too much prior CS knowledge and doesn't really strain you much algorithmically.
The problem sets are really interesting and you learn a lot from them. Somewhat disorganized but perhaps because this was the first year the course was being offered.
The five homework assignments were a lot of work and incredibly fun. A little disorganized otherwise, but it was still worth it.
This class is somewhat disjointed, more about programming tricks than stats (stats is all black boxed)Class seems untied to problem sets or projectGrading is a bit arbitrary (3.5 and 4 on homework seems to be left to TF discretion, seems random)
First, the good news was this class helped get me a job as a data scientist. But I feel like it failed to provide the sort of rigor that I'd like going into a job in the field, particularly in terms of doing almost ZERO statistics in the problem sets.  The feedback from the teaching fellows was also by and large atrocious.
Demanding class but teaches you cool, interesting, and useful things
A course that is extremely pertinent and relevant in today's world, a rarity in Harvard courses. The assignments are extremely fun to do and extremely satisfying to complete since it teaches you an incredible amount. The problem sets do require a lot of time to complete though. Lectures could of been more relevant to completing the homework
While the topic is really interesting and you learn a lot from this course, the lectures are not helpful. The concept of splitting the time between showing visualizations and complex statistical models seems to be a great idea but the models are shown in such a pace that you just look at them briefly and the visualization part is just looking at beautiful pictures.The part where you actually learn things are the homeworks. Those are really long and not difficult at all but you really get to know the required libraries. You do not however learn anything about the statistical models - everything is more or less given and you only need to implement them.The feedback by the TF's was lacking in all regards. You were lucky when you even got two sentences of feedback for a homework that took you 40 hours to complete.
Don't take it if you don't have enough time. This course is ridiculous in terms of time intensity. Still, the contents you learn are as much as you can learn within one term and are most valuable.
Just have patience.  Also, practice python Pandas dataframes before the class.  They will hold you up hard.
Blitzstein said it: if you didn't take stat 110 you'd be lost, if you did you would be bored. He is awesome, but the lectures didn't help with anything, so I didn't go. Pfister, on the other hand, is useless. Why does he co-teach this class? He can't even code. So glad I didn't take cs171.I suppose this class is good if you want to learn practical things, like you would learn at community college. The homeworks force you to learn stuff that's SO BORING you would never learn it of your own volition. It is helpful, however, for the final project. The problem sets were so tedious yet non intellectually stimulating, it was almost miraculous. The ipython notebook format was also a total joke. Scrolling took forever and it taught you bad coding style. Honestly, this class probably made my coding worse, since there was no effort at all to teach us how to write pythonic code or modular code or reusable code. PLEASE don't take this instead of CS50 or CS51. Your final project partners will hate you. All of that said, I see questions I could answer now in the world around me. This class could be a lot better, and it was only the first year. Here's what I would do: 1. Ditch Pfister. 2. Teach coding style in python, modularity, unit tests, etc. 3. Do case studies instead of "follow the directions" problem sets. 4. Do 2-3 final projects instead of the psets.
CS109 was an awesome class. I took it on the first year it was offered but I still thoroughly enjoyed it. The homeworks are very interesting but take a long time to do and often directions in the homeworks are unclear. I felt that I learned skills that are incredibly applicable to work outside the classroom. For the group project make sure you have good teammates.
Challenging, but rewarding.
There's extremely useful material in this course, but some of it will go right past you.  The more work you put into the course the more you'll get out of it.  I'm glad that I took this course and I think it will be better next time.
The assignments in this course were excellent! However, very little statistics was taught in this course -- most of it can be completed with no knowledge of what's actually happening with the theory and models. However, I did learn a ton about how to use Python to effectively deal with data, so I guess that was useful.
This class is a great introduction to data science. I would highly encourage it to any student interested in Stats or CS, especially if he or she is potentially considering data science as a future career option (which allows VERY good career opportunities!)
Expect to learn coding but not statistics.
Very cool class with some novel material.  Presentation is a little scattered, but working through the homeworks are very rewarding.
Possibly because it was the first year this class was taught, I did not find the course lectures to be synthesized very well. I feel like the actual material itself is interesting and has cool real world applications, but so far the course has not reached its full potential. Lectures seem a bit disjoint and it's possible to do psets independently of class.
This class is so useful and practical. Would highly recommend for anybody interested in big data / analytics of any kind. Gloss over the fundamental theory somewhat, but allows you to cover a massive landscape in different methods of analysis. Critical thinkers are desperately needed in big data analytics and this class provides you with the tools to be an effective analyst.
If you're interested in seeing some very cool examples of how data can be presented and analyzed, this course is great. You won't learn much detail about anything though, so if you want to learn advanced machine learning algorithms or how to do interactive data manipulations, a broad overview course like this one is probably not the one you're looking for.
In theory, CS 109 is a good course - and it has the potential to be really good. You learn about lots of cool topics that all in some way are related to "data science", and you learn at a basic level how to code up stuff to do data analysis and visualization. But, the depth is often lacking, especially as far as actually learning how to do more statistics-heavy procedures (a lot of it is somewhat black-boxed in the problem sets in pre-made functions), and rather you get lots of loosely connected breadth, for better or worse. Lectures were variable in interest... but given that this is a brand new and ambitious course, and seeing how Blitzstein's perfected Stat 110 over time, hopefully CS 109 (or something similar) will get better.
This is a great introduction of "Data Science". I felt that I learned a lot and got much more comfortable with the theory and practice of gleaning insight from data. This is the kind of course where you'll get out only what you put it - it's possible to coast through it or to really dive in and get a lot out of it. I highly recommend it: the material is useful to students of any major/career.
take this class! so useful, so applicable, wow.
This was the first time this class was offered. They try covering a lot of material but not much of it shows up in homework, which ends up being more about cleaning data and using predefined functions. The material is interesting nonetheless and there are plenty of guest lecturers and additional Python labs. There is a strong emphasis on the final project (50% of the grade) so there is the chance of doing something really interesting.
This is a fantastic course for actually learning a highly practical skill: how to use a computer to handle and analyze so-called "big data." The lectures are a bit theoretical, but the excellent problem sets force you to learn everything you need to know. However, both Blitzstein and Pfister are taking a leave of absence soon, so tread carefully.
The class is intense in terms of quantity of homework, but not too intense with regards to difficulty.  A great introduction to Data Science that goes into relevant topics and is taught through the homework. The content of the class really carries it, if you are interested, do take it.  Be warned, grading can be opaque.
really applicative, problem sets are long
This was the first time this class was offered so it had the typical struggles. Homework could be done without any knowledge of statistics and was basically just manipulating dataframes in python. iPython Notebook was cool though and good to learn.
It's a fun and easy CS elective. The problem sets are fun, with a high degree of hand-holding. The visualization lectures don't mesh very well with the course in general, and lecture attendance is far from mandatory, but take it for the assignments. There are also no exams, which is awesome.
This class requires a ton of time, even with bi-weekly p-sets so make sure to start early. This will save you a lot of agony especially for later p-sets that are heavy on your computer's memory/running speed.
This is a good overview but you will not learn particularly much about any given subject. I thought the homework assignments were very helpful in breaking down the steps of many modern data science techniques, but the instructors also give you a lot of the code/structure that does the heavy lifting. This is helpful for making the assignments easier, and somewhat worse for understanding.If you pick a good final project though, the class will probably feel worth it.
As the course site says, being a data scientist/statistician will be the sexy job in the next decade. This course ambitiously provides a survey of data science techniques, exposing students to both CS and statistic aspects of it. As a biologist who is expecting to work with lots of sequencing data in the future, I was eager to improve my informatics capabilities in any way. I ultimately learned more on the CS side from this course and therefore look forward to taking more courses on statistics in the future. As the instructors aimed to make this course accessible to a broad range of students with different experiences, they deserve much praise for their work. The course will only improve in the coming years. Take it if you want to be sexy!
Literally the worst class I've taken at Harvard. The class was very poorly organized and had the worst assignments I've ever completed at Harvard. I thought the material would be useful but I did not learn anything from this course except for learning how to scrape from websites. The class started as a good idea of teaching data science but the implementation failed. If you are not a CS concentrator with 2 years of python experience, do NOT take this course.
This course teaches useful material, but lectures are completely useless for the homework. I, and most of my friends, did not even go to class for the last month and did perfectly fine on the homework and final project.
This course is definitely worth taking because it will expose you to a lot of in demand and relevant material. Essential stuff for a stats concentrator and even a CS concentrator.Believe that they will improve the course in future iterations. I suspect that the lecture material and the assignments will be better synchronized, some of the kinks in the problem sets will be worked out, and that the support network will be better with a pool of students to draw from for TFs.
The final project is a doozy! There are a lot of significant supplemental requirements to the actual data science component (video, website, etc.) that are supposed to make up only a small portion of your project grade.
Very chill workload (1 pset every two weeks that you can crank out in about a day). Did not have to attend lectures or labs to understand the assignments (Everything you needed to know is described in the assignment itself). A few problems were frustrating (took a while to run on large amounts of data) and ipython notebook is miserable to work with. Overall though it was a worthwhile class to take for credit (no exams).
A great class - learned a lot, manageable workload, applicable skills. Grading was a bit erratic but overall was pretty well done. The lectures didn't have a huge amount to do with the assignments but they were generally interesting.
Be prepared for the long assignments.
This class presented interesting ideas, but the student group is too diverse to really go deeply into the CS or Stat components...
Awesome class that will teach you everything you need to know about Python. This is best for students who learn by doing, rather than lectures: the lectures are sort of irrelevant to the homework, but the homeworks are really fun, albeit a lot of work. If you're looking for a great intro course in data science and hoping to do a lot of coding in Python, take this class. Do be prepared to spend 15+ hours on the homework though (you have two weeks for each assignment).
The psets are pretty cool, but you don't learn too much of the theory behind the materials you are using.
A good introduction to many libraries to scrape and work with online data and a useful survey of various Python tricks, but the work is at times tedious.
The psets took me 25 hours each, but at the end I felt like I knew a lot more about coding and have become obsessed with data.
This is a great introduction to some of the topics of data science with very practical and interesting psets. Most of the work in this class lies with the psets and final project. The psets aren't particularly demanding but the later ones do take a lot of time and some finagling with web services.
I learned a great deal by taking this class, but not because I was taught it. Concepts are glossed over in lectures, and the homeworks are very long with much of the interesting work already done for you. They may need to reduce the amount of material covered in this course so they can teach at least some of the concepts more thoroughly.
With biweekly psets, the work usually comes in "on and off" weeks. That said if you start psets early it won't be a stressful experience (until the project anyways :) ).
A visualization I made in this class was published in The Economist. Take it.
This class is unreal, my favorite so far at Harvard (currently a junior concentrating in Applied Math/CS). This class really gets you excited about Big Data, Statistics, Machine Learning, and Visualization. I've learned a tremendous amount to the point where I even decided to change my concentration! Sometimes the HWs were insanely long, but I think it's quite unanimous across the board among all students that if you take a step back and look at the big picture, each HW not only taught you the material well, but also generated amazing results and for me personally demonstrated the power of programming as a tool for statistics. Unfortunately, the lectures weren't very exciting because they were often really difficult to understand (since the course covered so much material each lecture was at lightening fast pace). Also, don't expect there to be a big support network for you from the staff. I found office hours not very helpful because the TFs always talk around your question to avoid helping you with code, which I found really annoying. If you're serious about this class, really be comfortable with learning on your own through Google and looking up documentation (I wasn't at first and it took me a few weeks/month to get comfortable). The HWs are also unbelievably long sometimes (took me avg 18-20 hrs each). But at the end of the day, this class is amazing and is one of those classes that you can ONLY take at Harvard. Definitely shop it and give it a serious thought!
A great survey of a lot of tools used for analyzing big data
A great course, problem sets are the best I have had in any class. Very applicable to the real world.
