It is a very interesting course and the knowledge you take from it will be undoubtedly helpful to anyone interested in making almost anything easy to use. However, you must be willing to deal the required and frequent coordination with your team, which became tedious over the course of the semester.
There's no other class at Harvard (at least in the engineering departments) that addresses the design issues covered in this class.  In that sense, this course is more valuable than most other CS classes for students interested in pursuing UI and usability design as a career field in industry or academia.
CS179 was a cool course, in theory. The syllabus, and the material it covered, was excellent, and I learned a lot from the process. The readings were pretty useless, and the assignments, though good to do, would probably not significantly help you improve, since you won't get much feedback on them. Almost all of the course is in a group project. Though my group experience was largely positive, how well you'd enjoy this class would largely depend on who you end up working with, which is done completely by chance. (Having a more systematic way to match personalities would probably be a good thing for future years.)
A good overview of design, but you only get out as much as you put in.
It's really fun! In a lot of CS classes, it feels like all the work you do is artificial; here, you actually feel a sense of accomplishment.
There is a perception, perhaps, that this course teaches you a lot of things you already knew. That's partially true -- but it helps you explain what feels largely intuitive and give reasons that go beyond gut instincts as to why particular designs don't work.
It's totally different from other CS classes, but in a good way.  It's not all good--in fact, there are some parts that are extremely frustrating--but it's painless, fun, productive, and gives you very useful skills (both specific to usability work and general to life).
It is a painless class. But expect to spend a lot of time finishing your projects. But the work is not hard. It just takes some time. Lecture is pointless. I feel like the professor could teach all of the material in one day instead of a semester. Expect to be graded very subjectively. I mean how can you grade good design?
If you don't know how to build web applications, make sure you find group members that do!  A group of two is not sufficient for the amount of work they demand on a team, but if you want to learn how to work in a group, it is a great experience!  Professor Gajos has a heavy accent but is fantastic to talk to. Very insightful.
Best course in my life. If you're thinking about working with Application Building or User Experience,take this course. You will see the world from a different perspective.
be ambitious with your final project!
This class is very interesting, as design is hardly intuitive.  You will have a lot of assignments which may initially seem unnecessary if you want to jump in and code, but the user testing in particular is helpful and saves you from having to make lost of changes to your project later on.  The work is very manageable, particularly in the beginning, but make sure you leave plenty of time to prepare for the last few assignments.
This is an awesome class for CS kids looking to go into industry.  Aside from teaching JQuery, it focuses on the thought-process behind designing products rather than the technical know-how you pick up in other CS courses.
This is more a course about user needs than a course about "design". That said, creating usable interfaces is an important component of meeting users' needs, and that part of the course is both interesting and practical. It also helps if you have an idea that you know you'd like to explore coming in.
It's really an eye opening class, but be ready for a hefty workload toward the end of the semester. The first half will be smooth sailing, but as usability testing and project developing start going, you'll really have to meet your deadlines and make sure you don't fall behind.Kryzystof is great, and you'll very much enjoy the material he has to present to you!
CS 50 is not enough for this course. If you do not have a programmer in your group, this will be very painful and difficult. There are a lot of cool aspects to the class, but there is not an overly strong network of support in terms of the bugs you will run into with JQuery Mobile. TFs have one hour of office hours a week, but since they are also student, they can be quite busy and unable to field the majority of questions. Make sure to find a great group if you take this course since you will be spending a lot of time with them.
This course is a lot of work at times and is subject to team dynamics (most of the coursework is done in teams), which means your experience will vary a lot depending on who you work with. Krzysztof is a great lecturer, and the class is definitely worthwhile for anyone hoping to get into product management/development (and not just in the tech space).  If you're debating between CS 171 and CS 179, I recommend 179 even if it can be a little more work at times - it's worth it.
THIS IS A GREAT CLASS. Professor Gajos is hilarious and brilliant. The TFs are very hit-or-miss though, which can shape the studio component of your course.
This is a class that you would sit in to listen to the lectures, but wouldn't want to actually enroll in and do the assignments. The assignments are poorly structured and either expect too much from simple observations of other people, or offered very little time to complete the project (start and build a working prototype in a week). My TF also provided very little and unhelpful feedback, and gave back assignments 6 weeks after they were due. This is ridiculous since all the assignments build on each other, and receiving comments on assignments 3-8 all together 6 weeks after assignment 3 was due is unacceptable. By then it was too late to make changes to our project with the feedback we received. Sections are also a waste of time. We spent most sections just talking about the week's homework assignment and then demoing our project--however we received very little feedback during these presentations, and so sections were very unproductive.
Despite the shortcomings in the class' organization and teaching staff, I think these are things that can and will be improved in future offerings.  The design and group experience to be gained by taking this class is worth the investment of a semester.
Great, fun class.  You'll learn a lot about the degin side of programming, which seems to get lost in the midst of coding theory.
If you want to get anything out of this course, expect to put in a lot of work. Unlike most CS classes that challenge you primarily in a technical way, this course challenges you in multiple way. This course helps grow your design sense, creativity, interpersonal skills, and perspective-taking.
Choose your group wisely. Your experience will be entirely dictated by whom you choose to work with. The project can be a lot of fun, but the course forces you to be thorough.
great course!  assignments become difficult to manage toward the end, so keep in mind that the course workload is really unbalanced, keeping most of the work in the second half.  but the material is really fascinating and incredibly applicable - made me want to go into product design!
This is an incredibly awesome course. It's not too much work and all the assignments are fun. Professor Gajos lectures on interesting stuff and the studios are good for discussion and reflection. Everyone should definitely take this course, no matter what concentration they are.
Lectures are quite interesting -- Gajos is a great speaker and the topics chosen are fascinating. There is a series of 12 or 13 weekly assignments which lead you through a group project in which you create your own application and learn to implement and design the interface. I found these assignments to be poorly designed and ineffective -- in many cases they were overbearing (e.g. requiring weekly submissions of the improvements made to our app, or a PLAN for improvements), generally disconnected from class lectures, and rushed (just one week after MEETING your group members we had to have a good idea for an application and start to prototype it...and then we're stuck with this idea for the rest of the semester). I ended up with a very strong team, but the assignments for this class would have probably sucked otherwise.
Not all that great honestly. Lectures are super boring and repetitive. After 2 or 3 of them you get the point: "do user testing."
If you know how to code, but prefer design, this is the class for you. If you just want to code, this is not for you.
Amazing class if you are at all interested in coming up with your own ideas and making them happen from scratch
If you don't want a real CS class, instead one that teaches common sense, 179 is the one for you!
Make an effort to make an awesome app instead of doing "just enough."
this was such a weird class, so practical which was refreshing. but so disorganized, my tf was perpetually unable to help me, there were also a lot of issues with the group aspect of the project, my 2 group members were 2nd semester seniors and decided they had better things to do than our project near the end, leaving me with all the work, so i was basically f*ed and there was nothing I could do about it.  But the course shows you a lot of really cool tools and does change the way you think about UIs so it is quite useful in its own way, the structure just needs to be reworked.
It's a good course that perhaps reveals its true value many years into your professional life.
The course is still very young/new, so the assignments and lectures still need to be improved. As a student, you must be prepared to work with the instructors on what will be taught.
very time consuming.huge learning curve if you dont know program well.
Really fun process. Not too difficult of a class. Lots of working in teams, so you have to be willing to do that. Good to have web programming experiences.
Best CS class I've taken at Harvard. Amazing instructor, great material, culminating in a great end.
Don't underestimate the time commitment. This class will take over your life the second half of the semester.
This was the first year Krzysztof taught 179, so I understand that it was a work in progress, but I'd wait for it to be retooled before taking it.  It's neat to be able to work on a group project, but a lot of the theory components of the class didn't seem well thought out or tied to the assignments at all.  It is a fairly easy CS elective until you actually have to build your app at the end, though.
A great course! If it's anything like last year, there will be a good mix of people in different concentrations (including some graduates). This helps provide more useful feedback and ideas. You gain a lot of useful insights from every lecture, and gain a lot of practical knowledge from the field work you do.Note: There are weekly labs during the second half of lecture on Thursdays. If you don't have a lot of experience in CS, DO NOT take these labs as an excuse to run 45 minutes early. Your team will resent you if you don't contribute at least a little to the coding of the project!
This course is an excellent way to learn about user interface design. The lectures are extremely interesting, and the assignments are both relevant to the material and fun. Important skills for every CS concentrator!
This is a very interesting and engaging class, however only take it if you are really interested in HCI and knowing there is a lot of work involved.
Great class to take but try to make sure you have a cs concentrator in your project group.
you learn a lot about design that is very useful. However you have to have a lot of time to devote to this class.  Steep learning curve for coding if you haven't done much before.
CS 50 is NOT ENOUGH to do well in this course. You need to be an accomplished web developer do make anything interesting.
This class is still in development, so hold off on it until they figure out how to teach it.
it is both very manageable in terms of workload and very useful and instructive in terms of material.  this is a practical class, not only teaching you principles of human-oriented design in the abstract, but also how to actually take ideas, explore their potential, and make them reality. mobile devices are becoming more and more prevelant in the modern world
Workload for this course varies wildly. Make sure you have a good understanding of Javascript or are willing to learn it.
take it! make iPhone apps
You will learn things in CS that you will not learn in any other class offered at Harvard. It will open your eyes up to a whole new field in CS in a way that no other class will. More interestingly, it will change the way you look at and analyze UIs, not only on the computer but everywhere in the physical space. Thoroughly recommended if you ever will design something or you will be working with someone who will.
Though implementing the final project is a lot of work, the experience was rewarding enough to be worth it.
This course will teach you things that you probably would not learn unless you worked in the design/product industry. However, a lot of what you are going to learn is going to seem pretty obvious, and the assignments/final project did not seem all that useful.
Your experience in this class completely depends on 1) whether you have good teammates who actually do the work and 2) a really innovative and engaging final project idea. Overall, the class was really fun and pretty laid back in terms of workload. Definitely take it if you're the creative type or want to go into startups.
Great course - you learn by doing, not through lectures, but the course is pretty fulfilling and light on work.
This class tries to be a startup incubator. It tries to strike a balance between creating a business and design but fails in both. It pretty much ignores the fact that it is a UI class. This class misses many major ideas that go into making UI decisions (load time, etc) . It does a brief overview of Jquery mobile then suggests we not use it. The assignments are poorly executed although in theory could be good. The syllabus says multiple quizzes, but we only took one. The class lacked focus and direction.  Honestly, this class is a waste of time. Take a more technical class where you will learn more.
This is the perfect course if you wish to learn how to make robust designs, ones that people will find useful and simple to use.
If you want to do an easy course to round out a concentration or secondary field, go for this, but if you're looking for something where you're actually going to work hard but learn a lot, find something else in the department. You can learn a lot about user interface design by reading magazines and stuff that turns up on TechCrunch, but it's a lot harder to learn about robots in that same way.
This is a fantastic course, and as for the CS department goes, probably the one that is most likely to positively impact your everyday life and future occupation, so long as you are not into incredibly deep development, algorithms, and the like. Most people will not be devs for their entire lives, and this course gives fantastic grounding in the "everything else" that is more widely applicable.
It's fun, but make sure you don't end up in a group with freeloaders.
This class has very interesting material, and if you're interesting in producing anything that will be best suited for others to use (everything!) then it will be valuable knowledge. It's tough having it all be group work though; group scheduling with Harvard students is a challenge.
Although this class has historically had a bad rep in the CS department, I really enjoyed it!  It's not particularly time-consuming.  Note that the first half of the class doesn't involve coding, but you learn a lot about the process of designing a product.  Your level of coding comfort and your group will determine your happiness particularly at the end.
The class itself is interesting. I just didnt learn what I was expecting to learn (or really much at all).
If interesting in the content matter, want an interactive class structure, or want design experience then this is a good course for you.  However, be aware of the time consuming weekly homework assignments that often require meeting with your group members and approaching outsiders for testing, evaluation, and research
This is a great, practical CS class. Gajos is a great professor, but make sure you get a good TFa lot of your happiness in this class is based off of which TF you get.
Professor Gajos is amazing and so is Pao! Take this class!!!
I could not think of a more relevant skill set or a better way to deliver the course material. Take the class; you won't regret it.
This course will teach you some interesting things about design, and if you put in the effort you will learn some new programming tricks. However don't expect to learn a lot of CS from this course. You will learn a lot of interesting and useful design practices though
This is not your typical CS course. The course is focused on design and the design process and you write literally 0 lines of code until the last month of school. I really enjoyed learning about design and learned a lot, but there was very little instruction/help when it came to the actual implementation of the final. Solid programming background is highly suggested.
The assignment structure works well--this was the first year in which assignments were split into an early preliminary project and the final project, and it was nice to have a project at the beginning to get warmed up before launching into the final assignment.
Gajos is a nice teacher, you should definitely take this class, especially if you have any interest whatsoever in design into the future.  It's a nice class to fulfill one of the classes as your secondary requirement.  There are some interesting readings and guest speakers who come to lecture (including a fashion expert and Paul English (no guarantee on this for your year).
Take this class. By far my most rewarding academic experience thus far
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard!  If you are at all interested in design, the start up world, or becoming a Program Manager or UX designer, this class is the class for you.  The assignments were amazing and allowed for much creativity and freedom.  I was truly proud of my final project and loved every part of the process.
Join if you want to learn the basics of design.
The class is incredibly useful, and the projects can be pretty fun to work on.
This course was amazing and I would recommend it for anyone interested in product design or creating a project from scratch. It is important to find a good team to work with.
It's a really cool topic. If you know how to code this class we be very enjoyable. If you don't know how to code that well, this class is much more stressful...especially when you're under the pressure to execute certain design principles in code when you are having trouble getting simpler, more logistical things to work. Also the grading seemed pretty subjective.... They'd often be like, "This looks great, awesome job! 80/100" without giving enough tangible feedback on how to increase your score by those 20 pts...
If you're looking at this class because you want to learn how to make apps/websites "look pretty" this is not the class for you. This class is about the design process and user interaction.
Good class if you want to learn more and the process of making design decisions. Especially useful for designing mobile apps.
A nice breather from some of the more intense courses in the CS department, and increasingly relevant these days given the incredibly popularity of iPhones and apps.
The subject matter is interesting and lectures are great. The assignments and studio structure would have to change before I would really recommend the course.
It's not too hard but really good.
This course is definitely on the easier side in the CS department, but there is a wide disparity in the skill set of the students. Only taking CS50 is not enough to do well in this class (unless you are group members with some CS buffs). The more CS experience you have the better (e.g. Javascript, PHP, MySQL, AJAX, jQuery, jQuery Mobile). You will spend the entire semester building one mobile web application, but most of the work is after spring break. Before spring break, you will only code for the two programming assignments, not at all for your main project. It's all paper prototyping, user tests, etc. While this is helpful at first, it quickly becomes tedious, especially with the arbitrary and extremely harsh grading. After spring break you basically create the entire application - make sure you have some experienced coders in your group or this will not go over well.Summary: If you take this class, make sure you get a group with strong CS experience and who gets their work done because this class is almost exclusively group work.
What I got out of this class: (1) it's really fun! I liked our design assignments, which included paper prototypes and user testing. It made me realize I like thinking like a designer; (2) my studio was awesome because I made friends with people in my studio. Why you should take this class: (1) other than the programming assignments, most of the assignments are pretty easy and fun. Programming can be fun too, if you have someone who is great at programming or someone who has a lot of time in your team; (2) design is fun! and interesting. It's also something you should know in general so you can be more observant or improve your ability to spot opportunities; (3) the tf's are pretty cool. Why you should NOT take this class: (1) lectures go over things that are obvious. Can be boring sometimes; (2) the class isn't super well organized. There were three poorly organized lectures to teach us programming stuff; (3) if your team sucks, your experience will suck. Bottom line: eh, I say it's a class worth taking. It's not mind blowing, but has its moments.
The assignments in this class are very confining. Every week you have a particular part of your project to be done, and you must do it in that order, even if it doesn't make sense for your individual project.
Put serious thought into the beginning assignments and scrap everything and start over if need be. Having a project you feel is worthwhile will drastically change your perception of the course. At the same time, implementation time is limited, so limit the scope to about three weeks of programming.
It's a fun course, obviously less rigorous than other CS courses, good for non-CS concentrators, and a good experience for thinking more creatively. The teaching staff is a bit disorganized, though, and I couldn't always really tell if there was any enthusiasm for the course material from the professor and a couple of the TFs (I heard that in previous years, Prof. Gajos was a bit more enthusiastic in lectures than he was this year...).  Also, section was kind of unstructured.
This was one of the most negative experiences I have had with a class at Harvard. Generally I feel that the more you put into a class, the more you get out of it, but I put a startling amount of work into this class yet found myself only growing more and more frustrated with the incompetence and lack of professionalism exhibited by the course staff.
This is a good class, but your experience is highly dependent upon your interactions with your groupmates.  I would recommend taking it with friends and making sure they are in your section.  Otherwise, it's a great class for people who want to learn about CS and the development process but not end up going into CS.
You learn how to design a GUI. That is an important skill.
Course is a pretty cool way of looking at ideas. Alot of time given to examine your ideas and then given to actually implement them.
The assignments are a bit too vague. The staff says that's because they don't want to "restrict" you, but then they are graded according to the interpretation the staff never revealed.
Be aware that this is a class based around a semester long project. You have weekly assignments due on Wednesday nights at midnight which are graded on somewhat subjective metrics. You will receive low grades (60-70 out of 100) and be told that this is probably going to be okay for your final grade. Feedback comes a couple weeks later so mistakes are very liable to be repeated before you are assisted in correcting them
The course takes cs from a different perspective. It is fun if you have interests in psychology and design. Also, don't get tricked by the relatively easy assignments in the beginning of the semester. All the work is done in the course of 3 weeks at the end of the semester.
The assignments seem pointless, but if you really try hard on them, you feel like you've learned a lot.
It's an important area of computer science, but you're better off taking CS 175 or even CS 171. This class is just a waste of time. You will work really hard, lose points for completely irrational reasons, and learn next to nothing. It's an unnecessarily stressful experience that will not enhance your undergraduate education.
The class does a great job of explaining the theory behind design. It does a not so good job of explaining how to implement the theory. Either have previous experience with website design or be prepare to go to lots of OHs, have TFs advocate different strategies for solving things, and then hack together something anyways.
Really emphasized the importance of user testing and iterating your design. Also emphasized functional workflow in addition to aesthetics. Will definitely make me think more about the user experience in my projects, not just architecture.The homeworks and sessions are a little tedious, but not torturous. I enjoyed the lectures, the professor is an engaging speaker. Spent 3-6 hours a week on assignments. Would definitely recommend some background experience in web development as there is a significant project at the end. Overall an interesting class and not terribly difficult.
Great class to learn design as a general concept. If you're entrepreneurial and consider start-ups, then this class is perfect.
The lessons you learn in this class will be quite helpful, as it will force you to consider things from a different perspective. The assignments varied greatly, so it was hard to apply feedback from one assignment to the next.
Really look into the layout of the course before choosing a topic for your app. In the first weeks, you brainstorm topics and explore one. But they don't make it clear that you essentially have to stick with that topic even if you end up deciding its not the best.
This course is not as interesting as its first few lectures make it seem.  You study tons of different topics without ever really delving into any of them, and it's never clear that the instructor even has a solid grasp on them.  Assignments will be stupid if you're a CS whiz or impossible and frustrating (to the point of CS50) if you have limited coding background (JavaScript and JQuery are basically essential).  It's cool to develop an app, but the process is so slow that it becomes frustrating.
Lots of work though but overall result is fun
This was one of the worst courses I have taken at Harvard. Everything that I learned and accomplished in this course was in spite of the course staff rather than because of them. The lecture is pointless and empty of information (there's a reason it's required - because barely anyone would come to it otherwise) - I can summarize everything worthy that you'll learn in four words - "user testing is important" (there, I just saved you a semester of pain). The assignments are dogmatically structured, as if design was some sort of exact process that you could learn. Instead of molding the design process to the needs of particular projects, as it should be done, you will be asked to distort and mutilate your project until it fits into their "7-week-design-plan." If you do not, your grade will suffer accordingly. The professor does not seem to realize that this severely cripples design and extinguishes creativity instead of encouraging it. If you are not comfortable with CS, do not take the course - you will become a dead weight on your team members when you begin programming the final project. If you are comfortable with CS, do not take the course - you will end up having to teach the less comfortable crowd how to program, because the course staff does not offer them nearly enough support. All around, this is just not a very good class - do an internship in product/program management at a software firm instead, and you will learn a lot more about how product design happens in real life.
It's a very fair class; grading, assignments, everything.
You'll end up learning the design process well, this is generally a useful course though tedious at times, it's not indispensable and much of it can probably be learned through an internship but especially if you haven't had that opportunity this can give you a framework
If you know design this will be frustrating.  If you don't know design, you will befrustrated.  Occasionally there are gems within the course, but otherwise there's a lot more to slough through.
It's a useful class if you want to be a PM at a tech company. Ultimately it's what you make of it, if you go to class and listen attentively you will absorb a lot of design knowledge but if you don't you can get an A without learning absolutely anything from this class.
Experience the entire design process from start to finish.  The more you and your team put into it, the more you will get out of it.  Some of the most valuable things I learned from the course were from my teammates.  Start assignments early because you will often need to interact with people and write up feedback.  This is my favorite class I've taken at Harvard so far.  Highly applicable to anyone interested in product design.  Changes how you look at existing products and opens your eyes to see needs in your daily life and the lives of others that could be addressed with a new product.
It's a pretty laid-back course with a lot of interesting subject material, and some not-so-interesting homework and lectures. The laid-backness is important in my opinion, since it gives you more room to think about how you're doing things in the class.
You don't learn anything astounding in this class. It's interesting enough, and iIt's fun if you find a project you care deeply about, and it's fun to prototype an application and learn the process, but it's also a lot of what seems like busywork to me. You'll do well if you put in the time for your assignments.
If you have already taken other design courses at Harvard or elsewhere, I wouldn't recommend taking this course. The course seems to function as a Design 101 with no specific focus and assignments that feel forced and unnecessary. It seems to be stuck in limbo. I felt that there was a lot of busywork and constant checkups, none of which was extremely difficult, but was tedious and unfulfilling. I also feel that it taught students to 'design just for the sake of it' or to create a startup for the sake of a startup, which was very off-putting. I am so excited to see the college taking steps to introduce design education options, but feel that classes like ES21/22 or classes at the GSD is where one should go for a more fulfilling experience.
Definitely recommend this course for anyone trying to get a CS secondary. You don't really need any coding knowledge beyond CS50, and the assignments are pretty easy. You also learn some really cool stuff about design and project management
Be prepared to be thrown into a thorough but tedious introduction into UI design.
About halfway through the course, the assignments identically repeated themselves as we transitioned from our starter project to the final project. This was not ideal, but even worse was that large parts of lectures were essentially repeated a second time. The assignments were also very poorly written, with slightly different criteria written in three different parts of the problem set. Deciphering the expectations took as much time as the actual assignment. One nice aspect of the course was the exposure it gave in pitching ideas to real designers.
This class is very neat and interesting, not heavy on the workload for an upper level computer science class. With computer science knowledge and a decent coding background, class will be a breeze.
Harvard should really have more courses like this. Prof Gajos is a super interesting individual whose work spans a variety of disciplines. He really values student feedback and interaction, and once you get bast his initially intimidating demeanor, he is an approachable and kind individual. The coursework itself can definitely be annoying at times and assignments can be lengthy, but the class itself was fascinating. You discuss design challenges and techniques that not only allow you to develop good applications and project ideas for the course, but get you to think about design and user experience as you go about your daily life. In terms of having a CS background, you really only need a little bit as they make an effort to pair you with more skilled technical individuals if you are not as comfortable. It is a great CS course for those interested in HCI and just general design. Don't be intimidated by the fact that it's listed as a computer science course, though. And do make an effort to get to know Prof Gajos even if you can't pronounce his name!
If you ever want to work at a startup, take this awesome course!
really enjoyed the class. the lectures offer a lot of great case studies of different aspects of the design process. no idea is too crazy in this class.
This class adheres to the school of Silicon Valley startups, where customer validation is essential. In this class you learn about customer need-finding and how to make products and come up with ideas that others can benefit from. A must take for any consumer product oriented entrepreneur.
Definitely one of the easier CS requirements, but lectures were repetitive and never seemed to dig too deep into the material, which probably could have been more interesting.  Instead it seemed like the same ideas, which were probably understood the first time taught, were continuously repeated.
Although the premise of this class sounded interesting, neither the students nor the TFs were very involved in the material. It felt as though everyone was trying to see how little work they could put in the class and still get away with. Part of this is definitely the teamwork aspect of the course (which encourages a diffusion of responsibility) and part of it is its reputation on campus. I wouldn't recommend the course unless some serious changes were made, but the professor is very eager to improve so it might get better in the future.
I love this class! Top 3 classes I've taken at Harvard (as a senior). It's the type of class that you take a lot from if you engage yourself with the material and opportunity, but also the type of class that you can scrape by just by doing the bare minimum work. I'd really encourage you to take this class if you're thinking of going into product management or any type of design type work (like for start-up). Professor Gajos is a great resource and a really willing mentor if it's something you want to really pursue. It's the type of class that you'd wanna put in more work than necessary because it's such a great place to get feedback.
It's a useful introduction to design, though it is a bit frustrating at times.
This course really makes you realize that everyone can understand design principles, and that creativity is not a natural talent, but rather a learned skill.
This is a very interesting course, not too difficult.
it's a good course to take but it's not heavy on cs at all, good for non-cs concentrators or as a side course though
your project team is paramount on whether you'll be satisfied...first team is assigned, second team must be chosen of ppl in section. I disliked that process. A little bit of guidance given. Mostly design based, don't expect very technical stuff. lectures are mostly common sense with some really interesting nuggets, optional on whether to attend mostly.
This is an absolutely necessary class if you hope to work with user experience in the future. Most software is now based in user-centered design processes, so if you want to work in software engineering, this is really a great class to take.
Super great course for secondaries. Not coding-heavy, but very interesting design course. You learn how to brainstorm properly and develop an idea into something exciting
Take it if you're CS or non-CS. You'll learn pretty useful things no matter where and what you end up working.
This class is really important if you are considering going into product management, or business. It teaches you how to ask the important questions and actually address needs. Non cs people can take this, but unless you know what html and css are, take cs50. It is a very valuable class. The assignments build on each other, so you barely even have a final project, because youve been working on it the whole time. All group work, and you have to work with people in your section, so don't sign up with people expecting to be able to work together if you have different schedules. Not your normal pset class, so can be used to break up other hard coding pset classes.
This course is very laid back. The majority of the course is variations on the same thing. Making a prototype for your app at various stages of development and testing it on people. Gets a bit tedious but useful for drilling into you some principles which would be useful for developing your own products.
A really enjoyable break from the more intense classes offered by the CS department.  This class really teaches the human-side of everything you code.
Grading gets tough later in the semester. TFs are great. Very interesting course and unlike any that I have taken.
You need a good amount of web programming experience in this course. Though it says CS50, you need a lot more HTML, PHP, and Javascript than was taught in that course. Lectures go over the design process, not so much how to design systems for user appeal. However, it is an interesting course that could be improved and I enjoyed it. Would recommend.
Pretty easy class. Work is very light and only "difficult" part may be the couple assignments with coding requirements. I'd recommend taking it though - pretty jokey course, but still gives a decent introduction to design and you may improve your coding skills.
TERRIBLE CLASS. You do useless stuff like take pictures of need finding in which you sit around and learn about problems people are having. And you need to take pictures which is super forced and awkward. Then, you do coding assignments in which Gajos is like, "Hey guys, I won't tell you anything about this assignment or how to start, but complete this entire pset by next week."It would be good if there was better guidance. The TF's ended up helping everyone with scrappy tutorials that were only slightly helpful. Pretty poor organization and method of teaching overall. Very disappointed.
This class requires so much time every week, without giving you strong design skills / experience. Avoid this class and take ES 21 or 22 if you want a good design class. This class is especially difficult if you have no web programming experience.
The class is design-oriented but not as engaging as it could have been. Pick a good problem space and an even better team in which you're either all equally good at design and coding or one in which your weaknesses and strengths make up for each other's. Grading can feel very subjective and, at times, it may feel like you're designing to the TF's wishes.
This was an okay class. It seems amazing on the first day. You have interesting readings and cool examples of design in lecture. Gajos is very engaging and gives awesome presentations. But then the course got underway and he seemed to stop assigning readings (if he was still assigning them, I couldn't find them). We'd be asked to do various design things on the homework assignments, but we never knew what they really meant, and we'd get points taken off in what felt like an arbitrary manner since we didn't know what to do. We had no examples to refer to. If he added more readings (ex. case studies of how real companies do design), then this class would improve significantly. If that doesn't happen, then I wouldn't really recommend it.Also, almost every assignment is a group project because design is almost always a team effort. Pick your team well, and make sure that more than one person is competent with programming (and Googling things related to programming).
Very interesting subject matter, unique course and not too difficult. The work is kind of silly but it's worth it.
This course is a great course, but unfortunately, it seems like your experience in the course is entirely dependent on which team or which TF you get. Very much like in life, if you get dealt a bad hand, you have to pick up the slack.
If you think you have a real interest in product R&D from a Computer Science perspective, then I would certainly recommend this course. However, I don't feel the course is strong enough on its own to warrant taking it if the topic does not call out to you. The work, which will feel highly engaging to one who has a real interest in the subject, will likely frustrate and bore one who does not.
Start your final project early!
This class is not a huge workload although it picks up at the end. You actually learn a lot about how to develop a product idea and how to test it and get constructive feedback from people.
At times the work can be redundant or seemingly trivial, but you will actually learn the logistics of user design just from practice. It's one of the more manageable CS classes out there so I would recommend taking it with another, harder CS class.
Lectures were enjoyable and informative.  Professor Gajos was a good lecturer.  Material covered were fun.
CS179 is a great and relevant class, but is definitely not for people who do not have programming experience. There was only 1 programming pset prior to the final project. The final project ironically needed less programming acumen to finish, so it would have been nice to know what the point of the programming assignment was. The course material is super fun and relevant at first...and then becomes increasingly less relevant. Overall, an ok class. Don't learn much, but then again it's fun.
Professor Gajos is a very passionate professor, but the course does not really help develop many design skills. You go project to project without learning how to improve.
While this was a great class in terms of knowledge-acquisition, the structure could have been better. I think there's too much of a focus on the big picture, and that makes it harder when we have to deal with little details. Overall, good introduction to design.
The class is all group project based. This works great if you're team works well together but can backfire if your teammates don't have the same goals as you.
This class is great for expanding on you web programming skills. It requires a bit of coding, but is awesome for learning about user interface and design.
This class is highly relevant if you ever intend to brainstorm and launch a product from scratch.  The learning experience is highly dependent on your small teams and how your skills complement each other.
It's Harvard's only cs design class, which means you should probably take it if design is something you might want to pursue. That said, I didn't like how it was run this year (particularly with grading), so see how they restructure the course for next year.
Gives a decent framework to begin the design process but afterwards constrains you to that process, such that all the assignments feel like busy work. SO MUCH BUSY WORK - the weekly writeups for your final design just make you repeat the same process over and over. Lecture content is not at all exciting.
This course was a great way to learn the principles of UI design. It is, however, heavily team-based so it is important that you work with a team that you get along with and can communicate with. There is a surprisingly high workload in the class so it is important that you can work with your team. That being said, certain assignments did seem a bit redundant and repetitive in the class. The design process may require a lot of repetition in the real world, but it is difficult for students who are very time-constrained with other classes. Not to mention when working in a group, coordinating time to work together is another challenge you have to face.
There are a lot of miniature assignments and a lot of busy work. The lectures may not be application to the homework assignments either. Some lectures are a hit or a miss. Overall, it's a decent CS class and does not require much coding.
If you already have product management/design experience (or possibly even if you do not), a lot of the material taught will sound like common sense. The course provides the basis for having a great team experience, and - if everything works out - you'll have an amazing time working with your team. However, the experience would be even better if your team and you would not have to do so much busy work. A lot of the write-ups - and especially the reading responses - are pointless and don't help with developing the product concept.
This is a great class! I highly recommend taking it! The teaching staff is great and really want you and your team to grow. This is a gem of a class at Harvard because it is really practical. You get to actually create apps, pitch them to real professionals, and get critical responses that go into your projects. My group worked so well together that we are actually continuing our app after this class based off of the feed back from the course staff and professionals. Definitely take if you are interested in UX/UI, HCI, or product management.
Go into it expecting to do a bunch of boring and long-term work. Lectures are interesting but attendance is optional so barely anyone comes because Harvard students are too cool for school. Your mileage may vary with this course.
CS 179 is the worst class I have taken at Harvard. Everything you learn in this course could be summarized in a concise info graphic.Once, as a young man, my best friend and I accidentally stumbled into a patch of cacti and had to spend the better part of 2 hours pulling thorns out of our feet. The painful monotony of that experience pales in comparison to what I went through with this class.Do not take this class.
The work in this incredibly easy but at times very busy. It kind of blows that your grade has nothing to do with getting your work done, though. Your grade seems entirely based on 1) how much work your teammates put in and 2) how your studio leaders feels about your submissions (very subjectively). Point is you can't really plan on getting an A but it could be very easy to get one if you're lucky!Given that all of the work in this class is team-based, there should probably be a better mechanism for picking your two teams over the semester. My first team was not good in terms of logistics, communication, and quality of work, and it's sad that this adversely affected my grade. I actually did far less work for my second team (which was amazing) and my grades were significantly higher in the second half of the class.If you're chill with very subjective grading for work that does not feel subjective at all, this is actually a pretty good class. The thing is, nobody's really chill with that.
Potential to be a really cool class with proper investment but the work often feels like busy work. However, teaching staff is super invested and really does try to make experience worthwhile.
CS 179 is a good course and is one of the few here that is directly applicable to real life and will teach you skills that you can use in a job. However, the execution of the class needs some work. Note that this is more about the design *process* (i.e., learning from users, designing products that users need, etc.) and not design principles - you won't really come out of this class knowing what good design looks like, but you'll know how to design things that are useful to users. Lectures are long and boring (there really isn't enough content for 3 hours a week), and you are required to attend at least 60% of them with no laptop use allowed - if there is still mandatory 3 hours a week of lecture next year, it might be reason enough not to take the course. You learn a lot from the projects and really get to feel like you've accomplished something! The workload is pretty light at the beginning of the semester (2-5 hours per week), but when working on the final project you could easily spend 30+ hours in one week. Everything you do in this class is with your team, which is randomly assigned for the first project and which you get to choose for the second. Many groups got lucky and really enjoyed working together, but if you get stuck with a bad group you will have a miserable experience in this class. Studio (their word for section) is really helpful and is a great way to get feedback on your project. Would highly recommend to anyone looking for a good elective or senior spring class, and especially non-CS concentrators (as long as you have some basic coding skills). I think a lot of the things taught in this class would be really useful for anyone interested in becoming a project manager or a consultant.
I did like this class but near the end of the semester, a lot of the homework started to pile on top of each other. In this course there are 2 projects, and where we do the same process for both projects. After spring break, we all started working on the second project but because there wasn't enough time, everything seemed to be rushed. BEWARE OF THIS, especially if you are taking another heavy loaded class along with this, say CS 124.
Awesome class! It will make you think about products in a very critical way and force you to think about the needs of the users and how to satisfy them when designing products. Almost all of the assignments are done in teams which makes the class less stressful and there are also no midterms or a final! Anyway, I think you will learn the fundamentals of product design, and I highly recommend this class if you're interested in doing that.
My experience in this class was very dependent on my randomly assigned group's competency and my TF's quality.  I was fortunate to have a great group and be assigned to an awesome TF.  However, I know of other students in my class who had a bad TF or a bad group and they had a miserable time in the class.
Some parts are fun, but at its core it's a relatively relaxed CS course. Don't underestimate the workload, it exists but is not difficult.
class was a bit of a mess this year. lots of busywork. maybe better off just reading about design or building things on your own
This is an awesome course that fills a really unique role in the CS department, and it's an important one. Design thinking is a huge component in modern software dev and any sort of problem solving, and this course does a great job of filling a really essential category. You'll get out of it what you put into it; you can skate by with minimal effort, but I recommend digging in, because what you'll discover and end up creating will be really worth it.
This is not an "easy" class. Although the material is not conceptually difficult, it requires a lot of time to do really well in this class. If you are not interested in the material, it will not be interesting for you and will be painful. Take this class if you want to put the work into it.
The course was pretty manageable and interesting! It is one of the easier CS electives you can find. However, it is a decent amount of tedious work and some of the assignments are tedious and useless.
A good overview of design thinking. At times boring and tedious homework assignments.
CS 179 is an interesting and very doable class to take, especially if you have never had any experience with product or interface design, or design thinking in general.  The weekly homework ais very tedious and can be a bit time consuming but being in a group of 4 allows you to divide and conquer.  The section component was often fairly pointless, especially when we only talked about our current progress on projects, however a few times we talked about examples of products in the industry and best practices which I found helpful.  Beware, the random partner assignment for the first half of the course can go both ways. Overall, CS179 is a class that covers interesting and important parts of the tech product lifecycle, and you will end up with a project or two to add to a portfolio.  However, it is what you make of it.
Very doable class, some interesting lectures. Make sure to find a group you work well with for the projects.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. It is by far most applicable and interesting course if you want to get into start-up world. Also the students who are taking this course are like minded. The best part of this class is the synergy you create with your teammates.
If you're looking for an intro to design course, this *could* be as close as you're going to come at Harvard College. Unfortunately, it doesn't actually teach much in the ways of UX/UI design, so you're on your own for that. If you already do front end web development or other UX/UI work, you'll feel like this class is mostly busy work.
This class is an easy A/A-, but be prepared to do really tedious work.
This is a great CS class to take if you want to knock out your breadth elective. It's fun, you learn a ton and you build some cool project at the end. You learn a lot of the important steps of the design process and it can provide you with a solid background for PM job/ internship.
It's a fun, low-commitment class; you're learn a lot!
One of the best CS courses I've taken, if not the best. Would definitely recommend to anyone interested in PM as a career or HCI. It's a very accessible class -- doesn't require a ton of background experience, but do know that you will have to program an almost-fully-functional front-end app (can rely on local storage rather than a database, hence front-end) (but technically sort of a prototype, so some leniency). Be prepared to still spend a lot of time on the course if you want a good grade and/or if you want to get a lot out of the course, even though it's not near as much coding/technical-ness as other CS classes. Having a good group definitely impacts your experience in this course, it seems. Also that's something to know, actually: this entire course is based on group work, but it's very guided and structured. I'm not a group-project person, but I loved it in this course.
You won't learn very much in terms of programming but if you're interested in design, the course is great. Ofra is a great professor and the assignments really encourage you to learn as much as you want about the current design problem.
Professor Gajos is great and the teaching staff is really invested in your success! However, I felt like the course had too much busywork and meaningless hoops to jump through for the amount that I learned. Make sure you like your group otherwise assignments will be very frustrating for you. Can't say I would recommend the class as it is.
Amazing class that doesn't require much time at all and teaches you a lot about design, which is extremely important in today's technological age!
Take this for a fun and social experience in CS, you meet cool people and work a lot in groups (if you like that).  I learned a lot about design and while I'm not sure if I've become a better designer, learning about the case studies was super interesting.  A fantastic elective to take with harder CS classes.
Great CS Elective to take, however the amount you learn about design is very minimal and the professor/guest speakers are often very ignorant though
This class is extremely interesting and will be useful for the development of any potential start up ideas.  I definitely recommend this class but be sure to start the psets early or you will regret it. The final project is pretty great as a culmination of the entire semester and is extremely satisfying to finish.
The assignments are really interactive and engaging. The lectures are really interesting as well.
I really enjoyed this class.  The homework can be a little time consuming but it is interesting.  The coding is not too difficult.  Before the class I did the html, css, and javascript coding academy lessons online and it was very helpful for the psets.
This class is a really easy way to knock out a CS concentration credit, but is certainly not something where you'll learn that much that's new.
You'll get some insight into web-development, but it's not a rigorous CS course
pick an exciting topic for your project
Good chill class that is very different from any other CS classes you will take. Interesting but feels "busywork"-y sometimes, so just know that going on.
Professor Gajos is really one of a kind, and Ofra is an incredible studio leader. I did not think that I would enjoy working on a random team at first, but this was the first class that I actually became close friends with my team. While following tourists took a lot of time, it really made me go out of my comfort zone and observe people who were different from me. This really was my favorite class at Harvard!
This course is great if you're interested in learning about User Experience. It covers a breadth of topics, doesn't focus as much on depth in particular parts of the process. It can get to be a lot of busy work, and while you don't need any previous knowledge for the class, it definitely forces you to pretty much learn html/css/jquery on your own.
It's a GREAT course for CS concentrators looking for a lighter course load, while still interesting and useful material. You have the freedom to build your final project in whatever language you want, so the class offers a lot of flexibility.
This course is light on coding, but very inspiring when it comes to design. It will change the way you think about web development and everyday design decisions.
This is one of Harvard's few UI design classes, so if you want to enter that field -- take this. If you're a designer, you may be a bit frustrated with its leaning towards CS concentrators, but just remember your visual design principles + really soak in all the details about UI design. It is a fascinating subject.
CS179 is a fairly enjoyable class that is accessible to both concentrators and non-concentrators alike.  Professor Gajos is incredibly kind and funny, and is the lifeblood of the course; he echoes some of the Malan-esque theatrics of CS50, but in the smaller 60 person classroom of Pierce 301 vs the 800 person lecture hall in Sanders Theater, it works well.  If anything, take the class for him, because he cares a lot about his students and is an awesome guy to know.  The content of the course is very different from the usual CS class - very little emphasis on syntax, algorithms, or programming, and more focus on the nebulous concept of design - thus if you prefer the former, you might not enjoy 179, but I do suggest keeping an open mind and see how you like it.  That said there are some programming assignments on JavaScript and JQuery, most of which you'll probably complete by learning on your own more than understanding what they teach in the coding labs.  If you have prior design background then you might not find this course as mind-blowing as some of your peers, but you'll still have fun.  Overall the course is pretty chill - Gajos does a good job of capping the class to keep the intimate setting where he can engage almost everyone in the lecture component.  The one criticism I do have is about the assignments, such that many of the non-technical ones feel purely like busywork more than an actual learning experience - get ready to use lots of sticky notes.  If they do change the scope of the assignments, and perhaps bring in a bit more of technical skills to balance the high-level discussions of design, then this course could definitely be quite fun.
This is definitely one of the easiest CS classes at Harvard. However, the class is incredibly tedious, lectures are often very boring, and most of the work you do for the class is complete busywork. This class requires a significant time commitment even though it is not challenging. Laptops are not allowed in lecture and attendance is monitored, which can be pretty painful. The section leaders are good, but section itself isnt particularly useful on most weeks.
A group project every week, minimal coding involved. Big waste of time.
Dynamic and engaging class! Prof. Gajos takes student feedback into account to modify lectures, which is great, and there is a good diversity of material introduced. Guest lectures are interesting. Not too much coding skill required.
This course is phenomenal. Professor Gajos is not only a brilliant educator, but a kind person as well. He will challenge you to design products that matter for people who need them (as opposed to another Uber app, for example). Needless to say, some of the coursework is easily gameable. You could get away without talking to a single target user, or conducting any real user tests. But you will learn nothing. If you decide to take this course, give it 100%. You will walk away with a powerful understanding of the design process that is readily transferable to every field out there. And trust me, you won't regret it.
It's a pretty chill CS class, but if you want something super interesting or more engaging, perhaps do one of the ES design classes.
This class covers a broad range of design-related subjects, from human-centered user research to the physiological limitations of human-computer interaction, all of which are very interesting if you come into the class with an open mind and are simply interested in learning things you don't know.  Krzysztof is a fun and informative lecturer and is invested in students' success.  The atmosphere of this class is very open and learning-focused, as opposed to being focused on grades or "getting things right." Take it if you can!
Take this class if you want to make some friends and learn how to design/manage a product in your future career. It won't be challenging and it has fun
If you want to take this class, take it seriously or you're wasting your time. You'll learn a ton about design and design language, though you won't learn much actual CS or coding practices. This is really more of a design class hiding in the CS department (a good thing, it allows CS concentrators to get skills they won't get in other classes) but it's different than most CS classes in ways you'll quickly realize if you take it. If you're a code-loving CS161/ CS61 junkie and you want more classes like that, this is not for you, but if you want to see how you might use CS skills to do something practical and interesting and solve a real need, take the class! If you're at all interested in design principles, I think this is a much better class than the other design options (ES22, etc).
