Stratos is really passionate about data systems and spend a lot of time and energy on this course. This is a great class if you are interested in data systems research. It will cover enough breath and depth on most of the new topics and you'll get to interact with visiting scholars.
For undergrads, this is the continuation of CS165. If you are a CS concentrator considering CS research or CS grad school, this class would be useful. Otherwise you should be highly motivated to learn about current trends in database architectures and design. As the first iteration of this class, this year was quite structure free. Be prepared to discuss about a lot of open-ended questions during class. It is quite beautiful as you can see certain themes and big questions reoccur again even as each class discussion is on a set of different academic data systems papers. For your ongoing final project, be ambitious and swing for the fences on some of these open problems, and dare to solve them!
Great course, Stratos is a great professor and leads this coure really well!  Highly recommend
TAKE THIS CLASS! I got in the class after having taken CS165 last semester so I had some good exposure to basic database concepts, how column stores work and had read some papers in the field. Throughout the class I learned SO MUCH MORE about big data systems, databases made by Google, Facebook, IBM, about database models, techniques, data analysis, current research topics and also how to think and talk about data processing/storing issues. So, yes, I learned a ton and on top of that got to meet really cool people. Everyone taking the class is really smart and contributed to really cool conversations in class. Also, Professor Idreos and Manos are very knowledgeable, enthusiastic and overall amazing in stirring the conversations to the right places and being inspiring when it comes to actually doing research. And that is the best part of the class. You get to work on your own research project with Professor Idreos about really cool database topics and Stratos is a great advisor. He really manages to keep you motivated, encouraged and help you learn how to go about coming up with your own ideas and explore them. Also, last but not least we had some amazing speakers in the class, including the founder of MemSQL, C. Mohan from IBM research as well as two researchers from HP Labs. That is particularly inspiring because you really get to see what cool computer scientists are doing in industry!!! Need I say more? TAKE CS265 and also take CS165 with Stratos if you have a chance!
One of the most interesting classes I've ever taken! Lectures are really just round-table discussions on papers, and always fascinating. Take this class even if you don't have any prior database experience (I didn't, and still got a lot out of the class)
If you are interested in research or more specifically data systems research-- take this class. Stratos is extremely caring of his students and this class will help you to transition into real research work.
solid systems background recommended to understand the research papers. be prepared for the backgrounds of students in the class to be highly varied.
This class was phenomenal with Stratos and Manos. They generated a real enthusiasm for topics in database research and structured the class in a very student friendly manner. Definitely one of the most interesting CS classes I've gotten to take. Overall, it will be up to you as far as how much you get out of the course, but it is possible to learn/do a lot.
I came from HKS to take this class, so it was very difficult for me to keep up as a non-computer scientist. But I am very glad I tried! The material was eye-opening and the instructors simply excellent.
Excellent course on big data systems. Not just an ordinary database systems course. I learned many fundamental issues that are associated with managing big data platforms and came out with a better understanding of the research and work that is being done in this area
This course won't kill you if you have a full schedule but the more time you invest the more you will get out of it.
This is an awesome class, less stressful, less work but more insightful and interesting than CS165, but definitely take CS165 to be able to participate and understand the more high-level and interesting research discussions of CS265.
Prof Idreos incubates an incredible learning environment. All of the readings are well thought through, and the in-class discussion never fails to teach you something. If you can, do the research project, even if you didn't take 165.
If you're interested in data systems, in reading research papers, and in either having the opportunity to work on a semester-long, in-depth systems project or conducting your own research, take this class. The class is structured around discussion, though, and you'll get more out of it if you read the papers carefully and contribute to the discussion (this will be easier/more difficult depending on your personality and background in data systems).
Stratos is absolutely incredible. If you don't get the chance to take 165 with him, definitely take this class.
This class was something of a nightmare. Unless you have prior experience with data systems AND are willing to deal with a teaching staff that is unhelpful and inflexible at best, and outright rude at worst, you may not get much out of this course.
This is an amazing lecture. It's one of the few times I've had a class where student discussion was the primary component of the class. All discussion was high quality and engaging, moderated by the instructor. Stratos knows his materials extremely well, and asks the right directing questions, as well as being able to answer questions that arise during discussion.To give you an idea, there were many points in the class where we would come up with some interesting idea, and Stratos would say "oh yeah, that paper got published last year" or "we should do a research project about that"!If you enjoyed CS165, this is a great addition to broaden your horizons, get you more used to reading and digesting papers, and perhaps dip your feet into research, though this definitely is an excellent class even without the research component.
This is a great course to take if you already understand a decent bit about data systems and want to understand the innovations happening in state of the art systems (and get involved with research to push things further forward).
Lectures are not super helpful to the overall understanding of the papers assigned.One can easily understand most of the materials simply from reading the papers.TFs are not as helpful or responsible as one would help them to be.
If you haven't taken a graduate course yet and are considering doing so, this is a terrific class to take to get to know what CS research is all about. If you happen to be at all interested in data systems even better, but honestly what you get from learning to read CS papers is already very helpful.And Stratos is an amazing professor. He is an expert in his field, and he is also very excited about data systems and about teaching.
To get the most out of this class, take CS165 first, then do the research project instead of the implementation project here.
You dont need any specific background just to be eager to learn more about data systems. Youll learn a lot about cutting edge research in the field and spend time discussing about new research ideas with your peers, its amazing
This is an excellent class to dive deep into data systems if you're willing to read research papers
This is an amazing course. Stratos is a fantastic instructor who encourages and inspires students to undertake research and develop their ideas. The lectures are engaging and discussion-driven, often revolving around cutting-edge research papers. I had not done much CS research in the past, so this course seemed quite daunting at first. However, Stratos and the TFs were helpful in providing feedback and guidance. While my research output is not going to be winning any awards, it was a fantastic course to try working on systems research. Highly recommended.
CS 265 is an interesting course where you will spend most of your time reading and discussing current research in data systems. In practice, it has some flaws, but all in all I found it to be an interesting and worthwhile course. In most classes, 1 or 2 students present the reading for the day to the class and Stratos attempts to get a discussion about tradeoffs going. He's not always successful and there's a lot of silence following his questions (but maybe that's just our year). Student presenters are also largely a mixed bag: often the presenters don't have a complete understanding of the paper and usually they're not very good at presenting. This isn't to say it's not a valuable skill to focus on, but since it takes up the whole class, it can make the class itself pretty bad.All that said, I enjoyed 265. Stratos is the man and you get a chance to do novel research with his lab if that's something you're interested in. You'll also walk away with a better understanding of how databases work and what database system designers think about when they make decisions.
This is an amazing class if you are an undergrad looking to work on your own research project during a semester with several other classes in your workload. The self-pace will allow you to work when you need to, and you will learn a ton from the papers you read for the class as well. Stratos is incredible at handling different backgrounds and will prepare you to succeed, so you should not be afraid to take this class even if you have not taken CS165! Highly, highly recommended.
Class is excellent. The papers are well chosen and its a very collegiate atmosphere.
If you have any interest in systems, take this class!
