This class is awesome; very easy, useful, and fun. The format is unique. Every class starts with a 20-30 minute lecture on that day's topics, and then the remainder of the class is devoted to solving practice problems in small groups. Grades are derived from participation in the small groups, submission of solutions to the small group problems, short psets, and tests/final, which comprise of questions that have already been done in class. Paul is a great teacher (though he's probably not teaching it next year). Topics include proof strategies, formal logic, statistics, and graphs. Take the class; it's easy and useful.
Be sure to keep up with the course every week since it is every easy to get behind in watching the minilectures and doing the format. Since Paul taught it this year, it will likely be formatted differently with another teacher in years to come.
This class is a fast, broad overview of a lot of different topics. It's taught in a great format and overall is excellent.
Group aspect is awesome, but it's a fast-moving a difficult course.
Great class, you'll learn a lot, Paul Bamberg is lots of fun.
This class was great! It's not a hard class. Fairly easy and you will learn quite a bit. If you haven't had any experience with proofs, it's a great introduction and the teaching style is amazing. You get a small class feel and really get a chance to grapple with the material with fellow students.
Take it! You probably need it if you're interested in proof mathematics and theoretical CS!
Bamberg doesn't teach very well, but Harry Lewis was great in the mini-lectures used almost exclusively to teach our class. Interesting problems and concepts taught. Very little work if you got to office hours every week.
Remember to pay close attention in the lecture part of class, also try to cover the various types of problems in class with your group so you're not lost when trying to do the homework.
I took this class to get a solid mathematical background for CS 121 and 124. While it's fairly easy to get a good grade in the class, the material is very challenging and at times it was very frustrating. I definitely would have dropped the class if I hadn't planned on taking CS 121 and 124. The material starts out fairly easy and then gets very difficult. By the end of the semester I felt like I wasn't learning very much because I couldn't solve the homework problems without getting a lot of help at office hours.
it's not difficult, but you do still need to invest some time in it.  even if you're unsure about CS, it does good advertisement for stat and math courses later on!
Even though the course claims that it only requires high school algebra as a prerequisite, the level of math covered is much more advanced than a calculus course. However, the course is worthwhile to take if you want to major in CS.
This course provides a great introduction to mathematical proofs and connects it well to computer science.  However, the professor this year will be different from the professor next year, but I feel the subject material will still continue to be enlightening.
This is a hard class. Although questions on the midterms Come from Small group problems, many Submitted crappy Solutions. Either you have to work them out yourself(which takes a lot of time because there are 132 questions to study from), or accept a lower grade. Skip it and take cs121. One bad grade is better than two.
My favorite course of this semester. In-class problem solving is so helpful and really ensures you know the material. The homework can be tricky, but you don't need to study the course material extensively before doing the homework, since you learn it in class. Paul Bamberg is hilariously weird and wonderful. This class is just loads of fun. It feels like a high school course, which in my opinion is much better than a college course.
Provides comprehensive discrete math background to help prepare you for CS121 and CS124.  If you're taking Math 21 or under, you should probably consider this course as I learned a lot more concepts beyond that.
Poorly structured
I'm not sure how the class is taught with Harry Lewis, but it's a little strange with Paul Bamberg. Many out of place references are made with no background...
It will prepare you for upcoming CS classes such as 121. Trust me, take it.
Be prepared for the work, and be prepared to work hard -- especially if you are not comfortable with math. There are some topics in this class that are simple and you will get easily, but there are definitely some that will make you want to die. Nevertheless, despite how difficult this class was (for me at least; I was placed in Math Ma, coming in, btw) I found it very fun. Paul is great, the TFs are great, and the problems can be very amusing. Given the chance, I would take it again.
I took this class because it seemed like it would be necessary for cs121 next year. The class was interesting and I really liked the flip the classroom format. However, because we went through the material so quickly and the exams were easy I feel I didn't fully master any one topic. I think I could have picked up most of what I learned on the fly in later classes. If you consider yourself a strong math student I would consider skipping this class (unless they change it) and going right to 121 despite the department's advice.
I really recommend this course. You learn a lot about discrete math and gain valuable experience writing proofs. The structure of the course rewards diligence so it's not too difficult to do well. Professor Bamberg is also an incredible teacher!
This is a great class that teaches you the proofs and logic needed for computer science.
This is an excellent course - the problem sets are long but doable and the exams are quite easy if you study long enough for them (The whole test bank is distributed beforehand and a few questions are picked out of that for the tests)
A useful and well-taught course to prepare for CS 121 and 124. Not too certain what other use the course should have, and I definitely wouldn't take it instead of Stat 110 (though the instructor tries to teach most of that material in the second half of the course).
The material of the class was very relevant, and I felt like I gained exposure to topics that are very useful in both CS and more generally in real life.  However, each class felt very detached from the others, and there was little sense of continuity or progress from earlier material to later material.  Also, towards the end of the class, I felt like the class moved way too fast and haphazardly, attempting to cover difficult topics in single class periods, and as a result I felt like I didn't actually learn much or understand thoroughly what was going on in the class.
A great intro to a lot of different concepts.  You will learn a lot and the grading is also very friendly.
good intro to discrete math, esp for CS concentrators who don't feel prepared for 121/124 -- that being said even if you are pretty confident this course will help you anyway, it teaches stuff from the CS perspective even if you have done discrete pure math before
This class has really interesting material that you are not likely to find in any other math or CS class.  You actually learn the theorems and proofs behind those high school mathletes problems.  Lewis is a good teacher, though it I didn't like that the lectures were switched from being in class to being filmed.  The group problem-solving aspect of the course is arguably is greatest strength.  It's definitely a class where you're not watching the clock, anxiously waiting for it to be over.  That being said, while the content may seem fairly straight-forward, the grading is very nit-picky and pset scores tend to be lower than what most students are used to.  This class is a must if you plan to take CS121.
This is a great course that will really help you with basic concepts the teachers will assume you know in 121.
If you want an intro to CS121, this is the course for you. If you already understand the concepts, it might bore you. The most valuable asset of this course is the in-class problem solving. The TFs really help you to nail down your method of problem solving and proof writing, (especially if you have little to no experience writing proofs like I did). Problem sets are continuously assigned, which helped synthesize each topic we discussed in class. More time-consuming problem sets than expected 1-2.5 hours three times per week, but definitely a worthwhile class.
Fun course! Very doable. Little one-week snipets of cool math. As a primer class, this course functions well.
It's a pretty good class - you work in groups on a set of in class problems that the TFs check. Pretty painless, exposed me to some more interesting areas of math. Graded pretty fairly - probably curved around a B, B+.
It is helpful if you're planning to take courses like CS 121.
This class is a fine introduction to discrete mathematics as it pertains to the field of computer science, particularly as a lead-in to CS121. Obviously, I can't speak to how well this course prepared me for 121, having not yet taken it myself, but I imagine I am far more well-prepared than I would otherwise have been.
This is a great class to take! If you are looking for a fun class to learn to do elegant proofs in, this is for you. It was one of my favorite classes this semester and I learned about so many different topics from it. This class showed me that if you want to learn how to write up a proof or arrive at an answer in a clever way, you can!
You'll learn stuff. Do your homework. Do the readings. And do the problems and read the solutions too. You'll do great! :)
The class is great for people who do not know basic proofs/other necessary math concepts that aren't really taught in high school. The class is very team problem-solving based, which is nice. There is hw 3 times a week, which is a pain, especially since sometimes the hw can't be done from just what is taught in class.
Definitely take this class, the material is really good and it gives you a chance to catch up to kids who have been doing proofs since they were 6 years old.
CS 20 is an awesome class. You should definitely take it.
You should take this course if you are CS concentrator and don't have a strong math background. Don't expect it to be an easy class though, it requires consistent work.
It's a nice, gentle introduction to the kind of things that will be covered in CS 121. If you were on the math team in high school, this course is probably not for you. Otherwise, it's a good way of seeing and practicing such problems for the first time. The group problem solving sessions in class are unique and very helpful to learning the material.
This course taught me so much and was very enjoyable!
The material in the course is very useful. At first, I thought it would be too easy for me since I had already taken BC Calculus in high school and Math 21a and b. However, I ended up finding that the difficulty level was challenging enough to be exciting yet manageable.
Doesn't really count for anything, but take if you think you need an intro concept to 120 level CS courses.
If you've never done a proof before, this class is a must. It's taught very well with the majority of class spent solving problems with 3 or 4 other people with the help of a TF. These TF's are often very knowledgeable and will introduce you to many interesting applications of the math that you learn.
nah.
I'd say CS20 isn't taught very well...except that it isn't really taught at all. Be prepared to teach yourself nearly all the topics covered in the class and do a mountain of busy work all week. The TFs were fun, but when they are having just as much trouble as you figuring out the problems there's a bit of an issue.
It is supposed to prepare you to be more proficient at doing proofs but I think it failed in this regard.  I am still bad at proofs and I don't think I am much better prepared to take CS 121 and 124.
Pretty interesting material, more of a breadth (instead of depth) approach. Don't bother watching the videos; the reading is usually faster and more detailed.
This class is a group-based one in which you work on in-class problems with a TF helping (there are videos and presentations that you view in preparation for each class). The psets weren't too bad, and the midterms were pretty easy. I assume the final won't be hard either.
I would not recommend taking this class. You can learn the material in a much shorter amount of time on your own and the class will just confuse you and make you dislike discrete math. I took it in preparation for 121, but now realize it would have been much better to just learn the material on my own from the book (Meyer).
If you don't know the topics in CS20, definitely take it. They will help a lot. If you feel like you need to skip it because you want to take CS121 and 124 right away, you absolutely can teach yourself all the important topics in a few days, but if you aren't rushed, taking the time to sit through CS20 and learn all the topics will help you tremendously.
Fun and easy introduction to CS
you could probably learn the material on your own, but it was extremely helpful to walk through problems with TFs especially when stuck
This class is described as an introduction to discrete mathematics, which in the beginning it is. However, at times during this course, problems exceeded the difficulty of problems in classes like Stat 110, which defeated the whole purpose of the class. The flipped-classroom structure becomes really annoying when a concept is too hard to understand, but you're supposed to spend class solving problems based on those concepts instead of getting help understanding the concepts. In addition to now having to somehow figure it out on your own time, you also have to type up the in-class problems, watch 3 videos, answer 3 "check-in" questions, do reading, and do a homework set every week. Find a good TF, because if you don't understand what yours is saying, it will suck. However, the material is good to know for CS and extremely relevant.
Do not take this course. It's tedious, useless, and frustrating. Nobody actually teaches you anything. The things you learn are scattered and often times useless. I honestly wish I could go back in time and prevent myself from taking this waste-of-time class. The easiness of the coursework in no way redeems this class at all. Harry Lewis is a bumbling teacher who showed up to class for 5 minutes to poorly explain some irrelevant material.
The concepts this class will teach will be very helpful in reasoning about any mathematical concept. It's a good course. Take it if you want to train your brain in logic.
This course is a really great way to actually learn the material, provided that you have a good TF and a good group. What you put in is what you get out. It's really too bad it doesnt count for CS reqs because I think this is a really important course to take before you take CS 121.
Keep up with the readings and the lecture videos. They are helpful.
I think this is a fun, easy way to prepare for CS121. I'm not sure how necessary it is since I haven't taken the course yet, but I don't regret taking this course.
You kinda need it for future courses but it's not a great class in itself.
I had taken math 21a/b and another statistics course prior to this, and had taken it to get a better sense of mathematical proofs and introduce more rigor into my math. While I did find the class fulfilled those needs, I was a bit disappointed by the structure of the class sometimes. For example, mandatory attendance does NOT improve attendance in a college settings...some people do not learn well in a class settings and especially with a m/w/f 10am class, people just wont show up (thats the main draw back of having a group oriented class to work on problems together, which I prefer to be completely honest but it has major drawbacks). A thing that is good about the course is that the staff is very flexible (an issue came up mid way through the course about posting solutions, and the staff quickly fixed the issue). The only other glaring issue is that solutions to the in class problems are posted by students. Two issues with this is that if a problem is too hard, then there are either no solutions or the solutions are wrong.
Good background class for CS121 and CS124. It's not easy: don't underestimate the amount of work on weekly basis. M/W/F at 10am is brutal.
It's a fun class, not particularly hard, and you'll hopefully learn a lot about thinking logically!
I learned a lot (and I didn't have a very strong math background), but it isn't structured very well.
CS20 is a great class to take if you want to learn some discrete math in a collaborative, non-competitive setting. The TF's are all wonderful, and the flipped classroom model works well as long as everyone in your group pulls their weight. The PSETs and in-class problems are always engaging and applicable to reality. Highly recommended!
I took this course in order to be better prepared for Computer Science 121 next year, so I still do not know if it was worth taking until I take 121 next year. The class was very good at helping me think more logically about a problem and even helped me with some interviews.
If you've never done proofs, take this before CS121-24. Be ready to learn by doing problems though.
course could be restructured a LOT. Very disorganized
This class seems to be great preparation for future classes (CS 121), but does not leave you feeling incredibly accomplished in and of itself.
It's alright
CS20 is a really cool class that suffers from a lack of good feedback mechanisms on coursework. The In-Class Solution tool, where students are required post a solution to one problem weekly, is an admirable stab at collaborative, wiki-problem solving. In reality, however, it suffered from a lack of content (people posted only the easy problems, not the hard ones) and a lack of credibility (there was so much junk and misinformation posted that I frankly gave up on the online  solutions). Additionally, my table's TF during the first half of the semester was an exceptionally poor communicator (luckily, after spring break I was assigned to a much better TF). In a class that puts so much emphasis on formal, detail-oriented thinking, it was frustrating to constantly feel uncertain about whether I truly grasped the material.
not anytthing
In general, this class is very good. If you keep up with reading/lecture videos, the work should not be too difficult. The class is setup so that you work in small groups with a TF to tackle in-class problems during class and you watch the lectures on your own time at home. This is good in the sense that you have people you can work through problems with. In addition, half of the questions the mid terms/final exams will be taken from some of these exact problems. So if you study the in class problems you should have no problem with half the exams. The issue is the solutions for these questions are expected to come from student submissions. This is good in theory, because they make it so that you can view the submissions, give feedback, and correct eachother. The issue comes when students get busy, or lazy and don't do this, and you end up having questions where there are no solutions for.
If you already have a strong background in writing proofs, this class may be a waste of your time.
It's pretty easy to fall behind in this course, though luckily it's also pretty easy to catch up. I think the material is kind of bland but accessible, even if you're someone who hasn't taken a real math class in a couple years. It's probably good preparation for 121 and I even think it's probably worth taking if you're looking for a manageable pset course. That said, there is no teaching in this class, so know that going in. You have to self-learn everything. Both of the TFs I dealt with in this course (Gabe and Tom) were good.
If you don't have much experience with proofs and discrete math, this class is a great way to start building a foundation. The breadth of this course is truly commendable: it touches on various proof methods, formal and quantificational logic, graph theory, set theory, probability, and much more. After taking this class, I understand mathematics better, primarily because the topics covered are completely different from those of the standard math sequence (algebra through calculus). The "flipped classroom" approach makes the class a lot of fun, and most of the material we cover is legitimately interesting stuff. The weekly problem sets generally don't require that much work (3-5 hours usually), and the exams are fair. If you want a good intro to CS121 that is not too intensive and teaches you a lot, take this course!Note: your experience in the course is contingent on your TFs. You get two TFs for the semester (one for the first half, and one for the second), and their job is to help guide you in your problem-solving sessions. My first TF was absolutely atrocious, but my second was wonderful. Most seem to be quite good, so I think I just got unlucky with that first TF.
I think that the class is everything you would expect. Not entirely necessary for CS121 but a good way to learn the materials if you don't have a strong math background.
Do it if you enjoy fun math problems and logic puzzles
This is a great stepping stone to help you out if you plan on taking CS121, CS124, or Stat 110 and don't feel like you are incredibly comfortable in the material.
Make sure you understand the concepts and proof techniques introduced in class.
Great class to help you with CS121
Start on pset early and go to office hours for help if needed.
Certainly helpful for upper level computer science classes, but not a must-take class.
Hope that you get a good TF. Hope that your table doesn't suck.
This class is good in giving you exposure to discreet math, although it's more of a preparatory class (for CS121, specifically) than anything.
This course touched on many different areas that are all very important for the studying and solving of computer science related mathematical problems. Although at times the subject material was not taught in much depth, the breadth of this course's content was ambitious and all-encompassing. I feel that it positions one well for future CS courses that rely on a stronger proof-based mathematical background. The course is fairly straight forward, and psets are easily completed in the intended amount of time (5 hours).
This class is very helpful for learning discrete math (proofs, graph theory, probability, etc.).  The online lectures are pretty good and the flipped classroom causes you to work with your peers from day one.  That being said, I feel like the course is graded pretty harshly at times.  The TFs definitely hold you to a higher standard on the psets and the course appears to not be curved (3 points away from the highest grade on the final worth 45% of the final, and I still got an A-).  I don't think the class is quite as easy as other people say, but it's not bad. If you do the work, you'll be fine.
Learn how to latex, Do all the in class problems, Practice as much as possible
The class is set up as three days of problem solving instead of lectures and sections. it's a pretty painless class and great prep for taking theory courses in the CS department.
No need to take CS20. If you think you are doing yourself a service by preparing yourself for CS121; that might be the case but it will be a pain: 3 lectures a week at 10 am, 1 pset a week that takes 6 hours plus, three check-in questions online to be completed before lecture, and the expectation that you are watching 20 minute lectures online outside of class 3 times a week.
Be very organized for this course, because not much of an organizational structure is really provided to you. Also, there is some great stuff that feels widely applicable to the world of CS and beyond.
Great class, if you want an easy CS requirement you should definitely take it.
Strongly consider if you really need to take this course - yes the material is something you might not have covered before, but it could probably be self taught in 3-5 weeks.
Pay attention to the in-class problems, it makes the exams and homeworks much easier. Overall good class if you want to concentrate in CS with honors.
Spend more time outside class doing practice problems because one hour on each topic in class is not enough, even with the pset.
Its a generally good class and important to take if you don't have any background in proof math.  That being said, the class can sometimes be annoying in its structure and its requirements.  However, it's a totally doable and manageable class and you do learn a good amount.
If you don't know the subject and are thinking of going into Computer Science, definitely take this class. If you put in the effort, your problem solving skills will improve a lot just doing the in class problems.
Incredible class.  Excellent introduction to these topics.  The teaching staff really wants you to genuinely learn the material.  The "many small bites" philosophy works super well.  It basically makes you realize how badly taught/run/organized almost all of your other classes are, and how many classes here have little regard for how much students actually learn.
This course was a great introduction to proof-based mathematics.
The concept of the course is great, and it definitely has the potential to be a very good course.  I think it did fall short in a number of ways.Current version: Covers the important discrete math topics (30 modules - 1 a class) that gives some preview of things in cs121, cs124, stat 110, and supposed to provide mathematical maturity. Flipped classroom, meaning watching 20 min lectures at night, and then solve problems in class with help of TFs. weekly psets of 3-5 problems, check-in questions, students write-up problems solved in class, 1 midterm (after ~4 weeks of class), 1 final.You will get placed into tables of 4 with your classmates to solve problems. It's a fun dynamic.  The material is all doable.  However, your TF who helps with hints is very important.  My table was cool but one of the TFs for our table generally didn't know what was going on (coming in late, looking at other tables for solutions), etc.  In general though, the TFs are all really cool and helpful.  Steve the head TF is also cool guy.how to improve course below:------------------------1) Midterm was either too early or the course should have 2 of them.  The material in the mid-late part of the course is harder, but the midterm only covered the first 10 modules.2) Steve should teach more of the core concepts, and someone should do a sanity check on the topic for the day.  Like, the day we covered state machines was a disaster.  All we needed was one clear example. If Steve had just done the example he did in the final review session, a lot of time would have been saved on everyone's parts.3) Crowd-sourcing solutions to the students kind of makes sense but doesn't quite work out.  If the objective is mathematical maturity, what students need is CLEAN , 100% CORRECT, proofs - not incorrect proofs written by their peers who are also figuring it out.  The homework solutions were far more helpful than anything else in teaching me how to write formally - again, which was everyone's problem ("I know how to solve it, but I can't formally write it." If someone says this, normally this means they don't adequately understand it, but this was also a legitimate problem imo).  If you don't want to have course staff do this for every question, fine, but at least make sure that every question has been written up by the time the final rolls around.  There's a reason why no one writes up the difficult questions...4) Most importantly, there need to be more practice problems!!!!!!  As an example, for the predicate writing, definitely too few examples for a topic that appears on both the midterm and exam.
It's not the best course, but you learn a lot of different things, and it's nice to work on problems in small groups.  If you get a bad TF, though, that really sucks.
really good intro to wide variety of topics
CS20 is a great introductory course for students who have never been exposed to logical reasoning and discrete math. I found the material to be very new for me, but the course was structured to ease you into the material. The flipped classroom structure was nice because I could watch the lectures at my convenience, and the check in questions keep you on top of preparing for the class.
This course won't be the same without Harry Lewis, but fortunately his pre-recorded lectures comprise a bulk of the learning material, and the incredibly dynamic team of TFs will make sure you have a positive experience in the class.
This class is enjoyable and structured well but is definitely not a rigorous course. I was hoping to be challenged a little more but I also understand that is not the aim of the course. As reinforcement for CS121 and 124, it definitely will be helpful.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard! If you like puzzles and not having to work too hard, give this a go!
This class is not hard, if you stay on top of the weely work and do what is expected of you. The material is actually quite fun!
Make friends with your TF!  It can be a really fun class if you're interested in the material.  I was lucky enough to be with a group I really enjoyed.
Low workload for a CS class and does a good job introducing you to basics of discrete math. The flipped-classroom format means that class mostly consists of you working with your table members and TF, which is quite helpful for getting a better grasp of the material. Also, it seems that most people either read the textbook or watch the videos, not both.
it's easy
If you're interested in pursuing further CS, TAKE IT. It's extremely helpful and even more fun.
For anyone who does not have a strong math background in discrete math, I would highly recommend this course. It is easy, thorough, and essential for anyone wanting to take CS121 and CS124 later on.
Although this was a morning class, it was well worth it. It's a chill class and doesn't require too much work. If you know the skills this class teaches, it may just be an easy filler class; if you don't, it's quite valuable.
The section on proofs at the beginning of the course is great, but after that the material is less useful. If you've taken Stat 110, you already know 2 weeks worth of material at the end.
This class is very manageable as long as you keep up with the mini-lectures and problem sets. It isn't easy but it won't be keeping you up until 2am every night. Harry Lewis has the typical old guard "screw the undergraduates; I don't care about them" attitude, but the material you learn is widely applicable and very interesting.
Really informative courses that teaches the basics of propositional logic, set theory, and more. Teaches important concepts in cs that will make you prepared for other courses like cs121.
Harry Lewis has crafted a great class in CS20. You really need no prior experience to take the course and the things you learn are accessible and interesting. The flipped classroom structure works really well for this course; you spend a maximum of 20 minutes before each class watching lecture (lectures are generally sufficient instead of both lecture and readings, although readings are helpful), then spend each class reviewing briefly before doing practice problems at your table with TFs helping out. One of the things I appreciate most about this class is that if you participate in class and do the problem sets, that's all you need to review to study for exams and master the class material, which speaks to how well written the psets and in-class problems are. Everything makes sense and goes together, which is sadly rare for a class.It's unclear who will be teaching it next year after Prof. Lewis's retirement, but hopefully they appreciate the great things about this class and continue them!
A reasonable class that gives a crash course on math for CS. Flipped classroom is great. A pity Harry Lewis isn't teaching it anymore because he was great. Reading can be confusing but almost no one does it anyway.
Take this class if you are at all worried about taking CS121. I finally understand Big O notation and all the rest that was glossed over at hyperspeed during CS51, and I am less worried about CS121 despite not having a strong math background. The teaching is excellent, clear, and precisely worded. I hope the new instructor doesn't change the core of the course.
Great class. Not for those with experience with proofs, but great preparation for those without. Excellent style of teaching. The flipped classroom is really effective.
Great introduction to proofs!
Very fun course that teaches a lot of concepts that will be useful in CS courses
This is a great course where you learn a lot of interesting material. The work is not hard and the reverse classroom style is incredibly helpful. Would definitely recommend.
Great intro for people with little proof / discrete math background, if you want to learn the concepts well. It's a flipped classroom which I found really fun, which is good especially if you think you understand concepts better by doing practice problems. TFs are also super helpful during class (and are accessible outside) to reasoning through the problems.
This is a great course and its super helpful with regards to getting a foundation in discrete math and proofs.
Beware the 10am
The class itself is pretty easy but definitely helpful as preparation for CS theory courses later on. Generally the workload is extremely manageable and there is a ton of support in place.
Good prep for CS124
CS20 is a relatively low-stress course, and still provides a solid preparation for later CS courses
The class is very relaxed and teaches everything you need to learn. If you do not know how to do proofs, then this class is definitely the class to take.
Decent course overall - got me comfortable with proofs, mathematical notation, and other discrete math topics that will come in handy in 121 (I had never had explicit experience with these and I'm glad I do now, but from what I've heard its easy enough to get up to speed for a class like 121 on your own with the textbook).
Fun (and relatively easy) class! Take it especially if you're a freshmen/sophomore intending to major in CS. 10ams on MWF can be a pain, but if you overlook that you'll have a blast.
Very helpful and interesting class! Workload is manageable and you learn a lot of useful concepts, especially for later CS classes. Worth taking!!
Really enjoyable course. Great range of topics. Definitely feel like I have a solid grasp on what we've covered. Would recommend to anyone who is getting into CS without a strong math background or anyone who is looking to cover a wide range of math topics in a relatively chill environment. Stay on top of the weekly work and come to class.
Pretty good class; not hard at all and low workload. Take this before CS121; don't feel the need to rush through.
Great way to get a concentration requirement for Applied Math or a way to simply learn the basics of writing proofs in an environment where the teaching staff genuinely cares about its students.
Most of the benefit comes from doing homework and going through worksheet solutions.
This class makes is great for CS concentrators who don't have much experience with discrete math, especially if you are able to have it count in place of math 21a (which happens if you take math 1a and math 1b)
Probably helpful foundation for future theory classes in a nice and helpful environment. Be sure to get a good TF though, and perhaps ask to move to a different group if unhappy with the one you got assigned to -- makes a big difference.
I would recommend taking this class if you don't have any background in writing proofs.  It's not terribly difficult, but it's probably a good idea to take it before 121 or 124 if you don't feel confident in your math background.
This course is a great one. Especially if you have a good TF, this will probably be one of your most enjoyable classes. Good, basic introduction to discrete math and proofs. If you have more than a little experience with proofs, don't take this class because it is not for you!
I took this simultaneously with CS124, and found it very helpful. This is a possible route to take, because the first thing you learn are proofs (important in 124) and then from there the two courses sort of branch off. It's not too difficult, and a good way to get an honors credit in CS.
CS20 is a great class. It's one of those classes where you become better at thinking after taking. It'll make you consider problems in a new way.
Very interesting material. Definitely my favorite course this semester
Make sure you love CS enough
Good introduction to proofs and random discrete math topics. It's not difficult.
Sometimes the material can seem dry and if you don't understand it right off the bat you're at a disadvantage because other people at your table will take the lead and zoom through in-class problems while you're left to figure out their reasoning quietly on your own.
It's a really good class for giving you a basic understanding of a wide variety of subjects and not being too hard.
If you like problem solving and want an intro to proof based math, take this!! It was chill, fun and you learn SO much.  Plus using Latex is a skill in itself worth working with.  Donuts on Friday.
potentially too easy
CS20 is a really fun class (I'm serious) that covers interesting and diverse material.  It's a great intro to theory and perfect if you've never done proofs and are going to take 121 and 124.
Take this class! So far this is my favorite course at Harvard and the one I felt I learned the most in. The material is super interesting, but what makes this class the best is the team of TFs. I've never met such helpful and passionate TFs before. Be aware that this class is flipped style, so don't expect much interaction with Harry Lewis at all. Be prepared to spend a lot of your time self-studying or going to office hours. I know I sure did.
I was one of the few who took this course concurrently with CS 124. This may seem sort of useless, but concurrently this was very helpful and I REALLY got to learn the content of the course because it was so fundamental for understanding the topics in 124. The proofs practice especially was very helpful.
Please take this course. You will learn so much if you just do the reading or watch the lecture the work won't be hard.
If you've done discrete math before, this course might be too easy for you. Otherwise it's a lot of fun.
take this class only if you are uncomfortable with your math abilities. I took this class because I did not want to take CS51 but wanted to continue with CS so that I could take CS121 in the fall. This class does not teach you much that you could learn on your own.
