This class is great if you want to explore a project in networking. There's a huge amount of flexibility and the instructors (HT and Marcus) are extremely helpful. They'll meet with you almost on a weekly basis to see how you're doing. Also, the week to week workload is very light. You mainly have to focus on your final project, which you start early in the semester.
This class teaches you a lot of interesting material, but the structure is very odd and non-traditional.  Instead of problem sets you have reading quizzes.  A take home midterm, and a final project.  It is a little unorganized but interesting class.
You'll get out of this course what you put it. You get a lot of freedom with the final project (which takes up the majority of the semester).
Make sure to have a good project group and be sure to have a solid project plan early on.
Workload is light aside from the final project. Marcus is an amazing TF but he really needs more support next time - he was obviously overworked. HT is incredibly knowledgeable and a leader in the field, but he sometimes has trouble understanding student questions.
Fantastic course. HT is legendary and knows his stuff. Listen rigorously and I guarantee you'll learn a lot and appreciate his lectures. Marcus is also a wonderful teacher. Clear and consistently very helpful if you ever have questions or need help he always seems excited to be doing this. Combined they provide a course in which you can really learn a lot about computer networks.
Make sure to come up with a good project idea, it makes the whole experience more fun.
This course is an introduction to computer networking, and is accessible to many. However, the project component of this course is very on the fly, so you will enjoy this if you like a dynamic schedule as opposed to knowing all the deadlines beforehand.
Pretty easy CS course, it doesn't require too much work until the ifnal project then it requires a good amount of work.
This class is awesome if you have a project in mind for the Internet of Things. It give you a great opportunity to spend a lot of time on a project, and the resources are good. The workload outside of the project is very manageable as well.
Take this class! HT, Brad, and Marcus are all extremely nice.
Interesting topic, but very poorly organized. Professor was difficult to understand and didn't say many interesting things in class. Class was mostly rereading the papers (out loud) which we read for homework the night before. Final project has the potential to be very interesting though.
This class was really easy. Besides the final project which consumed a fair amount of time in April, it is a really low workload each week. The course was somewhat poorly organized and so if you don't like classes like that then stay away. If you want to learn a lot you need to put in the effort yourself since the minimum requirements of the class are very low.
The class had a fairly low workload and the topics that we covered were interesting.
Great elective computer science course to take for concentrators and non-concentrators alike.  Most of the semester is spend discussing latest technological developments (think articles on Engadget/The Verge).  Then you get to propose a final project using IoT technology you like (phones, raspberry pis, smartwatches, etc.).  This class is very flexible and low workload.  I highly recommend this class to take as an additional CS course.  Low time commitment with outstanding results.  I felt I learned more about the practicalities/applications of CS than ever before.
This course covered the newly emerging area of IoT. It took a high-level approach to a broad range of theoretical material, and enabled students to get an overview understanding of some of the new innovations that we expect to see in the future of IoT. It also encouraged students to pursue one such idea in a final project which was the focus of the second half of the course. Having more CS background would enable you to have a much more ambitious project. You get as much back from this course as you choose to put in.
This class is laid back in response to other CS classes and is very doable.  The first half consists of lectures about a given topic (in this case it was the Internet of Things) and there are pretty comprehensive, difficult "midnight questions" that quiz your understanding of the readings, lectures, and concepts. Then the second half of the course is really focused on developing a final project. There is a ton of freedom in regard to the execution of this project, but also guidance if you need it.
This class is fine in the most literal sense. It is probably the most disorganized class I have taken (and thats saying something) but it does not require too much work. The material is interesting too. Take it if you want, but don't expect too much from it. Expectations will be everything.
This course was poorly organized, and the teaching staff were very un-enthused about the entire course. We learned nothing during class that was applicable to our projects.
This class was great! Covered good topics about the general cutting edge / future of computing.
Very fluffy course with light course load. TF's are extremely disorganized.
This is a great course to learn about and work with cool tech gadgets.  For the group project, make sure you pick team members with a lot of experience in development so that you can implement features quickly and accurately.
