be prepared to do some serious self study and make sure you are mathematically prepared to take this class
It's a cool class where you learn a lot in lecture, but the homework assignments take a long time, are difficult, and unrewarding. Morrisett is a good lecturer who knows his stuff. You get to work alongside a lot of graduate students which is pretty neat, so you get to see a glimpse of academic life is like at Harvard if you're an undergrad.
This course was absolutely amazing. Listening to Greg lecture is always very fun and interesting. All the assignments were very rewarding and entertaining to complete. Using formal methods is a very tedious job, one that I may never do again, but it was fascinating to touch the surface of for a semester. If you are a computer scientist and like proofs, take this class!
This year was the first iterations of the course, so obviously there were rough edges. I thought the focus of the course was slightly too heavy on case studies (and the actual theory being implemented) which would also be covered in another class on that topic as opposed to modeling them and proving things about them. Nevertheless, I found the class educational and would recommend it.
I would emphatically recommend this course to anyone who studies theoretical computer science or even mathematics.  In broad terms, the course explores constructing a logic system and how a computer can determine something is correct.
This class is fun and interesting, and I appreciated how hard Professor Morrisett worked to make it accessible to us undergraduates.  The assignments were challenging, but the teaching staff answered Piazza questions promptly and helpfully, and we sometimes went over aspects of the homework in class, not to mention Professor Morrisett was pretty flexible with deadlines depending on how much we were struggling.

The one complaint I have is that we got little feedback on the work we turned in.  This wasn't actually that big of a deal because it isn't like there's a way to get an automated proof "wrong" once it's been completed, but it was still mildly annoying we didn't get back grades for the first pset until we had turned in the fourth, and at least for me, the feedback consisted of a letter grade and a one-line comment.
Take it because Morrisett is awesome and so is David Darais
This is a pretty specialized course. If you're interested in PL you'll get a lot out of it. Also worth looking at if you're CS/Math, though the proofs we were writing were mostly about programming languages (not, for instance, group theory). Greg is a really engaging professor, so if the topic piques your interest then I highly recommend it.
Especially for something in its first year, CS250 was a fantastic course.  Prof Morrisett's notes were comprehensive and easy to follow.  Know what you're getting yourself into: the class can be extremely frustrating and challenging at times, and support from the TF this semester was nearly nonexistent.  There is a steep learning curve to climb, and really being interested in this kind of stuff helps.  I wholeheartedly recommend this course to anyone whose curiosity is piqued by the material.
Pretty good class, especially for a first-time class with no clear predecessor. As structured in this semester, the class really focuses on Coq. It can be a little discouraging to see that one needs to slog through a lot just to get something simple proven, but by and large the experience is instructive.
This class is really awesome. It's unclear how viable formal verification languages like Coq are for doing anything useful (as you'll soon find out if you do take the class), but they're kinda fun, and the motivation for them is certainly clear (no more Heartbleeds).

The workload comes in spurtsfor weeks you won't do anything for the class and then you'll spend hours on hours trying to prove something that probably looks obviously true. Probably my lowest workload class overall this semester, though, and a really fun experience.
As every new course, this one certainly did have some rough edges. That being said, it was a wonderful journey that I would retake any time.
