This is an extremely challenging course, professor wasn't too accessible which made the experience frustrating at times. It's an interesting course, but could use some improvements.
it's a hard class, but very cool and very worth it.  mitzenmacher is the best cs professor!
CS 223 provides a very challenging but satisfying introduction to important and often underappreciated ideas in computer science.
dont collaborate to learn best.
It starts out easy and gets hard...
Great class, awesome professor, and useful material.
If you are interested in learning how to harness randomness and probability for the construction or analysis of computer science algorithms, this is a solid, fundamental course that does just that.
This was a great class.  I initially took the course to fill my theory requirement but I got more out of it than I had expected. I think the material covered is fun and widely applicable to all areas of computer science.
CS 223 seems to be a good introduction to probability on the level of Stat 110 and 171. The class seems to be taught at a somewhat elementary level in comparison to its course number. I'd be sure to shop it carefully to see if it is a good fit for you before deciding to take it.
It's very similar in content to Stat 171 and it's not clear how to get the most out of the course. Mitzenmacher is a good teacher, and there's a lot of probability theory to be learned, but be ready get hammered occasionally by clever bijections and loose bounds.
It's a goooooooood course
More focused on math than applications, so if you already know the math the course probably isn't for you. That being said, I learned a lot, and Mitzenmacher is a great professor.
Pretty interesting course. At times it feels like just a review of stat 110, but at other times we learn some pretty awesome stuff. Psets are tough but manageable, same for the final and final project. Overall a tough, but awesome course.
This class is a perfect first introduction to randomized algorithms for someone who rather enjoyed CS121, but in my opinion, it's a little slow for your average CS125 student, especially if you've already seen Stat 110 or similar. Too be honest, it's kind of hard to recommend an alternative, but I expect that anyone who found 110 nonpainful should be able to complete most of the work without attending lecture, and wouldn't miss much that way. tl;dr not a bad course, just not a fast one.
Take Michael's first course.
Skip first about five lectures, so that by the time interesting stuff shows up you are not completely bored.
Mitzenmacher is less scary than you'd think. He is always really receptive to questions, and never makes you feel silly for raising a concern. He sometimes injects a bit of sarcastic humor into lecture, which is surprising and refreshing.
This course is fairly difficult, especially towards the end. The flow of the class sort of breaks down a little in the second half and it's less clear why you're learning topics in the order that you are. It sort of becomes Mitzenmacher picking and choosing topics he finds interesting, and now that we presumably have the background to understand them, he discusses the ideas behind interesting papers or applications of concepts. This can be interesting, but it can also be a bit disorienting because you don't know how to place that knowledge in a sort of internal course map. That said, this is a cool exploration of a lot of interesting ideas in randomized algorithms and it's sort of a combination of Stat 110 and CS 124. So if you'd like those courses, you'll probably like this one.
We learned a lot in this course, but the course was a bit on the easy side.
Overall, I really enjoyed this course. I learned a ton from it, and it was very interesting to have such a bit probabilistic toolkit. My reservation is that you don't quite learn as many algorithms themselves as I would have hoped (like you do in CS124), but you do learn a lot more skills, and at a deeper level.
This is Mitzenmacher in his element.  It was a bit heavy on Stat 110 material (especially in the beginning). It wasn't a tremendous amount of work (though pretty much every problem set had at least one pretty difficult, annoying problem).  Mitzenmacher is a solid lecturer, very clear, but not all that engaging. If you liked the randomized algorithms section of 124, you will likely enjoy this course.
CS 223 is a really interesting course and a great introduction to probabilistic analysis and algorithms. I don't know if it will be offered again any time soon, but if it is, you should definitely take it. One of the things I particularly liked about this course was the open ended problems that involved first figuring out what was going on, by simulating the experiment or some other means, and then proving the result.
Start the problem sets/ project early.
Mitzenmacher is the best! He is such a cheerful guys and his lectures are mostly interesting. Be sure to keep up with the class though as anything you miss in lecture, you have to read on your own from the textbook. Also, the problems from his book are very well written and are quite fun to do.
A fun class with interesting probability problems.
As advertised, CS223 is a good first grad course in theory/algorithms. While challenging, it is not significantly more difficult than the undergraduate algorithms course, and should be accessible to anyone who did well in 124/125. Prof. Mitzenmacher is a clear and effective lecturer, and relies heavily on the book in the course, which is useful as class can move quite quickly at times.
I feel that I have much deeper understanding about probability, and how to use probability to analyze many things. I highly recommend this class.
It's math.
This is a very nice class. The pace feels slow, and the techniques are very elementary, but it covers some pretty sophisticated and powerful ideas, e.g. applications of martingales to discrete problems. It's not so much a probability theory-building class as a class on topics and problems that Mitzenmacher likes, which to his credit are generally very interesting. The workload was pretty chill.
The homeworks are challenging and there is often a trick to the problems that you need to see in order to get them. I'd probably work with a partner if I were doing it over again.
This is an incredibly interesting, fun class... and really useful if you ever become a software engineer!
An interesting class, starting by reviewing the basics to finish by providing nowadays applications and discoveries. Very good professor.
I enjoyed very much taking this course. I view it as an upgraded version of CS124, where Prof Mitzenmacher seems a lot less intimidating. Interesting material and well written book/ notes.
