This class is just simply legendary. James Mickens is amazingly hilarious and knowledgeable, Google some of his talks and you'll see what I mean. Even if you're not interested in security, this class will give you a very systemic understanding of how Internet, operating system and hardware works in general. For pests you actually hack stuff, it feels super great when you successfully compromise a system.Look no further and just take it. Best CS class in Harvard.Period.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. If you're unfamiliar with Professor James Mickens, Google for his recorded speech "Not Even Close: The State of Computer Security". He's one of the most enthusiastic and entertaining professors I've ever encountered and knows his subject field very well (honestly he reminds me a lot of Eddie Kohler). Workload is not too much and class is fantastic, would recommend this class 10/10.
Mickens is an excellent lecturer (probably one of the most entertaining, for sure), and the lecture content is both interesting and important. I would describe this course more as a survey course over topics of systems security (although don't take this to mean that the material is surface-level -- you'll definitely get some of the cutting-edge research going on in security and need to understand many topics in depth). There were some times in which it felt like we were skimming over topics, but on the other hand, we also covered many, if not all, of the most important security topics out there today.  Projects were fun and not too time consuming, readings were always interesting, and the exams were fair and pretty fun. Don't be scared by how much work it seems -- it's definitely worth to take as an elective!
It's James Mickens; you won't regret it.
CS 263 is an incredible course.  Mickens gives the most fascinating and simultaneously hilarious lectures I've ever had the privilege of seeing.  The material is all interesting, and the assignments are engaging, not overly challenging, and very in-line with the material in class.  Every lecture is a blast, you will learn a ton, and enjoy it in every way.
Unlike many other CS courses, CS 263 is very hands-on, giving you the opportunity to construct buffer overflow attacks and to hack into a website server. You learn about new attacks, such as return-oriented programming and cache attacks, as well as security systems such as Tor.
TAKE IT (if Prof. Mickens is teaching it). Mickens is an excellent instructor and gives amazing lectures.  The breadth of things you learn in this class is great, and the assignments are pretty fun too (though the feedback and transparency when it comes to grades was a bit lacking).
Fnord.
Just take the class already. the only way it could be made better is if there were two offerings of the class in a semester, so that you could take it twice and have twice as much Mickens in your life. Mickens is a legendary lecturer; there is no reason to ever ever ever miss class. he is extremely intelligent, funny, and is from the South. if you take this class, you will be grateful that you had the option to be in his presence.
James Mickens is an amazing lecturer who brings a lot of energy and enthusiasm (I mean, portents of doom) to each of his lectures (prophecies).  Assignments are really fun and the content is extremely eye opening.   This class will only improve in future years.
Literally the best CS elective out there. Mickens is amazing and the material is super interesting. Only downside is that there are tests which no one is prepared for (since there is no prep material) and that don't really make sense in the context of the survey course that this is. Also I know the difficulty rating on the Q is gone but this is a gem.
Good ratio of time invested to amount learned. Format is ok overall, will probably be better next time because Mickens takes feedback seriously. Very very very engaging lectures.
If you are interested in Security even a little, take this class!! MIckens is hilarious, very entertaining lectures even discussing papers that were boring to read, you'll learn a lot. Let Mickens aid you in developing your tinfoil hat for life! You are not safe anywhere.
Best course ever. Prof. Mickens is awesome, though it is unclear he will be teaching this course again. But if he is, take it. And you will not regret it."What I'm about to tell you is distilled from hours of late-night internet research ... I hope you appreciate the sacrifices I make for your education." - James Mickens."What is a computer but something that communicates with the outside world ... if you need something under your desk to keep you up at night, just get a cat." - Same guy.Need I say more?
This class is awesome!  Mickens is the best lecturer I've ever had at Harvard - he's a really funny guy, and you learn a ton about the subject material while having a lot of fun.  If Mickens is teaching this course, definitely take it!
This class is awesome! Professor Mickens did a really great job with this class. The readings are interesting, and I learned so much about security. This is the first real class at Harvard on security, and it is a relatively easy, fun, and interesting CS elective, and I highly recommend it.Mickens's rants are hilarious, and he makes lectures so much fun. The only words of caution that I would have are: the class size was a little bit too big, and the support structure was at times lacking, and additionally the rumor is that it will get more difficult in future years.
CS 263 is a really fun class that will introduce you to the classes of security threats out there and how we can protect against them. James Mickens is an excellent professor who not only covers the technical basics, but also gets into a lot of the social and political aspects of security in the modern era. I think this is what made the class really special. Additionally, the projects are short and relevant enough to reinforce the types of security concerns discussed.
The course is worth taking just to hear Mickens talk about security for an hour and a half a week. Besides that, the two individual assignments (When was the last time you actually executed a buffer-overflow exploit? A password-dictionary attack against an online webserver?) we had were excellently designed. This course might not be for you, however, if your psyche is fragile and likely to be scarred by revelations that any security you or your loved computing devices possess is just a cruel illusion. If so, then content yourself with reading Mickens's essay "The Night Watch" instead, which is pretty indicative of his rhetorical style while less likely to induce crippling despair.
James Mickens is an incredibly entertaining professor.  It's not a huge amount of work, though the papers are difficult and numerous.  The assignments aren't too bad, and there aren't very many of them (though it sounds like that will change).
Worth taking!
Coolest professor you will ever meet.
This class is awesome. Professor Mickens is literally the funniest person you will ever meet.
As long as James Mickens is teaching that class, take it! It will be hours of entertainment during which you also learn a lot. Also, if you are not taking it, take some time and talk to him. After this you will know what I mean. That guy is a legend
Prof. Mickens is awesome! Be prepared to hear his harrowing tales of being hacked by the NSA and getting swindled in China. You will learn a lot of interesting facts about computer networks and systems along the way.
This class is amazing. Mickens' stories bring the topics to life and a wide breadth of material is introduced, albeit at a shallow level. Actually hacking into things is cool. This class will probably be harder in future iterations.
Take notes in lecture! Anything Mickens says in lecture is fair game for the exams, and often lecture is the only time you will get the details.
