very interesting and all the programming assignments are fun!
Interesting material, can get tedious at times
Very fun course. The beginning is game theory, and then it moves into auctions, and then into other topics like kidney exchange and crowdsourcing. The course was eye opening for me, and I am really glad that I took it.
You learn a lot of cool things in the second half of this class but there's a lot of busy work. Reading comprehension questions are annoying but problem sets are really good. I'd recommend this course if Parkes is teaching it because he's great and actually cares about students.
The materials is interesting and Professor Parkes is awesome.
The material is pretty notation heavy, but game theory, auctions, crowdsourcing, bitcoin, and basically everything else in the class is really cool so it's definitely worth it.
The biggest disappointment of the semester. Be careful what you want from this course. Despite the word "application" in its name, the course is extremely theoretical. The problem sets are excruciating. David Parkes is pretty awesome, though. He is genuinely enthusiastic about the material and is quite responsive.
Parkes is a great lecturer. The material is very cool.
Coding exercises are pretty light. Lectures are pretty good, if a little redundant after you've read the readings
This course is very difficult and not smoothly run at many points. However,there are many interesting topics. This is not a good course if you want to practice or learn how to code-its good to learn theory behind many ec/cs concepts. There is also a lot of game theory-way too much.
The area of Econ/CS is really fascinating, and I think people from all sorts of backgrounds would find this course interesting and manageable. All AM-Ec concentrators should take this class. Professor Parkes is an absolute master of lecturing, and the assignments are very good in that they teach you a lot while not taking up too much time.
The class certainly has its appeal: the intersection of economics and computer science is a hot topic now, Professor Parkes is an amazing lecturer and a truly talented individual, and the smaller class size in a rapidly expanding department makes it quite appealing. The lectures were fascinating, and the textbook is truly an impressive and in-depth look at rarely explored topics.Despite these qualities, the class itself was oftentimes disorganized, transparent, and unnecessarily difficult. Readings from the textbook (a draft that the professor wished students to proofread) were assigned--often at the last minute--and comprehension questions were to be completed by the midnight of the day before class. The only problem is that readings were often posted at the last minute, sometimes on the day before class, which put students with busy schedules at a stressful disadvantage. Furthermore, comprehension questions were graded pretty harshly despite the students never being informed of such, and no intermediate feedback was given until the cumulative grades were emailed to us. Problem sets were unnecessarily vague, and due to the nature of the material, there are not many other resources online to help supplement lecture material or practice for the midterm. Problem set solutions (aka brief, sparse outlines of the solution) were only accessible in print in someones office in Maxwell-Dworkin, but from experience, she was only there about 70% of the time, which made learning from mistakes on problem sets difficult. There was also no grading rubric from problem sets, and the TFs comments often made no sense. Because of the unhelpfulness of the problem set solutions, I still dont even know why I missed certain points. The first midterm had an unsolvable problem. Midterm I was also not returned to us until two days before Midterm II, and we never got back our last three problem sets. The final paper expectations were not very clear, nor was the teaching staff very helpful throughout the process. To be honest, I have no idea how I will do in this class, and I am really not sure how I could have done better given the barriers to learning put in place.The teaching staff was unhelpful, irresponsible, and downright careless. One teaching fellow seemed to move or cancel his office hours every week at the last minute, and requests for clarification on feedback were often ignored. Section was a waste of time as the examples we covered were often the simplest part of the lecture material and unrelated to the homework.My advice to future students would be to think carefully about what you want to get out of this class. The first half is highly technical while the second half explores less developed ideas. The hope is that Professor Parkes will sort out any obvious issues by the next time he teaches the class, but be proactive and make sure you have the time for both the large amount of reading required of a computer science course and the potential frustrations that may arise from such a disorganized class.
It is a hard class. The material is in fact interesting. Don't be fooled; this is a course focusing on theory, and not necessarily the real-life applications of some theoretical concepts. The course focuses on game theory, complexity, and if you don't enjoy that, do not take this class. Also, the textbook for the class needs work, and is not very intuitive.
I'd recommend any class taught by Prof. Parkes.  This was a fun class.  The topics covered are quite interesting.
This course is, admittedly, not going to be as generally useful as something like CS 124 or even CS 61, but it's one of the more enjoyable CS courses I've taken at Harvard and it explores a variety of very interesting topics (for example: I didn't actually know anything about how BitTorrent worked prior to taking this class). It's fun and not very difficult, so definitely worth taking if you're looking for an additional computer science class.
The topics in the class are very interesting, but do keep in mind that there are reading questions due by midnight before each lecture, weekly problem sets, two midterms, and a final project. Also the grade distributions generally had fairly small standard deviation so it's unclear how letter grades will work.
Parkes is a great lecturer and teacher, and really cares about the class and his students. He is wonderful. Some course policies were, this year, annoying. To see solutions to problem sets, for instance, we had to go and look at physical copies -- they weren't posted online. The TFs were fairly uninvolved too. Very interesting material, though, and you will learn a LOT in this class.
This is a very good class that covers a broad range of topics.
Prof. Parkes is a fantastic teacher, and this course is really a hidden gem in the CS department. The course is definitely focused on breadth rather than depth, but I think that works to its advantage. The material is very accessible and achieves an appropriate level of technical depth -- never so much that you get bogged down, but enough that you'll still feel you got a lot out of the course. It's a great survey of EconCS, something I don't think you'll find anywhere else at Harvard!
Professor Parkes is a great and unbelievably nice teacher. The material is good for both the computation and economics minded students.
Personally I wish the course had more programming (even the programming assignments weren't really programming) and less reading. There were 10-20+ pages of dense theory reading for every class which really turned me off of the material. The material itself was really interesting, but sometimes I simply didn't feel motivated to learn it. Parkes is an awesome professor though, he's really cool in person and loves his material.
It's a great approach to a lot of modern topics and blends tons of recent research areas into a coherent whole. Take it, even if it's an elective you won't regret the time you spend on it!
Interesting subjects, great lectures, Parkes is awesome, note: The class is fairly theoretical.
Excellent class with interesting material. A survey of many different topics of economics and computer science. Teaching quality from Professor Parkes is superb and would highly recommend this class to anyone interested to one or more of the topics.
The topics in this class are very interesting! Lots of game theory, and other topics like Bitcoin and Amazon Mechanical Turk. Programming assignments are very fun, but exams and grading are somewhat subjective.
The course is covering many very interesting concepts and applications of game theory. If you are interested, it is worth checking it out. The course definitely requires high effort, so be aware of this!
Fascinating subject matter with very important applications in designing basically any system (i.e. what's the best way to design the bidding system on eBay? Or incentivize a user to engage more on, say, Quora? Or to design a matching mechanism for kidney donors/patients? Or to design a digital currency like Bitcoin?). Not impossibly difficult like some other CS classes (cough cough 124), and you'll get a lot out of it (or at least I did).
This is a good survey class of a lot of interesting topics. Things range from formal game theory to less formal discussions of crowdsourcing. There is a lot of interesting material, but the treatment of some of the topics could be confusing. The problem set averages are high despite them taking a long time to complete, making grade competition fairly stiff.
The game theory/beginning sections are tricky without math/econ background, but the topics overall are very interesting/comprehensive. Very theoretical--wrote very little code, most of the homework assignments are proof/reasoning/concept-based.
Definitely real-world applicable knowledge. Learn a lot about actions, strategizing etc.
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard, no joke. The material was incredibly interesting and we covered each topic at an appropriate depth. David really generated excitement for the material and gave us strong intuition for it. The course was very well-structured, both in terms of the material we learned and the assessments expected of us. The syllabus was very comprehensive and the course website was excellent. The teaching staff were wonderful and the assignments were enjoyable. The exams were pitched at an appropriate level. It covers a lot, and does not cover many things in a lot of depth, but you will learn a massive amount over the course of the semester. It is very practical knowledge too, if you like computers, the internet, economics, and you are interested in how society functions!
Take this course! This was by far one of the most interesting and applicable courses I have taken at school full of useful theory and really interesting case studies. Just be prepared to do a lot of work, but it is totally worth it!
This is a good survey-level introduction to a "hot" subfield of CS and econ, but seems incomplete; of course, the course is new, and likely to change. Not for people looking for a serious technical course, but suitable for a light-hearted elective.
If you are ready to put in the work, you will not regret taking this fascinating and amazing course that gracefully handles topics that are extremely useful, powerful and relevant in shaping today's markets and other interactive platforms on the web.
This was a really good class. I had a lot of fun. The material was fascinating.
Interesting, helpful, great professor
Great class. Take it, and don't be that scared of the pre-recs.
Harder than it seems at first, but not bad overall
Great class - great teaching and awesome textbook. Only problem is too many problem sets, which are somewhat tedious
Professor Parkes was an awesome lecturer and the homework assignments are not terribly difficult, certainly a fair assessment of the material.
This is an excellent class to get exposed to a wide range of topics from economics and computation, in reasonable depth without being to strenuous for one semester. David Parkes is a great lecturer and the assignments/tests are hard enough to make you learn something but not frustrating. Highly recommended!
Good course. Much heavier on the econ than the cs, so be ready for that.
Parkes teaches a really good course. If you start the problem sets early, you will get a lot more out of them, though you won't have any trouble finishing them in one night (it might be unpleasant, but you'll get it done). The midterms are fair but do require that you study the details rather than simply being familiarly with the broad techniques, which can be frustrating if you're used to CS courses. The final paper is a highlight (we did a design project, which was fun).
This course is phenomenal. The topics you learn are extremely interesting (and very relevant as well), and Professor Parkes is an excellent teacher. Generally the assignments are quite straightforward, but they are very good at helping you to understand this material.
This course definitely had very interesting topics - reputation systems, algorithmic game theory, network games, etc. - that have very relevant applications especially if you're thinking about going into industry. It wasn't always the most stimulating course, however, and if you've taken CS 134, maybe think about not taking this one as well? Professor Parkes is really wonderful, though - get to know him!
Amazing class, Parkes does a great job. Conceptually relatively hard (for an undergrad class) and takes a decent amount of time.
The class is about mechanism design. I am an econ major and knew basics of each topic in the class. But the material goes beyond the basics and explains how Game Theory and Mechanism Design can work in a real life. Professor Parkes knows the subject really well and make you love the subject
This course is great! It's a great mix of computer science and economics, tending towards the mathy. Lectures are interesting, and Parkes does a very good job of making the class applicable to the real world.
This class is a must-take if you would like a deep and thorough understanding of highly relevant and applicable topics. Parkes is a fantastic professor, and the course is very well designed. It's a challenging class and demands a lot of work, so be prepared to put in a lot of work.
awesome class!  very fun and informative.  I learned a lot.
Definitely take this course! The material is very interesting and Parkes is a great professor! Note that there are psets every week, so the workload is not negligible at all. While the psets are not trivial, each can be done in a (long) night if need be. The chance to do a final project is also really fun!
136 with Professor Parkes is a great class. Parkes is an excellent professor and you will get the chance to explore lots of very interesting topics in great depth,
Very fun class! Extremely applicable to a lot of real world situations. Problem sets were a little difficult, since it could be tedious to take the textbook/lecture material and apply them to the psets--and I didn't think the psets tested the interesting material anyway--but they were worth it to learn the rest of the material. Prof. Parkes was great, btw, no complaints on any front there.
The material covered in this course is extremely interesting. However, the course itself is not very well run. The assignments are very tedious and require a lot of busy work that does not help in understanding the material. For example, one problem on an assignment asked us to count the number of nodes in a graph of which there were over 250. The grading was also extremely arbitrary and sometimes blatantly unfair. On one programming assignment, many points were taken off because the grader was questioning why certain choices were made. The reason these choices were made was because that's what the assignment instructions said to do. The final project grade was also completely arbitrary with no explanation given for why points were taken off. I decided to take this course because it seemed like an easy course on an interesting topic, but the course structure made it ultimately not worth the hassle. It would have been much easier to simply read a book on the topic.
You will learn the big picture of computation in business.
Definitely recommend this course.  It covered the most interesting and relevant material Ive seen yet in a CS class.  We got to learn about the economics and incentives behind torrenting, bitcoin, and online ad auctions, to name a few examples.  I thought the assignments and tests were fair.  They were nice and technical, involving some proofs but lots of more calculation/working-through-an-example type problemstheoretical, without being as stressful as a 121/124 pset. The programming assignments, especially the first one on P2P filesharing, were fun and interesting (though they took a lot of time, so find a good partner).  The final project is open-ended, allowing you to go either a programming-based or more research/theory-based direction. Parkes is a kind, reasonable guy and a good lecturer.  My one complaint is the reading comprehension there is a comprehension exercise on the textbook before every class, then he teacher the exact same material (often down to specific examples) that we just read about.  I would rather there not be comprehension so I could just learn it for the first time in class and review the textbook laternot much point going to lecture if I learned the same thing beforehand!
One of my favorite classes at Harvard. It put to use many things I'd learned in previous classes: game theory, coding, optimization, algorithms, theory of computation, math. The lectures and course materials are very clear and interesting, and the material is awesome! Very relevant to our lives. The material is also very fresh! Many of the real-world things being studied are on the Internet (e.g., Facebook, eBay, Google) and many theorical results are recent. Take this class!
