It is very interesting and you have lots of freedom, but remember that you should have basic to moderate knowledge about bayesian and statistical methods and math.
This class gives you an opportunity to pick a hard problem and focus on it.
Assignments are limited so most of the learning is done based on how much effort you choose to put into the course yourself.
Unless the format changes, the entire semester boils down to one final project.
Class is fluid, not much formal structure.  If you don't like that don't take this course.  A major component of the class is spent trying to figure out a good topic for a final project, a process which can be rigorous.
Pick your final project very carefully, as it a big part of your final grade.  If you are not sure what you want to do for your project, you could waste a lot of time trying to figure it out.
If you have a network design project you want to do, take it.If you want to learn how to do network design projects, start with introductory networking.
This is the WORST CLASS I HAVE EVER TAKEN as an undergraduate at Harvard (and as a senior, I have been here long enough). PLEASE, PLEASE spare yourself the headache and take any other course in the CS department. What you learn from this course lacks substance, and instead of actually working on something you'll just be doing a lot of pointless presentations that make you suicidal. There is literally no teaching that goes on: the instructor is amazingly atrocious, and TFs are virtually nonexistent. You'll be stressing about the most stupid things ("does the instructor like the stupid website that I build?") instead of actually learning. This course isn't a breeze either: you'll be doing a lot of pointless work all around, and your project will turn out to be mediocre since you couldn't get that microcontroller to interface nicely with the Cloud at 4 a.m. (after working on it for 15 hours without help from any of the instructors, of course). I am very disappointed to end my undergraduate career with this disgrace of a course.
This course is an overview of networking and gives you insight on design decisions of the Internet.
It's a great course that is project-oriented so you will be working on one thing you are interested in for the majority of the semester; choose wisely!
