This is a phenomenal course and I'm so happy I took it. I was a senior who had never taken a graduate class before. I came in wanting to know what research was like, and reading papers each week was a great way to gain exposure to that. Overtime the papers became easier and easier to read, and I got a good sense for the steps necessary for doing a research project in CS (especially with regard to robustness). The final project was useful for understanding the research phase and for actually executing on the development phase. The biweekly reviews taught me to ask interesting questions and think critically about the papers we were reading.The material was fascinating as well. If any of the following sound interesting, definitely take this course: Lots of robots working together, lots of computers working together, evolving things computationally to solve problems, using simple rules to produce complex behavior (and several more, see lecture slides from previous years). In addition, you'll learn some cool biology. Some insects out there are doing things you wouldn't think were possible for such simple creatures. In this class you'll learn from them. I was pretty surprised.Definitely take this course if you're at all interested. Professor Nagpal is wonderful. It's one of my favorite CS classes at Harvard.Note: You don't need CS 189 to take this.
Great course with interesting readings!
This was by far one of my favorite classes at Harvard! Absolutely take it, all of the focus in the class is placed on learning, there are no unnecessarily long assignments and the material is very interesting! Also professor Nagpal is terrific!
Awesome class!
This course explores a wide variety of topics related to biology and multiagent systems. Very interesting concepts (check the syllabus for the span of topics). Should have some basic knowledge of multiagent systems and biology for the course to be most interesting and some papers are fairly technical, but otherwise very accessible class.
The papers are generally pretty fun to read, class discussions are nice, and the final project is a chance to be self-directed and make something cool and relevant to your own interests. Would recommend.
It is a really interesting course, would definitely recommend reading some of the optional readings.
This class is very cool. Work early on your project and try to talk to Radhika a lot, it is a big component of your work.
Radhika is a great teacher. Some of the topics were very interesting (subjective of course).
Great introduction to biologically-inspired multi-agent systems. Prof. Nagpal is awesome; great teacher/facilitator. Heavily paper- and discussion-basedreading (which can be fairly heavy some weeks2050 pages of papers) is a must. Assignments (paper reviews) every class are a bit of a chore, but are necessary and not that much work.
You get to learn a lot about the very broad field of biologically inspired computing. There are quite a bit of readings, but it's worth getting to hear about all of these cool stuff. Plus the final projects that everyone does are really cool to hear about.
If you like any of the related subjects, take this class. The research you'll learn about is very interesting, and you get the opportunity to do a cool final project.
Amazing course content; fabulous professor; high-impact final projects
The class covers really interesting topics and its helps you think critically while reading research papers.
Be prepared to thoroughly read the papers to get the most out of the class. Ideally class size will be a bit smaller when you take it than right now though.
Fantastic class on a really fascinating range of topics. Radhika is a great lecturer when she does "lecture," and the discussions are valuable especially due to the varied backgrounds of the students (robotics, theory, AI, etc.). One of the more accessible grad classes I've taken as an undergrad mainly because the material is so diverse, which means that nearly everyone is an expert in some aspects but knows very little about others -- picking up stuff as you go along is expected. Still, you probably want some breadth in CS beforehand if you want to get a lot out of the course, especially touching on either AI or hardware/robotics.
This is a seminar class. It mostly involves reading papers (1-2 per class), writing reviews, and discussing in class, plus a final research project at the end. You learn a lot about a variety of topics - swarm behaviors such as foraging and flocking, self-assembly, evolutionary computing and genetic algorithms, to name a few. You don't necessarily need a strong background in computer science although it is helpful of course. Radhika is really good at going through the concepts and explaining the papers, so at the very least, you should be able to get a high level understanding.
Very interesting material but definitely a demanding graduate level class. A lot of work and advice needed to do the final project but definitely worth it if you are looking to test out the water at graduate level work
This is an amazing course! The papers in the course follow a great logical sequence and cover a wide range of topics. Radhika's lectures are engaging and help deepen our understanding of the papers. It's a really interesting topic that would probably be hard to find elsewhere!
This class was really interesting. We covered topics like ant colonies, genetic algorithms, and cellular automata. The final project allows you to explore any topic you are interested in that relates to the class. We read many papers, and class was very interactive.
wonderful class about swarm intelligence and multi-agent systems. radhika is amazing!
Great course on a very interesting and early field of multi-agent systems. If you're truly interested in the subject, you'll get a lot out of this.
This is a really interesting course with a lot of very interesting topics covered. Just be aware that little to no feedback is provided until the very end of the course. Also be aware that there is not much possibility for interaction with course staff beyond the lectures.
This course was fantastic. The readings were interesting, the workload was manageable, and the final project was a great way to apply some of the concepts that the course covers. Radhika's presentations were great, and she facilitates class discussion effortlessly and effectively. Definitely one of my favorite courses in the department!
The topics are kind of dry, even if they might seem interesting at first,  You could probably just skim some of the papers to get a sense of the field. It's not really worth taking this class. The class itself isn't too much work, but grading can be a bit arbitrary (there isn't much feedback offered, so you can't tell how you will do).
This was a great course to take for several reasons -- the course material was really fascinating to learn about, the small discussion setting was unique for me as a CS concentrator, and Professor Nagpal is super smart and engaging and great at facilitating discussion between students.
This course is a must for anyone interested in multi-agent systems.
Radhika's class was...rad. (Sorry.) But actually, this course ranks up there with Margo Seltzer's CS261 as an excellent introduction to a new field by way of a comprehensive survey of its most important papers, mixed with actually lively in-class discussion. Even if you don't think you'll be interested in robotics, I still highly recommend this course.
Radhika is an amazing lecturer and her lecture/discussion formats highlights the important parts of the papers you read, as well as clarifies nearly any questions/misunderstandings you may have about the papers. The papers themselves form a good overview of what the research in this field has been, and the responses that you have to post on all papers force you to really read and understand them (which is great, because everyone then participates in lecture/discussion).The final project is slightly more time-consuming, but otherwise this is definitely a great, non-stressful class to take to learn about a field of research in CS that is unique and unlike any other of the "standard" CS classes offered at Harvard.
