Be willing to put in the time, but the knowledge/material is pretty cool
A really well-taught, well-structured course.  Work comes in waves (whenever an assignment is due) and can be very time-consuming around deadlines if you don't plan things out well!  A great course if you are interested in learning about AI, but bear in mind this is a fairly narrow, focused topic, so if it's not something that interests you, you'll get bored/frustrated very quickly.
You have to be prepared to work, and realize that the class is very math-y
The material that this class covers is necessary, but the lectures are difficult to follow.  If you can get this material in a course at MIT, you may be better off, but if not then the material is worth the lectures.
This is one of the most useful courses I've taken this year -- a lot of great material. Even this semester, I used these concepts in other course projects.
Before you even contemplate this class, make very certain the assignments and workload have been considerably revamped. This class made me miserable. I normally don't sympathize with people who feel that if they put in enough effort, they deserve a certain grade, but considering all this class put me through, I am going to be livid if my score is low.
If you're sufficiently motivated, you can pick up everything you would learn in this class by reading the course notes. However, the projects are fun.
It's a very difficult class that teaches a narrow but important topic. A statistics background helps a lot. You should take it with someone you plan to partner with for all the programming assignments.
I think that the material covered is really cool, but the way the class came together was slightly painful.
The material is great; the organization of the course could be improved, but overall it's still enjoyable.
Incredibly useful stuff, but it comes at the cost of long homeworks
I feel like I learned a fair amount in terms of commonly used AI techniques. However, nothing I learned was really rigorous. Furthermore, the homework for this class is just way too boring.
This course covers wonderful and irreplaceable material, but be prepared for a LOT of work.
I learned a lot about machine learning, but I'm not sure it was worth spending all that time. When I was learning it was great, but 90% of the time was spent fixing bugs, exploring parameters, or doing a writeup which only marginally increased the learning.
This class can be very time-consuming if the problem sets are not done ahead of time.
Good class that will give you a good interdictory for how to implement machine learning algorithms. This course stresses practical experience rather then theoretical knowledge in the field. Be aware that this class is very time consuming and has a very high work load.
I would enthusiastically recommend the course to anyone I think is prepared with the proper coding and math background - otherwise, I would not recommend the course, as I imagine it would be extremely frustrating to someone without this background.
Take if the topic is interesting, but be aware there is a lot of dry statistics to dig through.
Sarah Finney is what really made this course for me.  The material was interesting and it ranks as a fair CS course on its own, but she made it truly spectacular.  If she is teaching it again, I would wholeheartedly recommend it.  Otherwise, it gets a less enthusiastic recommendation.
Machine learning is extremely interesting and Professor Parkes is fun and enthusiastic. At times the course feels quite mathematical, but generally, the techniques are well worth the derivations.Workload is decently intense, especially towards the end of term.
This course takes quite a bit of dedication, and diligent reading of the lecture notes. But the material you learn are both practical and interesting. Not much more you can ask for in a course, particularly on AI.
This is a really great introduction to artificial intelligence. It's a challenging but rewarding and well-run class. Be ready to do some extra work if you really want to get everything that's going on here, since this material is pretty deep.
This course does a good job conveying various approaches used in machine learning.  I'd strongly recommend it if you have interest in the material, especially if Parkes is teaching it.
This class is a lot of fun. You get enough time for assignments (though sometimes if you're not careful you'll be in a crunch) and the problem sets are all pretty interesting and make you think about the material. The final project may seem daunting but is actually entertaining and not too bad in terms of the time you need to put into it. Definitely recommended for anyone interested in AI. If you're choosing between 181 and 182, take 181 for sure (it's much better structured and taught)
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. Interesting, well-taught, great homework assignments... really just a great course overall! If you're interested in the topics, I absolutely recommend it (enthusiastically).
This class was more mathematically rigorous than I expected. Problem sets are very long but insightful. The class is very well structured and taught.
Take this if you have ANY interest in machine learning. You will not be disappointed. Parkes is great.
A must for any serious Computer Science major.
I would recommend students to take this class, but beware of the curve because the class has many very intelligent people.
the course is extremely interesting and not unmanageable in the slightest. do listen to the prereqs though.
This class presents some excellent information, and Parkes is truly a wonderful professor and an overall great sport. You should, however, be prepared for an overwhelming amount of information in this class. To truly understand everything, you will need to take significant time outside of class to read lecture notes, over and over until you understand. Doing the p-sets in this class is not enough, which is unfortunate. However, you *can*, for the most part, skate by without really understanding everything. The only thing that will catch you with this approach are the exams - you can't really do that well on them without knowing what you're doing.
This is a great class! Parkes is a brilliant lecturer. The course material is challenging but really interesting and relevant to anyone who has an interest in CS or AI. The problem sets are pretty fun. But more importantly the final project is a ton of fun. Definitely one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
The material is very cool. Anyone interested in stats/probability should check out the first lecture and see if the course is for them. I will premonish that the average student in this class is very intelligent meaning that the course mean is quite high, so you will probably not get a good grade if you are planning to slack off.
Really fun class. The homeworks don't take nearly as long as they could.
this class will provide you with a valuable toolset for tackling many research topics. It will change how you approach new problems.
This course is a great way to survey a wide variety of machine learning algorithms, both theoretically and through practical implementation. One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
Cs181 is one of the most challenging, rewarding, awesome, and grueling classes you can take in Harvard CS. The material is incredibly interesting, and increasingly relevant. The methods will stretch your mind, in a good way, and grind away at your schedule. Definitely a class I'd recommend taking, but try to have a good probability background beforehand, and not too many other hard classes in the same semester.
machine learning is extremely interesting
This is the most exciting class I've taken at Harvard -- it offers to teach about artificial intelligence, and it does in a way that makes you feel like you actually understand the gritty details.
Good course. Problem sets take long, but they're every other week so it works out ok.
This class is quite hard, the problem sets especially require a lot of work.  But the material is valuable, and Prof. Parkes does an excellent job helping us navigate.  Definitely worth it.
Cover a lot of interesting and potentially useful material, a good, reasonable difficulty level; interesting, but not one of those trial-by-fire experiences.
Be sure that you realize how much of this course is based in statistics and probability theory before jumping aboard.
Take CS 181.  It may require a lot of work, but you won't regret it.  I already feel like I can't remember what life was like not knowing this stuff.  Also, David Parkes is awesome.
This is one of the most interesting class taught at Harvard and David Parkes is a great professor. Take this class if you have ever been curious about AI; however, a strong background in programming is necessary.
Professor Parkes is great but I was seriously unimpressed with the supporting course staff.
interesting, useful, sometimes a bit convoluted
I would not graduate from Harvard as a CS concentrator without taking this class.
read the notes
Even with the reduced problem sets, this course is still very tough and doesn't always reward hard work.
Awesome course... one of if not my favorite CS course.
Course is obviously in limbo and being rapidly changed, but seemed like the staff is on the right track.
Do not take this class unless you are certain you are or will be interested in A.I. The amount of work  and lack of clarity of the material make it not worth the effort necessary.
This was a great class, which took up quite a bit of time but wasn't actually that hard conceptually, as long as you didn't skip over anything. Ignore the lecture slides and go straight to the notes. Read them through completely; don't assume you can skip ahead because you'll be lost.
If you're interested in machine learning, take this class. There are more direct real-world applications than in most CS classes of this level, and some really interesting and useful ideas are explored. The assignments, especially the final project, are large but enjoyable. The class is fairly mathematical, and a statistics background is helpful.
A great hands on survey of machine learning - by the end you feel like you can actually apply many of the methods to solve your own problems.  Be prepared for quite a few 15+ hour work weeks during the semester.
CS 181 covers some awesome topics, but a good deal is expected of its students. Do NOT take this course if you have not taken Stat 110 AND at least two semesters of programming. The material gets theoretical very quickly, and it can become overwhelming if you don't have a firm conception of how complicated algorithms and Bayesian probability and inference work. The problem sets are very time-consuming, but often have awesome results.
This gets a 3 solely because I feel the topic is very important. The current way the class is taught was quite frankly quite disappointing. If it were any other class I'd probably give it a 2.
This class has its nice moments. There are good assignments and you learn about interesting material. However, at least as it stands now the course is very unpolished. Lectures struggle to find the right level of detail, and most topics feel a little arbitrary. You may not feel as if you really understand much of the material, or at least, I didn't.
very difficult class, but you learn a lot of cool things and ideas
Professor Adams does not quite understand common courtesies and can come off as rude or impolite without realizing it. He genuinely cares about his students, but the material is dense at times, and that is when the teaching in this course becomes very bad. The TFs come from different backgrounds, and they explain the material differently depending on who you ask.
Despite giving this a low recommendation, I'm sure many future students will nonetheless take this, because machine learning is something you have to know today if you're going to study computer science. Perhaps the course will be better in the future, but there were many logistical issues that made student experiences in the class as a whole unsatisfactory.For example, course staff would find mistakes in the course released notes, and never bother to update the notes on the website, instead opting to post them in hidden and obscure Piazza responses. The same held for mistakes in distribution code.TFs that were hired were incompetent for the most part, many of them were unable to answer students questions regarding the material, and would further answer questions incorrectly on Piazza, leading students off track for days regarding the problem set.TFs would leave questions on Piazza unanswered for days, especially when students would ask questions about whether there was a mistake in the distribution code. Sometimes, the questions wouldn't even be answered.Staff was not consistent on staff policy. TFs would say one thing regarding what should be done on a problem set, only to be contradicted by the instructor several days later. Sometimes, the contradiction would happen the day before the problem set or final project was set to be due, leaving students scrambling to correct their problem sets in order to avoid violating honesty policies.
It's interesting material, but be prepared to learn a lot of it on your own.
Good materials, good professors, but not very dedicated teaching staffs. Tons of logistical issues.
This was an absolutely exciting topic and would've been an amazing course if the teaching staff hadn't been so incompetent and the course wasn't so poorly run.
Assignments can be terribly time-consuming and can feel poorly designed, but the material is often interesting if occasionally dry.
I would recommend this course with reservations.  Poor course logistics made an otherwise enjoyable course dramatically worse.  A few examples:  Course staff routinely released buggy distribution code, then never fixed it or told anyone aside from answering a followup question buried somewhere on the course Piazza.  Course staff only photocopied every other page of the first midterm, we didn't get the rest until 20 minutes into the exam, and students who didn't have another class immediately after were allowed to stay an extra 20 minutes.  Students who had to leave were never compensated for having 25% less time.I'd say shop the course, and if it seems to be heading in the same direction after the first few weeks, drop and take it another year once they've figured out how to run the course well.  On the other hand, if it seems to be going well, it should be an interesting semester!
You learn invaluable skills in this course. Although I found many parts of the course boring when first learning about it, I found that when I reviewed what I learned, I was really glad that I learned all these techniques.
Please see https://docs.google.com/document/d/142_ZW5RTXYbwXlaKifTtG5KGaqSLTfQO8jU4zaQAqZY
This class is more of a math class than a CS class, and it's not a very good math class. It barely teaches you what you need to know to get by on the assignments, the course material is not interesting, and Adams is generally just a jerk. The TFs were SO USELESS. The distro code was in python, and the TFs DIDN'T KNOW PYTHON. Want to ask questions about the distro code? Good luck because they didn't have any idea of what was going on. I would go to the office hours, ask a question, and they would say, "Oh, sorry, I haven't looked at this problem set yet." Then what are you there for? There are so many better topics involving AI that we ignored for the sake of doing math problems. This class was infuriatingly bad.
The course with the most interesting materials ever. But as you can probably see from other students' comments, it also has the most heavily disorganized and uncaring staff
This course is a good introduction into machine learning.
interesting material, but class could be more organized. if you want to do well on the assignments, just make sure your write up has data that looks right - they probably never look at the actual correctness of your code.
don't take this class unless you have to. make sure to have a good partner to work with. unfortunately the theory was not very connected to the problems on the problem sets and there wasn't sufficient review for the exams.
The staff doesn't care and wasn't prepared to manage a course of such a large class. This is a shame since this is one of the most interesting topics in CS and they couldn't have f-ed it up more badly. As an embodiment of the incompetence of the course staff, we received this email after grades were suppose to have been submitted:"Dear CS181 Students,I entered grades last night but discovered an error in my spreadsheet this evening that affects about one third of you.  I have now entered the corrections and in most cases, the correction made your grade a half-tick higher.  Unfortunately for a small number of you, this lowered your grade.Please accept my apologies for this error.  Have a great summer.Best,Ryan"
While Machine learning and AI by themselves are very interesting topics this course was not very well taught at all. The entire course gave the feeling of lack of effort. From Problem sets that were buggy, to lecture notes not matching the lectures, which didn't match the midterms. There was a lot that could be improved. Also you need to be a lot more comfortable with math than it appears, as a lot of the topics are based in linear algebra, but the math portions are left to reader to figure out.
The class is interesting, Ryan Adams is a good lecturer, and the lecture notes are extremely detailed. However, the teaching staff was very poor this year: slow response times and uninformative answers on Piazza, uninteresting problem sets, etc. I would definitely recommend shopping it, but only take it if you're willing to put up with this kind of thing.
This class is a must for CS concentrators! You will be awe stuck by how much computers can achieve with machine learning algorithms. But that said, Prof Adams is not the most entertaining lecturer. The course was a little disorganized at the beginning and the teaching staff didn't seem to put too much effort into it either. The latter half of the course was a great improvement. If you are interested in artificial intelligence, definitely take this class!
Without a doubt, this course was the worst that I have ever taken at Harvard (and hope to ever take).This year, at least, the professor gave some good lectures and some bad lectures (some were pretty confusing). In general, he wasn't bad. However, teaching fellows did not know the material well enough to be helpful. Nobody knew anything about the problem sets, so we just struggled through them ourselves. There were no review materials, and no practice problems outside of the section notes, which did not have posted solutions until the very end. Sections were mostly unhelpful as teaching fellows could not explain material satisfactorily.BUT, I did gain an understanding of machine learning that I wouldn't have if I didn't take this course. So it was somewhat helpful, and I actually think it's a fascinating topic. I learned a lot, though I dislike this course. If you're interested in machine learning or just this fascinating topic in general, either learn it on your own (which I think might be better) or hope that this course improves after all these bad reviews!
poor teaching..so tedious.. not worth taking.. better off taking some other stat class.
Check on Piazza for each pset, because there will be bugs in the distribution code and it'll save you hours of time if you read about the sufferings of those before you.Also, sit with good posture when coding. For the final project, I ended up coding for days straight with little sleep in between, so much that my posture tired and I started slouching, which put too much pressure on my jaw because of bad head positioning. The process of finishing the final project literally brought me physical pain and gave me jaw pains so strong that I couldn't eat anything harder than oatmeal for weeks, even now it still pains me to yawn.
It was Adams first time teaching this course and I think many of the problems will go away as he gets more experience
A necessary class for any quantitative-minded individual; machine learning is becoming increasingly important, and this course covers basic methods fairly well.
This course covers a wide arrange of material with demonstration of interesting application.  However the assignments and final project didn't explore these topics as well as they could have.
Stay far away while Ryan Adams is teaching. He assigned boring assignments with terribly-designed, buggy distribution code and didn't fix the bugs in it. The teaching staff were apathetic; I counted 40 unanswered Piazza posts at one point. Logistics of the course were terrible; one midterm was a fiasco that unfairly penalized some people randomly (essentially it started 20 minutes late) and they never adequately compensated the students who were penalized. Grading was arbitrary, capricious and rarely explained. I'm sorry I wasted an elective on this course.
The course covers very interesting material. Unfortunately, the material isn't really taught in a cohesive manner - many machine learning methods are introduced in sequence with no logical structure or flow behind them. The teaching staff was often unresponsive and not helpful. They seem more preoccupied with their own research than helping teach the undergraduate course.
If Ryan Adams is teaching this class, don't take it. He knows how to be passive aggressive and make you feel worthless because of simple questions, and although he is definitely a good teacher, he doesn't know how to be nice to students and make you feel comfortable on asking questions.
Machine learning isn't quite as exciting as you might expect; almost everything reduces to gradient descent. However, the course is overall quite good.
This class is a phenomenal introduction to machine learning.  You can succeed in this class without an advanced programming background, and you'll take away an incredible amount.  Couldn't recommend more.
Really poorly managed. Being Machine Learning is suffering
Make sure to go to office hours with the TFs and the professor. Many times, they grade based on what they expect the answer to be instead of what students actually see when they run their programs.
This class is the worst class Ive taken at Harvard. The class was so poorly organized, lectures and sections were unhelpful, and course staff did care about the class or students at all. Example, quoting TF Yo sup Moon on Piazza: I am canceling my OH in Quincy Dhall today, because I will be grading your problem sets this afternoon/tonight. WTF? As a TF for other classes in the computer science department, you dont get to cancel your office hours just because you want to grade. You have to do both.Lectures at the beginning of the course were especially slow--too much time was spent answer questions from students who clearly did not have the prerequisites for the class (example: "what is sampling with replacement?"). As a result, nothing would happen for the first 3/4 of lecture, and then all the real material was rushed through in the last 15 minutes of lecture.Lecture notes were full of typos (example: one typo in the Neural Network notes in the weight update rule for back propagation cost me 3 days, until a STUDENT corrected the mistake on piazza). Also, the staff refuses to correct the lecture notes and section notes, despite acknowledging the typos (quoting TF Yo sup Moon: "I believe you are correct. I also noticed that when I was teaching section.") If you found the typo, then FIX IT, or at least announce it to the class that you found the typo, instead of waiting until classes end and students are preparing for the second midterm.To top off the lousiness of the class, the exams for the first midterm were only half printed--every other page was printed. What kind of class makes such a stupid mistake? Even worse, extra time was granted for the exam, but students who have classes after the exam could not stay and make use of the time. The distribution code in assignments was crap. Distribution code always had typos and mistakes (example: infinite looping error in the value iteration algorithm), comments were outdated with the code, and the code was poorly designed (whoever wrote the Neural Network code is a TERRIBLE programmer). It's probably better to disregard their code entirely and write all the code yourself: in that way, there won't be any mistakes, and you'll get better designed code. Furthermore, the staff never actually looked at the submitted code and only looked at the writeup. Most of the time spent on problem sets was answering non-quantitative questions and coming up with BS answers for very open-ended qualitative questions.Quite arbitrary grading and poor feedback on assignments. Illegible handwriting on the returned problem sets, and often too large number of points were deducted randomly because we didn't use a specific word they were looking for. Also, the TFs never even looked at the code--we could have written "CS181 sucks" everywhere in a file, and a TF would never look at it.Section was terrible. Most of the TFs were terrible at teaching, presenting, and explaining the material. It makes you wonder how they even got a TF position in the first place. Furthermore, TFs never got through all the section material, and the professor refused to post solutions to section notes, stating that it would encourage less people to attend section. While that may be true, there were so few people actually attending section (because the TFS were awful), that providing solutions to section notes would not have dropped attendance at all. Furthermore, not posting solutions hurts the students that actually attend section because the TFs often never got through all the notes.Its a shame they took such interesting material and presented it so poorly. If Ryan Adams is still teaching this class, I strongly recommend that you do NOT take this class. Youre better off learning the material on your own because you will be learning the material on your own anyway if you take this class.
Poorly administrated. If they want to try to run this like a large undergrad course, they should have the same solid structure of an undergrad course (good course materials, well designed assignments, clear expectations for material to be learned). The course this semester was characterized by vague qualitative lectures that translated poorly to the course notes and assignments, assignments that required knowledge not covered in notes or lecture, and exams that covered a hodge-podge of material from everywhere, with little indication beforehand of what kind of material or format to expect. Interesting subject matter, but not a well-run course.
This course deals with hot, fancy topics like big data analysis, machine learning, statistical inference, and other buzzwords that will net you "useful" skills. However, it is a pretty poor pedagogical experience. The lectures are clear enough, but insipid. The assignments are perhaps the most disappointing aspect. They usually consist of two types of work, theory and coding. The theory is too easy, and coding involves scratching your head while you puzzle through their code, until you finally realize that you only have to insert a couple of lines here or there. In short, it's frustrating but you also don't get any intellectual satisfaction. There were a lot of TFs this year, but I'm not exactly sure what they did. Only a few seemed active on Piazza, and only a few seemed to be involved in grading. That was a pity, because the grading was negligent. Students should be able to trust their graders to provide an accurate assessment, but these graders are looking for one thing, and if they don't find it then they don't seem to bother reading or understanding what you wrote.
Machine learning is an extremely awesome subfield of computer science. It has applications in AI, computer vision, prediction engines, medicine, etc. In fact, I'd say it's pretty difficult to ruin machine learning. But Ryan Adams and his teaching staff certainly tried their hardest. From assignments with bugs in the distribution code, to nap-inducing lectures, to a wasteland of a Piazza in which students answer most of the questions and instructors don't bother to correct wrong answers, to a Piazza rant questioning students' acceptance to Harvard because they turned in Word documents instead of PDFs, to office hours being canceled the day the final project was due, CS181 was a train wreck. The teaching fellows, most of whom had not taken the course and were instead Professor Adams' research assistants, often struggled to teach the material; I'd say "A for effort," but unfortunately, my TF was never able to answer problem set questions because by the time section rolled around, he hadn't even read the assignment. Take this course, because you'll learn a lot, and the material is really interesting. And we can only hope that Professor Adams will learn from this and other Q comments and step up his game. But be prepared for a disorganized hot mess of a course.
This has the potential to be a very fun class! And Adams is new, so if he's still teaching it you might to proceed with caution, but if he's going to be running the course with better organization it might be quite good.
This class has a lot of potential, but is still in its infancy with Adams. Lectures begin with interesting examples, but quickly devolve into lessons on probability. The assignments are fun, but feedback on them is virtually nonexistent. The best example of the class' mediocrity is how the staff screwed up administering the midterm exam, printing and distributing only every other page of the exam. That said, keep an eye on this class. It's bound to improve, and it's also a great matchmaker! ;)
This class is a solid introduction to techniques used in machine learning (nowhere near the cutting edge, but it is good preparation), and it emphasizes intuition and reasoning about when it's appropriate to apply one technique versus another. The programming assignments are mainly: Here's an algorithm and pseudocode, now implement and test it. The final project was very difficult, more difficult than any of the other programming assignments, but it was very interesting and brought together what you learned through the class.Professor Adams knows the subject matter well and does a good job of showing how what we're learning is applied in real life settings. He is rather aloof, though. That is, he doesn't show much interest in the students' learning or dedicating extra time to teaching (for example, if you try to simultaneously enroll in another class, he will refuse to offer extra help with the classwork if necessary). Professor Adams is also very unhelpful when answering Piazza posts. The exams are not extremely difficult, but Professor Adams gives you no review materials and no past exams to study. The TF's are more helpful both on Piazza and during office hours. I really recommend going to section because you go through algorithms step-by-step and the material is the most helpful for preparing for exams.
See if they change the course structure so the lectures and sections are used more appropriately. If the lectures fill up with math and the sections are repeats of that, then do not take the course.
I loved CS181. The material is beautiful, challenging, and incredibly useful in just about any field you can think of. I thought Prof Adams lectured very well, and talking to him about AI research is really fun! There are valid criticisms of the class: there's little support from the staff and some assignments are confusing or have bad support code. These problems absolutely hurt the class. However, I still strongly recommend this class to those who are interested: you'll come out with a set of really valuable skills.
Professor Adams is really smart and presents the information in an enlightening way. There were some organizational problems with the course, and the problem sets could end up being a lot of work debugging, but overall a good course.
This is one of the most poorly run classes I've taken here at Harvard. It's a shame because the material in this course is important and interesting. Here were a few of the issues: (a) lots of mistakes and bugs in provided source code or notes which took a long time for course staff to fix or acknowledge after issues were pointed out by students, despite repeated requests for answers on the course forum(b) there were issues in printing the midterm, so teaching staff allowed students to spend 20 extra minutes on it... except some students had other classes/midterms to go to so they could not stay! These students were told that this would be taken into account, but in the end students who got the extra 20 minutes and those who did not were treated the same way (at least according to what the course staff later said)(c) after one of the homework assignments, one of the teaching staff made a post on the course forum where he mocked particularly bad/poorly formatted answers by students. To his credit, he later apologized.Professor Adams is a nice guy and as pretty good lecturer, but these above issues just made the course really unpleasant. Hopefully the class will be better the next time it is offered, but if I were a potential student, I might hold off and see whether the ratings improve next year instead of trying for myself.
If you're more theoretically/math inclined, there's little point in taking this course: a great deal of material is covered, but in little depth, so a strong fundamental understanding of it is not achieved (unless you have the extra time to read all the additional notes and books); the problem sets make you play around with parameters, record the results, and conjure up some explanation - I found this somewhat dull and uninspiring (but hey, maybe there's no other way to do machine learning?).
The only reason why I recommend this course with reservations is because the problems were chiefly logistical, and I have faith they can be fixed by the next time this course is taught. I gave this course a 1 in most aspects. HOWEVER: Prof. Adams is a good lecturer. There are some people who complained that his lectures were unintelligible, but honestly, if you don't understand basic probability, you shouldn't be taking the course. I thought his lectures were fantastic and by far the best part. I also heard people complain that his lectures were too slow, which probably means he did a decent job of reaching a middle ground. (If anything, he erred on the side of too slow.)The course was ultimately crippled by logistics. Firstly: the bugs in the problem set source code. I've taken courses before where pset specs were vague or code was buggy, but this was often remedied by (a) fixing the code and posting the new version online within a few hours, and (b) sending out an email to the course explaining the update. If the course staff would not post corrections/clarifications to their own errors, they could have AT LEAST notified the students about them. Instead, often a student would discover a bug, explain it on Piazza, and ask for confirmation from the course staff. If there was even a response, it was often days later. In order to find out about the error, a student would have to sift through a LOT of (mostly silly) posts on Piazza in order to find the handful of significant posts that were crucial to completing the assignment. Is it so hard to even pin an important post on Piazza, if emailing the course takes too much time?As far as the midterm fiasco goes, I wouldn't have been upset about the original error, but giving certain students had more testing time than others was not acceptable. Students who left on time were never compensated, and since it is understandably hard to compensate them fairly, the exam should have been thrown out entirely.Finally, the final project tournament was not well run.tl;dr: Good material, tons of logistical issues, TFs didn't address problems well or at all. Take the class if the new course staff seem competent.
Maybe try it two years down the road once the bumps have been smoothed out.  Right now, not really worth taking.
There were a lot of organizational issues this year- however, it seems that they should be easily fixed and aren't really a fundamental issue. Thus you should take it still!
Prepare to spend long hours on projects. Prepare to be confused in lecture if powerpoints are used. Lecture notes can replace lecture attendance. Prepare to learn a ton.
The course is not easy, but it's a great introduction to the field of machine learning!
This year should be an anomaly--hopefully professors will later learn how to deal with the logistics of running a large class. However, it is unclear, however, whether material will ever be taught at an appropriate level of depth to make it interesting.
The class is very poorly organized, and once you understand the material, it will be a struggle to express that to the teaching staff because the assignments are mostly just struggling with python syntax. You could learn the material of this class in a week by reading a few lecture notes, but the mechanics of the course made it difficult and unpleasant.
The class was too unorganized. Although the material was interesting, I felt that the way we were taught the material wasn't good. I attended every lecture, but I never felt like I learned from them because I would get lost in the very knitty-gritty details. I appreciated the lecture notes since they were pretty thorough.
The material is interesting but the lectures were not as informative and the course staff didn't seem to care as much.
Unless the professor changes, don't take the class.  That's a really sad thing to say about a class which has some of the most interesting material in computer science, and one which I believe every CS student should take, but the course and the course staff did an all-around terrible job this year.  The professor viewed the class pretty much exclusively as a distraction from his research, and puts almost no effort into the class. Indeed, all of the best resources from the class are actually not even written by Professor Adams.  And, in lectures when he doesn't have lecture notes from years past, he just links us to an 88 page chapter of a publicly available textbook. How nice! And the best part is, it's STILL more useful than his lectures.  In general, the assignments are often buggy, they don't try to fix them, they don't provide good feedback, and they don't try to help you learn the material.  It's really a shame, but it's probably the worst class I've taken at Harvard.  It stands on the merits of past offerings and the material alone.
It's a great course with really interesting material, but the problem sets were tough and graded harshly. You'll learn a whole bunch of machine learning methods and techniques, but don't expect an easy A.
Great introduction to ML. Prof. Adams is clearly very intelligent (sometimes this can get in the way of his teaching), but overall a top-notch staff. Assignments are scheduled timely and expectations are clear.
For a CS course, the material was heavily stat and math based rather than programming-based, which was a bit unexpected. You'll become ridiculously familiar with Bayes' rule. The class itself wasn't very well-organized, and Prof Adams will sometimes assume that you know things or that certain concepts are obvious even if they aren't, but overall I found that the course was worth struggling through because the machine learning techniques we learned were really cool and I can anticipate using them in real world applications.
Don't take this class if you want course staff to actually care about your work and progress (aka don't take if Ryan Adams is teaching again).
This class is the worst computer science class I have taken in my 4 years at Harvard. There are some classes that are really bad, but they know it, so the teaching staff doesn't take itself too seriously. Unfortunately, this class took itself seriously and that made everything worse. Lectures are so boring, and most people ended up not coming by mid-semester. You don't learn anything in lecture or section; most of the learning was through the lecture notes, which are pretty good, but also have typos here and there that have never been fixed by the teaching staff. The problem sets are really silly, and the fact that there is a final exam and final project makes the end of semester so much worse. This class is really awful, but unfortunately the material is probably necessary for any CS education at Harvard; if you can, I would strongly suggest self-studying the course material, because you are not missing anything from the course. The grading is completely arbitrary, and you get random points taken off for not saying exactly what the course staff wanted you to say (in a very open-ended question. hence, open-ended questions are not actually open-ended). Points were also taken off for imaginary questions that were not asked on the HW. Overall, the grades were completely arbitrary, giving everyone a very negative view of the teaching staff. The graduate teaching fellows were moderately nice and helpful in OH, but the undergrad TFs were awful and didn't care about the class or about how students learned (and were really bad at answering questions). In conclusion, if Ryan Adams is still teaching this class next year and there are very little changes made to the lectures, assignments, and layout of the course, I have a very hard time recommending this course at all.
This year the course was quite poorly organized. However, the course material is really exciting. So I'd recommend any math/cs concentrators to take it.
Just make sure the teaching staff are better than they were this year.
The difference between a course that deserves a 1 on the Q and on which deserves a 2 is this, in my opinion.  A 2 course is one you could probably have learned just as well or better on your own.  A 1 course, on the other hand, is one which forces the material upon you such that it is detrimental to your apprehension of the material.  This course, at least in its present iteration, takes the latter form.In eight semesters at Harvard, I have never encountered a course which is so decisive a failure in all areas: teaching, coursework, administration, staffyou name it.  We can look at each of these in turn belowbut the bottom line is that this course is not worth taking.  Stanford has a gold-standard machine learning OCW course, which you can entertain if you want to learn the material.  But until the course proves itself, don't make yourself a guinea pig.  There is no evidence that the course has improved over the course of a semesteryou shouldn't expect it will be better after a nine-plus month hiatus.Teaching: Adams's lectures were choppy, confusing, and at worse inaccuratethink confusing math lecture or proof presentation, for those who have taken some courses in the math department.  The teaching staff repeatedly failed to correct errata (in both the lecture slides and notes, sometimes concurrently) and in handout code.Coursework: The handout code for the course is atrocious.  Two assignments are presented and specified in such a way that you need to spend hours after coding to produce results and graphs, which could be automated or reduced in time with better infrastructure.  One assignment broke every design principle I've ever personally encountered.  Aside from hybrid naming and spacing conventions, rather than sound object oriented design, the code featured a FooFramework object which took a Foo as an argument, which explicitly bound lambdas as function pointers rather than using methods, and which then subclassed SubFoo objects.Almost all assignments had bugs, which were never patched, and some of which no member of the teaching staff ever responded to.  Moreover, the second midterm covered material a majority of which was distinct from that covered in psets.Administration and Staff: Assignments were not uniformly gradedthe TFs would frequently forget to download, print, or grade arbitrary assignments.  Moreover, one TF snipped pieces of students' assignments and openly ridiculed them with condescending terms ("stupid", "preschool") on the class forum.  The TFs rarely responded to Piazza posts or inquiries about missing grades.Again, the bottom line herethere is no evidence based on the development of this course over a semester that it should be any better the next time around.  Better to wait in the hopes that David Parkes will teach it again, or wait for other people to go through the course as guinea pigs.  Your time and learning are more valuable than that.
This class teaches a lot of very interesting, very useful material. But, making it through the assignments was like pulling teeth.  Sometimes it was small things, like abstractions being broken in the distribution code or comments, code, and problem descriptions contradicting one another. Sometimes it was larger things, like lecture, slides, and notes all having identical errors in formulas that were needed for the problem sets.  In one case, there was just plain a bug in the distribution code that needed to be fixed.  The problems were different in different problem sets, but invariably present, to the point where my partner and I purposely waited to begin problem sets until others started and caught the mistakes.This class could have been great. Maybe in the next iteration these problems will fixed. But it will require much more effort from teaching staff in actually DOING the problem sets before assigning them, and responding more promptly and seriously to questions on Piazza that are necessary for the completion of problem sets.
Very interesting material. Taught a bit over your heads though, and the lecture notes have a few mistakes in them which make problem sets difficult.
Very challenging conceptually. Probably much more doable if you have a stronger math or stats background. Stat 111 is likely very useful.
It's a lot of work, and the assignments tend to be random, but communicating a lot with TFs mitigates this. Also, bear in mind that this is Ryan Adam's first undergraduate course, so this will likely be improved next year.
The material is very interesting, but the teaching staff could have done a better job preparing the assignments and reinforcing the material. Often times, there would be errors on the psets or notes, and you would only find out by reading all the piazza posts.
Useful materials! Study a lot on your own. Professor Adams is very good and effective.
This course was great!  You will learn a tremendous amount of material, and the assignments are very interesting.
Difficult class. Poorly organized. It's possible to do well, but if you are at all confused it is like pulling teeth to get the staff to help
Do not take this class until they switch lecturers or make some real improvements to the organization of this class. I went in incredibly excited because of the material and reviews I've heard from past students (who took it under a different professor) but this semester was a DISASTER. Lectures were not helpful, problem sets were HORRIBLY organized, the teaching staff was completely checked out. I can enjoy difficult classes but I came out of 181 feeling like I had underwent a lot of unnecessary pain and learned very little. Awful class.
Material is interesting, not most effective or organized teaching.
The class this year was absolutely awful. Definitely the worst class I've taken at Harvard in my 3 years here. I took this a year and a half after Stat 110 so I knew the material would already be a little tricky. Lectures were incredibly difficult to follow and did a horrible job at explaining things. Good luck trying to get help from the TFs, they also had no idea what was going on. Also the staff was unnecessarily rude and angry.
I've thought a long time how I wanted to rate this course. I thought about since perhaps the first homework. I think it would only be fair if I rated it like an Amazon rating...2/5 starsThe product itself is phenomenal. You will be able to use it in so many applications. The problem was the packaging. The box it came in was completely in tatters, squished beyond belief, and not even the right shape. The box was just so bad that it actually marred the product as well. Recommend, but try to get it from a different sender.
The administration of this course was probably the worst I have experienced at Harvard. Assignments were regularly not released on time; the TFs were overwhelmingly incompetent, showing up late to sections, not even sorting homeworks/tests when handing them back; Problem sets themselves were routinely underspecified. Also, the staff never asked for feedback mid-semester. The problem sets also had several bugs, a few of which were only mentioned on Piazza. The course staff often didn't seem to care about them.That being said, the course material is very interesting and has a lot of potential, but as you can see, a LOT needs to change about this class as it is. If interested, shop with a very wary eye.
Most learning will be done on your own.  Instruction is minimal but the demands required by the homework and exams can be quite high.
This class had the potential to be awesome, but it fell short. The teaching staff was not committed at all and the lectures were worse in the beginning but got a little better. This is Professor Adams first time teaching undergrads, and it clearly shows. I understand that the scaling issues prevent individualized learning, but the whole class was one big mess. Hopefully they fix this class for next time, but in the meantime, I was extremely disappointed with the quality of teaching this semester. Assignments and lecture notes are inherited from previous instructors, but actual execution was lackluster. You will need more statistics than you think you will.
This is a great course with lots of fun problem sets. You'll learn techniques used in the real world to analyze data, which is a lot of fun.
Overall a great course. You'll have to put in some serious time come exam season to catch up on the vast amount of material. Does a great job at giving an overview/survey of modern machine learning techniques and giving us the ability to look at a paper and understand what's going on. Problem sets are actually relatively relaxed if you don't put them off until the last minute. Overall a great class and I'd recommend it. Machine learning knowledge is a great thing to have in your toolkit, you'd be surprised how often you can apply it to a project or problem in daily life!
The material is extremely interesting; I don't think I need to convince you of that. And Professor Adams is a great professor, but the class this semester was too large to handle. And it wasn't so much the size as the wide variety of backgrounds. There were too many students who weren't prepared for the amount and type of work required and thus floundered as a result. So Professor Adams felt obliged to slow down for them, which negatively impacted the rest of the students who were prepared and wanted to keep moving at the original pace. Sections were not very useful (I tried going to a few and then gave up). Bishop (the textbook) is at first difficult, but easier to get through and then quite useful once you have some familiarity with the material. The written homeworks were kind of silly (just variations of things in the textbook), but the practicals were usually pretty interesting. You could learn a lot from the practicals if you put the time into them.
CS 181 introduces some really interesting topics in a rapidly accelerating field of computer science. If you're at all interested in these topics I think that the class is well worth taking.However, it is worth noting that the pace of the class was significantly slower than I think it should have been, due to a lot of the students not having a sufficiently rigorous understanding of probability. This was definitely a drawback, and if you have flexibility to take the class one year or another it might make sense to scope it out the first year and decide how well you fit in with the experience level of the other students in the class.
This class was very helpful in getting an overview of the field, and seems really well managed. The time that assignments take vary widely by week, so be prepared for that, but overall the class seemed to have fair psets and practicals.
The class with Ryan Adams goes through a broad range of topics in machine learning, but goes into enough depth so that the techniques can be fully applied on the weekly problem sets or practicals. Though the beginning of the class started rather slowly, the class picked up quickly and didn't disappoint.
This class does a great job of giving an in depth treatment of topics while being very very reasonable in how it tests them. This allows you to get as much out of the class as you want.
There are a lot of interesting things learned in the course, for sure, but the quality of the class decreased throughout the semester. It's frustrating that the assignments don't help to tell students apart so the curve was kind of ridiculous. But, still interesting material. Hopefully, Professor Adams will fix some things for next year.
Really great class; no fluff, you really do learn both the mathematical/statistical theory behind machine learning and get to apply it to real problems on Kaggle. Fairly difficult for an undergrad class. Having good partners is a must; start finding partners before the semester/during the first few days.
I took CS181 with the expectation that it would be difficult and that I would learn a lot---I ended up learning a lot, but it was actually relatively painless. That said, it was evident that there were many people initially enrolled in the class that did not have the necessary mathematical/statistical maturity to understand the models, concepts, approaches, or derivations well. For the first midterm the distribution was bimodal so there is definitely a gap between the really smart people who can absorb the material quite easily and the regular people who take a bit more time and effort to understand the concepts. The Kaggle competitions were really fun although they emphasize feature extraction much more than any machine learning methods---what usually ended up happening was that everybody would use some form of random forest and then the team that could find the best resources to extract features would end up winning each competition. Be advised!
Good class sometimes the balance between theory and practice wasn't perfect, like when homeworks and exams differed a lot from what was covered in class and practicals. But overall, ML is really cool and this is a great way to be introduced to the topics.
This is a great class if you have the time. You can get by with minimal work, but you won't get much out of it. If you don't have a lot of other demanding courses, you can really sink into the practicals and think about the concepts more deeply and you'll learn much more.
It's cool and powerful.
Machine learning is an extremely interesting topic, and this class touches on some really cool stuff. However, the written homeworks and midterms were poorly organized and not extremely helpful to my understanding of the material. Unless they change this for next year, I would recommend taking a different class on this same material (maybe one at MIT?)
The practicals are fun, and the homeworks are also fun. The midterms were a little strange -- there were some really, really easy questions, and other hard questions. Be sure you know your stats, linear algebra, and Python programming -- the course prereqs are there for a reason!
The course is a great introduction to a lot of machine learning methods. It's not exactly the easiest course to teach, so don't expect perfection. I think that given the state of ML research, the material is taught as best as it can be, but is still unsatisfactory.Notation changes constantly (which can be annoying), and tools might already exists that do all the ML for you (sklearn). The book used is not the best, jumps around a lot, etc.
Eye-opening. Machine learning is an entirely different way of thinking about modeling and understanding data than statistical and mathematical modeling. You'll learn several useful and foundational algorithms and get a serious chance to apply them to moderately difficult cases of real problems on the practicals. There's very little wrong with this class. It's definitely worth taking.
The lectures were often very dull and uninteresting; I took this without taking either Stat 110 or CS 51 and suffered greatly from the lack of statistics knowledge; approach with caution.
It provides a nice overview of machine learning. It is a survey course, you'll be learning many techniques that don't really correlate with each other, but it does have a lot of breadth.
This class is quite interesting and you will learn a lot from the problem sets. Unfortunately Ryan Adams is a bad professor and most of the learning will be done on your own.
I'd recommend it if you have a strong background in math and are very interested in machine learning.  This class is not for the faint of heart -- you have to be prepared to work really hard.
CS181 serves not only as an introduction to machine learning, it is a great example of how math and science can be applied to model real problems. Some of the topics are challenging, but this is an immensely rewarding class.
Machine learning is all the rave these days, but would suggest one to come in with decent computer science and statistics background to gain the most from the course
Just take stanfords machine learning class on coursera instead.
Prof. Adams is incredibly dedicated to improving this course in every possible way. I recommend it without reservation, and would extend the same statement to any course he teaches given his teaching philosophy.
The course is very well-organized and the material great. Would definitely recommend. Some of the topics are treated in a somewhat shallow manner, so you might consider taking CS 281 as a follow-up.
Really awesome course. The homework and mini quizzes give you a good handle on the theory behind the Machine Learning algorithms, and Ryan Adams likes to provide plenty of examples as to why these things are useful in real life. Bishop (the textbook) is a bit difficult to understand which can make the quizzes tough, but finding resources online can be helpful. I found the YouTube channel by "mathematicalmonk"'s machine learning videos to be especially useful. Generally, all the material you need for the exam is covered in lecture and section.The Practicals (special application based homework assignments) let you put it all into practice on interesting, real problems, which is fun. There is a competition, but winning doesn't seem all that important, so I wouldn't stress about it (by definition, most people don't win!). All the course staff wants is for you to understand what you're doing and to have a clear methodology.Overall, this was a great course. I now feel like I have this beautiful ML toolbox that I can use to solve any problem I please. Ryan Adams is an excellent lecturer and he explains things very clearly. He's also very receptive to questions during lecture. His course notes are also great. Take this class if you have ANY interest in Machine Learning!
This class, at least when it's taught by Prof. Adams does a pretty good job of introducing you to the field of machine learning. It's basically a stat class meets a computer science class. There's a fair amount of multivariable calculus, linear algebra, and python programming involved, although I had only taken CS50 and was fine with the programming. Grading on the assignments was very lax but on the exams it was a bit iffy. Overall I'd recommend to anyone in any sort of a quantitive field.
The class has amazing material and you'll be able to apply it in order to solve all kinds of problems. The organization at times was not the best, and the material was not always taught in the clearest ways, but overall everything was fair and if you put in the time you will learn a ton. Be prepared with linear algebra and probability skills as they'll become pretty important fairly quickly.
The class leaves you with both a solid understanding of the theory and some very valuable practical skills
Might appear very appealing from the reviews and might not seem too difficult, but I think most students taking this course are CS undergraduates who have a very well structured schedule of courses and have all prereqs so they don't struggle much in this course. If you are a graduate student or from a different field of study and taking it as an elective, speak to the staff about your readiness.
not much work required to get good grades. I coasted by. Not enough discrimination between mediocre and exceptional work. Section is useful. Class was slow enough to learn what's going on during lecture. Good broad overview of machine learning. The hw assignments were useful and practical but not discriminatory.
The course has positives and negatives. I think that unlike with many other topics, much of machine learning can best be learned by doing machine learning. The problem is that you can only do a certain amount in one semester while still doing enough of the sort of work that can easily be graded. The material is inherently interesting, but not all parts of lectures, readings, and assignments are good.
Ryan Adams gives great materials. The topic is really interesting. Psets are challenging but generally not excessively. Projects, psets, and homework quizzes (basically two a week but they're worth very very little) are all graded very leniently, which is nice but makes the majority of your grade with respect to the rest of the class based on your exams, which is frustrating to be aware of as you work hard on the psets/projects. I recommend taking it, it's crazy cool stuff. Just be aware that to kill the exams you may need a strong and disparate math background.
For some reason, this course just didn't really do it for me.  I felt like I didn't really understand and I have no idea why.  It seemed like Professor Adams was good at lecturing and things were designed well, but like it just didn't seem to compute in my brain.
This course keeps getting better and better. Adams cares a lot about the material and the TFs are quite good. Only issue was that the expectations for the exams were not very clear. The first exam was really tough and the second one was a lot easier...was hard to gauge. Also careful in the second half of the course cause things start to speed up. You cover like seven topics that are very different.
This is a really cool class and if you stick on top of it, it shouldn't be that hard. Be warned that there's a wide range of abilities in the class and taking it with only CS 109 (like I did) might be not advisable.
The class gives you a great opportunity to work hands on with machine learning methods, and the theory part of the course is also good quality. Unfortunately, lectures with Prof. Adams were not all that interesting.
This class is one wherein it is possible to do well while learning nothing. Endeavor to ensure that this does not happen to you.
It requires work so take it if you are willing to put in time into the concepts outside of class
Professor Adams has a history of taking student comments to heart and working to improve the course, so that bodes well for you all. It also means that any comments I make could be irrelevant. That said, the material is interesting. You really do need Stat110 and a freshman math sequence (or equivalent preparation) and in some ways this class seems more like a stats class than a CS class. Ryan Adams seemed like he understood his students at the beginning of the course, but as time went on, this seemed less and less true.
Don't take this class if you're not into a combination of theoretical CS, Stats, and applied math. If you just like solving problems and writing code, there are much better courses out there. In practicals, library functions or the provided sample code do 80% of the work for you, and most of the improvement in your leaderboard score won't come from any specific insights or cool ideas, but just an adjustment of the parameters for the library functions.
This course is the best introduction course for all topics machine learning. The instructor is very inspiring and responsive.
It was a great class, and a great introduction to machine learning. It isn't videotaped (first CS class I've taken since coming to Harvard that wasn't), and a lot of work is left to the student to stay up to date with readings and all. I learned a ton, though, and am glad I took it. The practicals are fantastic.
Put in time to the practicals early to get through the baseline obvious approaches, then go to OH to get into more clever or advanced approaches. With the HW, make sure you start the coding part early and go to OH to fix the small stupid bugs.
If you are thinking of taking this class, take it. The mini projects are fun and interesting while engaging with some very practical concepts. If you are Applied Math and are looking at fulfilling a requirement for a background in CS, definite take this as a lot of math is required and it teaches you how to combine math and computing.
You will learn a lot but you will need to devote a lot of time to this course (~5 hours per week inclusive of assignments).
The course provides a mathematically rigorous treatment of mainstream machine learning algorithms. For example, the tests are mostly mathematics questions or derivations. However, the course overall is more on the practical side than the abstract side. The "practicals" are Kaggle competitions amongst class members in which any method can be used to achieve the best score. Also, a few of the homework questions were to code up an algorithm from scratch. If you can write it yourself and you know the math behind it, you definitely understand it.
Great class for introduction to machine learning. You will get out of the class what you put in. The course notes are amazing. Teaching staff is very helpful. I enjoyed the mix of the homeworks and practicals. Lectures are boring.
Reasons this class was TERRIBLE:1) Lack of support. There was usually only around 6 hours of office hours between Monday and Friday, and if you were able to make any of them, the ratio of students to TFs was usually 15:1 or greater. 2) Homework was poorly written and Piazza was not a useful resource. One was not able to post privately to instructors, meaning that if you got stuck on any problem, you couldn't post on piazza looking for help, as it would reveal how to do part of the problem to other students. Furthermore, Ryan Adams Piazza answers were not helpful at all. Most answers were along the lines of "Yes" or "No". One of my personal favorites was when a student posted on piazza asking for lecture notes to be put up for the homework and Ryan Adams replied with "For what it's worth there are hundreds if not thousands of papers about latent Dirichlet allocation that are just a web search away."3) Distribution code that was given out was often buggy and required an hour of fixing before any actual progress could be made. This includes code for homework AND lecture. Overall this class is not worth taking in my opinion. It's essentially a statistics class with a little coding that does nothing beyond a simple introduction to the basics behind machine learning. Buying a textbook and reading through it while taking another, better taught class would be my recommendation.
Really wish the homeworks were more practical. They tend to be pretty theory based, and most of the practical questions come from MIT.
I don't really know how I feel about this class. I think I would advise against taking it until it is structured better. I don't feel like I learned that much. A lot of the homework is just trying to debug your code. The conceptual problems are usually pretty easy, but the coding can take a while. If you do take this class, find a group of people that you know will work hard to take it with because you have to do group projects. They are a lot of fun, and were my favorite part of the class. Lectures can be pointless because it is just a repetition of the reading, with a lot of questions from people who don't know what is going on in the class at all, which is not a majority of the students. I stopped going to lecture half way through the class and I still did really well. This class has the potential to be a lot better, so maybe take it in a few years if it improves.
Great course!!!!!!!  Non-trivial material, but really fun to work on the practicals!  Math is hard, but don't be discouraged, course is awesome and highly applicable!  This was my third CS course, and the first on eI truly enjoyed, and that made me understand how incredible powerful computers and math can be!
CS181 was a really great course to take this year. Ryan Adams was an effective lecturer, and the psets/practicals were very effective/manageable. Some of the coding questions were a bit annoying, but TFs were able to help with that. Speaking of TFs, Marco and Keyon were the two most helpful TFs during OH - they always knew what was going on and were able to provide useful help. Expect the class to take around 10 hours per week - not bad for a CS course. There's a lot of theory and derivations, so I would recommend being comfortable with the material from STAT111. I think one of the meh parts of the course is the curve. Honestly, everyone did so well in the course (in terms of psets/midterms) that I feel like it was hard to distinguish between the students who really understood the material versus those who were just getting a ton of help from their friends. The reading quizzes were also a bit annoying.
If you're competitive and have an interest in machine learning (and solid experience working with statistical distributions and partial derivatives), you'll enjoy this course a lot. It's one of the few classes at Harvard with a significant competitive aspect. Three of the homework assignments are Kaggle contests, where you compete in groups of three at some prediction task (like classifying computer programs based on their system calls). These contests feature a live leaderboard so you can see how you stack up. It's a ton of fun if you're into that kind of thing.
This class isn't too bad so long as you keep up with the readings. The exams aren't so bad if you have a solid grasp on the proofs, etc. taught in lecture and readings. I recommend it; you'll learn some cool ML algorithms and their applications! The course also doesn't just "tell you" various machine learning applications--it also gives you a lot of motivation and the mathematical explanations behind them.
This course covers quite a bit of material with decent depth, but never felt rushed. The topics in the course aren't really cumulative, but a lot of the approaches/techniques for derivations in the class were similar, which resulted in parts of the course feeling a bit repetitive at times. Lectures were sometimes quite dry and math-heavy, but it wasn't too bad. The assignments throughout the course, especially the practicals, were helpful in making sure that that students fully understood the material (the practicals were also pretty fun). Homework/practical grading was very fair/lenient and mostly based on completion. The midterms were very fair. Machine learning sounds like a sexy subject; the course does not quite live up to that, but it definitely is a great survey course that teaches a lot.
This material is super cool. Machine learning is one of the burgeoning fields of the present day, and the homeworks and material will give you a great feel for why people find this field so exciting. Although the lectures were basically a recapitulation of the reading (which we were forced to do because of reading quizzes), I thought that the homework and practicals completely redeemed this class.
Unless this class changes, it's essentially a math course... perhaps a follow-up to stat111.  The practicals are insanely easy and the homeworks are pretty difficult unless you have a lot of math experiences.  Midterm 1 is brutal.  Overall a meh class.
This course has some math rigor and requires a lot of personal study time. The lectures are great, but he class is huge, don't expect any personal attention.
This class is a great introduction to machine learning. It introduces a wide range of techniques used to learn from data, and it teaches some of the underlying theory behind those techniques as well.
This is not a machine learning course. This is an algebra/calculus course. The lectures are entirely derivations, as are the homeworks and the unbelievably picky exams. The only practical components are the practicals, but you have to already know how to do them in advance of coming to this course.
You should take this class if you are at all curious as to how machine learning of all sorts takes place. If you want understand how Siri talks, or Netflix recommends movies, or almost anything else underlying many 21st century technologies, this course is for you.
A very mathematical and statistical approach to one of the hottest topics in computer science.
There is a lot of math involved. This is more a math / stats course than a CS course.
Good class but takes a lot of time
This is a really good class.  Pretty easy, but you'll learn a lot about machine learning!
The course definitely taught techniques that are useful in the real world and gave a groundwork for machine learning. However, the lectures were very theoretical and could be quite boring. The grading is pretty easy; if you want an A and you want to learn about machine learning algorithms, this is a good class for you.
Great class, too big a range in skill this year made lectures quite slow sometimes.
Steady workload (pretty much every week), but never too crazy.
The material is very interesting and useful, the homeworks are usually good, and the projects are fun, but Ryan Adams is kind of a dick and the lectures were worthless.
Lots of difficult linear algebra and multivariable calculus. At the same time, certain topics like neural networks weren't covered in enough detail. Despite this, a decent class on a very interesting topic.
The material is extremely interesting and useful. Prof. Adams will not be teaching it next year from what I understand so nothing else I can say will be meaningful at this point.
This course is extremely poorly run and does not teach the material at all well. The focus is exceedingly mathematical and does not explain how one would actually apply it -- real-world examples are very lacking.
It's a solid mid-level CS course at Harvard. Great teaching, interesting assignments. It won't be your hardest course, probably, but will teach you a lot in proportion to how much time you have to put in. Makes machine learning easy.
This is a great class that relies on a high level of mathematical maturity but also is very practical. It's a great combination of homeworks to test your knowledge and projects on real-world data, Make sure you get your project group squared away as soon as possible, and start training models early because they take time.
This is a course from which you can gain 95% of the benefit by merely completing the problem sets on your own and the practicals in your small group, never interacting with the teaching staff, lectures, or any of the rest. That said, the practicals and the coding sections of the problem sets do a decent job of helping you practice doing real machine learning in Python, and I now feel more or less ready to tackle real machine learning problems.
This is a useful class that introduces you to interesting concepts but don't come in unprepared (without good knowledge of the pre-reqs) and if the class is large be warned that it won't be taught optimally. Our year it was basically getting all necessary material via reading.
This year was more work commitment because of the homework aspect of the course, in addition to the practicals. Start the practicals early!
Machine learning is very cool and useful. You should take this class. If you have taken CS50 and Stat 110, this class will be very easy. In fact, this class was way easier than I expected.
Be sure to be comfortable with linear algebra and probability theories before taking this course.
Definitely a self-learning course. There seems to be a disconnect in what Prof Adams wants to teach: math behind ML concepts, or concepts themselves. You will do well in this course if you had significant experience in linear algebra and proof based math
Because of the way that practicals are structured, you can end up doing all the work for your team (or none of it). Teaching Fellows are of very inconsistent quality. Having said that, the material is really interesting, and there's a lot of optional material to expand on your interests.
Lectures can get boring sometimes, and the mini-quizzes are quite annoying. Otherwise, you learn a lot, and the practicals are quite fun.
Very good as an overview of basics. Not a chalenging in-depth course. Quite a bit of hands-on implementation.
The course covers methods that many would find more statistical than anything else. It would probably help to have preparation in linear algebra and calculus for the most satisfying experience.
Very interesting material. You'll get a great overview of the basic models and a lot of the tools used in machine learning.The lectures unbearably slow. Professor Adams sometimes stops too long for questions. The math sections of the psets basically consist of transcribing lecture/course notes, filling in some algebra that was skipped, and making a couple tweaks. Fairly light time commitment, for a CS class. Just keep in mind that if you take something like CS 161 or 124 at the same time, you probably won't be able to give this class the attention it deserves.If you've taken Stat 110 and know some matrix calculus, you'll be fine.
If you have not taken Stat 110 or don't know material from Stat 110, please do not take this course. This is not just for your own sake (the class would be hard), but it honestly sort of slows the whole class down. Other than that, it's great! The material is very interesting, and the practicals are great and realistic!
You will end up working a lot with your teammates for the practicals. It would be very helpful if you know your teammates before enrolling in the class.
Very useful class.  Really pay attention to the pre-requisites, and I would say even above and beyond is to have some more statistics and mathematics knowledge than the requirements..
This course was very useful. This course gave me an idea of how statistical techniques are used to solve problems in Machine Learning such as regression, classification, and clustering. It was very enlightening and opened my world up to why I decided to concentrate in computer science in the first place. I definitely want to pursue Machine Learning in the future as a result of this class. Just make sure you have the prerequisites and a strong understanding of probability and linear algebra.The only problem I had with this class is that you sometimes use a lot of the techniques as "black boxes," especially for the practicals with scikit learn. You can get away with that on the practicals, but you'll need to understand what's going on on a much deeper level for the homeworks and the exams.
Tough class with a great professor and very interesting subject material. The TFs can really make or break this class, and in the semester I took it, they went above and beyond
The class will only grow more in the future and will have a new professor,, so be wary of this class in the future. That being said, it's a good intro to machine learning fundamentals
This can be extremely difficult, but if you know a lot of people in the class and are friends with a TF, the homeworks are quite easy.
If you are planning to work in the machine learning field, I recommend this course.If you are planning to use Machine Learning as a tool but not develop new methods, maybe this is not the best course for you.
CS181's greatest strength is the breadth, depth and usefulness of material covered. If you are a very self-motivated learner, you will get so much out of CS181, but most of it will come from reading the textbook (Bishop) and putting your best effort into the practicals. You will get bombarded by lots of math review material in the first few weeks which can be intimidating but will come in handy for the theoretical homework and exams especially. Overall, you get what you put into this class.
The lectures are not too interesting. The assignments are engaging and help you learn the material. The tests are fairly hard. Class is good overall and worth taking as a Math, CS, or Stat concentrator.
Unfortunately the only intro machine learning class at Harvard. The assignments aren't necessarily that hard; however they don't really help you learn the course material. I thought the exams were dumb since you never get any practice (outside practice exams) on answering the questions on it. Only take this pass/fail.
The material is useful and the practicals are somewhat fun, though write-ups can be a bit tedious. The lectures are somewhat dry, and the reading is very dense. I definitely learned a lot, but somehow I felt the course could have been more enjoyable.
You will learn a tremendous amount about machine learning in this course. I took it as a graduate student with several years of professional experience, including work developing and applying machine learning models. I learned far more than I expectedattribute that to my arrogance or navet as you choose. Everything about the course was well-produced and presented. I did struggle at times with some of the formal mathematics presented in the course, but it was clear that they are an important part of the material, and the course staff presented them very well.
This is a great overview of machine learning, but not super rigorous. Math background is important. It will probably be better when course staff adjusts to course size.
The textbook was useless. I didn't learn one thing from it all semester - I simply couldn't understand it. If you take this course and Professor Adams continues to use the textbook, always attend lecture and section, and find online resources that you can use instead. I found mathematicalmonk's YouTube channel particularly good at explaining the concepts. Google searching the topics also frequently returns useful articles. Don't let this scare you away though - excellent course overall
This course covers a lot of topics that are very useful and relevant. Unfortunately, the homework covers a tiny fraction of these topics. The practicals offer hardly any guidance, and often rely on data cleaning and understanding. It will be nice if the homework is more comprehensive over the course topics. It will also be nice if the number of practical is reduced, with an emphasize on machine learning algorithms.
The class teaches some very basic theory and some very basic implementation.  Some students had absolutely no math background and others had taken Math 55.  Ryan Adams tried very hard to strike a balance.  Ultimately, the course did a good job of surveying the big paradigms and algorithms in elementary machine learning in no particular depth.
Make sure you're very comfortable with math and stats. I took this without having taken stats, and it was very difficult to keep up and understand what was going on (in fact the first midterm went terribly). However even if you have trouble with the theoretical parts (e.g. homeworks) the practicals are a great way to apply the ML methods you are learning about.
Only if you really like math
take an hour and read the lecture notes/focus in lecture and save hours on the psets
Really useful material, and not as hard as you might expect.
Excellent course for anyone interested in machine learning in data analysis, which is becoming quite a big thing. Fair warning: this is essentially a statistics course, so be prepared for the math.
Great course, but be prepared for some difficult mathematics, particularly linear algebra and heavy statistics. If you don't have a background in these, I suggest taking something like Stat 110/111 to get caught up
Compared to the first iteration under Adams (Spring 2013), this course looks vastly different. Adams is very committed to the success of this course and it shows. The only complaint I have is that there is a significant disconnect between the 4 "practical" assignments and exams. The practicals focused on figuring out the best ML techniques to use while the exams focused on understanding the math details of those techiques. Probability and linear algebra are really helpful for understanding the details of ML algorithms.
This course was very well structured, with fun assignments in which we had to implement what we learned in class, and compete against other students. The material is quite interesting, and most of the lectures have very well written lecture notes to accompany them.
Practicals are really awesome. Math, not so much.
The material is super interesting, some of the best. Really useful later on in life. Also the practicals were fun and YAY for partners. The class left a lot to be desired in terms of lecture/section/exams. Lecture was kind of related to p-sets, section was literally the same proofs as lecture, but nothing seemed related to the exams. It basically tested how good you are at math, so take without reservations if you're really good at math!
I was originally hesitant to take this class because of the abysmal Q ratings the fall 2013 offering received, but took it anyway because machine learning is becoming increasingly relevant and I wanted to learn it. Ryan Adams dramatically changed the course from the previous offering. The lectures go through all of the math and there are two (not too difficult) exams on this material. The problem sets are entirely open ended and require solving real world machine learning problems. You are allowed to use machine learning libraries but need to learn how to develop and iterate your approach to the problem. I'd highly recommend to the class to any computer science concentrator who liked stat 110.
Very interesting material, extremely well taught. Great TFs, awesome problem sets that I learned a lot from, and a very interesting final project.
As an introductory course, CS181 does not generate much enthusiasm for what should be an incredibly exciting field.  The best part of the class was the practicals, which showed a variety of cool applications of the material, but the rest of the class was largely a long slog through tedious mathematics aided (or hindered) by a very unclear textbook.
The course has improved from last year, however, it is still far from being a good course. The positives include interesting material and fun new "practicals." However, the textbook (which is the only resource for many topics in the course) is very difficult to learn from, the course seemed to have no desire to help students prepare for the exams, and the tests themselves had questions which were either incredibly easy or incredibly difficult, with no middle ground.
Great introduction to machine learningdon't be put off by bad Q scores for Adams in 20122013; excellent teaching, well-organized, well-rounded class. Math- and stat-  heavy; Stat 110 and 21b are an absolute must. Very useful and interesting problem sets that tackle real-world machine learning problems. Problem sets are fairly open-ended and take a good bit of time, but are graded leniently if you put in effort, and you get plenty of guidance if you ask for it. Midterms are much different from problem sets, focusing more on the math/derivations than code. Extensive practice problems with worked solutions are provided, which helps to prepare. Lectures are good, but you need to read the textbook to get full coverage of material on the tests.
This course taught me so much about machine learning, and I had a lot of fun with the homework "practicals."  If you're considering taking it, take it!
This class has improved greatly. It is a very different class from the one that people complained about last year and I'm very happy I took it. The knowledge you gain feels fantastic and the course was fun.
This is an amazing class, and if machine learning sounds even mildly cool to you, take the course because you will only find it cooler by the end of the class. Ryan Adams is really great in lecture, so try and attend because he opens i to questions. The course structure this semester included practicals, and a final project which allowed us to apply machine learning techniques in a fun, realistic setting. This was by far the most amazing part of the course. The exams are very straightforward if you understand the readings fully, and the grading is very fair, and you won't regret taking this class!
This class was not at all like the CS181 of 2013.  It was extremely organized and well executed, with thoughtful Kaggle assignments that required creativity but gave you a lot of freedom. I loved how the course was structured, take the class with a trio because this is how psets are divided.  Overall, it's a great survey of different methods in CS.  If you want a super mathy explanation of all these concepts, CS181 might be too easy for you, but it is a great introductory class to machine learning.
This class isn't actually CS; it's actually more of a stats class. I guess that's what Machine Learning is. The practicals are a lot of fun coding, but be prepared for lots of long equations and complicated math, derivatives, and statistics to explain the algorithms. I recommend it if you're extremely interested in ML or in math/statistics; otherwise, if you're more interested in CS you may want to reconsider. Definitely shop it at least, since Ryan Adams' lectures are pretty good.
An absolutely FANTASTIC course that will open your mind to the power of machine learning while giving you the tools to fully embrace it. Material is interesting, lectures are clear, midterms are fair, homework assignments (practicals) are fun (when was the last time you could honestly say that?). Ryan is a wonderful professor who cares deeply about your input and grasp of the material, and the TFs are a great source of help and support. TAKE THIS COURSE!!!
This is the BEST class I have ever had at Harvard. Material is extraordinarily interesting and mind blowing!! I walked into the class with hesitancy because of the very low Q score from last year, but Professor Adams and the course staff made a huge effort reforming the structure and their effort really paid off. The practicals, in the form of Kaggle competitions, give us hands-on experience with real world data. They are also very open-ended such that you really can get as much out of it as you want to be. It is fascinating how some seemingly simple ideas and manipulation of probability can lead to powerful tools ( logistic regression, neural network, etc. are actually really simple concepts after unveiling its mysterious appearance, but look at all the things they can do!) Professor Adams is also a great lecturer.  TAKE IT!!!!!!!!
This course shows you the basics of machine learning and if you pay attention and actually do the readings and understand the derivations, you'll have a good basis of AI that you can apply to a lot of different things!
The psets were awesome and really open-ended. Take this course if you want to apply machine learning to real data sets, and have flexibility to explore different ways of applying the ideas in class, or want independent reading outside the class to be rewarded.
The course was much improved this year. The bulk of your time will be spent completing practicals in a team of 3, so if you have friends who are also in the class it could be more enjoyable (some weeks I invested 20 hours, not because it took that long to finish but because it was fun). Grading was very lenient. There are extremely useful takeaways from this class, even for someone not completing a CS degree!
The year before this, this class was awful. Now it is amazing. Expect even better things in the future.
Machine learning isn't as cool as it sounds (if you're thinking about making intelligent robots, then the course will disappoint you). However I enjoyed the content because I think it's a cool way to think about data and a fresh perspective on what programs can do. You'll also need a bit of statistics (on the level of stat 110) to get more out of the material.
It is a great course, teaching a very important topic. However, the workload is huge, so be aware of this.
If you're thinking about taking this course, you probably should take this course. The material is very relevant for many fields, and you learn many techniques for classification and prediction. While on the surface the course seems pretty hard, and you might get overwhelmed in the beginning by the amount of math, linear algebra, and calculus that appears, the class is actually very doable. Soon, you'll start to see patterns and general ideas behind all the math. Prof. Adams is also a very good lecturer and he makes the concepts very clear. This year, the homework assignments were practicals which involved making predictions on real-world data. It was hard to do well on the assignments relative to the rest of the class, but the class grades primarily on effort and understanding of the techniques you used, so don't be afraid to try new things and have some fun with the data. There is no theory on the homework, and the exams are 100% theory, so you should probably go to section and do the section problems so you're not cramming for the exams. Advice for the homework: they are done in groups of 3, so find 2 other capable people whom you trust. I worked with 2 good friends for the course and it was a very rewarding experience. I imagine if you're working with people you don't click well with, you might not have a good time. If you were reading the Q reviews from last year, the class got so much better and fixed like 99% of the problems they had last year. If you are interested in machine learning or learning from data, I highly recommend this class.
The Q-scores last year scared a lot of people from this class.  It was a good thing since this time the class was more manageable and Ryan Adams was on top of things.  The change to practicals done in groups made learning the concepts way more effective.  Very few administrative issues and teaching was top notch.  The only caveat was I felt the practicals wasn't very helpful with preparing for midterms since those focused really heavily on the math behind the machine learning concepts.  Also, the quizzes for all the readings did get annoying at times, but it made sure we were on top of the readings.  Final project was great and tied in everything we learned.  This class has got rid of lots of problems.  If you have strong CS programming/theory background, take this class.  Machine Learning is a very rewarding subject to learn, and CS181 has it down.
Much better class this year, compared to what was implied in the Q score last year. The material is fun, and the assignments really make you get the hang of the various ML methods.
181 has undergone substantial restructuring from its disastrous last year.  Prof Adams has gotten into the swing of things and is a rather good lecturer.  He especially does a good job of presenting the intuition behind the various algorithms, though possibly at the expense of the underlying mathematics.The course is heavily project based, which may be challenging for some.  In general, the structure of the practicals is quite good.  Though they can be frustrating, and one walks away with a lot of experience dropping in random sklearn libraries and perhaps not as much intuition as one would like.  However it is cool to actually apply the concepts to real problems and deal with some of the frustrations faced by professionals in the field.Overall, I think this course is well worth it for students.  It's certainly not perfect, but it's a well run course and given the important place of machine learning in CS, not one to be missed.
This is a very cool class. Machine learning is a very useful and interesting field and the practicals in this class give your really good experience implementing these algorithms.
This class does a lot of hands-on practicals!  The course notes are really comprehensive and amazing.  I also really like that all practicals and the final project are done in groups of three.  Overall, I would recommend it!!
This class has greatly improved from last year.  Professor Adams is excellent, and definitely cares about the class.  I feel that the class will continue to improve with each iteration.
Professor Adams really cared for his class and clearly wanted this years experience to be better than that for the students that took the class last year.
take it! its a bit theoretical, and some things could be explained better, but really interesting and very relevant. make sure you get a good ta to help grasp the material.
This course covers extremely interesting material and teaches it well. Professor Adams' course notes are fantastic, and his lectures complemented the readings well. Professor Adams and the teaching fellows were exceptionally helpful (on Piazza and at office hours and practical help sessions) and gave useful feedback on the practicals, which were set up to provide students with the chance to tackle typical real-world machine learning problems. My takeaways from this class are huge.
If you are into data science etc, take this course!
Spend time refining the practicals.  Seeing your machine learn is rewarding.
This class was phenomenal. While the class didn't receive great reviews in years past, the teaching staff really took that into consideration when creating the class for this year. In my two years at Harvard, this has been the best class I have taken. The material is very relevant and interesting to learn, and the practicals are fun too. You will not regret taking this class.
seems to have gotten a lot better than previous years
David Parkes and Sasha Rush are excellent instructors. The course covers a great expanse of ML topics, introducing the entire field very well. However, as an intro course it is difficult to follow along each topic and leave with a pure understanding of each ML method. Nonetheless, you will get a bit more sense of how ML works in the real world.
Overall, a solid introduction to machine learning, which given today's job market could be very helpful. The class does a good job of navigating the line between theory and practice, alternating psets that focus on the relevance of each. The professors are also good about mentioning how class subject-matter relates to current advances in the field. For my taste, too much time was spent on unwieldy derivations in lecture, but this should probably not be a deal-breaker to taking it.
181 is a really interesting and useful course! Definitely not easy, but not extremely difficult either. It's really helpful to have a good group for practicals, and also really helpful to plan your schedule in accordance to when there's practicals/theory assignments. It goes more in depth than might be necessary to just get an introduction to ML topics, but it lets you understand where the models came from rather than just stating what they are.
If you want to get a good exposure to the theory side of machine learning, rely on this course as a good place to keep you in check with nice assignments and exams. But bear in mind that most of this would have to be done yourself with little help from the slide sets provided. It's probably the best course you can take if you're intrinsically motivated. If not, I'd stay away from CS181 and go for CS109A and CS109B.The course title is a little confusing as a lot of the material covered in this class is a typical Artificial Intelligence class material. But it is a great introduction into probabilistic machine learning, which is something that I feel usually gets left out in many online resources.
I took this class without having taken Stat 110 and found it a bit difficult. However, going to section, going to office hours with questions, and doing some extra work helps you keep up with homework. The concepts were really cool, and getting help right away for confusing concepts by taking advantage of the course's support system is rewarding!
Make sure you get a good group for the group projects -- there are group projects that they want 3 people in each group.  There's no way to tell who did the work in each group.
This class had a lot of interesting material, but I dont think the instructors were prepared for the size of the class or the level of preparation of the students in the class. Piazza was filled with complaints about having to Latex, easily Google-able Python questions, and requests for more office hours. The staff should have been more organized in dealing with the more absurd requests. Communication was also often unclear; the course site wasnt organized particularly well. Section was unhelpful, the third practical was stupid, and grading on the practicals was slow, which makes no sense because the TFs dont do any grading except the practicals. Still, material was fun and both professors are good lecturers.
The class is very interesting and covers a wide spectrum of machine learning topics and applications.  The practicals and homeworks are engaging and necessitate understanding of the material.  The lectures and teachings, however, are lacking.  I feel like most of my learning occurred not in the lectures, but with other students as we struggled through the problem sets.  Though the homeworks are self-graded, this meant there was less feedback which makes it harder to be sure whether or not your heading in the right direction, which can catch up to you at a midterm or final.
Disorganized and for most of the assignments you'll be thinking "why in the world am I doing this?" But it's the only ML course at Harvard so..
Beware. Take the MIT course, take 109, take coursera, try to stay away unless necessarily have to.
It's hard, but a good course that introduces the various major areas of machine learning. Make sure you're comfortable with doing a bunch of math for theory psets.
A challenging field that one should really have a try on. Yet this course is in its infancy and the composition of materials has a lot to be improved.
This iteration of CS 181 was pretty solid. The workload was moderate (especially for a CS course), and generally engaging (though I didn't like the self-grading aspect). You might hear that this is a very math-intensive course, but that is only true for the theory homeworks; the exams were very straightforward, testing basic conceptual understanding. Parkes in particular was an excellent, knowledgeable lecturer. Practicals can be quite annoying and don't really have much to do with the content of the course but provide a nice dose of "real world" application (i.e. feature engineering is super important!). Would recommend for anyone with a reasonably strong Stat background.
Useful material
Machine learning is the future.  Gotta learn it.
Take this course if you're willing to put in a ot of work for psets that you end up grading yourself (read: no feedback). It's a good intro to machine learning, though, and the course improved significantly as the semester went on. My sense is that Sasha and David will teach a great CS181 next year if they're teaching it again.
Practicals are awesome, but psets are difficult and cannot be done without help from TFs or other students. A very useful class for our age, and important concepts to know. Start early on practicals; they are fun! TFs are helpful - shoutout to Mark G. Look online for resources beyond the lecture slides, since the slides aren't detailed enough. As long as Parkes is teaching, you'll be in good hands. Sasha is smart, but not as good a teacher.
This is a good survey of ML methods, but it's sometimes (as all Harvard CS classes are) too much theory and math and not enough application or practical use. The practicals are nice - they're what really gives you the confidence to do this after the class ends - but the theory homeworks are often painful for no clear reason. It's going to take some time, and it's self-selecting in terms of who takes it, so if you're not as strong, be prepared to compete by putting in more time - a lot of people in the class have prior ML experience from 109 or 182 or their work/projects outside their classes. Lectures not being taped was not great and made it so that you'd just go to class but often drift off or fall asleep and miss something.
I prefer chalkboard style teaching. Slides made it impossible to keep up and discouraged me from going to class. In fact, when I stopped going and took notes on my own time, I did better.
I loved 181! Parkes and Rush are too very kind and intelligent professors. It was hard for me because I felt like unlike a lot of my peers (who were math55, computer olympiad champions) it was my first time seeing this level of math/ML theory, but after thinking about it deeply you can develop your own intuition. To me it was almost like learning a new language/art form. I would recommend taking Stat110, CS124 and having strong math maturity/comfort before taking the class. The HW problems were really fun and pushed your understanding. The TFs were amazing! Although it was a lot of work (be prepared to work really hard if you truly want to understand) you learn so much.
This class is quite difficult - the material can be dense, and the problem sets take a whole lot of time. When they relaxed the LaTeX requirement, the workload reduced a bit, but the psets still took 15-20 hours to complete (one horrific earlier pset took nearly 40 hours). I thought the instruction wasn't great; the lecturers were nice and smart people, but they chose to focus on lengthy math derivations (that still were hard to grasp when presented so quickly because of the amount of material crammed into some lectures) at the expense of really solidifying the conceptual motivations behind the various ML approaches. I ended up teaching most of the material to myself using online CMU lectures. The problem sets basically taught me the math of the course as well. If an independent learning experience like that sounds for you, take this course. You will be challenged, and you'll learn a lot.Some other notes: there were a lot of mistakes in psets and lectures that had to be corrected post hoc. I also hated the grading system; the make you grade your own psets electronically using all-or-nothing quizzes (that is, no chance for partial credit) and then you have to trust that some credit will be awarded when you, say, did a derivation correctly except for one small oversight. This was frustrating to me, and I didn't appreciate the lack of individualized feedback this system encouraged. In previous courses, I would get comments about mistakes made, but here you basically had to figure out what you may have done wrong with the answer keys. Once again, this course is self-driven. If you're not that kind of learner, stay far away from CS181.
You will have a good time!
The course is great but very time consuming. Some problem sets are long and with a week-long turn around, this can be hard to organize other classes around. The theory homeworks were very useful but the practicals mostly involved (in my experience) fitting a random forest and focusing on writeup.
Workload is highly variable. I got a solid introduction to the machine learning field.
Everyone has questions about the world that they have been wondering since day 1 and have never been able to answer. The course gives you the tools to answer them.
I think the assignment portion of this class can be improved. In the theory homework, we are asked to do lots of mundane calculations without furthering our understanding of materials (like tens of hundreds of distances calculation. I even wrote code to output the latex code...). In the practical, a common complaints among students are that they are not enough guidance on useful and general tips on different approaches. My personal opinions of this class is that this class is not theoretical enough to appeal the mathy students and not practical enough to appeal to the engineering students. But if you are looking for an rough introduction while wanting just a little bit of both worlds, then this class is for you.
The course felt like a course that will be really good in a year, maybe two, but is still working out the kinks for now. The professors and TFs were helpful and invested in the course, so it's likely that if they keep teaching it they can make it pretty awesome. For now though, there weren't as many course materials as would be helpful and generally I felt like I was floundering on the surface of the material without the tools to engage further and truly learn the material
Great class! It's difficult but you a learn a lot. I don't think you should graduate with a CS degree without taking this class!
As someone who plans to go into machine learning as a career, I really wanted to like this course. Ultimately, however, CS 181 has far too many pedagogical, organizational, and logistical issues for me to recommend. In order to combat the misperception that ML is exclusively an "applied" field, the instructors focused heavily on the theoretical side of ML. I loved Stat 110 because it took a similar approach with statistics, and I have no issues with getting really technical. However, in this course, the moments of mathematical beauty were few and far between. Instead of highlighting the high-level connections between different models, the instructors spent class time slogging through annoying derivations with unwieldy and inconsistent notation. Practicals were fun, but often reduced to feature engineering and hacky, domain-specific optimizations. Take CS 181 if you love ML, but be prepared for hours of disappointment and frustration.
This is one of the most exciting CS classes at Harvard. Extremely interesting and relevant material. Rush and Parkes are leaders in the field, and it's awesome getting access to them. Stat 110 is extremely helpful. The practical components would probably be a lot more difficult if you don't have experience playing around with data in Python (i.e. comfort with Pandas, Numpy, visualizations, etc).
Good class. Practicals were fun but could have interacted more with the actual topics of the course -- I did most of the practicals just by messing around with feature engineering.
make sure you actually know stats and linear algebra, otherwise this is pretty difficult and the math is unfamiliar and uncomfortable
This class gives you a good overview of multiple machine learning topics, but you don't learn more than the basics unless you really put a lot of time into it.
When Sasha and David teach this course, a lot of the material feels ill-defined. The lectures only scrape the math behind circumstances often, and nothing is ever derived. I saw some of Finale's lectures and they were so much clearer to me. She spent time working out the nitty gritty details of the material on the board. This is where all the ideas coalesce. Take the class if it's taught in that style, not with slides.
Very good overview of a lot of topics in machine learning. Delves into the theory side but has some practicals as well.
This class suffers from some organizational flaws, but is nonetheless an amazing class. You will learn a lot about machine learning, and the beautiful unity of the subject around optimization of loss functions. The class does a great job in presenting rigorous theory, centered around probabilistic models. You must must must have a background in probability (Stat 110) and linear algebra. Those two subjects are the foundation of machine learning. If you want a class that teaches practical skills (a class that teaches you on exactly what models to use on some data set), the class does not do a great job at that, but what class does?
Awesome course! Professors are amazing and seriously this is one of my favorite classes at H. Highly recommend
This course introduces you to lots of modern machine learning methods. That said, it is time-consuming and not always the best organized.
This course is definitely one of the better offerings of the Harvard computer science department. It demystifies the black box buzz word that is machine learning. The course is no joke, you will spend upwards of 10-15 hours a week on the problem sets and the exams aren't trivial. Try your hardest to understand the intuition behind the algorithms and models in lecture because it will make your life doing problem sets so much easier.
The material is interesting, but I am overall disappointed by CS81. I didn't find that the course was very well taught; as a result, I don't feel like I have learned a lot coming out of the course. It's honestly hard to pin down exactly why - whether it is the lectures, the problem sets, or the general structure of the course. I didn't like how the lectures were entirely based on slides - they were fast-paced and didn't have enough explanation. I also didn't feel like I learned much from the problem sets. The math portions were annoying because latex'ing long derivations is incredibly tedious and takes a ridiculous amount of time, even after you understand how to do it. And it feels silly doing it because no one even checks the homework - you just "self-check". The non-math portions were not so great either, often more tedious than instructive (again, partly due to latex). I also didn't find the textbook to be good - it was really hard to follow. Overall, like I said, I'm disappointed - that said, if you're a CS concentrator interested in ML, you probably should take it. Maybe it'll be better.
The material is really interesting but Parkes and Rush do not present it in a particular exciting way which makes it really hard to focus through class.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE BEFORE TAKING STATISTICS!This is not a course that you can get by without taking the prerequisites. This is a very math-heavy course -- do not expect a class that focuses on how to use, build, implement, or otherwise make use of any form of machine learning; this is primarily a math-based theory course with only a small mention of actual applications (through assignments). Overall, the material of the class is good, but know that this is probably something that an Applied Math Concentrator would like more than a Computer Science Concentrator.
Unless you already have exposure to machine learning or are very good in math and programming, this course will be hard. But if you want to understand the math behind machine learning, this course is invaluable. You will be required to understand the what is really going in the algorithms, and that is the real value of the course. There is some value in the practicals-- this is where you get some data and need to make predictions in Kaggle competitions, but I think the real importance of this course is in the theory homeworks where you learn about mathematical properties of algorithms and code them from scratch. If you don't know linear algebra, probability, or multivariable calculus, you may not be able to figure out what is going on the course. There are definitely flaws in the course-- typos in hw, typos in lectures, not enough staff support such that OH are very crowded and you won't be able to get your questions answered, but hopefully they fix these in the future.
This class is very useful, but it's also very annoying.  It's a great introduction to machine learning - it covers a wide range of topics and will definitely make you a lot more comfortable with the math behind it all. If you've taken CS109a/b, this class covers the same topics and more, but a lot more rigorously. Whereas the former would handwave about concepts like multiclass logistic regression, CS 181 will have you derive the gradient descent update by hand and implement it using only linear algebra functions in Python. It's not easy, but it's awesome. I feel a lot more prepared for job interviews as a result of having taken this class, so it has definitely been worth it!However, in terms of the way the course is run, it's a bit of a mess. Office hours were always packed, exam preparation materials and lecture notes had typos, and the problem sets were poorly written. Probably the most annoying thing was that we were expected to LaTeX our homework. The instructors were infuriatingly condescending about how we would "get faster at it with time".  Sure, I got faster, but it makes zero sense to have us waste hours on typing when we are the ones self-grading our own work! I definitely wish I could have spent more time on actually thinking about the material instead of rushing to get my work submission-ready. Overall, even despite it all, I would still recommend the course. You'll learn a lot, but be prepared to be annoyed and suffer.
Take it if only because the material is important and interesting. The problems sets are good and it's a solid introduction to machine learning concepts. The lectures could be better, but they are good on the whole. Take advantage of sections.
If you really want to learn ML, get deep understanding of the material, then expect to work by yourself and read other books (Bishop is fairly advanced and if you are a beginner with ML, it might be daunting). If not, then the course is going to give you all the tools necessary for practical ML. But since I am more on the theoretical side, I am quite disappointed with how the material was presented and hope next time there would be fewer PowerPoint equations and more intuition behind the ideas.
TAKE THIS CLASS. best course I took at harvard. teaches you ML concepts from the most classical to the most cutting-edge, without sacrificing too much mathematical detail or dumbing down the subject matter too much. The only negative thing I must say is that there wasn't a lot of hand-holding: theory psets were graded via self-grading and a rubric, there was no written feedback on the exams, and practical feedback was also scarce. so definitely make sure you're self motivated to take this class.
The course is a reasonable introduction to Machine Learning concepts. The professors try hard to make the material consistent and easy to follow. The course is definitely a lot to handle in terms of notation, but if you're mathematically mature enough, you'll get the hang of it. For context, I took Math 21a/21b, Stat 110, CS124 and other CS/Stat courses.This course is a lot of work. I spent between 20 and 30 hours of work a week. While the material is not hard conceptually, you will have to devote time to understand everything in it.That said, this course is very doable. It is not a CS124-style course where you might spend many hours trying to prove something. Rather, the material is all approachable, and given enough time, you will master the material.
Make sure you have enough time for this excellent but difficult course; remember to attend all TA's sections.
This course is challenging. Take if you want a serious introduction to the topic. Take 182 for a less math-centric and rigorous.
This class is a moderate amount of work (similar to STAT 110), but worth taking. I don't think any other similar course offers a combination of a fair theoretical treatment of ML models and approaches while also having an opportunity to learn how to apply the models in real life in the Kaggle competition practical assignments.Note: at least this year, lectures were not video recorded, which made the course difficult to attend for many graduate students
This was a very solid overview course of the field with good balance between theory and practice. I'm glad to have taken this with Parkes and Rush because though it was challenging at times, the course never felt difficult for the sake of difficulty if you know what I mean.
I really hated this course. I took it my senior spring and I am sad to have wasted one of my 32 course credits on this. The class is very disorganized. Class materials need a lot of improvement (many errors in lecture slides, lecture slides not helpful for reviewing material, first exam poorly written with little exam prep given). Office hours consist of a couple TFs trying to help too many students, which lead to many students just not getting help. If you do not do psets in a group then do not expect to do well in this course.
This class is fine. If you're not a strong coder, you will struggle with the coding portions of the theory psets. But it is, in all fairness, a relatively good introduction to machine learning.
This is a fairly time consuming but rewarding course.
It's incredible how much you learn and the material is really exciting stuff. Take it with reliable friends, though: I've heard that braving office hours/working efficiently on practicals can be a nightmare otherwise. A solid foundation in probability and linear algebra and a willingness to grapple with weird notation are important.
This class teaches you how to begin formulating answers to questions you've always had but previously thought were too hard to solve. Machine learning is an exciting subject that has definitely received a lot of hype, but in many ways it is well-deserved. This class did a good job of introducing a wide variety of topics and provided interesting problems. The theory assignments were very manageable. Practicals, however, can take up an inordinate amount of time and don't feel particularly satisfying at the end, since some of the factors that lead to marginally better performance seem quite arbitrary. Overall, I think this is a very good course for anyone interested from a wide range of concentrations like CS, applied math, physics, biology, and applied sciences.
This course covers a phenomenal range of topics and ideas in enough depth to apply and understand them, and open the door to encountering them again in a more advanced setting.  The materials is fantastic to know and offers an amazing toolkit and perspective for approaching a variety of new problems.  Be wary of the instructors though!  While Professor Parkes is a good lecturer, Professor Rush's lectures were unclear and difficult to follow, and both instructors' lectures were made more challenging to follow by presenting tons of math and derivations through slides.  Get ready to find alternative resources online or use Finale's lecture videos in order to really understand the material.  The assignments are great.  Theory homeworks do a good job bolstering understanding of the topics and the practicals are fun, just be ready to devote a significant amount of time to each.  The TFs were also amazing in section and OH.
This was a really really great class. it is really interesting material and taught well and mostly fair. but expect to spend a loooooot of time on it. i think it wouldnt be worth it if you didnt have time to spend. also do the prereqs you will get so much more out of it. and make sure to have good practical partners!! so important
Yes, this course covers a lot of material and is a fair amount of work. Beware of that, but go ahead and take it
This class tries too hard to strike a balance between approachability, breadth, and understanding. Overall coverage of topics felt wishy-washy, and many assignments felt like busywork--the psets hardly contain theory. The practicals are useful for getting a sense of what machine learning on an actual dataset is like, but often they devolve into "ad-hoc" hacking. Furthermore, don't expect much feedback of any sort beyond a Kaggle score.
Learn something about machine learning online before this course!
This was a great course. The exams were not that difficult but the weekly workload was fairly demanding. Familiarity with python and object oriented programming is definitely a plus. I loved how detailed the lecture and section notes were: made learning on your own time really easy.
The only redeeming quality of this years iteration of this class was the material. Lecture, course handouts were terrible.
Avoid it unless you love math or really need to take it.
Parkes and Rush are great. Material is interesting but difficult.
I was not too happy with the class. Practicals were great, lectures were mostly great, homeworks took an unreasonable amount of time for no good reason (lots of calculations that were not helpful but time-consuming). Beware of inconsistent notation. It was the first time the class was taught by the current team, so I hope the kinks will be fixed and it's going to be great next year.
think twice before selecting this class, if you select it, make sure to work hard on it
You have to be really ready to put in the time and the effort.  It's a hard class.  The professors are both amazing at what they do and are accessible but I feel like this course glosses over complex topics too quickly and you end up with a very broad but shallow understanding of machine learning topics.  I would definitely still recommend taking this course but know that you won't be some kind of machine learning whiz when you get out of it.  The course at first was way to unstructured and unguided are far far too much work (30+ hrs per week) but when the professors realized this they adjusted the course to be more "reasonable" (15-20).
it's a considerable amount of work, and the workload is uneven.
CS 181 is the next big Harvard course. It is a course with a really positive trajectory. Sasha/David are both great, and you will definitely feel like you are actually learning useful material.
Mostly statistics based class, with small amounts of implementation. I thought the material was a bit dry.
The key concept you should be coming into this course wanting to understand is neural networks. This course failed to adequately explain neural networks and thus left me unsatisfied.
This is a rigorous, but approachable introduction to machine learning. There is a great mix of theory a d practical assignments. While these can be quite time consuming, the TFs and professors do a great job of making themselves available and helping you through the material. I would hope that more emphasis be placed in the future on the practical type assignments and different ways to do them.
I think this class is not the best in terms of structure or organization, but the concepts it teaches are so interesting and in-depth that one ends up learning just as a result of how cool the material is as well as to stay afloat in the conceptual underpinnings
Good course but need strong math background. Review your probability course material before you take the course.
It is very difficult and time consuming, and yet still dissatisfying in terms of material learned.
This class does a nice job balancing theory and practice in a field that is very relevant to the world of computing. If you want a more hands on approach to the process of data science, consider taking this course in unison with CS109. Prof Rush and Parkes are excellent!
Take CS109A and then take CS181. It's worthwhile.
Very hard class. Some of the psets were worse than 124. Practicals were kinda fun but also seemed short on time.
Great intro to ML! Practicals were fun, and theoretical psets were great to solidify knowledge/understand what's actually going on. This class had more probability than I anticipated (which I liked), and it's a good intro to inference since you use a good amount of MLEs and priors. I found that this math wasn't actually that heavy on math; it can be scary-looking with all the matrices, but if you don't let yourself get intimidated, you'll see that the ideas behind the algorithms and techniques are reasonably straightforward. To do well in this class, memorizing formulas and solving equations won't get you far; spend some time trying to understand the intuition behind your models.This class is a good amount of work, but not unreasonably so. Expect to spent a good amount of time on assignments; don't leave them for the day before.
The first half of the course was somewhat disorganized and not calibrated well for difficulty, but the teaching staff did a great job readjusting the difficulty of the psets and exams in the second half. Definitely come in with a strong math and Python background, and you'll be set for the problem sets and exams. Practicals are time-consuming so wouldn't take this class with more than one another time-consuming class.
A good introduction to machine learning; kinda have to take it if you're interested in the topic.
I liked the way the course covered a lot of different machine learning techniques, which was pretty much the reason I took it. That said, I greatly disliked lectures. I thought they were normally not well taught, although I did like both of the professors. Strongly consider how you feel about math/stat classes before taking this class - it is not really a typical CS class, it is an applied math/stat class.
I mean its ML so most people will take it, but the course isn't that helpful. The lectures sometimes have nice tidbits of knowledge here and there. It also is useful for high level picture and seeing what to study, but I would say going through materials outside of class will teach you the concepts better (at least currently).
Good practicals
I took this class pass/fail as a senior and it was a great decision. You'll probably still have to do a TON of work, but it's a really cool subject. If Parkes and Rush are still teaching, know that they have a less interactive lecture style (just slides), so you'll have to put in a lot of time on your own to understand the material.
Very time consuming.
The class is a good, broad, overview of many concepts in machine learning. It is very applied and doesn't require much technical knowledge.
Buckle up. It's gonna be a bumpy ride!
Useful class but very time intensive.
A lot of work, but very rewarding
You might die a little. Especially if you've only taken CS50 and Stat 110. But you'll learn your brain machine.
Very very interesting topic. Machine learning is awesome. I liked this course despite the fact that the structure, teaching, and psets were subpar. Finale's new so I guess this is to be expected. Practicals were a lot of fun.
Good course to study about machine learning, but be prepared for heavy courseload of homework and practicals.
Challenging but rewarding - definitely great material to learn.
Lots of math. Make sure you go to section; that helps a TON
This was a great class! The topics are very interesting, and Finale did a great job of explaining everything in lecture. The assignments and practicals are time-consuming, but they end up being fun because you get to implement and run cool/powerful algorithms that produce very meaningful results. The class is definitely not easy: a good background in probability theory is essential, and the exams are fairly long regardless. That being said, I definitely still strongly recommend the class!
This course is taught very well and requires lots of time on the practicals and homeworks.  This is a workload heavy course.
If you are interested in the topic and like classes that actually challenge you, take this class
Not terribly well organized, the material from class is very different from what the HWs and tests are like.  It is the first year Finale is teaching, so it is likely that this will be fixed next time.
This class covers a good breadth of material and has a fair bit of statistics. Having a good grasp of linear algebra and probability/inference is necessary to get the most out of the class.Even though the practicals were done in groups of three, it is possible to do everything by yourself though it is recommended to do it in groups to enjoy it more. There's the potential to get alot out of the course but there's also the possibility of taking it and not learning a whole lot if you simply get stuck on the math. Still, the material is super cool and adds a whole new set of tools to your problem solving toolkit so overall its a good choice.
CS 181 is really a survey course of various ways in which humans have taught computers to analyze datasets like humans (ex: regression, clustering, neural networks, decision-making). The focus is mostly on the theory, with 1 out of 3 or 4 questions per pset devoted to implementation. Be prepared to do a decent amount of matrix calculus, but you don't really need every single prerequisite in order to take the course (CS 121 followed by Stat 110 are overkill; Linear Algebra is a must). In total, the psets and material are very manageable and the course is definitely worth taking, if not for the utility.
Start your homework/practicals early, you will never know how much time, it will take you to have ready a code and to obtain the correct results.
You learn some interesting things in the class. The assignments however to tend to be quite tedious and not necessarily instructive.
This class was miserable. The staff support was nonexistent, and it was very different from other CS classes in which they expected you to meet in person with the TF or instructor to go over anything, which is unrealistic when they hold only one office hour slot at night covered by 2 TFs when there are so many students in the class. The content was fine and lectures are pretty good, but the support was definitely not there.
0) Take this course, not data science. You actually learn how stuff works mathematically. The emphasis on inference and algorithms was refreshing after coming from CS 109 where everything was given a 50,000 foot overview.1) Don't take this course UNLESS you like probability and statistics! It's not a CS class -- It is a statistical inference course (sometimes very heavy and theoretical), that involves coding for homework.2) Finale's lectures are crystal clear, she is as good as it gets. Watch lectures. That is where you will learn. The material is hard, though, so don't expect to track with her 100% the first time around.3) This is just a good course all around. It's definitely work taking. Workload is not light, but it is very manageable. One assignment/test/practical a week.4) The most challenging aspect of Machine Learning is the notation, but it is very helpful to know going forward.
CS181 was taught by Finale for the first time this year, instead of Adams. Finale was a great professor and I wish I had gotten to know her better. She gave very clear lectures and related the material back to the big picture of machine learning quite well. I learned a lot from the class and really enjoyed it by the end, and it's made me want to study machine learning in further depth.On the other hand, the course was not particularly well structured and course materials were quite lacking. There were no lecture notes to accompany lecture, and section problems weren't always all covered, but we received no solutions. Hopefully this aspect will improve in the future; I still recommend this class, but do understand these caveats!
Prepare for some useless matrix proofs and some incredibly useful techniques and intuition.
I really enjoyed this class. We got to explore both the theoretical and practical aspects of machine learning. The class was on the more theoretical/rigorous side, but I enjoyed that. The workload was not too heavy, but I had to manage my workload effectively to handle both the problem sets and practicals. Sometimes the teaching was not very clear and the textbook/course notes did not match up with lecture that well.
Finale's lectures are generally good, but sometimes she's lecturing a little bit fast and not very clear. You may need to refer to video to get better understanding. Also there's no lecture notes provided, while Finale's writing on board can be really confusing.
Have a solid background in linear algebra and probability.
Finale is an excellent instructor. There is a lot of work, but it is structured well. There's so much material in the class, and it moves pretty fast, so be prepared to work a lot. In the end though it's very rewarding.
Overall a good course which teaches you quite a bit. Generally the assignments were all quite straightforward.
This class will make you fairly comfortable with a wide variety of tools in machine learning. By not just using pre-built packages but instead looking into the math and theory behind the models and algorithms, you end up understanding them much more fully.
I enjoyed this class, but it's definitely necessary to have a solid math and stat background.
Non-trivial course that requires significant amounts of work outside of class.
CS 181 with Prof. Doshi-Velez covered a lot of machine learning algorithms that are widely used in any machine learning settings. It felt like the class sacrificed depth for breadth, but we were still somehow expected to have the depth that was needed to complete the course. I feel that if the course was divided into two semesters and covered more depth for each topics (supervised vs unsupervised learning), then it would be ideal.
This feels like a stats/math course more than a CS course, but it is awesome. This is a very rigorous mathematical approach to machine learning that most other colleges don't give you. The textboox is usually used for graduate-level classes. Be prepared for some difficult math, especially vector and matrix calculus, and some nasty notation. Finale is a very good, clear lecturer.
Finale did a fantastic job introducing current ideas in the class. While it definitely takes some work to really understand the concepts and do well, it has a definite coolness factor and its applications to real life really makes the work pay off.
This class is very well organized and the assessments are very fair. It is a lot more math/proof focused than I had expected but still an interesting class.
Overall, a great survey introduction to machine learning. Take this if you want to understand what this hot field has in store. The problem sets could be more interesting, but you'll learn a little of a lot of subjects. You'll come out having a legit understanding, rooted in math, of some of the most popular and useful algorithms. Make sure you have the pre-reqs, or this won't be fun. If you are overprepared, don't get too frustrated (it's probably still worth it to take this class, even though the notation / course staff / materials / problems and practicals get annoying.)
Finale is a fair instructor, and mainly teaches at a the level of high-level/abstract concepts. Most of the derivations are tedious / reminiscent of messy stat computations (familiarize yourself with Gaussians..). Sections were mainly just getting answers from the TFs. Overall, the class gave a good broad overview of machine learning, but I felt a little dissatisfied in terms of the depth into which we learned concepts (and with the tedium of the math we had to work through). The textbook wasn't great, and the class didn't have too much structure, especially in the beginning. There was also a little too much variance of ability in the class; sometimes the questions asked in section or on Piazza were frustrating because they seemed to be wasting everyone else's time.
Be prepared for some math-heavy problem sets! Knowledge of basic statistical concepts and basic linear algebra is assumed, but not too difficult to pick up.
had a lot of fun with the practicals and kaggle competitions, there was also too much mathy stuff and too broad of an overview of ML, however I guess that would be necessary for a class like this
You'll learn a great deal in this course, but in its current form, be prepared to invest a great deal of outside time to make that happen, because to do well grade-wise you'll fare better relying on outside material and explanations. You should judge whether such a course is worth it or not for you. Also, don't take this class without Stat 110. CS109 will help with intuition, but is by no means a prereq.
Great intro to ML, this is a class that will teach you a lot and give you a good look at what both the theory and the application of ML is. Be prepared for a good amount of work, and definitely take Stat 110 before this!
Very good intro to machine learning in general. Keep up with the lectures and you will be fine.
This is a great class that introduces many cool concepts in machine learning! Unfortunately, there aren't a lot of supplementary notes and the book is too dense to actually read, so unless you're very comfortable with statistics and math, most of the explanations will not make a lot of sense. Although I have a vague sense of when to use the different machine learning methods, everything still feels pretty black box. This class also suffers from notational problems, where the lecturer will write different notations and you'll be throughly confused about what's going on. Psets will take a good chunk of time to understand what it's asking and to implement the actual problem (~10 hours), so plan accordingly. Grade-wise, it's pretty easy to get good scores on homework/practicals, but midterm grades are pretty bad across the board... but no final/final project!
The class was pretty poorly managed around the middle, though this really dramatically improved in the final third of the course. Also we never really get very deep into anything, so you end up with pretty minimal insight and intuition beyond what we are explicitly told as a rule of thumb. It's also a little annoying when the lesson on every practical is not "be clever with your methods" but "be clever with your features." Many problems we'd bring these tools to bear on won't have the option for getting better or smarter features.
This is quite a difficult course conceptually and practically. Prepare to spend lots of time on this.
This class is awesome, but be prepared to work hard
A must-take for anyone interested in computer science and relative fields.
This course gave me a strong introduction to machine learning, both in a high level sense and with regard to the underlying math. You get a broad understanding of the field and its different applications. I found all the material super fascinating and you can clearly see how applicable the material is. It's definitely challenging but not impossible, and it's rewarding as well.
Be wary of the level of mathematical maturity needed
This class has potential to be great, but it's not right now.
The only reason you should take this course is to realize that machine learning is not what you think it is - machine learning is basically applied statistics.  But this is "applied" in the worst sense - it lacks the intellectual consistency and beauty of Stat 110 but also is not buoyed by the tools of the lower Stat classes.  The math is not covered in sufficient detail to make it a good higher-level Stat class, and the coding is abysmal for a class in the CS department.  This course sits at the awkward intersection of multiple fields and lacks the best qualities of each of them.If you already know that, you are better off taking online machine learning courses - they present the subject matter in a much better way.  The teaching staff, problem sets, and practicals offered by CS181 add very little value to the book - which is bad to begin with.  The entire course is practically self-taught.  Stay away from this course, unless you want to end any delusions you may have about machine learning.
Even though this class won't teach you how to make your own Siri, 181 is still a really cool class.  You'll learn how a lot of methods in real-life machine learning work, and some of its results are surprising (or surprisingly nice).Although you can get away with not putting in too much work on Practicals, it's really fun to see how well you can do (especially because there is a competitive component via Kaggle to it).  That being said, the baseline feels like it could be raised, but nonetheless it is a fun class to take.
Very math / stat based course. Useful for learning the theory underlying machine learning techniques, but not as practical as most CS concentrators might want.
You need to know linear algebra and vector calculus
It is possible to do decently well in this class without trying very hard, but you won't get much out of it. To be a real data scientist or to effectively applying machine learning algorithms you have to put a lot of effort into understanding the math which can be difficult but worthwhile.
Great class all-around. The psets are actually quite rewarding, and I walked away understanding the mathematics behind machine learning on a much deeper level.  Don't let the notation scare you away! I actually found myself excited to work on the next pset.
A very interesting course. I highly recommend having some knowledge of probability/statistics and probably some Python.  Practical assignments are quite enjoyable if you start early and get into them.  Through lecture, section, and the textbook (I really enjoyed Bishop's Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning) you have the opportunity to pick up a lot of the theory behind machine learning algorithms, but the course emphasizes intuition and practical knowledge of topics, so deep mathematical rigor is not expected on exams, etc.
Be prepared for the heavy workload!!!!!
This is a math class. Consider yourself warned.
Good introductory class to Machine Learning which provides a theoretical understanding complemented by applied skills
It is an intense amount of work, but the lectures are good and the material is important.
This is the class to take if you are interested in what machine learning is about! Depending on your background in stat and cs, the course will be of varying difficulty, but worth it for anyone! Finale is a great lecturer and the assignments are also really helpful in solidifying your understanding.
Take this class if you are interested in Machine Learning and you should be. You will have a general idea what ML is and how to apply them. Go ask for helps from TFs, they are really cool, nice and friendly. Make friends with your classmates. I had one of my best group experiences at CS181.
Very interesting material. Rigorously taught. Includes practicals alongside psets for both theory and application of the material: in psets you get a few questions of math to work through and then a final question that asks you to implement whatever math you just worked out. In practicals you get a dataset or source of data and have to make something out of it, like whether "swingy monkey" should jump or what songs someone would enjoy or whether a file is a virus or the gap between the highest occupied and lowest unoccupied electron orbital. But despite the coolness of the material there were many problems with this class. Oftentimes I'd feel like I understand what's going on, be stuck in a roadblock, ask someone for help, and their answer would reveal to me I actually never had an idea of what was going on. It's easy to get super lost in this course because of small things you don't understand. I'd suggest doing your homework in office hours and desperately asking questions about everything to make sure you really get it all. I'd also say never miss section. While the sections weren't always that helpful (too much to cover in an hour IMO) they help tremendously with the psets and midterms. I'd also add that Stanford's Machine Learning Course, from the little bit I saw, seemed better, so that's always an option/possibly a helpful tool for this course.
I do not recommend this course if you do not meet the requirements (probability, statistical inference, linear algebra, and coding). The lectures were interesting and well taught, but the homework is very demanding and time consuming. I did not feel prepared for the first exam despite studying, since the exam was different to what we had done in class, section, and homework. The sections may be helpful depending on the TFs, and the quality of TFs is very variable. Overall this was an interesting but very stressful course.
Machine learning is a very cool and useful subject, and CS181 is a great introduction to the subject. You'll learn a good deal and get hands-on experience with implementations while also chugging through some of the theory. I did not like the readings in the Bishop textbook because they were long, dry, and overly detailed for our purposes, but some of the course note readings were excellent. Lectures, course notes, and assignments worked together well to present the course material.
Great class for getting an overview of the Machine Learning field. Make sure you have enough time to dedicate to the class otherwise you will struggle to get through all the material. Definitely recommend taking this class with friends as it is really helpful for the practicals.
Be sure to be on top of your linear algebra
You will need both a strong programming and math background in this class.
Bad class, bad teaching. Not particularly hard although takes a lot of time, but rather very confusing and you won't find a lot of immediate help when you need it. Unless you have 30+ hours a week to put in a single class, to run everywhere with questions and expecting incomplete responses, you should probably not take the class. You will most likely have to spend that time to answer your own questions, so just teach yourself from the beginning.
Do the readings ahead of time to stay ontop of lecture material.
This course pretends to have a strong support system for people with less background, but it doesn't become apparent that it's nonexistent until around the add/drop deadline. As a result, students without the recommended math background are encouraged early on to take a class that they're not prepared for, setting them up for failure. Do not take this class unless you have excellent statistics, matrix calculus, and programming skills.
Probably the class I learned the most in during my whole Master's program at Harvard.
CS 181 is a fantastic introduction to machine learning with a focus on understanding the underlying math rather than just coding up existing algorithms.
This is an extremely hard course to evaluate: on the one hand, the topics are very interesting and the lecturer is an excellent teacher, possibly one of the best instructors in the CS faculty when it comes to the delivery of lectures; on the other hand, the lecturer lacks empathy, and when concerns are voiced she gives off an elitist vibe that screams since we are not MIT students we must be idiots. The amount of material covered in this course is astounding. Topics that some courses spend months covering may be dealt with in a single lecture. In the second half of the term, there is about a 7-8 week period where you may have an assignment/homework/exam due almost EVERY WEEK, each of which could well require over 30 hours per week of preparation; if you make any suggestion that this workload is unreasonable, you will simply get a blunt response of "you're all adults, just start early". You will need to be EXTREMELY, EXTREMELY COMFORTABLE with matrix calculus and linear algebra right from the start, otherwise you will feel lost right out of the gates from Day 1, and this feeling may well stay with you until the very end of the semester. You need to also be comfortable programming in Python, and to have used packages such as sci-kit-learn. Be warned, if you don't have this background, you WILL feel lost quickly, and this course may make you cry. There is a reason why the average on the first exam barely broached 60%; while the lectures may be well-delivered, poor overall course organization (and lack of effective remedial support) means that most students who are coming across this material for the first time are being set up for failure.
This was my favorite course I took at Harvard. Finale is a fantastic teacher. She skirts the line between complexity and simplicity quite well - she grapples with complex concepts while never going so far that I didn't understand what she was talking about. She always motivates material with a great narrative that helps to relate the material to real world examples.
As a graduate student in Biology I think this is a great class for biologists to take, especially those interested in the intersection between Neuroscience and artificial intelligence. But really it's good for anyone who will be doing some kind of data analysis.
fine class
Don't feel like I learned as much machine learning as I would have liked. Finale is a decent lecturer but can be disorganized at times. They definitely need to be better about having accessible resources/notes/solutions in the future.
A solid introduction to machine learning; excellent way to gain a lot of intuition around the various techniques/methods.
Start early for practicals!
It is a good course if you put enough effort in.
This class ends up taking a lot of time when you're tweaking models.
It's a good introduction to Machine Learning, but some of the assignments (the Practicals) are quite annoying and don't teach anything. I'd take this course again if I went back in time, but sometimes it's a bit frustrating.
Great way to fill a CS breadth requirement if you're comfortable in probability theory and linear algebra
The professor is really amazing. She seemed to genuinely care about the students. However, the class itself is pretty horrible. The lectures are extremely and sometimes unnecessarily mathy and the formulas and derivations in lectures, psets and the exam are honestly not going to prove useful when I want to apply these algorithms in real life. I wish I had taken the MIT version of this class, which is much less mathy and much more applicable.
Only take this class if you're a CS and Stat/applied math JOINT concentrator. If you're CS, the math is too hard. If your math/stat then the coding is too hard.The professor (Finale) is not a good lecturer. She flies through the hard matrix math and it's very difficult to follow.I was a happy person before I took this class. Now happiness is a distant memory.
