I would tell students that this class is relatively painless as CS classes at Harvard go.  The lectures are boring, the material can be interesting if you like language processing and to make your own decision based on this information.
This class presents a good survey of the material, but to get the most out of it you will need to do some work on your own, as it can be a bit disorganized.
I think anyone with either a linguistic or computer science interest would enjoy the course, and I would recommend it without reservation.
The course this year was very disorganized; however, if it moves back to working with prolog instead of python this might improve.
This class is a great class!  The material is very interesting and Prof. Shieber is an excellent instructor.  He is supremely intelligent and knows this field inside and out, but he knows how to teach it to beginners.Just beware the final project, and be prepared to do a lot of programming during reading period.
I would only recommend this course because the material is very interesting.  By doing the problem sets, you'll gain an exposure to the field of natural language processing. However, lectures are boring and the class is run poorly.  If they improve the course, it might be worth taking.
CS187 was an excellent course. The professor and TF are enthusiastic, accessible, and engaging. The material is very interesting and relevant. I wish I had taken it when I was younger because I think I might have gotten into linguistics research. Take this course as a sophomore or junior. It will be best if you have background in functional and logical programming and a bit of stats. One drawback is that certain aspect of the course are a little disorganized, but the professor and Elif are so easy to reach out to that I think most problems were resolved reasonably.
It's a really fun introduction to computational linguistics. The problems are all really interesting, and Prolog is a lot of fun. Definitely take it if you are interested in linguistics.
Shieber's a sweetheart and a great professor.  The course material is amazing and the course material is fun.  Grading sometimes seemed a bit opaque (being counted off for trivialities, or for having an implementation that was correct but not identical to what they had in mind).  Still, the grading gripes are minor, and aren't a huge issue  you should DEFINITELY take this course.
This is a great course on an interesting and important topic. It provides a solid foundation for further work in computational linguistics and natural language processing.
I didn't really learn many applicable things about NLP from this course.
Shop it and see if you like the teaching style. If you do, then take the course. If not, then I would shy away from it.
Really great class! I thoroughly enjoyed it. Not too much work, and very fun work, at that. Everything you do is interesting and completely useful.
Natural language processing is an interesting topic, and there's still a lot of good work to be done in the field--which becomes clear during the course. That said, I'm not sure how interesting the course's assignments are. Professor Shieber is at least a really nice guy.
The workload is lightweight conceptually, but tedious to do. They could afford to cover more material in the course.
Material is very interesting but somewhat all over the place. Prolog is an interesting and new concept to learn (at least for me).
I absolutely loved this class. Professor Shieber is such a cool guy; he's willing and ready to help you and answer any questions you may have on the problem sets. It's a really chill class and lecture format, and honestly is not a huge burden (although there are definitely some difficult ones, especially near the end of the class.) Don't skip lecture! It's a lot of fun. Definitely starts off more as statistics, and then gets into the fun linguistics stuff.If anything, take it for Professor Shieber. The TFs my year were not particularly inspiring, but the class is still great. Something to watch out for: the assignments are basically not returned back to you, or are returned back to you weeks after. It's kind of rough if you really need feedback.
Prof. Shieber is a really cool guy, but I wasn't a fan of his lecturing style. The whole Learning Catalytics thing didn't really work for the class size, I thought. However, if you're interested in the material, it's a pretty painless way to learn it (no exams, etc.)
The material is interesting, but I felt lectures were ineffective and boring (though Shieber's a really great guy) and I ended up skipping most of them. Definitely shop the course first and read through some of the papers to see if you're interesting in the material and how you feel about the lecture style.
Problem sets were a nice walkthrough the field of computational linguistics, yet they become more difficult at the end of the semester learning Prolog. Shieber is obviously very knowledgable and also cares a lot about the class so that is a huge plus.
If you're interested in computational linguistics, take this class. Shieber is at the top of his field and teaches the material effectively and comprehensively. The problem sets are long and often difficult.
This course gets harder towards the end. The lectures can be a bit dry at times, but if you like the topics covered, its a really good class.
While I found the material in this class really interesting, the format of the lectures made going to class tedious. The assignments were really easy in the beginning and got really hard at the end, so the class ended up pretty confused on the last few problem sets and were just sort of chugging through. If you've got a good grasp of computational theory, it shouldn't be that bad, but maybe take it pass-fail so you don't have to worry about the ambiguous grading system (there are no breakdowns).
It's a useful way to advance understanding of problems in computational linguistics, and to practice programming, but I'd recommend sitting in on Shieber's lectures in order to absorb his expertise rather than go through the sometimes-torture that was trying to complete the homework assignments by the 11:59pm deadlines. The amount of work for me was ridiculous. Be prepared to spend hours into the double digits on a single homework assignment. Homeworks were also not announced/distributed until sometimes less than a week before their due date, which makes planning around this course nearly impossible. Many nights I had to cancel prior obligations, or even skip other classes to work on these assignments.
I learned a lot, but the course was administered poorly.
Lecture was occasionally a little slow, but assignments were really enjoyable and the material is incredibly interesting. A little background in probability and computational theory is useful!
Computational linguistics is a fascinating and magical subject, and this course provides a solid introduction to it.  The course materials are quite comprehensive, and the assignments in particular are very worthwhile.  Almost all the assignments are a brief, but nontrivial, programming exercise which produces surprising results for the requisite work, and these make the subject matter very appealing.This past year, the course was taught with a quasi-interactive component, which made classtime seem frequently ill-paced and half-hearted.  However, Shieber's presentation of the material is generally clear, so in the hopes that the course will recommit to a lecture format (or sort out a more effective way to enable direct interactive engagement), it is likely to be worthwhile.
Super cool course! Prof. Shieber is awesome, the material is excellent (especially in the latter half of the course) and the final project is an extremely fun way to test out your NLP knowledge in a real application. The course is relatively relaxed and never asks too much of your time, and it's always enjoyable. If you like CS and want to learn about ways to address the difficult problem of natural languages, definitely take this course!
It isn't that painful and you learn a decent amount. Probably one of the more enjoyable non-systems courses.
Shieber is such a sweetheart professor, but the course material is boring and assignments are returned months after the were turned in.
It's not easy, but is very interesting.
If you are looking to learn about computational linguistics, then Computational Linguistics is the course for you. If, however, you have no interest in learning about computational linguistics, I would suggest that you avoid Computational Linguistics.
This is a good introduction to various aspects of computational linguistics.  I would recommend it to others pursuing a concentration/secondary field in linguistics, as there is reasonable coverage of semantics from the perspective of lambda calculus and it applies many of the ideas taught in 116 and elsewhere.
The course provides a very good introduction to Computational Linguistics. Lectures are fun and engaging, mainly due to the lecturer's innate abilities. Problem sets can be sometimes long and require a lot of one's time.
I would recommend this class to anyone interested in artificial intelligence, especially people with no experience with artificial intelligence and texts.
The material is fairly interesting, but ends up being a little too specific/niche for me. Computational linguistics is one of those problems that's sort of impossible to fully solve, so most algorithms/techniques are heuristics or approximations, which is a little unsatisfying.

Also, the workload of this class really ramps up at the end, where we had 2 psets and the final project all due within a span of about 2 weeks. Also, a lot of the work is silly stuff like writing a specifically formatted documentation string for every function in your code, or spending a lot of extra time because the pset specification is unclear or vague. For some reason, it seems that the only responses the course staff are allowed to give on Piazza are quoting the specification, or "it's up to you" (which isn't actually true, grade-wise). This is a shame because a lot of people have very legitimate questions that probably would benefit from an actual answer.
Also, the final projects are chosen for you (there's a set of N projects and you rank them and get put on one) and most aren't particularly interesting. The end of the class really becomes kind of a drag.

Even despite all this, I'd probably still take the courseit's an interesting subtopic of CS that likely has applications in a lot of other fields. Hopefully one day machines will be able to understand standard English/other languages. But there are probably better courses to take if you have a packed schedule already.
The material is very interesting. The first part of the course has a lot of machine learning, and the second part transitions from Python to Prolog and makes greater use of structure and semantics. The course gets significantly harder towards the end of the semester. Project and homework deadlines overlap as the assignments get more difficult.
got to learn pretty cool stuff on natural language processing (NLP)! very manageable in terms of difficulty level, while you sitll get exposed to new things. lectures can be slow and soporific at times but the material is interesting. workload in the last month has a sharp increase comparing to previous ones, so be prepared -- it started off easy but suddenly has many deadlines jammed together toward the end. overall, worth to take if you want to learn NLP.
You'll definitely learn some cool material. For example, suppose you had a bunch of sentences with the spaces removed, in a language you were completely unfamiliar with. What algorithm would you use to determine where the word breaks are?

Having said this, I think it's important to note that Shieber is, much more so than any professor I have encountered, very focused on presentation. As a result, you'll spend a lot of time proofreading (code, problem set writeups, final project writeup). This is exacerbated by the grading scale (1-5). Basically if you make no mistakes you get a 5, and if you make even a small mistake you'll get knocked down to a 4. This necessitates a ton of proofreading, which I didn't feel was very valuable.
Take this class if you are curious about NLP and have a high threshold for pain and painstaking things. The assignments do go in depth and provide intellectual challenge as the semester progresses. Lectures also get much better when programming in Prolog section starts. However, there may be just 1 or 2 too many assignments, as there's something due every week, for a total of 10 assignments in the semester, along with your concurrently running final project starting in November. So look before you enroll in this class.
This is a great class and Professor Shieber is really nice and on your side! Please get to know him better! He is really cool and the material is awesome!
I'm not sure if the field of computational linguistics is just not for me, but this course wasn't what I expected. I'm not entirely sure I can even say now what I've learned in this course or what computational linguistics even is, but apparently I was able to get through the psets (which were still a fair amount of work). Prof Shieber is really nice and most likely has done brilliant research, but is not the most organized or engaging lecturer. There's also too much expectation that you will read the textbook on your own (and lectures as I mentioned are not particularly helpful). You do get to learn Prolog, which is a really interesting language to program in (and I'd recommend checking it out even if you don't take this class)
Do not take this course unless they change the workload. Or if you're obsessed with natural language processing. I took it because I like most artificial intelligence classes, and I took it for fun. 
There were assignments every week, which were difficult but doable when they only took 10-15 hours. But then they started becoming more unreasonable, requiring more like 30 hours and unimaginable frustration, on behalf of most people in the class. (I know I am not an anomaly). There were only 2 hours of office hours a week, though the tfs were pretty open to helping if you asked. 

This is what I wrote to the instructors:

The course needs to reduce the amount it teaches. We should not be required to attend class during reading period just to fit in more content that the professor wants to cover. We should not be required to complete assignments (that take 30 hours or more) while we are working on the final project. Assignments should be finished if there is going to be a final project. Further, the last four assignments should have two weeks in between them, rather than one, in order to get them done reasonably. This was the only class I did significant work for, and I still couldn't fit all the work in when working on it full time. There should be more than 2 hours of office hours a week.
The material in this course is interesting. Shieber is extremely passionate and that definitely shines through. That said, the material later in the course is considerably more difficult and so students struggling with earlier problem sets should consider dropping the class. In fall 2014, the new final project format meant that there were many weeks with problem sets and final project components due; this made for a very stressful end of the semester.
This is really interesting material, however be very wary of the class organization. Lectures can be dry at times and not that great at actually teaching the concepts, so often it's better to read the textbook/course notes (which often don't cover everything that's said in class). Unless the course format changes in future years, be prepared to be inundated with work towards the end of the semester, even during reading period, so make sure to account for course work.
This was a good course, especially early. You learn about textual analysis in terms of statistical methods and logical/grammar-based methods. This year, there were 4 problem sets plus multiple final project deadlines in late November / early December, which was really hectic.
I am a linguistics concentrator, and I enjoyed this class. It was a good introduction to computational linguistics, and though I have a bunch of quibbles about the field in general (most relating to a generally hand-wavy cop-out attitude toward actual linguistics), it is really interesting. I was also happy for the chance to actually learn Python. If you study linguistics and have some programming experience, try it out: people will defer to your opinion on language matters, and come to you with questions about parts of speech and stuff. It's fun. 

On a logistic note, Prof. Shieber is generally pretty entertaining; the lectures are good if you pay attention; the problem sets are interesting and stimulating; and though the course had major organizational issues this year, I think we students raised enough of a kerfuffle that they'll be worked out in the future. 

(Just in case, these were the issues: 1. Easy problem sets at the beginning that get very hard toward the end; 2. Final project waypoint deadlines interspersed with difficult problem set deadlines, making it difficult to do either as well as one would like; 3. A number of F.A.S. rule violations, including lectures during reading period and assignment due-dates during reading period.)
This is class that I really wanted to like.  The material is pretty interesting and Prof Shieber is a great guy.  However, there are some fundamental problems in the architecting in the course.  Problem sets are very easy at the beginning of the semester but then become basically impossible toward the end.  In addition, while these psets are becoming impossible, a six-stage final project appears.  Furthermore, Prof Shieber expected us to attend class through reading period.  The class needs to be fundamentally restructured in its pacing
Very interesting material that is also very well-taught. NLP is a fascinating subject area, and you'll learn a lot of the fundamental techniques in this course. However, the course sometimes (particularly toward the end of the semester) scrunches together deadlines, which makes assignments hectic/stressful; hopefully that can be improved in future iterations.
I really, really wish I could recommend CS187.  The material is engaging, the problem sets are interesting and useful, and the entire teaching staff seems genuinely dedicated to fostering our understanding of computational linguistics.

The problem is that the logistics were just a complete, utter mess.  I know Professor Shieber has taught this class before, so I don't understand how he overestimated the amount of material he could cover in a semester to such a degree.  There were far too many assignments, which increased sharply in length and complexity in the last month or so - just when we also were starting on final projects.  He also tried some odd things like an assigned partner pset, a hybrid group-individual structure for the final project, and a writing practicum aspect to the project, none of which, I suspect, worked out quite as he had envisioned.
Very good course overall. Some lectures are pretty slow, but then other lectures are pretty confusing and could be slowed down. So I think if the teaching staff does a little better job of balancing the course it could be made better. However, I didn't actually have too many complaints about this and enjoyed the material and psets. Staff is very nice.
This class ruined my semester. From blatantly disregarding FAS course policies (we had class during reading period as well as project deadlines through reading period and through the second to last day of finals period) to the passive aggressiveness of instructor responses on piazza and the low quality lectures (many students chose not to attend, and out of the group that did, there was always one napper and occasionally a student who obviously wasn't paying attention, and, for example, doing origami instead), this course was disastrous. Though I had misgivings, the course material interested me enough that I stayed through the 5th week, which is about when everything went down the drain. The problem set difficulty increased exponentially while the lectures became way less helpful and way more boring. If you are able to focus on Professor Shieber's conversational and winding lecture style, then this class may be bearable for you. The course staff did not seem very interested in actually helping us, and most Piazza answers completely avoided the question at hand, and instead adopted a chastising tone and redirected the student to course notes, or the assignment instructions.
