This is an excellent class if you are interested in gender, the history of the New Left, modern Japanese history, or feminism.  Prepare to spend a lot of time with the assigned texts, but don't be intimidated by how opaque some of the writing styles are; Professor Yoda does a great job of explicating difficult texts in class.
An astonishingly interesting and intense look at a fascinating moment in Japanese and feminist history. Many deep and difficult readings in Japanese but each one of them worth the effort, and the discussions as lead by Professor Yoda were consistently fascinating (and often clarified what might have been very murky in other hands).
This course is *great* if your Japanese reading skills are up to par (about level 150) -- for those of you below that, I hope you have a lot of free time on your hands, because the readings can be extremely time-consuming if your Japanese is a little weaker.  It really gives you a deep sense of the issues present in Japanese Feminism.
You will get a lot from this course: an in-depth understanding of Japanese radical feminism, a thorough survey of modern Japanese feminism, a good amount of knowledge on modern Japanese history, and a lot of insights on Feminism in general.
This is a great class if you are interested in learning more about feminism in Japan. Professor Yoda is a very engaging and thoughtful professor, and makes herself available to you outside of class if you want to talk through any of the readings or assignments. A lot of this class is self-directed though, so it helps to start the semester with a concrete idea of what you are hoping to get out of it.
The place of gender studies in the American Academy still seems to be largely marginalized but this course opens up dialogue across different disciplines and locations to ask important questions.
Take this class. If you have any interest in the political and social history of 20th and 21st century Japan or learning about the development of a feminist politics in a non-Euro/American context, this course is for you. If you are not interested in either of these, this class just may convince you otherwise. The ramifications of the texts we engaged with in this course have far-reaching implications for larger issues of political formation that we continue to wrestle with in the present day. Professor Yoda is very skilled at teasing out these implications in discussion while ensuring that the specific historical and cultural contexts of the readings are not forgotten.
