This class was a great introduction to The Tale of Genji.  It's an amazing read, and I had always wanted to read it, so it was great to find a course that let me do so in a really interesting and engaging way.  It's a lot of reading, but it's a fairly manageable class-- it only has 2 short writing assignments and a long paper otherwise, so as long as you stay on top of your reading and are willing to participate in class, it is fairly painless.  Just make sure that you're interested in the material!
Really great introduction to a literary staple and nice course about Japanese history that easily functions as a gateway to other Japanese culture/history courses
The Tale of Genji is wonderful, and this class gives the structure to help you to read the whole thing and the opportunity to engage with it with others. Further, Professor McCormick can give someone with absolutely no background in art an appreciation for the art of the Genji. If you have any interest in the Genji particularly, or in the great novels of the world, just take this class.
Obviously you should only take it if you are really passionate about the subject matter because it's not an easy class, but its really fun.
Great course for those of you who have always wanted to read one of the earliest "novels"!  You make it through the entire 1000+ book in one semester - and it doesn't even feel like that much!  Professor McCormick is excellent - I think everyone should take at least one of her courses!
Set aside a good amount of time to read the text. At times it can get a bit tedious.
Professor McCormick is a very knowledgeable instructor who can make the Tale of Genji accessible to anyone!
Take this course, even though its topic might be unfamiliar and unconventional.  Prof. McCormick is a phenomenal educator who will make you want to learn more about Japanese literature.
If you're at all interested in Japanese history, you need to take this class. Genji and references to Genji are everywhere in Japanese culture.
