This is a fun and interesting class
This class is really fun; discussions are interesting and not intimidating. While some of the readings are hard to get through, overall they're not boring and you'll enjoy the class.
This is a great class that encourages you to think about the construct known as "girl."  Even though the class focuses on the girl cultures that have sprung up in Japan over the last century, it provides a solid foundation for thinking about girl culture in general.
If you want to learn more about contemporary Japanese girl culture and media, this is the class to take! The film screenings were an excellent addition to the course and the small size of the class fostered interesting discussions. Sometimes the reading load is heavy, but the reading selections are informative and helpful in understanding the topics.
If the topic interests you, take it! You don't need to know a thing about Japan or Japanese history/girl culture--you just need to be interested and willing to engage with the material.
Professor Yoda is a delightful lecturer, Jennifer Yum is a fun but highly intelligent and dedicated TF, and the class is insightful and well organized without being a time suck. It's college as it should be.
A great introduction to Japanese culture!
Take this class. Professor Yoda is my favorite professor on this campus. She is incredibly kind, insightful, and leads discussion incredibly well. It is an honor to have a class with her on a super interesting topic!
This is not an American gender studies course, and thank goodness for that. The exploration of girl culture in Japan is unique to that country's history, and it's extremely interesting to be able to basically learn about how a country's own version of feminine(ist) empowerment and culture develops as a direct result of its history/media/cultural attitudes. You will read literature, watch movies, and even read a graphic novel, which is a nice change of pace, and though the class can sometimes be a slog at 3 hours, it's only once a week--plus as the material  gets more interesting after the first couple weeks the urge to check what time it is disappears. Also, Prof Yoda is wonderful.
If you're interested in the history and development of girl culture in Japan, take this course. With fun movies and readings, this class has been one of the most interesting in terms of material. Lectures are often very, very long with brief moments of discussion. Sections are appended to the very last 30-45 minutes of class (out of 3 hours) and often feels too short to actually go over the full breadth of material.
This is a great class for anyone who is interested in exploring issues of gender and what it means to be a girl outside of the Western context. Through a bunch of really different, interesting media (analytical texts, novels, movies, anime, manga), this class explored how so much of gender expression and understanding is cultural.
very very fun. Even had fun doing the assignments.
This class was great! Prof. Yoda is extremely passionate about the material and it keeps the lecture and discussion super interesting. The workload is very fair as well. Highly recommend if you're at all interested in Japan's girl culture / media culture!!!
Everyone, take this course! Professor Yoda is amazing and will teach you so much about women and girls in Japan historically and through the present as well! The readings are manageable and interesting, the videos in class are fun, and we even got to meet and discuss certain topics with a famous Japanese scholar who happens to be friends with Professor Yoda! I would highly recommend it.
No prior knowledge of Japanese language or history is necessary. About half the class are guys.
Prior Q comments did not do this class justice. I shopped it and chose to take it out of instinct as an afterhtought, and I'm so glad that I did. This class made female-centric Japanese media a fascinating, comprehensible topic, and Professor Yoda's expertise in the subject matter means that lecture is an incredible amalgam of media clips, images and theory. I found the lectures extremely informative as a result. Also, assignments were very reasonable-- yes, you must do the readings, but Professor Yoda guides you through the denser theoeretical works in lecture, which makes the midterm and essay assignments very manageable indeed.
This is a great class to take if you are interested in Japanese culture, and applying gender theory to contemporary issues. The lectures were not my favorite part of the class, but discussions and assignments add a lot.
This is a very fascinating class. Its content and materials are beyond intriguing. The mabnga you read, anime and movies you watch, the novels and articles you read really help you construct a conceptualization of girlhood in Japan and the place of girls in its modern concepts. Professor Yoda is very sweet and understanding and also gives your the opportunity to explore and synthesize a lot of the concepts you have learned. This class is by no means hard, but is by no means something you could or should brush off. This class can offer you an entrance to a beautiful world of literature and girl culture.
Great course! Definitely for those who are interested in Japanese pop culture. Interesting reading materials and Prof. Yoda is a very goof lecturer.
I loved it. Professor Yoda is exceptionally knowledgeable about the topic, and also allows for a diversity of opinions about feminism and Japanese gender politics, which makes discussions very lively. And yet, I don't think anyone left the course feeling personally attacked, which I really enjoyed.
That it's a very unique course and topic, but also a fun and important one!
An alternate title to this course is Japanese Feminism. It mostly focuses on feminism in Japan throughout the 1900s. If you find this type of material interesting, you will love this course! If you're just looking for an easy course to take, this one is pretty interesting and easy enough, as long as you put in a couple hours a week to at least generally understand the materials, paying special attention to the materials a couple of weeks prior to essays.
This class is an incredibly comprehensive look at the concept of girlhood in the Japanese context over hundreds of years. You consume a diverse range of media when taking this class, and the readings are all clearly chosen very carefully. I have a background in gender studies and Japan and I was still blown away by many of the readings we did. Highly recommend to all interested in gender in a Japanese context.
It's a lot of reading, but all of the readings are interesting and/or entertaining
Love, love, loved this class. Seriously one of my favorite courses that I have taken so far. Covers many different aspects of what it means to be feminine and how femininity has been viewed in history. Covered anime, fashion, history, feminism, and many more topics. Highly recommend this class.
The girl-Cultural and feminist theory component is very strong, so only take if those are your cup of tea. They can be quite dense
This class is a great way to learn about and explore feminism, what gender "is", culture, and Japan. I had never taken a class on gender or feminism before, and I comfortably enjoyed learning about such topics, while also seeing the ideas in context in Japan. The course material is super interesting and diverse- anime films, manga, movies, academia literature. I oftentimes did not even see it is as work I had to do for a class but more as content I enjoyed.
Not an easy class but quite rewarding. Lots of reading--some really interesting and fun and some kind of boring. Movies are fun and enjoyable, and sometimes fun videos are shown in class. Class can be interesting when the whole class is involved in discussion, but can be boring when the professor gives presentations on the material.
Excellent course! students interested in Japanese culture should definitely take!
If you like writing and reading, but aren't so good at class discussion this might work for you.  The class was small, but Yoda mostly lectures with short discussion afterwards
