It is an excellent introduction to the field.
this class was interesting, and Prof Damrosch is brilliant and darling, but in order for it to be successful you must contribute to the class discussions-- which is even perhaps more important than doing all of the readings.
Generally, the class is important, but don't expect to be interested in every course.
While the weekly readings do introduce a range of interesting topics, the class discussion was not always very stimulating. It is a required class for Comp Lit students, so it has to happen either way, but I would encourage people to speak up more.
Good history of comparative literature, good brief on the current state of the field
Professor Thornber is the most dedicated faculty member I've ever encountered.  You should get to know her if you have the slightest interest in comparative literature-- she will offer you so many great insights about your future projects.  Her success is a true inspiration to many humanities students constantly demoralized through a plethora of articles which insist that our job prospects are so dim.
Following Prof. Thornber's professional training will be extremely helpful in your future research.
Prof. Hamilton is a great resource, but the format of the class (limited discussion following student presentations and pre-assigned "responses" from fellow students) was often boring.
excellent atmosphere in class, high intellectual standard
A great overview of Comp Lit theory, it provides a really helpful notional background.
A very good introductory course of the discipline.
Very interesting class-- absolutely essential if interested in Comp Lit, although the class itself has a few structural problems. Often discussions are delightful!
You'll think about these texts in new ways.
This is a great course and Professor Damrosch is a great teacher. You will come out of it with a real grasp on the disciplinary history of comparative literature, with a framework in which to situate your own research, and many ideas to pursue in the future.
An excellent introduction to the field of comparative literature.
