this class had so much potential but it fell short. Roanne is enthusiastic but is not always organized and does not let discussion flow in class
The course can feel slightly disorganized with not as much information about assignments unless you're very pro-active about that and contacting Dr. Kantor, but otherwise, the class discussion and material is absolutely fascinating. The staff are extremely welcoming and offer a lot of thought-provoking questions/discussions, and I would highly recommend it for this reason.
This class has a heavy reading load and the papers can be stressful. As someone who is not in the humanities, I sometimes felt like the conversations were a little over my head. That being said, Professor Kantor is a very great person, and she genuinely cares about both the course material and her students.
This course is really interesting and engaging! You don't need to know anything about disability studies, or to have a strong background in comparative literature. Professor Kantor is really clear and helpful. She provides great feedback on your work at office hours, so definitely go to those. Make sure you have time to do all of the readings, because there's no point in taking the course if you're not reading the primary texts. The workload is pretty manageable, since you have to read a book or watch a couple of movies every 1-2 weeks. I highly recommend this course!
This class is phenomenal! Although this class is a comparative literature class, it is truly accessible to all. Some of my classmates were pre-med students who chose to focus on the delivery of care surronding disability while others were passionate about gender/feminist theory and chose to explored disability through that lens. Dr. Kantor and Aditya are both such kind and supportive mentors. They will take the time to meet with you outside of class for as long as you need. The readings are manageable and engaging. In terms of assignments, most of them were very open-ended and allowed for you to bring in your own interests and explore how they may intersect with themes of the class.
This is a great course for anyone who is interested in medicine, health, disability, disparities, or the global south (Latin America, Africa, and South Asia). Lots of flexibility in assignments and a great professor who is truly passionate about the material.
Take this class! Dr. Kantor is an amazing instructor and the course is a unique offering at Harvard. Don't be discouraged if you haven't taken a literature course at Harvard (I hadn't taken a literature course in 8 years when I took it and had no trouble following the class). The diversity of students in the class, and Dr. Kantor's incredible teaching ensures that every week you will learn a lot about disability studies and disability narratives from a wide expanse of perspectives, both intellectually and academically. I could not recommend this class more - easily one my favorite classes at Harvard.
CompLit 130 is a really interesting course! It is well-taught and a good fit if you want to read a book/watch a movie every week and having cool discussion about what disability means in a more social context. Lots of pre-meds in the course too.
READ EVERYTHING. Kantor chooses such moving narratives both films and novels. The works here are truly top tier human expression and it takes an intelligent instructor to curate such a great syllabus.
This course helps you understand disability studies and how disability is experienced around the world, but the novels and films assigned are not always enjoyable. Some are repetitive, some feature very unlikeable characters, and some are triggering if you have a family member with a debilitating chronic disease. Make sure you are ready to dive into this subject at length and will look forward to the novels and films before taking this class.
