Delia is an amazing teacher and I've learned so much from this class. The two hours of each week I spent fully engrossed and I am very thankful to have had the opportunity to experience this.
This is one of my favorite classes I took at Harvard! Delia is incredible--so informed, so engaged, and so devoted to an amazing discussion and seminar experience for us. The material is a joy, and even when it is extensive it is always worth doing. You really have the leeway to explore what topics or authors or filmmakers interest you most, and the discussion is so fun. Also, we got an amazing mix of disciplines--history, literature, cinema studies, philosophy, sociology, and even some math! Take this class if you can, it is such a treat!
Delia is by far one of the best professors at Harvard.  She deeply cares about everybody in her class.  Her comments on papers are the most extensive I have ever gotten (for example, on a five page paper, she gave about two pages worth of comments).  The pairings of films and texts are carefully chosen and make more sense than the pairings may seem at first glance.  I would not hesitate in recommending this class.
Delia is the most amazing professor I have had at Harvard. As a CS student, I had not taken any comp lit classes and so I wasn't that good at analyzing and writing the kind of papers we wrote for this class, but Delia took this into account and helped us all a lot with the papers. Also the films and texts were all amazing and we looked at some really cool themes about time and space. I would definitely recommend this class!! It's a great way to spend two hours just talking about some great works!!
Delia is absolutely amazing and really invests time into the intellectual experience of her students. I learned so much from her and from this course about putting different mediums in dialogue. We worked with some truly fantastic texts and films. Take this class!!
Delia is the most loving, insightful, enthusiastic professor I've ever worked with. I have never felt so well looked after in a course. The material is simply amazing. I was worried it would be tricky coming in with no film background, but it wasn't a problem at all and it was a joy to get to discuss such beautiful stuff.
Professor Ungureanu is an absolutely incredible professor. She is so dedicated and enthusiastic about the class that you can't help but be excited to discuss the materials each week. The homework is a fair bit of a time commitment but it is completely worth it. If you take this class though you have to be prepared to do the work, or you won't get anything out of it. It's not a class where you can get by with only doing half the work. This was by and far one of my favorite classes at Harvard so far.
Absolutely take it if you have to be the opportunity!
I looked forward to class every week. Anyone interested in watching movies and/or reading books would find this class interesting, so yes you. Delia is amazing, the workload is more than manageable, the discussions (both in and out of class) are fascinating. I can't recommend this class more.
Exciting, refreshing, and super-informative course.
