If you're unsure about Comp Lit as a concentration, this is an excellent introductory course to take! (Also, a lot of the readings on the syllabus repeat on the Comp Lit tutorial syllabus!).
Anybody interested in or pursuing the humanities should take it as a crash course in literature as a whole. The relaxed, yet intensive, nature leaves no room for regrets.
Take this class if you know for sure that you're going to or thinking about concentrating in comparative literature. It provides a good overview of literature around the world, but there is a lot of reading for this class.
Grounds for Comparison is definitely a good introductory course for someone interested in Comp Lit. For some people, it definitely confirmed that this is the right concentration for them, and it made other people realize that they really didn't enjoy literary theory and comparing Moliere to Japanese puppet theater, so absolutely take it if you're considering Literature.The course material is pretty good and covers both famous works, like "Metamorphosis" by Kafka, and obscure works, like...Japanese puppet theater. I don't know that I really clicked with a lot of the books we read, and that might be partially due to the fact that you read all the weekly material (potentially in one night, if you're bad at time management) and you discuss for two hours in class...and then you probably never look at it again, unless you write your final paper on it. Hopefully, it changes from a two-hour seminar to a class that meets a couple times a week, but, since the two hour chunk thing is so popular, I kind of doubt it'll happen any time soon. Professor Damrosch is really knowledgeable and open to meeting with students which is great. There's also a weekly blog posting due before class, which Professor Damrosch reads, which I know sounds like a lot of pressure, but actually adds a lot to in-class discussion. TL;DR: The class is definitely not without its flaws and you might not necessarily enjoy all the readings (especially the literary essays), but it's for sure a taste of what a Comp Lit tutorial is like, if you're interested in Concentrating.
You will be exposed to a great deal of literature from different eras and different parts of the world, much of which you would never even have heard of otherwise.
This is a great class - extremely interesting reading materials, especially if you'd like to study literature or anything related. I got to read so many things from such different cultures and it has been great. David is also a very famous professor in this field, and his lectures are great.
It's an intro Comp Lit class, so while there will be some really smart people, there will also be people who've never taken an English class in college before, so be prepared for some uneven conversations. Hopefully they'll change the paper policy, but otherwise be prepared to write one long paper over the course of the semesterwhich sounds nice now but is more difficult than it sounds.
This course is an incredible opportunity to work closely with Professor Damrosch, an extraordinary individual who will force you to examine the expansive world of literature and your ways of thinking about it.
The class is an intensive introduction into ways of thinking about, organizing, and framing literature. It is slanted heavily towards a theoretical approach and places a lot of attention on questions of gender and sex.
Lit 96 will expose the early student of Literature to the many unexpected theories and dimensions of the discipline. It exposes you to many startling new frameworks for reading, as well as much discussion as to <i>why</i> we read in the first place.
I truly enjoyed this course and highly recommend taking it if you are interested in literature of any kind. However, it requires highly intensive reading, so if you have extremely time-consuming courses, then you may not want to take this class.
The readings may be dense, but they are really exciting if you actually push through them.
It's a great introduction to theory without being a theory-intensive class. As long as you're willing to read, it will be rewarding.
This is a really good class. Definitely make use of the assignments and the professor, because they are both their to help you develop your technique and discover your own unique ideas. Before enrolling make sure you can handle about 100 pages or more of reading each week.
Francois is amazing in facilitating discussion and gives great feedback on drafts and essays. The readings are diverse yet work together in interesting and new ways.
I really enjoyed this class, and Franois is great. It's nice to be able to have a small class dynamic like I used to in high school, just try to do as many readings as possible and you'll do fine
It's a great literature class if you are, indeed, interested in literature.  There's a lot of reading to do, and a weekly blog post of a few paragraphs, but discussions in class are generally very interesting (although at times confusing) and you will certainly leave the class with many more ideas and new ways of thinking.  The only reservation I would have is just that some of the ideas in the critical texts can be a little confusing, but they are usually explained in class discussion so everything works out.
Sections are really good, your answers on the blog responses are directly used for discussion so be prepared to go off that. Many of the readings can get really theoretical.
I came into this class freshman fall, having had obviously no experience with literature classes at Harvard (I wasn't enrolled in Expos in the fall either) and found the class to be intense. This class is hard, and you'll spend a lot of time on the readings, which differ in length but are consistently dense and complex. The professor is incredible, though, and the class is worth the effort if you really love literature. You have to always be very prepared when you come to class.
Be ready for a lot of reading. Though it is all really interesting, just know that the amount of work is a lot.
