This is a great class and you should absolutely take it.  The workload is super doable, and actually enjoyable.  One of my favorite classes I've taken.  The books are generally really good and never more than 250 pages or so.  The discussions were great.  Can't recommend highly enough.
Professor Granara is a fabulous instructor!
A great class that served as a book club on modern Arabic literature, as you read one book a week. Discussions are great, and Professor Granara facilitates well, giving interesting lectures on historical context and literary themes common in Arabic literature.
If you want to learn about the writing talent that the Arab world currently produces, take this class.
Amazing class.  Granara is an experience!! He's an expert and you'll learn a lot about the Arab world and really gain insight.  Granara can get a little wordy, but don't be passive.  He was always available and always helpful
This class was AWESOME! Having no experience at all with literature, let alone comparative literature, I felt like I could really appreciate the texts and not have to worry about the study of literature and the words/concepts/themes that go with that. The books we read were mostly wonderful and so vivid. They really helped put us in touch with the culture of the Middle East and definitely with the ideas of journey and displacement.If you know Prof Granara, you know that he is an awesome professor. He was great in Arabic class and he definitely led a great class this time around in CL263.If you've never taken literature or anything in that realm before but you want to try it, as a scientist I would heavily encourage you to take this class as an 'in' to the literature world.
This class is a nice introduction to the major themes of Arabic literature and the intersection between politics and literature in the Arab world.
There may not be as much discussion as you would like, but the works you read are fascinating and will really broaden your literary scope.
I looked forward to Professor Granara's class every week! The selected books give a broad picture of the issues of journey, exile, and displacement that Arab authors are treating in their works today. The Professor does an excellent job situating each of these works in a larger historical and literary context, which is useful for students with little or no background in ME history. Lit crit and theory do not factor prominently into the readings, but Prof. Granara exposes students to them both in class and with a few selected readings to supplement the weekly book selection. The final assignment is a paper on a topic of the student's choosing, and Prof. Granara is very available for questions, comments, etc, outside of class.
If you are interested in modern Middle-Eastern Arabic literature, Granara is great to work with and the classes are relaxed and fun. It operates book group-style, esp in small numbers, with broad and creative engagement with the texts encouraged.
This course is a lot of fun - really interesting readings that I'd probably not have encountered elsewhere; moreover, this is one of the only courses on Arabic literature available, and pretty much the only one in translation. But the real reason I'd definitely recommend taking it is because it's awesome to work with Professor Granara, who is incredibly generous with his knowledge and time.
You will completely rethink the significance of movement, journeys, and their impact on the world.
this is a great low-stress course! professor granara is really great, very knowledgeable, funny, easy-going, and a good teacher with great insights. not too much work except the readings each week, and short weekly response papers.
Great course!
