A wonderful, wonderful reading list that will introduce you to the best thinkers and writers in theory. Professor Todd does a great job of orienting everyone to the texts (with an undertone of playful humor!) and has an excellent sense of how complex ideas fit together into a coherent if combative intellectual story. The presentation structure (1-2 students present on texts every day) means much of the discussion is student led and initiated, so if your classmates fall through on that day, you could miss the exegesis of your favorite text--that's unfortunate. But the ownership and knowledge you gain by doing your own presentation should make up for it, depending on how you feel about preparing it. Definitely a better course for self-starters who want to do serious reading and come in with questions that will drive the discussion in a way they prefer. Hanging along passively, while certainly possible, may leave you unsatisfied at the end, since you won't have a comprehensive survey of each reading in class. That you'll have to do on your own.
A course that covers many great texts, poses various fascinating questions and offers many tools for analyzing narrative.
Great readings, brilliant classmates. The professor is kind, rigorous, and entertaining. You won't waste your time if you enroll here. 

My one criticism is that I wish William Todd had made use of the blog feature on his isite. I suspect it could have made class discussions a lot more interesting. Every week we'd come to class and you'd have the same handful of people talking about the readings, plus whoever presented their oral report on the reading for the week. Everyone else would remain quiet. I think this is partly because the class time, even though it was two hours long, really only allowed for a few people to talk, and because it was pretty big for a seminar, some individuals were more shy. If there had been a weekly online blog post assignment, there would have been more opportunity for everyone to contribute to discourse about the texts and theories we examined.
This class has a great syllabus that was really helpful in refining my thoughts about and analysis of literature, and Professor Todd is incredibly articulate and has years of experience with the material. Sometimes the seminar discussions themselves were a little flat and slow and did not handle the material at the level I would have hoped, but Professor Todd always had something enlightening to say. If you've got the time for the rather ambitious syllabus and are interested in sharpening your theoretical knowledge of literature, definitely take it.
This is a strong introduction to a large body of important literary theory taught by a professor with a deep familiarity with every text and the larger theoretical contexts that surround them. The conference course format, with its insistence on weekly student presentations, can feel limiting, simply because it gives Prof. Todd less time to elucidate the texts. In the end, due to the few assignments and often overwhelming reading volumes, you probably won't exit this class with a subtle understanding of all the authors covered, but you will have a good foundation in some important and sometimes obscure theoretical texts that you can incorporate into later projects.
This is a really helpful class to have under your belt, but a little dry. Class discussion won't necessarily be very compelling--the value you derive from the course will depend on how much you're willing to grapple with the material on your own time.
