It would be better if they have some previous background on aesthetic philosophy.
It's an excellent course, the readings and discussions are fascinating (at least to the extent that they're comprehensible).
If you're interested in contemporary philosophy (mainly based on post-structuralism, but also most recent: object-orientated ontology, new materialism, and the like), aesthetics, and the question of implementation of theory into current political issues, this is perfect.
Fantastic reading list, fantastic discussions. If you're interested in critical theory or continental philosophy, Conley is the absolute best professor here to know.
The material is difficult but fascinating, and Verena takes you through it beautifully!
Very good syllabus, good discussions that help make the texts more accessible. Basically if you want to read these texts and understand them pretty well, take the course.
Literally the best course I've taken at Harvard.
Simply put, this was THE most interesting, challenging & exciting course I've taken at Harvard. The material covered is massively interesting and the professor, Verena Conley, really knows it inside & out. I've rarely had a teacher as adept and exciting as her. Also, the course covers issues that are very contemporary (some of the books read were only just published this year - one of them was published WHILE the class was in session!), so it is a rare class that truly deals with thought that is happening today, right now.
This course involves an excellent compilation of literature that is fascinating to explore. However, I would strongly recommend taking this class later on in college despite its having no prerequisites. I feel as if I would have gotten a lot more out of the class if I had taken it later.
Verena Andermatt-Conley is an engaging and enthusiastic lecturer with an excellent knowledge of the field and an ability to explain its finer points even to the totally uninitiated. I would whole-heartedly recommend this class.
This class is a great chance to catch up on some new thinkers and brush up on Deleuze, Nancy, Ranciere, etc. Response papers give the opportunity to engage more with individual thinkers.
Some students might feel a little awash in the wispiness of the content, and occasionally in Verena's approach to it, but it was overall a good experience and a really interesting set of readings.
This class gives a great overview of different critical theorists of aesthetics and politics. The reading is challenging and the discussions abstract, but both are crucial for anyone interested in the subject matter.
Take this course if you are looking for dense and challenging reading, but manageable assignments. The course is a great introduction to the theory of aesthetics and politics, particularly if you have a strong stance towards or want to learn more about the politics of Marxist and anti-Marxist aesthetics.
Speak up!
Take this course if you have an interest in the thinkers but haven't really gotten a chance to read them yet. Do not take this class if you want to delve deeper into one of them, you will get frustrated by the lack of discussion. This is more like a lecture course than a seminar.
This is not a course for everyone, and I think that if you have an inkling that this might be the course for you, the answer is that it is. However, even for those who are not already sold on the content, engaging with these thinkers is something relatively under-appreciated in the US, but nonetheless tremendously helpful in opening your thought into new directions.
The readings are wonderful, but the discussion is often stilted and difficult to get going.
It's an amazing class offering various perspectives on the intermingling of aesthetics and politics. The readings can be challenging, but each and every one of them may radically challenge/transform your views. And the fact that a lot of the readings are more or less contemporary makes the course all the more exciting!
