Be prepared to read an incredible selection of books that will deeply impact your thinking, under an instructor who meticulously delves into the most profound subject matter. It becomes obvious throughout the course that each text has been lovingly and carefully selected, so look forward to exploring the most perplexing and fascinating questions about the mind and memory and dreams.
If the description or intro class in any way captures your interest or seems refreshingly new to you, consider taking this class. Delia loves the material on the syllabus and it shows in her preparation, her feedback, and how much she cares about her students' input and engagement. The readings really are incredible, you're bound to read at least 1 thing that you'll want to buy a copy of and mark up and keep on your shelf to return to. The final paper is a rewarding opportunity to write about something you love while applying the themes of the course to your argument.
I would definitely recommend this course, both for the amazingly rich set of references it offers and for the invaluable personal support each student receives throughout the term. Besides the intellectual component, the course is great fun.
Make sure you do the readings, but Delia is a masterful professor and you can get whatever you want out of this class.
This class is AMAZING!!! The professor, Delia, is an incredible woman--she is kind, intelligent, compassionate, brilliant, inspiring (and beautiful!). I wish I could think of more adjectives to describe how great she is.  She puts SO much effort into teaching, and goes above and beyond what is asked of her. She responds in thousand word posts to our blogposts each week, and remembers everything we wrote about.  She really listens to what we have to say in class, and will stop her own train of thought just to hear what a student is thinking about.  Delia is like sunshine and she makes each week so lovely. Coming to class each week was fun and she generated so much enthusiasm.  Delia is by far the best professor I've had at Harvard -- if all professors at Harvard were like her this would be the best university in the world.  I feel so incredibly grateful to have had her in my sophomore year, it was a pure blessing.  This woman is spectacular, and this class is a delight.
Take any classes you can with Delia.  if you're mildly interested in the topic, Delia will make you fall in love with it.  She is a one of a kind professor-- no other instructors care as much as she does to get to know you and to help you improve.  She is brilliant and picks the most amazing texts you won't be exposed to in other contexts. Not only is the class fascinating (it will challenge all preconceived notions of dreams and dream-literature, which is awesome) but Delia is even more awesome.
It's a course that enables you to understand how dream functions, not only as an essential device in literature, but also as an indispensable mechanism in real life.
Take this if you want to broaden your understanding of literary analysis with great texts that you may or may not have read before. Prof Ungureanu is awesome! Best class I've taken at Harvard.
This class is incredible. I know Delia will be offering other courses next year, but this is a must take if you are interested in world literature. You certainly have to speak up in class and be prepared, but the class itself will be incredible - especially because she shared with us both syllabi for next year and asked for our feedback. Don't be intimidated by the readings (most are excerpts) and a lot of the real analytical work will be done in class. Seriously, she is incredible. This class was truly a diamond in the rough.
This course transcended any that I have taken, and changed the way I view life, both real and imagined, forever. Go in with an open mind, an appreciation for beauty, and a willingness to engage with all the material. Prof Ungureanu lives what she teaches and will inspire you to do the same.
Professor Ungureanu is the most committed professor I've ever taken a class with at Harvard. She cares so, so much about her students and material and puts in an unbelievable amount of effort into her classes, her assignments, her extra materials, etc. You know how most lit classes require some kind of weekly blog post/response paper that never is read or commented on by the professor? Delia would respond with consistent 800-1000 word (even going into the 2k range) responses to EACH BLOG POST EVERY WEEK. These advanced my knowledge of the material so much and made it seem like each seminar was twice as productive as a normal one since we were all so well-prepped on the material. Now, onto that material: dream literature is absolutely fascinating and the lenses/vocabulary you'll learn in this class are applicable to a shocking amount of what you'll read in other classes. I constantly found myself this semester referencing our primary material and theoretical sources in other classes when a text mentioned a dream or used a dream device. Professor Ungureanu crafts an incredible reading list and syllabus and has an unbelievably deep and broad knowledge of literature she uses to supplement that syllabus in class. I'm constantly astounded by her memory, erudition, and insight. In short, don't don't miss out on this class--for the material of course but even more importantly for the caring, thoughtful, and brilliant professor.
