Professor Ryan is wonderful- bring your own interests to the class!
This course is a great way to get exposed to a variety of theorists on intertextuality, influence, allusion, etc. If you don't have a lot of background in literary theory, you might want to ask for recommendations from Professor Ryan at the start about getting some background reading before the course really gets going - it will enrich your experience a great deal.
A really useful introduction to the theories of intertextuality. The reading list is heterogeneous and of varying interest.
Studying intertextuality is a valuable way to study so many other aspects of literature: canon formation, post-structuralism, imitation, literature in the context of other arts.  This class provides a solid exploration of important literary theory in the context of both familiar and new literary examples, under the always thoughtful, innovative, pleasant, and engaging guidance of Dr. Ryan.
Be ready to read a large amount of challenging theory texts. But the relevant literary works are fun, such as Milton's poems or Christa Wolf's Cassandra. This course provides a deep understanding of the leading poststructuralist theories as well.
An excellent course and interesting discussion, however the focus of the fictional/poetic readings was not too wide-ranging.
The professor is brilliant, of course - but to me the most surprising thing was how willing she is to meet with you and work with you on whatever you needed individually.I took this course as an undergraduate majoring in physics, and I foresaw some difficulties because of a lack of experience writing seminar papers and doing the same readings that other members of the class were accustomed to, but the professor was incredibly kind and generous with her time and it was not a struggle at all to find necessary resources.
The class involves quite a lot of reading, both literary and critical texts. The literary texts involve show a strong bias towards the 19th and 20th century, English and German - if these aren't your areas of interests, they can quickly become tiring.
