This is a completely unique opportunity at Harvard to hear firsthand about the history of molecular biology from one of the people who was there and participated at the most fundamental levels in figuring out the secret of life. For anyone who is interested in modern biology and its history, this is one of the great classes on earth.
The best class I have taken at Harvard. This is what every class should be like. It is a great survey of the history of cell biology, genetics and evolutionary biology; you definitely learn a lot. The readings are all classic papers in biology that every aspiring biologist really should read. We read the originals, which already makes this a very rewarding learning experience, and on top of that, we discuss the papers in class which greatly enhances our understanding. Professors Meselson and Mallet are always very clear in class, not using any unnecessary jargon or formalisms, as frequently happens in other biology courses. The teaching staff is very caring and always available to help. They really make an effort to get to know us and give us specialized attention. Professor Meselson's first-hand tales of many of the important players in biology are invaluable; his experience with many crucial events in biology is something that no one else can offer, and it makes the class even more unique. There is even a series of "pub nights" throughout the semester to talk about biology and related topics. But most importantly, the atmosphere of the class is just great. It emphasize's learning for learning's sake, which should be an ideal for all Harvard classes. We study fundamental questions in biology because they are interesting, and fun to think about. Science should be fun, not a chore. I would definitely recommend everyone with even a passing interest in biology to take this class. It could possibly be even the best introduction to biology at Harvard.
Unique experience. Awesome teaching staff. So worth it if you really care about science!
If you are interested in either the history of science or biology itself, I enthusiastically recommend you take this class.  By going through the primary literature, you really come to understand major discoveries in their pure, unfiltered form and to appreciate what steps made those discoveries possible.  Often an earlier observation in something seemingly tangential was important in opening the way forward  its remarkable to truly see exactly how interconnected everything is.  Professors Mallet and Meselson are outstanding instructors who are amazingly friendly and great at explaining things simply and clearly.
