This is such a great class. Shiv Pillai is an enthusiastic lecturer and the material is so clear. Requires little work per week but you still leave the class learning so much.
By far the best science class I've taken at Harvard (as a senior pre-med, Neurobio concentrator). The teaching is phenomenal - both Shiv and the TFs are excellent, and they know how to communicate concepts well/anticipate student questions. The class is well-structured, with assignments/exams clearly matching lecture material (something that is sometimes rare in science classes, it seems). I enjoyed coming to class every morning and felt like I had learned a huge amount of material by the end of the relatively laid-back course. Can't recommend this class enough, as it was excellent in virtually all aspects.
fantastic course, Shiv is the best lecturer I've had in my undergraduate studies so far. Even though class notes are very comprehensive, I attended every lecture just because it was so fun. I loved the guest speakers who were invited to discuss their own research and how it relates to what we're learning in class.
Very good course, awesome lectures! There is a lot of material and not a lot of assignments, so there's an awkward grade spread. But if you want to learn about immunology, take it!
This course was great! It's definitely more focused on specifics (e.g. particular genes/proteins) than a lot of other classes, but at the same time, you leave feeling like you have a pretty good grasp of how the immune system actually works.  Definitely one of my favorite classes at Harvard.
Shiv is the best, and the lectures are great!
it's a great class with an amazing professor who makes the subject matter really interesting and clear to follow!
This course gives the students a wonderful and well organized introduction to the main and seminal comments in Immunology. Not only is the material engaging but it is delivered in a unique and easily comprehended manor. Yet, it is the teaching in this course that makes it shine - I would say this is one of the best biology courses I have taken in my education thus far.
If you have even the most fleeting interest in immunology, take this course! Professor Pillai is an absolutely fantastic lecturer. Immunology is an interesting subject, and Professor Pillai presents the material so clearly that I can't imagine not having a positive experience in this class.
I wouldn't take this class unless you are an upperclassman in MCB, or have at least had extensive experience in molecular biology. It is very challenging! Also, beware of medical school students commandeering the course and making it a lot harder than it needs to be. Just be proactive about learning the material and reviewing the lecture notes after class. Shiv makes all the work worth it-- he is an incredible lecturer who knows everything under the sun about not only immunology, but history, literature, mythology, music, and anything else you can think of. Be prepared to put a lot of work into this course, but the knowledge you will take away will be worth it.
Prof. Pillai is amazing.
Read the recommended book, but be VERY wary of diving too far into details. This may cause you to lose points on exams rather than gain them, as focus will deviate from the key words sought.
Dr. Pillai is a great professor that loves to tell anecdotes about the material being thought. It really makes the material and lectures interesting. Also, if you're thinking about immunology as a research field, this is the class to take.
Shiv is one of the best lecturers you will hear at Harvard (his lymphocyte rap is apparently on YouTube, look it up). He generates genuine enthusiasm for the material, and you will not want to miss a single class. The teaching staff is also a huge help, and they're encouraging and accessible. While this can be intimidating because of the number of grad students and med students (and sometimes people who already have their MD) either taking or auditing the class, it's doable. Just know exactly how they're going to grade on the midterm (name all your buzzwords) so you don't get a surprise when you're deducted little points for not naming specific things.
This class is very well organized, and enjoyable at the same time. I will definitely recommend it to others.
The material is fascinating, and Professor Pillai is excellent. There are no weekly problem sets, but review on your own every week so that you don't get behind!
Best course I have taken in the sciences.  Amazing balance of challenging material with incredibly supportive teaching staff that make the experience feasible.  I loved this course so much.
Review early and often; this type of material needs repetition
This awesome course run by one of the best immunologists in the field, is a totally different experience than any other course you may have been in.
I would recommend that you study a lot for this course, esp. if you haven't studied the immune system before.  The grad students and doctors make asking questions intimidating at times because they try to come off as knowing everything...  The grad students take all the As unfortunately.
Although the TFs for this year were slightly disorganized, this is an amazing class with an amazing lecturer. Shiv is one of the most interesting and intelligent people I've ever met. #liveforshiv
Have a good background of your basic biochemistry and molecular biology.
Cover a lot very quickly, so it's super important to not fall behind.  Read the textbook and constantly review the material.  Memorization is key but it isn't enough.
It's a fun way of learning Immunology, defiantly enjoyed it :)
Shiv is a wonderful lecturer and very helpful in helping you grasp the basics of immunology at various levels! A very interesting subject taught in a well-versed, and cohesive manner.
This course was one of the best courses that I've ever taken. It was enjoyable to attend and it was highly informative.
Better than immunology 201!
I strongly recommend taking this course to students whom are beliving that immunology is so complicated. Because I'm sure they will be in love with IMMUNOLOGY for the reason of being  taught by amazing professor "Shiv Pillai"  who make immunology so simple and conceptual as well as enjoyable with his chalkboard drawing and unforgettable immunology poems.
Definitely recommend this course for students interested in immunology.
Despite some frustrating course materials and TFs that (while they are all really nice and deliver good reviews in section) seem out of touch with undergraduates, the lecture of this class is so exciting. Shiv and the guest lecturers are all phenomenal, and it is a real experience. It's one of the only courses at Harvard offered in immunology for undergraduates, and I would recommend it to anyone who is interested in immunology at all.
If you like immunology, don't pass it up. Shiv is a wonderful lecturer, and the TFs are excellent (I had Nick, but the others seemed great too).
This course provides a good fundamental understanding of the pathways and cellular biology of immune responses. Dr. Pillai is great at presenting the course information, and the material is not excessively difficult or time consuming outside of class. Would highly recommend this course to future students!
Shiv is one of the best lecturers I have had at Harvard. He makes difficult topics very understandable and he is a dynamic and engaging lecturer. His poems are also excellent. Take this course! The sections were also super helpful. Be aware of the limited number of assignments in your grade though. Also, sometimes the course can be organizationally slow, but these are minor points. I love immunology after taking this!
If you are willing to work and think hard, this will be one of the most rewarding classes you can take here.
If you're interested in the subject and willing to work hard and ultimately don't care if your gpa drops by a point, you should definitely take the class.
Difficult, but worth it for the teaching quality alone.
This class is really intense, but really interesting.  Make sure you take advantage of the lecture summaries and all the questions that they provide you.
Take this class so long as Hidde is still teaching it.
Only take this course if you are so excited about immunology that you would be willing to, without compulsion or regret, you would be willing to read the entire textbook in the two days before shopping period. (Coincidentally, this also serves as adequate preparation, since this course seems to be taught at the "refresher" level and paces itself as intensively as if you had already seen the material.) If you don't love the subject this intensely, you will still get a lot out of the class, but it will be rather painful.
If one has any interest at all in immunology or medicine -- or simply wants to see science teaching at its best -- they cannot afford to miss this class.
It is a challenging, but rewarding class that made me fall in love with the field of immunology.
Be prepared to work extremely hard, and be left to your own devices.
Hidde is a fantastic lecturer.  The tests are frustrating because the all of the TF's are trying to out-clever each other instead of testing your knowledge of the material.
If you are interested in immunology and you want a challenge, take this class.
it's wonderful, interesting, challenging. you'll learn a lot. very well taught.
The lectures are good, and the material is very interesting.  I learned a lot, but the class is taught at too low of a level.  There is a lot of emphasis on memorization as opposed to understanding.  The tests are completely unfair and test how well you memorize as opposed to how well you understand.  The TFs are unwilling to correct mistakes that they make.  The tests are too long and not well proofread.
Only take it if you're genuinely interested in Immunology, but if you are, this is a fabulous course.
be prepared to work really hard.  you may feel like you understand it after lecture everyday but the exams are MAD HARD.
if you're willing to work, you'll learn a lot
This class is definitely worth taking if you're up for a challenge.  You will definitely finish this course knowing that you've learned something useful and applicable.  This is a great course for pre-meds.
Study and know the papers covered in section very well
only those willing to work hard, and interested in immunology should take this course.
amazing course in terms of content and professor's scope of knowledge, but not for the faint of heart. keeping up with the professor during lectures is a particularly harrowing experience. exams require a lot of preparation and an extremely organized mind, given how little supplementary help is provided in the infrastructure of the course
It's a difficult class, but it covers all the basics of immunology and is not altogether unpleasant.
If you have any interest in cellular biology (not just immunology), this will be one of the best courses you will take at Harvard.  It is intellectually challenging but extremely well taught and rewarding.
This class is difficult but once gone through it, you have such a better understanding of the immunology.
prerequisite biology classes are important
It is a fast-paced, difficult course, but the material is very interesting and Professor Ploegh is a fantastic lecturer.
Enjoyment of this class may correlate with enjoyment of MCB54: Cellular Biology (minus the lab component).  A lot of detailed material to learn for exams.  This class is well-taught.  The prof and TFs really want you to learn immunology well.
This class will kick your ass.  It will not fight fair.  It will sneak up on you in an alley with a baseball bat.  It will hit below the belt.  That said, it is one of the most fascinating classes I have ever taken, and I am now considering pursuing work in the field.  I am extremely glad that I took the class.  Just be prepared for the worst grades of your academic career.
Very good if you are interested in material and will work hard.
The class itself is terrific, but the graded assignments (all tests) do not represent your understanding of the class.  You will get a lot out of the class, but that might not show in your grade.
MCB 169 presents a summary of what we know about immunology today.  It is somewhat disorganized but does give a successful overview of the field.  It is challenging.
great course but very challenging
This class is taught well and discusses a fascinating topic, but one needs to be willing to devote a great deal of time to the class and needs to work extremely hard in order to feel satisfied with a job well done.
This is an amazing class! Professor Pillai presents a huge amount of information in a manageable, easy-to-understand way. He is also really approachable and funny, and at the end of each lecture summarizes that day's material with a rhyming poem. Though this class covers a ton of information and the midterm and final require a LOT of studying, the weekly workload is extremely low. If you have any interest in immunology, take this class!
This is a very enriching but also incredibly demanding course. A lot of weight is placed on the final exam (this year it was 65%). Shiv is an amazing lecturer, you will love him, but make sure you stay alert in class or you'll be lost very quickly.
This is classes is one of my favorite that I've taken at Harvard so far. Not only is immunology vastly important, but there's really no other way to get exposure to it in undergrad outside of this class - and it opens up a whole new world in my mind that I wasn't fully aware of before. Shiv is hands down the best lecturer I have ever had in any class - lecturing without slides (most of the time) makes you really pay attention to the material, especially when he presents it in such an engaging way. If you're planning on pursuing medically related research or a medical career including research, this is a class you must take.
Fantastic class!  You will learn so much!  The professor is amazing: he explains everything very clearly and has this cute tradition of starting each lecture with a story and ending with a poem he writes himself about the material.  The material is complex and will require substantial memorization, but lectures/section make it both fun and relatively simple.
This class is amazing if you like immunology but it is essentially an undergrad med school class in that you are there to learn immunology, not to design experiments or discuss theories, so that means lots of pathways and cell types. Shiv is an amazing lecturer - his chalk talks are fantastic. Exams are tough but fair. You need to know your stuff but if you studied you'll do well.
This is an absolutely awesome course, arguably the best MCB course I have taken at Harvard. Shiv is an amazing professor who is very good at teaching immunology to keep your attention and so that everything makes sense easily. The teaching staff is always ready to help with understanding any concepts or reviewing the material. Aside from being taught very well, also take this course regardless of what field of biology you are interested in because immunology is a fascinating biological system and plays a role in many different fields.
Good class to get a good background in immunology. Lectures are helpful, Sections are very useful, and book is a good resource for more detailed explanations if they are desired (though not required for understanding in the course).
I learned more in this class than any other class I have taken at Harvard.  That's partly because immunology was something I knew little about before taking this class, but it's also because Shiv is a truly outstanding lecturer.  I loved his personality in addition to his lecturing style.  Day to day, there's not much work for this class, but exams cover a huge volume of material in detail.  Knowing the material backward and forward is a bare minimum for the final, but even then it's a challenging test. Take it! I'd recommend it to anyone!
A wonderful course! There's a lot of material to cover and you have to be diligent about keeping up on your own time, but it's worth it. Not only is the subject material intriguing and central to so much of modern medicine, but the teaching staff is top-notch. The TFs are passionate about the subject, approachable, and helpful, and Professor Pillai is a fantastic and engaging lecturer--watch one of his legendary performances, and you'll begin to get an idea. Take the course, and you'll get the experience of a lifetime.
Shiv is incredible at teaching this challenging material. He makes it interesting and fun, and teaches it in a way that makes it understandable. It is difficult, and graded almost exclusively on the midterm and final, but the TFs are always willing to answer questions.
This is an excellent biology class! If you are at all interested in health related research in the future or drug development, take this class! Prof Shiv is a great teacher and the TFs are fantastic. I learned a ton in this class and all things that I think I will be able to apply later in my career. I actually am chemsitry and decided to take this as an elective when I saw it was so highly rated. I highly recommend anyone interested in health research to take this class! That being said, it is a lot of material so if you are looking for a light class, this is not the class for you.
It is a very fun and interesting class if you like immunology. Shiv makes it entertaining and is a very clear lecturer. Make sure you stay on top of the material because there is A LOT of it and you will drown if you try to study the two days before an exam. If you spread it out and make sure you review lectures (they post typed reviews for every lecture) you will do well.
No mistake, this class is hard and heavy on memorization, but so many people take it year after year and love it because Shiv is a wonderful lecturer and the course has a pretty good support system with all the TF generated class notes, sections...etc. I'm not sure why there isn't office hours (or at least why it isn't better advertised), but those would have been helpful. It's not stressful until exams, but the exams are fair and as long as you don't start studying the night before, you should be able to retain enough. The questions are no joke though. It's very much recall based (and not recognition based) so if you really just don't remember what this particular 3 letter protein was for, you're kind of boned on some questions.
Not much work. Lots of fun. Totally worth it for the stories and poems and wonderful TFs. There's no exact grade breakdown but rumor has it the final exam is worth a lot.
Absolutely take this course. It was my favorite one this semester. Even though there were quite literally zero assignments (except the preparatory notes for section), I found myself happily rewriting notes from class. I came out of the final season with a packet of 30-something amazing notes on immunology that I will keep for a long time. No other class in Harvard has generated such enthusiasm for the material. However, be warned...it is quite difficult (not necessarily the material, which I think is comparable to MCB 52/54, but the fact that the final exam is weighted like crazy, over half of your overall grade, if you mess it up you've messed up your grade in class). I definitely think improvements can be made for the grading scheme, and problem sets would have definitely helped. Shiv is a tremendous lecturer and knows everybody's name by the end of the first month. He is such a good teacher and I am happy to have taken this class.
It's better than MIT's immunology class!
Take this class if you are on the fence about medical school. I was, and it really opened my eyes to the links between biology and physiology.
This course is fantastic in pretty much every way. While the material is certainly challenging, it is very manageable and the course staff were incredible. Shiv is one of the very best lecturers I've ever had -- don't miss this course.
This is the best class ever. shiv is awesome and he recites poems at the end of each class to help you better understand that day's topic. he also only teaches what is relevant to the class. Take this class because immunology is the best thing ever!!
It is a lot of memorization -- for me, it was difficult to learn all the acronyms and names of proteins/adaptor molecules/receptors/etc and it took a lot of time to go over these concepts. Otherwise, the material was clear and understandable if you were willing to invest time to review lecture notes.
If you take this class, treat it like a med school course and do a lot of studying and learning on your own, so you don't have to cram for the final. You only have 2 shots to get a good grade, the midterm and final, so don't waste them.
having very little biology background, I found this class very difficult.  do not fall behind.  shiv is awesome, though, and will do his best to help you learn the material
If you have any interest in immunology, I highly recommend this course. It covers every level from genes to cells to human disease. There is also an emphasis on where our knowledge of immunology comes from and how it is studied today. The assignments are minimal, but you will get a lot out of this course if you put in the effort to learn the material. Also, the course staff are really fantastic and make it fun to come to class every day.
This class is hard, be prepared to work. However, it is extremely rewarding even if you are not a premed.
This course requires little work throughout the semester, but a lot of preparation before exams. Learning all of the material is difficult, but completely worth it if you are interested in immunology or diseases. Shiv is a great lecturer and you will definitely learn a lot!
You're mostly responsible for learning the material on your own... and it's very difficult, though interesting
This class is amazing. Shiv is amazing. It's a lot of memorization but if you have any interest in immunology, take this course.
The class is probably the most difficult MCB class I've taken, but it's also really interesting. Professor Pillai is AWESOME and even raps at the end of each lecture. The book is actually pretty useful, so I'd recommend purchasing it.
This class is awesome! Prof. Shiv is a great teacher and great rapper! You get to read current research paper on immunology weekly in section. The working load is moderate and the course materials are interesting!
I think this course is straightforward. It starts off and progresses in a very logical way. As time goes on, concepts will start to coalesce such that you can relate one idea to another. Shiv Pillai is a great lecturer. He is very knowledgeable and approachable. He also ends each class with a poem, which is really something to look forward to. The stories he tells, which give the history of immunology, make this class worthwhile and entertaining. Toward the midterm and final, you will have to memorize a lot, but this can be done if you make a list of terms you think will be important, and then make flashcards (or use the method you like best). If you don't have difficulty memorizing terms and ideas, this class will not be difficult for you. I highly recommend it. Good luck, and enjoy the learning!
It's a great introductory course to immunology, and if you like immunology and/or more traditional type classes, you'll love it. But if you're not sure, or you like more application-based classes, the topic may seem a bit dry. The course is run very well, and Shiv is an amazing lecturer. The sections are helpful and I enjoyed discussing the weekly selected papers. However, more practice for exams could have been helpful.
Pre-meds should take it. If you want to be a doctor, you have to know immunology...
Great lectures. Shiv knows his stuff forward and back. He will learn your name. Make sure you get to know him well too!
Only take if you're a pre-med or very interested in immunological research at the cellular level. Basically the course involves memorizing a lot of cell types and signaling molecules... it is conceptually shallow.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard, non-science or otherwise! Shiv gives absolutely incredible lectures. I had no concept of what immunology was before, but now I am absolutely fascinated and in love with the subject. It is a difficult course with a lot of detail, but if you keep up with it by reviewing the material on your own, then it is absolutely manageable. I really, really would recommend this class!!!
If you want to learn immunology- that's the course!
This class is AMAZING. Shiv's poems are SO MUCH FUN, and the class is so worth taking. Best class I've taken at Harvard, just make sure to stay on top of all the info (it's a lot!)
TAKE THIS CLASS. It's the best science class I've taken at Harvard. Prof. Pillai is awesome, really approachable and entertaining. He'll finish all of his lectures with an awesome poem related to the topics discussed in class. It's a lot of work but you won't regret it.
You will walk away with an amazing understanding of immunology after this course. Shiv Pillai is an amazing instructor that explains things very clearly. He gives chalk talks instead of power points so you are really learning the fundamentals here, and they stay with you for a long time. While there aren't really weekly assignments, this course takes a significant amount of outside preparation. There is a TON of memorization required, and it is also application based. The tests are fairly difficult but if you study systematically and review things as you go (I would suggest making flashcards of the important concepts after each lecture and keeping up) then you should be fine for the exams.
Lots of material, but a great course
Keep up with the material each week, don't let it slide for a period of time.
THe course material is super interesting and Shiv is a wonderful lecturer. The rest of the course (homework, tests) are more unpredictable
This is an EXCELLENT course. I think it's very easy to go through your four years here choosing classes where you don't really learn a lot. This is one of the few courses I've finished and been able to say to myself, "I've ACTUALLY learned an incredible amount over the course of this semester." It's very intellectually engaging and satisfying. Lectures are great, informative, well explained, and not too long. The textbook is EXCELLENT and I would very strongly recommend keeping up with the readings if you choose to take the course. Section is admittedly less useful, but the TFs do a good job answering or trying to find answers to your questions. However, this is also one of the more challenging biology classes out there. If you're not willing to put in the time to actually sit down, read the text, review the lectures, memorize the many proteins and cytokines, and generally keep up with the material, you will absolutely do poorly and you will absolutely be miserable. Make sure you have the time to commit if you want to take this course. If you do, however, it'll be a highlight of your coursework here.
Study hard. There are many, many details in this course, but Shiv does an incredible job teaching what is otherwise really challenging and overwhelming material. Lectures are incredible, though section can feel less useful.
It's very challenging. Even if you learn all of the material, the exams are still very challenging and tricky. Be sure to review weekly, or else there will be too much information, and big picture synthesis, to do at the end.
You aren't required to do much work during the semester, so be sure to study a lot for the final exam - it requires a ton of memorization. Otherwise, amazing course!
Dr. Pillai is a great lecturer and this course provides an important foundation for understanding immunology.  Immunology can be applied to diverse fields in science, from understanding oncology to understanding how we fight pathogens in day to day life, and knowledge of immunology is crucial for anyone who wants to appreciate how the human body works.  I highly recommend this course to all science majors and people with an interest in human biology.
This course has a lot of acronyms and letters!  The sheer volume of information can be very overwhelming.  Although there isn't much busywork on a week to week basis, this is by no means an easy class.
Everyone who has the opportunity to take this course should take it without hesitation. Shiv is an amazing professor who teaches with great enthusiasm and actually tries to get to know the students. His songs and poetry are infamous and the course is really an outstanding introduction to immunology; it flows logically from beginning to end and never gets super-specific on any one topic.
TAKE THIS CLASS.
This is a great course!  The material is interesting and very useful.  The professor is amazing and very accessible.  However, it is not an easy course.  You need to memorize a lot of protein names and cell pathways.  If you're interested in immunity though it is worth taking.
Class is very interesting.  Professor Pillai is great.  He loves teaching undergrads and puts in a lot of effort.  Unfortunately, the class assessments place too much emphasis on memorizing facts (especially obscure acronyms) over problem solving or understanding fundamental concepts.
If you are interested in learning Immunology, then definitely take this course! Professor Pillai and the teaching fellows are very knowledgeable and passionate about the material. If you are willing to put in the time, you will learn a great deal from this course. A lot of the concepts covered in this course are applicable to other branches of biology, medicine, science in general and even social sciences, so it's a good general background course to have.
So many courses are taught by professors who have an over reliance of heavily detailed powerpoints.  Shiv teaches with an excellent 'old-fashioned' method where the professor has to have a skill to tell a story.  A combination of this, boardwork, and a very clear break-down of ideas makes for an excellent class.
Great class.  Professor Pillai is a phenomenal teacher who makes the lectures interesting and entertaining.
The class is tough but Shiv is amazing, so it's worth it!
It's great material and well-taught too. I mean, graduate students would rather take this class than their own. But if you care about your GPA or free time take it pass/fail. Your grade will likely not correspond to the massive amounts of immunology you learn.
It is hard. Very, very hard. Lots of memorization involved. However, I understand everything because Shiv is simply the best lecturer I've had in my 3.5 years at Harvard, even if he didn't recite self-written poetry at the end of every class.
This was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. The class is a perfect size (~50 students) and wonderfully taught. Shiv knows everyone by name. He strikes the perfect balance of comedian and professor. I learned a great deal about immunology and feel very prepared for what will come in medical school. The TFs were amazing. The material helped me to really become familiar with certain diseases and how they are manifested.
MCB 169 is not an easy class-it requires staying on top of the material and lots of memorization and integration of topics. However, it is an incredibly rewarding class. At the end, I felt I really walked away with a better understanding of immunology.
Take all the foundational life sciences courses before you take this course. Shiv and his poems are worth it, though.
So much material! However, it is a very good introduction to immunology. I was hooked.
Prepare to work hard and enjoy doing so.
This is a fantastic course but is very hard if you are not a mcb concentrator. Everyone will know more than you and you will have to work alot harder to reach any comprable standard.
difficult, but interesting material. professor is great and so is the head tf!
This course is manageable, but you have to constantly review the material or else you will forget the details come exam time. There are no problem sets to help you review, so you are all on your own. Form up study groups, and set yourself a schedule. Having had previous interactions with the immune system will be a plus (and I don't mean having had the flu). Study steadily and you will succeed.
It's a great class.  A lot of work, but Prof. Pillai is one of the best you'll have at Harvard.
Keep up with the studying. The course has more memorization than any class I have taken at Harvard.
A great and very interesting class. There is a good deal to memorize, but it is far from overwhelming and the workload is light.
The best classe I have taken at harvard. Shiv is an awesome lecturer and the material is really interesting. The class is difficult but the work is managable (only 1 midterm + final and couple psets)
This is an interesting and fun course, but it is difficult and full of information, so only take if you are willing and able to put in the time
Immunology is a great course.  Professor Pillai has a charming way of introducing concepts with interesting cases and stories, and closing lectures with his own rhyming poems that summarize the material.  The biology is all very important, and the TFs do a great job of elaborating on and tying together the copious amounts of material during section.  There is a lot of material to memorize in this class, but it's worth it.  I enjoyed coming to class and section, I learned a huge amount, and I got inspired to possibly do research in immunology in the future.
Shiv makes immunology fun and engaging, with stories about how immunology came to be and about the scientific characters along the way.  The teaching staff is very helpful and knowledgeable. You leave the class very happy with the amount that you learned and how it may be relevant to medical school, for example.
An incredible course. Professor Pillai is awesome (he recites self-authored poetry at the end of every lecture!), amazingly informed and knowledgeable, understanding, and a great instructor. The material is some of the best I've ever had, and the class really develops a love and interest in immunology.
Fascinating course, great professor, interesting material.
MCB 169 is an amazing course if you love biology, medicine, and/or their intersection. You'll learn a ton, and all of a sudden you'll see how basic biological principles will have profound impacts on the human body's ability to respond to pathogens. Professor Pillai is amazing -- especially his poems -- and the teaching staff is really helpful to get you through that mountain of new material you'll have to learn. In the end it's all worth it.
If you don't keep up, you'll get buried underneath a veritable tsunami of information (many many cells you've never heard of and their accessory molecules). The lectures are great, section's really helpful, and the material is fascinating. Plus there are no weekly psets.
The students of MCB 169 have truly been blessed by the lectures of Prof. Shiv Pillai and his phenomenal teaching staff. He has the most delightful sense of humor, and engages his students w/ thoughtful conversations and questions. Take the class!
Be sure to not fall behind. Always review weekly even if there aren't any psets.
Great course.  Take it.  It is useful for all aspects and careers in biology fields.
Take it!  MCB169 will give you an incredible understanding of the "big picture" in immunology from an experimental and molecular perspective.  Lectures are very clear and a pleasure - with poetry!  There's a fair amount of detail in the course (it's not easy!), but it's manageable and the professor does a good job of excluding details that don't actually contribute to understanding the important points of the course.  Sections are very helpful for honing one's ability to read and understand science.  The teaching staff is incredibly dedicated, and the professor is absolutely incredible.  This course will solidify your understanding of genetics and cell biology.To do well in this course, I would recommend attending every lecture (and investing in a nice set of colored pens).  The textbook is a reference (rather than a source), but the TF notes are invaluable.  Draw everything out, interrogate it, and ask questions about anything that's unclear.  Start preparing for exams early.  Take advantage of some of the best TFs you'll ever encounter.Next year, I'm almost certain the papers discussed in section will be more modern, and there will be more problem sets.
This class will put hair on your chest. It is very interesting, too. TAKE IT.
This course is not a piece of cake, but it is a fascinating subject and a great way to fill an advanced MCB requirement. If you put in the work, you will get a lot out of the course. For prospective MDs and/or PhDs, taking this course will give you a very good and rather detailed background that will be useful later.
Professor is very good, moderate workload, no required textbook, section readings can be difficult.
This is a tough class, but going through it, you learn so much. And the professor is someone you would really want to get to know.
This is one of the most challenging and rewarding classes you can find at Harvard. Immunology is a field that gets progressively more interesting as you learn more about it. The faculty involved in teaching MCB 169 are some of the best . I feel extremely fortunate for this introduction to a field that really captured my interest.
Lecture is so important so never miss it for real! The readings are interesting and section is much better if you're actively participating.
This is the most exciting MCB course I have taken. Professor Pillai is one of the best lecturers and nicest people you'll ever meet (and he reads you poetry at the end of every lecture). Be ready to memorize lots of molecule names and pathways - but it's useful, interesting, and relevant. Professor Pillai also brings a lot of clinical insights into the class. The biggest complaint from this year was that there weren't any new, cutting-edge articles in the readings -they serve more to reinforce the basic concepts. I think it speaks to the class that we leave hungry to seek out more advanced topics in immunology.
The course is fascinating, but requires a lot of work. The work is worth it if you have a genuine interest in immunology.
It's really interesting, you will learn a lot!
Be prepared for some fascinating molecular and cellular biology!
Read a very bare summary of the entire big-picture process before you start the course.  Also, familiarize yourself with all the WBC types.  It will be very helpful for putting each lecture into context.
When things come together, it feels really good to understand the big picture. Don't wait too long to figure out that big picture though. If you're not putting in consistent time throughout the course, there's simply too much material and it's too hard to figure out last-minute.
This class if difficult, but worth it.
Hidde Ploegh gives the most amazing lectures you may ever see in your undergraduate and graduate careers. It provides a great overview of the field and is appropriate both for undergraduates and graduate students. I highly recommend this class.
To succeed in this course, you must be willing to work.  That said, it is incredibly well taught, and worthwhile if you put the time into it.  The lectures and material are interesting and the sections are engaging.  I could not have asked for more.
Be prepared for a challenging but extremely interesting and well-taught class.
This class gives a fantastic background to the field of Immunology, and leaves you with an overall picture of how the immune system works. Lectures are great, but very fast-paced. Discussion sections are very useful and help students learn how to approach the primary literature, which can be confusing for beginners. The exams are very difficult, but the information gained is worth the stress.
Take it if you really really like Immunology...and if you like a challenge. And are ready to be dominated by a class.
Its a very tough and challenging course, but one of the best and most interesting courses I've taken at Harvard.
Study.
Hidde is one of the best lecturers I've ever had. He loves to teach and it shows through his enthusiastic teaching.
This class is a great and exciting introduction to immunology, but doing the significant workload is much easier if you're very interested in the subject matter.
Assuming Harvard gets over its silly bureaucratic rules and lets Prof. Ploegh teach it again: you should absolutely take it if you are even remotely interested in the material. Prof. Ploegh is outstanding, and the material is very relevant and interesting.
Well taught, very rewarding, but a lot of details memorization required.
Immunology is a fascinating topic, and Shiv makes it fun through his notorious rhymes.  The course is great in that it combines lectures with papers, so you have the standard introductory science class combined with the rigors of a journal club.  It is, however, a lot of material, and it is not necessarily presented in a logical manner, so it's up to you to make sure you're on top of everything and to ask the right questions.
The material in the class is very interesting, but be prepared to be both frustrated and confused.  Frustrated because the current knowledge is incomplete (unavoidable), and confused because the course is pretty disorganized (avoidable, and hopefully this will be improved).
Graduate students should take the graduate immunology course, rather than this one.
Immunology is extraordinarily interesting, and Professor Pillai is one of the best professors that I have had the pleasure to meet at Harvard.  He really cares about his students, and I will really miss his lectures.  I can't give it a higher recommendation.  Please take this class!
Shiv is the bomb! This class is hard, but super interesting, and it will make everyone want to be a doctor and understand the pathologies that inflict so many of us.
A great class, if you are motivated enough to attend all lectures, do all the readings, and review concepts on your own.
Difficult but really rewarding!
I would tell them to expect to do a lot of memorization.
This class is one of the most difficult, but also the best, class I have taken at Harvard. Dr. Pillai is an incredible lecturer, extremely clear and well-spoken, and also absolutely hilarious. If you can tolerate memorizing a fair amount of proteins, and can devote some time to reading the textbook (which is one of the best I've ever used), you'll enjoy this class a lot.
The course involves a lot of rote memorization. It generally isn't a lot of work, but preparing for exams requires a good deal of effort in order to fully synthesize all the raw material with core concepts.
Immunology is biology at its best, keeping you alive at every instant. If you want to learn about a fascinating topic in biology, understand both the fundamentals and current advances in the field, and also see the human impact the field has, this course is for you.
If you are thinking seriously about pursuing immunology, it's an AWESOME class. The professor is amazing, as are the TFs.If you're not very interested in immunology, I do not recommend it. Not because it's not a well-done class- it is in fact awesome as an immunology course. However, the material means that there are a lot details and molecular pathways to memorize. If you don't plan on pursuing the field (and presuming you don't have a photographic memory that makes this a non-issue), the alphabet soup will get to be a drag. You'll find it hard to pay attention or force yourself to memorize the stuff before the exams.
I really really enjoyed this course, and all of the information presented was extremely interesting.
It's really a great survey on immunology.
TAKE IT! You will learn so much.
Definitely take this class if you think you are even remotely interested in immunology. It's a lot of work but is really rewarding, and the teaching staff is unparalleled. It's definitely the BEST taught class I've had at Harvard.
The class is a decent amount of work because of the quantity of information more than its difficulty. Nevertheless, one comes away with a comprehensive introduction to cellular and molecular immunology, which should be of interest to any biologist today.
This is a great course. Lectures never failed to peak my curiosity and I found Shiv to be very engaging and funny. I would only suggest taking it if you're interested in a molecular and cellular approach to immunology. If you're not interested in approaching immunology from this angle, then you might get bogged down and irritated by detail. But, if you do find this sort of biology intriguing, by all means, sign up!
Wouldnt hesitate to recommend this course. As an introductory immunology class, it goes above and beyond in a good way!!
The material is interesting and Shiv makes the lectures a lot of fun... However, be warned - there are very few grades in this class, a lot of material and not too many resources to practice for the midterm/final so that can be a bit tricky...
covers core of immunology
Super great class, amazing instructor, very interesting material. Make sure to reread lecture notes, because lectures do go pretty fast and you usually miss stuff (and exam grades are a very sizable portion of your final grade)
Pillai is the best lecturer you will have at Harvard! He is truly gifted in delivering information while engaging his audience. The material can become overwhelming if you don't review weekly. Otherwise, the material is very straightforward and workload is very low. That being said, you should only take this course if you're seriously interested in biology or medical school, as some material can be quite esoteric.
Take this course if you want a good introduction to immunology and haven't been exposed to it in much detail.
I really liked this class and thought the topic was so interesting. Professor Pillai is the best lecturer I've had at Harvard. He started every class with a relevant story and ends with a poem he wrote about the topic of the day. He is patient with questions, learns his students' names, and is inspiringly knowledgeable on the subject. In lectures he tells you everything you need to know for assignments/exams, however I highly recommend looking at the book (online @Hollis) for the diagrams.  The class was more detail oriented than I expected and there will be a lot to memorize. The section component is pretty easy: you read a short-mid length paper every week that pertains to class. Sometimes the papers are older and it's pretty cool to see how the relatively young field developed and what is left to be discovered.
a very good learning experience
if you are interested in immunology, even a little bit, prof pillai's class is the one to take
A useful survey course of immunology, but marred by an unfortunate culture of memorization. There may be an element of learning to speak the "language" involved, but that could be treated better.
Try your best to get into a section that is all undergraduate students if you are an undergraduate, otherwise you will have significantly less section time devoted to review of lecture material! (Grace, if she is still a TF next year, is a lifesaver.) This class is one of the hardest I've ever taken, not because of the workload per se, but because of the amount of extremely detailed memorization and deep conceptual understanding you have to have to do well, especially given the lack of practice questions and materials. That being said, Shiv is an amazing lecturer, and the subject itself is truly fascinating. You will learn so much! I am definitely glad I challenged myself, but wow it was a challenge.
Immunology is an important subject to understand for anyone who is looking to join the medical field. There is no better teacher than Shiv to learn this information from.
Shiv is an amazing lecturer.
If you have any interest in the cellular basis of and pathways important to immunology, just take this course. It isn't particularly difficult, TFs post lecture notes, and Pillai is an excellent lecturer.  The only week to week work is reading a scientific paper for section, which is interesting, and super helpful if you don't have much experience in reading papers. Only 1 Pset the entire semester. What's not to love? The class is half grad students, but don't let that intimidate you. They don't bite.
Shiv is a great teacher and a wealth of knowledge, it is not too taxing but you will learn a lot.
Shiv is definitely one of the best Profs that have taught me. Shiv's simplification of an otherwise complex subject like immunology is the main strength of this course. Summarising each topic with a poem also made it quite interesting. You will have the opportunity to discuss some seminal immunology paper, which is very good if you're really interested in a research career. The mid-term test, problem sets and  exam were very easy (That might not be a strength if you are not concerned about grades).
Dr. Pillai is absolutely incredible, and you are truly missing out if you do not take the opportunity to learn from him. Grace is an incredible TF.
This class requires A LOT of memorization and be prepared to have to regurgitate knowledge on the exam. I think it was incredibly difficult to have to memorize all these pathways, and in an effort to focus on concepts I would often miss certain small details that came up on exams. Shiv is a great lecturer, but honestly, this class could use more conceptual application rather than the brute memorization that is required of it.
All I need to say is that this course is by far the best biology class I have taken.
Probably the best immunology class ever taught. The course material is presented in a manner that people with a small biology background can still do well and understand the concepts.
Absolutely fantastic class!! Take it!
One of the best basic immunology course
This course is great, apart from the fact that there are literally four grades in it: midterm, final, a single problem set (which we were first told would be posted "soon" around the middle of the semester; after being told "soon" several more times, it eventually went up just before reading period), and section participation. Prof Pillai's lectures are awesome (and poetic), and the TFs put up really painstaking and detailed lecture summaries that were much more helpful than my own notes (although they sometimes took a couple weeks to go up). The only major problem with the course is that it's really easy to get to the midterm without realizing just how much you don't know, since there's literally nothing you have to hand in before it.
A one of a kind course! This course decodes the fundamentals of Immunology through story telling and raps- all performed by the professor himself!
Great class with great lectures. The rest of the class is poorly organized with regards to materials showing up online in a timely fashion (so don't miss lecture I guess), and communication about homework assignments (was assigned a last-minute problem set worth 30% of the grade over Thanksgiving and reading period where solutions were not posted until the day before the final).
This course is excellent, and Shiv is a great teacher. Be careful of the grad students making it less accessible, though.
This was the best MCB class I've taken to date (and I'm a senior who has taken most MCB classes). This class will give you a basic introduction to immunology which will be useful to you no matter what field of biology you go into. Shiv is also a really fun lecturer and super accessible. I really appreciated that he went into the trouble to try and learn people's names and his poems were a highpoint of every class.
If you are interested in Medicine or Bioscience then you definitely should take this course! AMAZING!
This course is absolutely fantastic. The information is very relevant and affording s theater understanding on very current topics in immunology in addition to a thorough understanding of how your basic immune system works. To boot, the professor concluded each lecture with a limerick to summarize the topics in a silly and light-hearted manner.
