Great papers/material and an informal atmosphere are upsides to this course, as well as getting the chance to read primary literature from a very cutting edge field.  However, lectures assume a lot of previous knowledge and seem fast-paced, and the very close reading required to read the papers is never recalled in a cumulative fashion, so do as much synthesizing as possible so you don't forget important points from the course.
be sure to be ready to do a lot of critical reading and factor in time if you're not used to doing critical readings - that being said you will get really good at doing these readings, also that you really are interested in critical periods because Prof. Hensch is an expert and has a lot of knowledge
An amazing chance to learn about plasticity from an expert in the field who brings guest speakers in to talk that will make you appreciate Harvard's ability to "pull strings"-speakers from Columbia, Canada, Mass Gen, the Provost!
Make sure you really like critical periods!
Interesting class but not much guidance.
Definitely take this course, as you will learn not only how to critically read scientific literature, but you will also gain a knowledge of exactly what labs try to accomplish in their research and what sorts of questions research tries to answer.
This class is super interesting, great guest lectures.  The MCB can be a little over your head sometimes, but overall the material is great!
Overall very interesting and fun.
Material is difficult but not a lot of work.
This class is great if you really like talking about critical periods.  Some of the papers are rather difficult.  If you are interested in applications to education/policy/etc., that mostly appears at the end of the class.
Very well taught; Professor Hensch's lectures are very well put-together, clear, and interesting. It's helpful to have a very good neurobiology background to understand the papers read, many of which are very technical.
If you're very interested in neuro and enjoy an intimate setting, this class is for you.
Professor Hensch is an expert in his field and shared a wealth of knowledge with the class.
It is a really interesting class that you can learn a lot from without having to put too much time into. I definitely learned a lot, and was given the chance (via the final project) to explore how the themes of the course fit with my own general interest in neurobiology!
It's a great class on very interesting material, but not too well structured and with little feedback provided. Nevertheless you'll learn a lot about how to read and critique scientific papers.
Class is discussion based, so try to participate in section. They do a good job of introducing some of the more interesting and relevant topics in the field.
This course is a wonderful course, however not one to be taken lightly if you have not taken an advanced or moderate level neurobiology course before. Professor Hensch is a great lecturer and the TF, Rebecca,  is very accessible outside of class and always willing to help. However, as a class based on participation and discussion, it is very difficult to determine how you are doing in the course.
This class was great! You learn all about critical periods, excitatory-inhibitory balance, and general topics in experience dependent plasticity. Sections are fun, and there is a very low workload. The final presentations at the end are really fun!
This course was a pretty low-stress way to fulfill a requirement. While it took quite a bit of time to get through some of the articles, the payoff of understanding each study was truly visible in our discussions. Also, the end-of-semester presentations were really neat!
The content of the course is very specific and until the end of the course may not feel very relevant unless you are engaged in related research.  However, as someone who has not had much background in research, it was a great (albeit challenging) learning experience to learn how to read and understand very complex papers.  The guest speakers were a nice change and the structure of the course (lecture + discussion) was good.  I wish I had been able to spend more time on the final presentation because it's a great learning experience--making presentations is a critical skill--and makes you realize how much you have learned throughout the semester.
The class in very interesting and the guest speakers are great. The professor and TF help to prepare you for the presentations. When you have to talk to the professor, he is really encouraging, patient, and open to discussion.
This class is PERFECT for anyone interested in neurodevelopment! If you are, the fascinating material, dedicated Professor, and totally manageable workload will make it one of the best classes you take!
This is a fairly low-key course on a very interesting topic in neuroscience.
You do not get a lot of feedback which is worrisome for most students
A fantastic class if you're interested in early brain development, and you get to see it from a bunch of different perspectives.
This is an amazing neuro elective where you get to engage with excellent papers centered around a strong theme.  It assumes a lot of molecular knowledge in some papers but other papers are only behavioral, so its probably best if you're interested in both aspects of behavioral neuro.
I think this was a good option for a Neuro concentrator. I feel like I applied some of the knowledge I learned from MCB115, and other near courses. I think the teaching staff (especially Erin) cared a great deal about your progress in the class, and understanding of the material.
This course is very useful if you have a background in the foundations of the content. Dr. Hensch is a great resource and his guest lecturers are experts in the field.
You will learn a tremendous amount about critical periods, and experimental methods in contemporary neurobiology. There will be fantastic guest speakers who attempt to connect this type of work to human development and clinical interventions.
It is an exceptional course with kind faculty who are well-informed, patient, and want to help you learn. They do an excellent job tying in all the material to provide a broad-reaching knowledge of environmental influence on neurodevelopment and its medical and educational implications in children and adults.
Great upper level neuro class for concentrators. Non-concentrators should definitely have prereqs complete before taking.
A great class if you are into the neurobiology of experience based brain development. It does go into detail at the molecular and neuronal level, so if you find that interesting, you would really enjoy the class. Professor Hensch presents a very interesting view of the brain in terms of critical periods. If you are more into psych AND don't care so much for the biology side of things, you aren't going to have as much of a good time
N/A
Fascinating material--you'll learn a LOT about the brain. The papers were pretty dense though and took a lot of time to understand but one useful tool you'll get from this class is the ability to analyze research papers. It was refreshing to take a class and not have to read from a textbook but read the original papers
This is a nice class to get a thorough sense of the cutting-edge neurobiology research going on in the field. That being said, don't take it unless you're actually really interested in brain plasticity/have some concrete background knowledge. Lectures can be pretty dry sometimes, though discussion is usually engaging and fun. You receive very little feedback in terms of grades throughout the semester, so if that bothers you, it may be something to consider. Overall, Prof. Hensch is a nice guy who really cares about the material and it shows!
You have to be motivated to really get stuff out of this class, but if you're interested in the topic, come and shop it!
This class was great and Prof. Hensch is amazing. He is huge in the field and it's great to learn from such an expert. He is a very engaging lecturer and he also brings in lots of guest lecturers who are equally incredible. Erin was literally the coolest. She is so smart and so good at explaining things. Go to her for help on presentations, she is so helpful and really helps you understand it.
This class is a great way to learn more about critical periods from an expert in the field and also doubles as a great way to improve your skills in analyzing and presenting scientific papers. It is helpful to have some neurobiology background (MCB 80 and maybe MCB 115 as well). The only assignments for the class are presentations and discussion questions (no p-sets or essays) so the workload is fairly relaxed. Also, if Erin is still the TF next year, she is super helpful and nice and will help you understand some of the more difficult topics/papers in the course. Overall, an interesting and laidback class given some initial familiarity with neurobio!
This is an intellectually stimulating advanced neuro class taught by a leader in the field, Dr. Hensch. Low workload too! Really a great way to delve in detail into a fascinating topic in neuroscience while also becoming a better scientist by having to read cutting edge articles and present on them too. The class also allows you to connect with leading scientists who visit to deliver a guest lecture.
The structure of the course really facilitates the learning process. Professor Hensch is a great lecturer and will answer every question he's asked very clearly. The teaching fellow, Erin, also provides great advice and feedback for assignments. There are also guest lecturers throughout the semester who are all really engaging and insightful. Overall, this course completely met my expectations.
The material was interesting and professor Hensch really knows his stuff, he's an incredible resource. As a result, sometimes his lectures could get a little dense. But it's ok, because the course is set up in a way where you don't have to remember every detail and can focus on the stuff that's the most interesting to you. The work expectations were very reasonable, though a little unclear sometimes. Overall a really great class.
Highly recommend this course! Very interesting topics and speakers. Professor Hensch really knows the material.
This class is a gem!
