Only take this if you are interested in the material. Also, if you have to take it for a concentration requirement.
Lecture component is great; Erikson is a very approachable professor. Recommended for students who are interested in medicine, oncology, biology, or the history of science.
very interesting course about the latest cancer research!
Very well paced class, with active discussion and stimulating in-class atmosphere. Professor Erikson is very friendly, understanding, and encouraging.
Recommend if strongly interested in the material. You learn a lot of great biology, but lectures can be very boring.
Only take this course if you are VERY interested in the material.  If you are not fascinated by cell cycle regulation, it may be too boring for you.
You learn a lot but be prepared to work hard to stay awake because it is an afternoon class and professor is soft spoken.
Material is interesting but lectures can be dull and unclear.
Good foundation class for people interested in these topics.
If you are interested in cancer this is a great course to take.
Take it if you want a panoramic overview of cancer biology and cell-cycle regulation
The class presents an eclectic mix of topics in cancer biology, some of which are interesting; those topics are presented in extreme experimental detail. It is not a systematic summary of the field, or if it is meant to be, it is not organized enough to be taken as such. I would only recommend this class to those with a great interest in cancer biology, but for those students, they would probably be better served in exploring their interest by themselves.
There is extremely consistent work in preparing for this class each day.
take this class only if you are interested in the material
Anyone who is extremely interested in this topic most likely has all the background they need and will really enjoy learning everything else. If you are interested in the science of cancer, take this class!
The discussions are whatever you make of them; if you prepare for them, they can be fruitful and amazing. If you neglect your reading, it will be the most boring thing in the world.
If you're at all interested in cancer, definitely take this class!
A very laid-back way to learn a lot about cancer biology.
