Be ready to tackel some difficult work, but its worth it if you are planning on med school.
-Only take this if you are a soulless masochist with no mind for anything but work - i.e., a grad student or pre-med.  In fact, if you're pre-med, it's probably good practice and will actually have some bearing to your career.  -Don't take the course description at face value. There were just a few patients, and there were all kinds of logistical shenanigans.  But this was the first year.  -When making your presentation, don't allow yourself to be tempted into the time-consuming task of making it full of ideas that are significant.  Just say whatever you're going to say clearly - whether or not it does justice to the things going on within your field of research - and have the things you say clearly paraphrased (or verbatim) on the slides, and you'll get an A, no problem.  But if you actually are looking to expand your knowledge of a topic to any significant extent, don't bother trying here, because it won't mean squat for your grade (even though it means much more in the context of actual research).  -Along those same lines, do not expect to gain any depth of knowledge in any particular field from any of the lectures during the course.  Due to the wide array of topics covered, everything is only touched on as extensively as is possible during the times allotted for lectures.  (I'm not saying this is necessarily good or bad, just a warning.)
Don't be discouraged by the "digital classroom" component! It works great, and the material is well-worth the early-morning scheduling.
Great clinical emphasis. Highly recommended for people interested in medicine.
I have taken many courses in the biological sciences while at Harvard.  This course was by far my favorite.  The lectures and the lecturers were truly wonderful--always interesting.  I would recommend this course with enthusiasm to anyone interested in learning about biochemistry and human disease, provided that the person has had instruction in biology.
I would recommend this course to anyone interested in medicine or human disease.  I found myself really looking forward to the lectures for this class every week!
The course is designed for advanced undergraduates.  While it is not much work, all of the work is expected to be at a very high level.
if you like learning about various diseases from all perspectives (scientific, patient, doctor), this is a great class.
Only take it if the set up has changed significantly to provide an experience more in line with other classes offered to undergraduates.
Excellent, medically-based and intriguing course.
WORST CLASS EVER. The professors do not care at all about teaching the students.
it is mostly interesting and not too much work
A very memorial experience; very detailed and interesting course material
Lots of work, but lots of fun. It's what makes MCB awesome.
MCB 234 is a great course, much better-organized and cohesive than MCB 235. Metabolism is a fascinating topic, with very broad applications, and you'll find yourself understanding a lot of everyday processes of the human body at a much deeper level. Great synthesis of molecular/cellular biology on one hand and human disease on the other, and Professors Michel and Lue are first-rate!
This class has literally made me want to study metabolism as a career. It has a manageable workload, great set of lecturers, and very interesting assignments. The presentation is a great experience. Dr. Michel is one of the most amazing educators I've come across and the rest of the staff is not too shabby either.
It's a really good survey class of biochemical metabolic pathways but relies on the idea that you already know the basics and are only building on them.  Thus, only take this class if you feel comfortable with advanced MCB concepts.  It is a really good class though for introducing connections with medical materials and biochem classroom knowledge.
This class is very interesting and is not incredibly difficult. You will definitely learn a lot in a mostly low-pressure environment. If you are interested in medicine or human disease, this is the course for you. If you are more interested in the molecular side of things, this class could also be interesting for you.
fun class, great lectures, superb professors
This class is great, and is a great opportunity to learn about the intersection of biochemistry and medicine from experts.  The experience includes a chance to learn about the research science, disease, cell biology, and patient care.  It's a unique opportunity to learn with graduate students and to take advantage of the resources that Harvard Medical School has to offer, including the guest lecturers, patients coming into class, and medical simulations where you get to treat patients (actually a dummy voiced by a staff member).  The other students are also a good resource, and the presentations at the end of the class provide insight into many aspects of metabolism.  This is a great way to learn more about medicine and biochemistry, and I really enjoyed it.
This is a fantastic class! Extremely well-taught, lots of great guest speakers and patient sessions, and very helpful course staff.
The course has potential, but it doesn't necessarily leave you amazed with metabolism. It cycles through many lecturers of varying presentation quality, making some topics in metabolism memorable while others remain unclear. There is a big focus on attendance and it invades reading period. Michel's lectures are really engaging and very informative. The course ends with each student giving a presentation. However, we cycle through so many presenters that the lasting significance and appreciation of each topic is minimized.
Definitely take this course if you have any interest in metabolism or medicine. It's a good mix of lectures (small enough to encourage participation), clinical correlations (with patients), and sections. Get to know the course staff!
This is truly an excellent course that really gives you a great overview of human metabolism while still going into depth into every pathway we learn.  Professor Michel is a hilarious lecturer, the guest lecturers are all excellent instructors who are leaders in their respective fields, the patients you get to meet and interact with are amazing people who really want to help you understand their conditions, and the teaching staff really make student learning their priority.  I honestly learned more in this class than I did studying for the MCATs.  I highly recommend this class for anyone who is premed, considering graduate school in biology, going to take the MCATs, or just interested in the material.  The workload is very fair and manageable, and you really get out of this course what you put in.  Having to go to 9am lectures (and 8am optional simulator sessions) that are sometimes at Longwood (I usually take the 8:10am M2 shuttle) can sound intimidating, but it really is worth it if you genuinely want to learn the material.
Take this class! You will learn a lot of wonderful material, whether it's for the MCAT or just for fun. Put a lot of effort into the final presentation! It's a great way to explore a new topic and realize just how much you've learned in the class. It might seem arbitrary, but it truly determines a significant part of your grade.
The class is very interesting, and the lecturers are wonderful. There is a low workload, and no exams in the class, so you get out of it what you put in. However, the grading at the end of the class is relatively subjective.
This course is really great! The workload and effort is actually quite substantial because you have to learn the material well in order to do the work. But in the end, you come out feeling like you really learned a lot about metabolism and disease. The clinical correlations and optional simulation sessions are worth the pre-9 am treks to the med school.
I consider this to be without a doubt one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. The material it covers is excellent in both breadth and depth, and it is very well taught. All the components of the course are valuable: the lectures, clinical correlations to place the biochemistry in a relevant context of human disease, sections that are actually useful, and patient stimulator sessions. Dr. Michel is also a wonderful lecturer and he and the rest of the course staff are really invested in the class and students. This is a great, interesting course and a great way to fulfill the biochem requirement for med school as well.
PHENOMENAL COURSE. The teaching staff care so deeply about your learning and are so passionate about the material. You will love this course. The more effort you put in towards engaging in the material, the more fun the class is!
A great course, highly recommended! Challenging, but in a very self-driven, educational manner--there is little if any "busy work." Professors. Michel, Vaughn, and the entire teaching staff are extremely dedicated, knowledgeable, and available for clarification or intriguing conversation.
You'll be entertained, you'll learn a lot, there is some work, but it's all helpful for comprehension.
This was a great class! Sometimes there is a LOT of material presented very quickly which makes it hard to understand and absorb so early in the morning so make sure you do the readings ahead of time.
This class was one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Personal instruction with professors that really care about you knowing the material it's awesome. If you like chemistry and integrating it with biology you'll love this class. I 100% recommend it, especially if you're interested in going to medical school.
The course material is interesting and you learn a lot in the course. However, the class is very strict about attendance and will dock points if you arrive to class late. If you have no problem being punctual to 9am classes, you should take the class.
This class is so much fun! A great opportunity to connect biochemistry to medicine as an undergraduate.
This course combines foundational biochemistry, clinical applications, and cutting edge research. It's a pre-med's dream come true. The lecturing faculty are awesome, and getting to talk to patients is an amazing privilege. The workload is very manageable, but because there are no exams, you aren't punished if some weeks you can't do all of it (except insofar as you aren't learning this amazing material).
Terrific course. Note that you will get as much out of the course as you put in. Definitely take advantage of all the clinical correlation sessions as well as the optional lectures and patient simulator sessions.  Best course I've taken at Harvard so far!
This is a great course to learn about metabolism and fulfill the biochemistry requirement for med school. The faculty are very supportive and the class is very interactive. Although there is a lot of mechanistic detail, the course is structured around themes rather than memorization. You will grow as a critical thinker and clinician. You get to meet patients, which is a rare opportunity in a class.
Possibly one of the most difficult classes I've ever taken at Harvard.
This is a great course to take to learn more about metabolism and fulfill biochem requirement for med school. It doesn't have a large work load as many people seem to believe and is overall a great course!
Great class, integrates biochem in a manner that is interesting and accessible for those with a stronger biology background
The pace of the class for undergrads can be overwhelming at times. However, the teaching staff doesn't grade too harshly, and the material is super interesting! It's not often that metabolism can be made interesting, but the teaching staff does this by bringing in clinical relevance and patients.
It's a good biochem course, especially for premeds. It focuses on a disease-oriented approach to biochem and covers a wide variety of topics.
This is a mostly painless way to get through the biochemistry requirement that many medical schools have now instituted. I wouldn't recommend it if you want a really solid foundational understanding of biochemistry, but it suits the purpose.
This class is a pretty significant amount of work despite the fact that it doesn't have any exams, but you will learn a lot of interesting material, and fulfill a premed requirement!
This class is amazing. If you are a premed student concentrating in MCB/CPB or another science field, you have to take this class. It does a great job of integrating clinical encounters with molecular biology, so you get to see the application of basic science as it plays out in the clinical world. If you aren't used to waking up early, then this will be a rude awakening, but it is absolutely worth the extra effort to get to take this class. Finally, especially if you are premed, make sure to attend the patient simulator sessions. It may be even more painful to wake up an hour earlier, but they are an amazing opportunity that is too good to pass up.
Take this course. It's worth the 9am, 8am, and 7 am mornings MWF.
Since there are no tests, you get what you put into it
Presentation is fun!
great professors!
The topics are really cool, but get a good night sleep before each class or making it through the lectures will be a struggle. The assignments are hard, start reading them in advance. The teaching staff is super nice, super qualified, super helpful, and all-around awesome.
If you cannot take the class in Longwood, don't bother trying to take it at all. The Cambridge sessions are not worth the effort.
This class does an incredible job of integrating the basic science molecular aspects of metabolic pathways with the clinical aspects. It is a phenomenal class for undergraduates that are considering an MD/PhD as it gives insight into clinical diagnosis and research as it pertains to metabolism.
This is hands-down the best course I've taken at Harvard. If you're interested in human biology or medicine, I highly recommend you take this course. It's everything you hoped a Harvard course would be: fast-paced, intellectually stimulating, challenging (but not overwhelming), full of outstanding and committed faculty, and taken by students who are sincerely interested in the subject. Take it.
MCB 234 is a great way to see how everything from molecular/biochemical pathways connect to the organismal-level health and disease states. You learn as much as you want to. The case responses are a great way to engage with the class material.  And the patients are always so enthusiastic to tell us about their story. Highly recommend!!!
If you're thinking about taking this class, do it. Although the early mornings at HMS are brutal, they're completely worth it. I had already taken the MCAT (pre-2015) prior to taking this, but still learned a significant amount of material in this class. Lectures are taught by HMS's best, patient simulators are incredible, and the staff is incredibly accessible. As for the class itself, you have to work hard to do well. There's a lot of content covered in lectures and you need to be able to synthesize all of it on your case responses. Work hard on these and the final presentation. Finally, it's important to note that you'll also learn an incredible amount from your peers while you're working on your responses together. The students that take this class are incredibly smart. Most of them are deciding between Harvard med/ Stanford med/ etc. Working together significantly eased the difficulty of this class.
An amazing class for undergrads! Even though it is likely to only be offered at Longwood next year, I would recommend making the trip. It can seem like a terrible idea when you have to catch the M2 in the morning, but you will get a lot of this class. Dr. Michel is an amazing professor who cares a lot about his students and even though he can seem intimidating at first, is very helpful and a great person. In terms of coursework, take your case responses seriously, as well as your final presentation and you will be just fine in the class.
This is an awesome course, with a great teaching staff. Really great course to finish off 4 years in the MCB department. Incredibly applicable and challenging without being overburdensome with work!
Good class that offers a lot of good information. The question is whether you will put in the effort to learn all of that material. The TFs are all super helpful and (most) lecture are super interesting!
