Be prepared to read the whole textbook
Venki is a great professor and if you're interested in the material this'll be a very rewarding class. For the most part, the class avoids making students mindlessly memorize anything, which means that we focus on reasoning about biological systems instead of cramming random facts which we subsequently forget. Jenelle is also a really good section leader if she's TFing again. Plenty of people took this class without MCB 80 and I don't think it was an issue (I never encountered prerequisite knowledge from MCB 80 that I was missing to my knowledge).
Section is very helpful. Make sure you really understand the PSets.
This class is great for anyone interested in neurobiology. There's a good amount of discussion during lectures since the class size was small, which made the lectures much more interesting. However, the material can be challenging, mostly in the first half of the semester, and the problem sets can take a long time. This class is definitely rewarding and I learned a lot.
You'll learn a lot in this course but there is a significant struggle that comes along with that learning. I poured a big portion of my semester into this course, especially on the psets, and received minimal help from the teaching staff. They give very hard material and nearly no support but if you work a lot at it you learn a ton.
It's a great course to gain a deeper understanding of neurobiology, receptors and the current state of neuroscience and electrophysiology. Make sure you get clarification in lecture and utilize the teaching staff.
It's a more detail-oriented and biochemically-focused version of MCB80. You will learn a lot about the neurosystem in a very in-depth way, so be prepared for lots of detail and information to be thrown at you. However, it is a great way to learn about a subject.
overall good non-intro neurobio. the dept is getting on its feet so maybe more quantitavely-adept students will soon have some other class to challenge them.
Venki is a fantastic teacher, knows his stuff, and teaches it well. It was easy to learn a lot in this class.
i think it's ideal for mcb or neurobio concentrators, but for someone else just more generally interested in the nervous system i think it would be much too difficult and in-depth.  it is a very specific topic.
I came into this class vacillating between graduate school and medical school; the discussion of relevant literature and pros and cons to all of the experiments, as well as the interesting material led me to choose graduate school!
I would tell future students that the course is difficult but definitely worth taking.  I feel that I can seriously call myself a neurobiology major after having taken this course.
Awesome class if you're into biological sciences at all, not just neurobiology.  Very cool that you're learning about what's going on in your own head in an eerily tangible way.
This is a course that is taught very well and rewarding. At times, it is frustrating to grasp the concepts, but this is neurobio. Neurobio can't be easily generalized, perhaps because of our current progress in the field, but there are so many variations from system to system.
I would recommend this course to anyone who is interested in the neuron's functional ability from a biological standpoint, but less so from a behavioral standpoint, as the course does not extend into that kind of material.
Gives you a great base for other advanced courses in neurobiology, but should only be taken if very interested in neuroscience. Professor and tf are great. Workload is not hard and tests don't emphasize memorization (a good thing!)
it's a great class where you're able to learn some basics of neurobiology in a relatively comfortable and stress free setting.
You will come out of this course knowing everything that you should know as a neurobiology concentrator, which is a great feeling!!  The problem sets were really helpful and the exams were very fair.  Prof. Murthy is awesome!  This is a challenging but fantastic course.
The 1st half of the course is really quantitative and second half is more theoretical. The lectures were pretty dry, but overall the course doesn't require that much work. Farhan is a great TF and I felt that he ran the course (made the problem sets and midterms) more than the professor. There's also a slight disconnect between lectures and the problem sets.
every neurobio concentrator should take this course
I really enjoyed this course and feel as if I walked away able to call myself a true neurobiologist.
My first impression of the class wasn't fantastic as it focused on modeling neurons as circuits a bit more deeply than I anticipated, but after the concepts were revisited several times in the psets and lectures, it turned out fine and it was nice to see how things came together
Good course! Section is helpful. Make sure you pay attention to scale and experimental design.
This course movers the most central topics in neurobiology on a cellular level. I'd dare say it should even be required.  Yes, there's a lot of material, and it's tough, but even though people (including) complain about the difficulty of the physics section (i.e. first half/third of the course), it is still relevant for most topics, and especially for any modelling you might ever want to do.
Although sections aren't required, they were really helpful in preparing for problem sets because the TFs specifically address some of the material the problem sets covered.  I also found the textbook readings helpful, though don't get too caught up in the details - focus on the big ideas.  I really enjoyed this class - much more than I expected.  Professor Murthy is a great guy and makes lectures fun to go to.  A helpful, beneficial course for neurobio concentrators.
Great upper-level neuro class.  More like the first half of MCB 80, so if you like quantitative stuff and molecular neurobio, take this class!
Good class, good professor, moves very quickly though
The course is interesting, but you should only take it if you are very interested in channels and molecular mechanisms of neurobio.
There is a lot of material to learn in this course, but it's very interesting and rewarding!
This class can be an easy and interesting alternative to 105. There is A LOT of electricity though, so if that's not your favorite reconsider 105. The class was very well organized and because of this it was easy to understand and to catch up if you had missed something.
This is a fun course in cellular neuronal function. The topics are interesting and the lectures are great (with Ryan teaching). However, be warned that psets are annoying because you can't collaborate with anyone, so you're all on your own (which theoretically forces you to learn better, but also proves frustrating). Thank God there's only 5 psets. Sections are optional (and useless). Overall, the pace of the course is ridiculously fast, and you'll be studying a lot for the midterm and the final. A necessary neurobiology course, in my opinion, and a fun one (just not a chill one).
Take this class only if you have to. It's difficult and covers way too much material for any sane person to be able to remember.
Ryan Draft is a great lecturer and lecture-slide maker. Section is weakest part of class. Pay attention to lectures, but don't get too caught up in the more unknown or uncertain parts that the course also covers.
This is an interesting class if you're into neurons at a very detailed level. It's graded really weirdly and collaboration is not allowed at all on psets. After the congress scandal I followed this rule all semester but it often left me with low pset grades because I felt at a loss if I couldn't get something myself. I was always under the impression that science at Harvard encouraged collaboration as part of the learning process and I definitely feel cheated in this class from that perspective. Also, the midterm was ridiculous. My grade my fine with the curve but it was 10 problems with at least 3-4 parts each in 50 minutes.
Real talk: this course is a lot of time, BUT you will learn a lot, too. I could have graduated without taking it, but something felt wrong about getting a Neurobiology degree without knowing some basic things about receptors and signal transduction. If you love Neurobiology, and that's why I suspect you are a Neurobio concentrator, you should definitely take this. Also, Dr. Draft is a beast; he's probably the nicest person at Harvard. Don't miss on the chance to learn from him.
This course was really interesting and took a a straight forward approach to biology, which I think can be hard to find in Harvard life science courses that sometimes seem overly concerned with beating about the bush and being overly challenging for the sake of it. I feel like I learned a tremendous amount because I wasn't being fed an enormous amount of information, and left with a further thirst for information about the subject matter. It was much more about electrophysiology than I expectedI think it's in some ways more the molecular and electrochemical basis of neuronal function than cellular, but that's probably appropriate for understanding neurons. I highly recommend it to MCB concentrators with an interest in neuroscience, as well as Neurobiology concentrators.
Great material, but very difficult and a lot of it.
MCB115 was a great introduction both to molecular neurobiology and molecular biology in general. The class is entirely fair in terms of depth while still covering really interesting material. It's a great overview of topics covered further in other classes. If you're interested in neurobiological mechanisms rather than systems-style topics, this is a great option.
The material is interesting, but you need to put in time on your own outside of class to understand the material.
Do not take this class unless you're a Neurobio concentrator. I would still choose this class over MCB 105 though.
It is a good class overall. You will have to work hard, and you will often be confused about the content. Just know that Ryan will always be there to answer questions and don't hesitate to seek help from peers and the teaching staff. This will be difficult to understand by yourself. Also, pay attention in class.
This course is very useful for any research in Neurobiology! It basically goes into detail whatever MCB80 skimmed over. The assignments weren't too difficult and Ryan was always there to help.
This class is really hard. Only take it if you are actually interested in ions and neurons or if you really have to.
I think you should take this over MCB 105 but I also think that this course was very difficult and you have to be ready to spend a lot of time on learning the material.
This is a very difficult class if you are not really passionate about neurobiology, and the first half of the class is more quantitative and deals with biophysics more so than it does neurobiology.  Also, be prepared for the lecture slides to have a lot of information on them, and if you don't attend lecture, the slides will be very confusing to understand.Make sure you go to office hours because this is very important, and make sure that you do well on the problem sets because they will count for a significant portion of your grade.  You're not able to check the problem sets with other people so make sure that you understand the course concepts thoroughly yourself.
It is difficult and a lot of memorization, but if you are concentrating in neurobiology, it provides insight into the broad function of the rain that is invaluable to understanding other neuro-concepts.
Take it! Especially if Ryan Draft teaches it again!
Lectures are very solid if you work to pay attention and while the course material can seem daunting, ryan does a good job of simplifying it and making it more approachable
As a neurobiology concentrator, I feel like this class contains information I should understand before I graduate. However, there is SO MUCH information packed into every single lecture, and many concepts are really difficult to understand. I'd recommend really reviewing material/slides each week to make sure you get it-- it will make studying for the midterm/final much easier.
Stay on top of each lecture, don't let it work pile up at the end towards the exams.
You'll learn a lot of material, but it's dense and challenging. Do the section problems and try to stay on top of the material!
This is a great course if you are interested in neuroscience, especially for research, but there is a lot of information and is quite difficult. Keep up with the material throughout the semester! Ryan is a great teacher!
Try to connect info you learn from different lectures. Try to connect the basic things you learn in the beginning with the stuff about plasticity.  You can also skip section, its better to study on your own. stay on top of the lectures. it makes studying for exams easier.
There is a ton of content, 3 jam-packed lectures per week. You'll learn a lot more about the cellular processes in neurobiology. A lot of general topics are repeated from MCB80.
If you're concentrating in Neurobiology and deciding between MCB 115 and 105, I would recommend taking MCB 115. I did not enjoy OEB57 at all so MCB 105 would have been horrible as well. If you're into looking at things at the molecular level, this is the way to go.
This is a very good neuroscience class taught at the advanced undergrad level.  It gives a solid introduction to the field and how neuroscience works on the cellular level.
I chose this over MCB 105 because I liked the material better. Although the class was tough and dry at times, was still overall very informative and interesting.
for anyone interested in ion channels and the fundamentals of neurobiology
The first half is quantitative, the second half is very theoretical. Very little fact memorization--lots of hypothetical situations as problem set questions and exam questions. Hard to know exactly what to study, but the exams are definitely fair. Venki is very friendly and incredibly smart.
As a neurobiology requirement, I would shop MCB 105 as well to compare. The professor is really nice, but lectures will make you sleepy and section/psets can be super confusing!
Take this class if you're a neurobio concentrator and need to fill the requirement and don't want to take MCB 105, or if you are very interested in cellular neurobiology. This class was difficult and it wasn't always clear what was expected of us. It was very tedious for someone not very interested in cellular biology.
Good teaching and interesting subject. You really go in depth about features you learn about in MCB80
This class will teach you to think more deeply about applying cell bio techniques to studying neurobiology. Take it!
Don't take this class unless Ryan Draft starts teaching,
workload isn't bad.  lectures are kind of dry though.
Tended to be a bit tedious at times, since some topics are just by their nature dry.
Go to office hours because the material is taught at a very fast pace.
Consider taking something else unless you are seriously interested in the topic. The psets/midterm are graded harshly (ie: answers have to be phrased very exactly in order to receive credit). However, the information is worth learning as it is very applicable to every other neuro class/article. With some changes to the couse (changes in lecture and refinement of some of the learning material), this course would be perfect.
Make sure you're interested in the material. If you are, the professor is good and has a lot of knowledge/experience to offer, but if not it will get very boring and you may feel like you're hitting your head against a wall. Also the midterm was graded very unfairly...we'll see how the final is graded and how they curve it in the end..
Fun times :)
As a concentration requirement, you learn a lot about cellular neurobiology. However, due to the disorganization of the course and the nature of the material, I am hesitant to recommend it.
Know what you're getting into.  The material is interesting, but the class was unorganized and very frustrating, often.  Section was unhelpful, the professor was uninvolved, and the TFs pretty much ran the course--which as you can guess is often upsetting to students.
The lectures can be long if the course is still taught in 1.5 hour blocks.  Also, while the primary textbook is good for the first half of the course, there are really no books or reading materials for what's taught in the second half of the course.
Helps fill in cellular gaps and provides a foundation for a more systems-based understanding.
Like MCB 80, but more in depth.  Workload is very manageable and if you're into cellular neurobio, this is a great class.
its fairly technical
I nicknamed this class "fictional biology" because you really have to not only memorize typical biology but actually understand advanced concepts and apply them to situations in order to explain/make sense of the problems you're presented. I've never thought of science as a creative field, but this class has completely changed my opinion. The more advanced information we learn, the more I realize that so much still remains unclear, especially in research so it's really important to be able to creatively explain real life observations. It's definitely not a joke class but office hours are amazing!
As far as learning new things and enhancing my interest in a subject, this has been the best course I've taken at Harvard so far.
Take this course if you want to build on concepts covered in MCB80 and develop a more solid understanding of how neurons work on the cellular level.
Make sure you like learning about the brain on a smaller than cellular level (this is on the level of channels -- this is mainly just learning about channels). If you want to learn how neurons connect with each other on a cellular level, this isn't really the class for it.
Definitely take the class if you want to have a career in Neuro.
Good introduction if you're genuinely interested in the material.
The first half of MCB 80 (the neuron) just much more indepth.
Really can give you a strong understanding of molecular and cellular neurobiology
Its an interesting course.  Don't miss lecture.  Lecture makes everything make a lot more sense.  Also, don't freak out at the beginning because of the math involved for electrical properties of neurons.  You'll never have to derive any of the scary stuff.  The first 3 weeks is the hardest part and then the course gets comfortable afterward.If you are interested in how neurons work then take the course.  The workload is not bad and the tests are reasonable.
Great course for learning the basics of neurobio; could be more organized and well-integrated, but the material is very interesting if you are willing to put in the time to learn it, regardless of whether you have MCB 80 background, etc. or not
Terrific professor teaching interesting material that he himself is passionate about.
This is a great course!
A wonderful class!
Lectures can be lengthy and a bit dry at times.  This class is for those who are interested in learning the foundation of neurobiology. At times learning can be so frustrating that you want to hit your head against the wall, but go to section and you'll be fine.  Electrophysiology is hard.
The structure of this course is in the process of changing--they're making MCB115 a required course for all neurobiology concentrators, I believe. As such, I feel like it might become less of a smaller, discussion oriented course, and more on covering the material of MCB80 but in a more comprehensive way.
It is a great class for furthering your knowledge about the physiology of neurons. It's pretty laid back, the professor is very understanding.
Souped up version of MCB80
While this class is interesting, it is A LOT of work, and it is hard to get a good grade because the exams are significantly more difficult compared to the rest of the class.
You'll learn a lot from this course, but be prepared to work really hard. The lectures are interesting for the most part, but I'm not sure how much you actually learn from them. Be sure to read the book.
it's best if you have a definite interest in cellular neuroscience, otherwise it might be a bit dry
This class was fine, but if you have a strong neuroscience background, you probably won't learn too much. Doesn't mover far beyond MCB 80 in terms of scope--It mostly just elaborates examples of different phenomena.
This is a class that teach young scientist to think critically.
This is a great introductory overview to cellular neurobiology and the methods used to study it.
If you're interested in learning the specifics of neuronal transmission, this is a great class to take!
This class is a great introduction to neurobiology at the molecular level. It is general to include enough background for a complete understanding of the material, but includes enough detail to be interesting and useful to research.
Neurobiology concentrators have to take this. I would take this over MCB 105 because you come out feeling like you did learn a lot of neurobiology.
Go to Venki's office hours. They are really helpful
This is an interesting course, but can be difficult at times due to a lack of organization (which is weird because the course is fairly old). Nevertheless, Venki is a solid lecturer (sometimes the lectures were dry, but that is to be expected for an upper level neuro course) and the final exam seems fair. Study a lot for the midterm, because it is more difficult than the final and requires a conceptual understanding of most of the materials.
Solid and makes you think. Useful class.
This class was pretty good. I enjoyed it more than MCB105 (which i shopped and attended for a couple weeks last spring before deciding not to take it). It's a really good foundational neuro course, which covers the nuts and bolts you need to know for this field, and I feel as if i understand what I've learned about neurobiology at a much deeper level now that I've taken this class.
The material in this class is interesting, and Prof. Murthy is a great guy, but the two just don't add up. I really struggled to pay attention in lectures, and also found my section TF did not really know what was going on.
Though this course had some organizational issues, the subject matter was surprisingly very interesting! This is definitely a part of neurobiology that all concentrators should learn, and if you attend lectures and be sure to ask questions as they come up, you will do fine in this course.
difficult material- definitely have to put your own time in to understand the material for the tests.  Take really good notes during lecture!
Both the professor and the tfs had good intentions and definitely tried to make sure you learned a lot; that being said, the lectures were very difficult to follow and the sections were highly disorganized
I really liked MCB 115. Whereas MCB 80 just gives you a brief overview of everything, MCB 115 gives you a more in depth understanding of how neurons actually work and how they transmit signals. It was also interesting to be able to learn about the different experiments and techniques that were/are being used that have contributed to our current knowledge of neuroscience.
You learn a lot from this class but it is tough. I definitely feel like you can't call yourself a neurobio concentrator without taking this course, and you learn a ton. Also, Venki is a great professor!
This is an amazing course.  Incredibly rigorous and quantitative; you won't believe it's actually a biology course!  You will actually see differential equations and real electrics in a bio course and come away with a strong, quantitative understanding of how a neuron works - not just the vague qualitative understanding you would usually expect from a bio course.  Would strongly recommend to any neuroscientist and to any chemist/physicist whose interested in taking a little bio/neuro but wants something with a similar quantitative rigor to a physical science course.  With a decent chemistry and physics background this course will be really interesting but also super easy even without any previous biology experience.
Way better than anything MCB 105 could do. Venky is an awesome professor and really down to earth. Some of the material you cover will be direct from MCB 80 and that will be a bit repetitive, but the course really focuses on the experimental side and deductive approach, which is not something Ive seen before in previous neuro requirements.
This is a course that I think every Neurobiology concentrator should take. It really delves into the cellular basis of a neuron, which is the foundation o neurobiology. That being said, the section component of the course and the assignments need work. They were both very disorganized. Prof Murthy is a very knowledgable, nice prof though. I would recommend seeking him out in office hours.
This course was interesting, but I would probably shop 105 in the spring (if you're a neuro concentrator) just to make sure. The material is interesting, but lecture can often be difficult to understand. Be sure to form a study group- that's the only way I survived in the end. It was a great way to get all my questions answered.
This course is hard, a lot of material is covered in lecture, yet only components of it are tested.  The midterm is harder than the final, but the final is still difficult.  Go to Prof. Murthy's office hrs, I really wish I had done that before the last week of class!  Study lots of problems for the midterm and final.  Good luck...
Most of you will choose between this and MCB 105. Both courses are bound to be difficult due to the level of the subject matter. I recommend you take whichever of the two you find more interesting. They will both be hard. As for 115, know that the sections will not help much and the assignments are vague and require many clarification questions. All in all, an interesting class with some flaws.
This class was difficult and not well organized, but it covered a lot of fundamental concepts that, as a neurobio concentrator, were really important to know and I feel like it gave me a much better background.
Excellent intro to neuroscience. If interested in pursuing any kind of neuroscience post-grad, will need the information presented in this class.
Take this over 105 if you're genuinely interested in the material, but don't expect an easy/smooth class. The material is fascinating, but it is often poorly taught and nit-picky, which makes the course incredibly frustrating rather than enjoyable. I felt like I couldn't have a neurobiology degree without knowing this stuff, and I definitely learned a ton, but it was a painful semester. 

Make outlines of the lectures outside of what's given as the course goes along, and expect to spend a lot of time on problem sets. (MATLAB bootcamp is not really necessary in preparation - huge waste of time, the psets give enough guidance for MATLAB problems). Section is optional but you'd be an idiot not to go. 

Venky is really cool, so are the TFs. Again, take this class over 105 if it's interesting to you, but prepare to put in a lot of time and effort.
Very useful course, and you will definitely learn a lot. The midterm was a little unexpected in some ways, but overall, the course is streamlined and organized into a very logical series of lectures
Definitely learn more about neuro in this class than in 105. Having took both, I think I'm much better prepared to enter the neuro field with this course. I loved 105 too, but the content here is just so much more integral. Some disorganization issues, but overall awesome course
The lectures are pretty dry, as Dr. Murthy doesn't generate very much excitement about subject material. Assignments are fair and the teaching staff is helpful. Exams are tricky but grading is generous.
