This class is very interesting and it does a great job of tying societal implications to biological concepts.
Amazing course. Totally worth it. Manageable, but you learn a lot. Different from every STEM class I've taken at Harvard in the best way possible
If you can prepare for the classes and do the readings in a timely fashion, you can really enjoy this class.
I would tell students to take the class if they want to learn how to draw connections between social/cultural practices and biological implications. It's also a great class for students interested in global health (specifically pre-meds because there is a biology focus). I would also tell students that the class deals heavily with HIV/AIDS, however, so they should be somewhat passionate about that disease and its manifestations in different cultures.
Rob loves HIV/AIDS.
This class is awesome for anyone interested in understanding health from a biology perspective or vice versa. It's also very satisfying to discuss possible real life implications of what you're learning.
This class was incredibly interesting! The structure is pretty great if you don't like exams, and Rob Lue is a wonderful and engaging lecturer. You don't need a ton of science background to be able to appreciate this class--it really ties together both biology and social factors in a fascinating way
This class turned out to focus mostly on HIV/AIDS, but was a fascinating in depth look at both biological mechanisms and social factors. Rob Lue gives amazing lectures, and all of the teaching staff are extremely helpful. You'll learn a lot, and gain a sense of why biology and science research are integral to our society's health.
This course had a few structural kinks during its first iteration, but overall it was so enjoyable and informative. It was the kind of course that left me talking about lecture material at the dinner table.
Take if you like global health and biology!
Absolutely brilliant class that everyone should take
This is one of the most interesting and relevant classes offered in the MCB department at Harvard, if you want to learn about the intersections of biology, medicine, and society. Although the workload is steady, it's not too much overall.
This is one of the best biology classes I have ever taken at Harvard, and Professor Lue's is probably Harvard's best lecturer.
This class turned out to be much more HIV-focused that I anticipated. While lectures were interesting, and Rob Lue is great, I didn't feel like I was learning a tremendous amount about cell biology, and almost everything I DID learn about cell biology was related to HIV. This class is very focused on social/behavioral forces on humans that shape biological consequences, and while I loved the social/behavioral analysis, I didn't feel like the biological aspect of the class was strong or broad (beyond HIV) enough. That being said, it's still a decent class, and the workload is reasonable. ICEs can still be somewhat stressful, but I do like them better than high-stakes exams.
Most of the time is spent on HIV - be ready for that.
This course if fantastic. If you loved Prof. Rob Lue from LS1a then take this course! He is a fantastic lecturer and so passionate it's hard not to love the material. Other than the material being extremely interestinga blend of molecular bio and healthy policy etc. (read the course description if you're curious)but the structure of this class cannot be beat. There are weekly/biweekly short tests instead of midterms, the final project is incredibly fun and one of the best self-driven learning experiences I've had at Harvard, and the faculty of the course are top notch.
Take it. You will not regret it and Rob is the best.
Rob Lue is a great lecturer, and the public health component of the class was really great. The structure of the class is interesting and new and makes broad concepts very personal. Also the assignments are great.
Be aware that the course needs work in terms of structuring with ICEs and the lecture schedule.
Really great for a first-year course (for any course in general, really). MCB 64 makes molecular biology relevant by placing it in the context of personal narratives and global health. Especially as a premed, I felt like I learned so much without at all feeling that the course was difficult--ICEs are relatively easy and painless, and the final presentation was more fun than stressful. There are a couple minor kinks that I'm sure will be smoothed over in future iterations of the course--variation in difficulty level of ICEs, for example, and distribution of time spent on each unit.
You'll find this class to be a gem if you are at all interested in the intersection between cultural practices and biology. Rob Lue's presentation style is, per usual, sleek and engaging and the final presentation instead of a final exam format is incredibly interesting and creative.
This course will give you a different perspective on biological principles, tying in social and cultural elements as well. The class is engaging, and Rob Lue really makes an effort to reach out to all the students! The class has a very light workload with no psets and there are also opportunities to have discussions in small groups, which can be hard in such a large group.
its different from other classes. Take a chance and take it
An incredible learning journey that involves many facets and subjects in teaching and understanding biology and history. The topics are really interesting and are outside of the scope of traditional intro bio courses.
This is a relatively stress-free course, with one weekly quiz and no midterms/final. In the papers and final project, we were able to mix creativity with scientific/medical understanding to tell the story of a fictional person, which made all of the assignments enjoyable and interesting. Rob sometimes had office hours at restaurants and treated us to dessert in class. Highly recommend the course!
Hands down my favorite class this semester. I wanted to take a class with Rob Lue before graduating and had planned on taking MCB54 this semester, but alas it wasn't offered. Instead, it had been replaced by this course. I was a bit wary of taking a class the first time it was offered, but I'm so, so, SO glad I did. It's an absolute jewel of a class. The professor genuinely cared about both the course and the students in it; he had weekly dinner office hours with small groups of students to try to get to know us better. The TFs were also impressive; Minh Vong presented each weekly section's material clearly and was always open to questions (in person or via email, and he offered to meet with students after class if they couldn't make it to the regularly scheduled section time).Because this semester was the first time MCB68 was offered, it had a few small kinks (we had "break out" sessions during class to encourage discussion amongst the students, but that was phased out as the semester progressed to provide more time to cover material), but was overall AMAZING. Instead of huge stressful midterms, the course uses ICEs (In Class Examinations), 20- to 30-minute-long quizzes each week covering material from the previous two lectures and weekly section. In addition to cutting out the stress of studying for a test that could potentially wreck your grade for the course (there were 8 ICEs total and the lowest one could be dropped so there was more of a chance to recover from a bad test score), the ICEs made sure you were on top of the covered material so you didn't fall behind in class.The final project was also super fun. Throughout the semester, you learn biological concepts and link them to one of three different "avatars," characters created by Professor Lue. And at the end of the semester, you get to create your own! It was exciting getting to pull in resources from a variety of different fields to create the entire backstory of an individual of my choosing.I could keep going on about what I enjoyed about this course, but then this review would be way too long. Even as a senior taking this class as part of a 5-course workload, I would recommend it 100%. It was amazing this year, and I'm sure it will only get better from here on out!
It's a great way to look at biology, but the social and economic aspects of the class might not be for everyone. I think it was very cool to look at biology from this new sort of perspective--it was refreshing. But it certainly isn't your classic "bio" class. So if that's what you're looking for, you might not like it. But we've had enough of that in LS1a and MCB60, so I think it's good.
Put time into the cards you make for each ICE. If you make the card thoughtfully and don't just copy lecture slides onto it, you've already studied, and then you have a really useful reference during the tests.
This is a good course, but it probably should be re-named "Everything About AIDS." It's not a very rigorous course in terms of lab work/testing, etc. and it is easy to do well. You still learn quite a bit though and gain a lot more fluency in reading primary scientific literature.
Hands down best class I have taken at Harvard. Prof. Lue is amazing! Take this class if you can.
MCB64 is a wonderful course if you are interested in taking an in-depth look at HIV. It will also show you the intersection between society and biology, which is truly incredible. However, if you are interested in mostly biological mechanisms or if you have little interest in HIV, this is not a course for you.
Best course I have taken at Harvard thus far! It is not just a cell biology course but was much more comprehensive and interdisciplinary and taught me to think about science, medicine, and epidemiology in a new light! I was always excited to go to class, the assessments were manageable and the readings interesting. The final project was also a lot of fun to put together!
If you do the readings thoroughly, then this is a wonderful class. It can be frustrating when you don't make yourself completely familiar with readings (learn from my mistakes!).
This class is wonderful! Professor Lue is an incredible lecturer, and the teaching staff is wholeheartedly dedicated to helping students with their work. There are weekly quizzes rather than any midterms and finals, which you do have to work for-- it's easy to get an A- on them, but hard to get an A. Nonetheless, the grading overall seems quite balanced, and you will learn a lot! Another good thing: no textbook. Professor Lue provides the articles he wants you to read each week, so you get really good at reading scientific papers.
This course is extremely interesting if you care about the intersection of biology with social structure!
This class is phenomenal. Rob is one of those professors who truly, deeply cares about students as people. The teaching is excellent, the ICEs are moderate, and the lack of lab makes this class relatively easy (in terms of hours). This has been one of my favorite courses at Harvard.
Class is super vague. Answers for ICEs are always very nuanced in ways that were not covered in class. Unless you love Rob Lue, I don't see any reason to take this class.
This course is great! You will learn about very interesting topics in biology, and how these topics can affect lives. Throughout the course, you hear narratives from characters who are influenced by the biological processes studied, and hearing the stories is always very fun. Would definitely recommend to biology or non-biology concentrators alike!
It's a good class. Review a little bit each week and you'll find the ICE system is a nice break from high intensity exams. Pay attention to details and the class really isn't too bad.
The class may seem quite easy at first due to its less biological nature. It gets more biological, but overall is less biochem heavy. It certainly does not have a heavy workload, but the consistent ICEs can be stressful and it can be hard to due well on ICEs (they are take home, but tend to have just one very difficult question). It is not clear exactly how important section material and readings are (A lot of material is covered in section but not in class and not on exams). With that that being said, it is a unique balance between biological and more social, general perspectives of disease and is low workload. You will due very well on the posters and presentations - these are low stress. In many ways it is a global health course, which is very interesting.
It is a really fun class that you should take even if you are not interested in science and medicine. It really takes a multidisciplinary approach to public and global health problems. Make use of the office hours because the teaching staff is great! I will say that the exams are a little bit tricky and frustrating and grading may not necessarily reflect how much you know
Rob Lue is a great man. However, if you don't want an entire semester long discussion about HIV and AIDS then this is not the class for you. It is marketed as being split in to three distinct units, yet the unit on HIV and AIDS spans the majority of the semester. Additionally, the section of the course is not well-integrated to the lecture component. Aside from reading scientific papers it is not essential and each TF does whatever they feel like.
ICEs are definitely difficult and take a lot of time outside of class to prepare for and often feel unprepared anyway
This class is incredibly interesting (and actually very easy due to the little amount of assignments you have) and you will definitely learn science while you take it, but it is also incredibly frustrating. Grading is unjustifiably harsh and often unclear in the sense that you don't know why they're grading the way they are AND you don't know what instructors are looking for. I found the support system to be very weak if you are not section kid. I've always felt in my other classes that if you made the extra effort to do well, professors and TFs would recognize it, but in this class, I did not feel that in the slightest. My specific TF didn't know all the science required for the class, which made it very hard to go over feedback (he would only repeat back the actual answer to the question on the ICE).
Take this class!! I loved the way societal issues were incorporated into lectures about the biological basis for different diseases, and found every lecture fascinating. Rob has a genuine desire to get students excited and enthused about the course and about the material, and it really shines through.
Definitely prepare for the ICEs, they are a lot more difficult than the one's in LS1a, which were pretty much a joke.
Assignments are very elementary in nature. Great content but poor execution in terms of assignments (You make posters with crayons and write fictional stories)
Fun course if you want a less biology heavy course.
such an interesting great class, lot of learning with minimal excess work, and just a basic science background required like biology
MCB 64 is an interesting course and a unique way to look at biology. The connections between biology and society are thought provoking. The workload is light but it's very consistent. The weekly ICEs can get tricky, so you can't blow off the ICEs. The poster presentations are a bit extra, but they feed you really good food. The final presentation wasn't bad. Rob Lue and the teaching staff are great people.
This is a very interesting course with a relatively low workload that focuses on the human aspects of cell biology and disease. Professor Lue is an excellent lecturer and the final project is great because it provides students with a lot of freedom. The poster sessions were a little annoying and sort of unproductive but overall painless. Take this course if you are excited about the real-world implications of cell biology.
This class is different from other into MCB classes in that it goes past teaching the material and makes you apply it as you learn it. Concepts are divided into "phases" and after each phase you are assigned a topic within the phase to make a poster on and have to provide a writeup of the biology and then apply the biology to a character Professor Lue comes up with. It really allows you to get creative and explore the implications certain environments or social/political phenomena have on health. Weekly ICE instead of midterms are open book and very doable as long as you understand whats on the slides. The only thing I would warn against is the grading, which is sometimes arbitrary (like don't forget citations or you lose 25% of your grade).
Great class with a medium amount of work. Rob Lue is a great professor (although a bit extra at times, but we love him for it). The subject matter is super interesting as it combines cell bio with sociocultural considerations. Doesn't focus too much on specific cell biological processes, so it's a great class for people looking to experiment with a biology course. Also no lab component which is great!!
ICEs are stressful, and the class will often frustrate you. For many people, this course is a concentration requirement, but I would steer away if it's just fulfilling a more blanket intermediate biology requirement.
SUPER interesting class! Rob is the most engaging lecturer I've had, and his use of avatars to teach biological concepts is really interesting. There's no tests, which is great, and there's ICES ~every week, which are not too difficult. My one comment is that there were no assignments that we could get feedback on to prep for ICEs (besides previous ICE keys), so there wasn't any reinforcement of the concepts we learned in lecture before the ICEs. The case developments were a cool idea, but I didn't get much out of them and felt like a waste of class time. The final project was super cool (you create your own avatar and write them a story), but they graded pretty harshly on presentations even though everyone did really incredible thorough work for them.
This is an easy class, in the sense that you don't learn too many difficult concepts, and it is an interesting view of biology, but a lot of the work feels like the busywork I did in high school, and I expected more of a collegiate level course.
The lectures are very interesting and engaging, and the sections strongly complement the "molecular and cellular" aspects of it. However, there are (almost) weekly ICEs that were taken online, which, even if quite convenient, are a weekly source of stress and though the assessments themselves are not particularly challenging (though certainly very interesting), their grading was quite strict and feedback not very useful. Overall, though, the courses raises a lot of important questions and presents some of the main approaches to solving them.
This class covers some really interesting material, but very superficially. It doesn't feel like an MCB class, but more like a SLS gen ed for non-STEM concentrators. Be ready to make posters (a la middle school science), and write creative pieces about fictional characters. Professor Lue is a fairly engaging lecturer, and the weekly ICEs really do help you learn the material (no final is also a plus!). Just know that this class is not as rigorous as it might sound.
Rob Lue is great but some of the aspects of this course (posters, avatars, ICEs) can just be little annoying at times.
This was a good class. Enjoyable, you learn a bit (but not a lot), it's pretty easy, you meet lots of other students. Rob Lue is fun. Not terrific but a really great way to take an easy science elective compared to other comparable courses (MCB60, MCB68 etc).
the ices are hard but its a pretty good course
This course is great for anyone with an interest in looking at biology from a global/public health perspective. I did learn some new disease biology, but it was interesting to explore what these diseases look like in the real world. I'd highly encourage any biology people who are looking for a light-workload, interesting course to break up the pset courses to give this a shot, or anyone with an interest in global health!
Rob Lue is amazing! The course is pretty cool overall. I was worried that there would not be enough about the biological processes, but I felt that the class did a great job of covering both the human and mechanistic parts of disease. The course is a bit tricky-- the ICEs can be tough, and grading is pretty strict.
There is not very much biology in the course, and while the other aspects of the course were interesting, that is something to bear in mind when choosing to take the class. Some of the assignments were frustrating; if you don't like arts and crafts, the hand-drawn posters will not be fun. Nevertheless, Rob Lue is a great professor, and his enthusiasm for the course material makes the course fairly enjoyable.
The materials learned in the class is super engaging and interesting in the context of current society. Rob is an excellent lecturer, and I loved the real life analysis of current trends in drug development. The way the class was structured, in terms of following the narrative of specific characters were especially interesting. So based on just the materials I would definitely recommend. But let's consider the other parts of the course shall we?Section - analyzes a scientific paper each week. It didn't contribute much to the classroom discussion. However it was an interesting way to see current literature on the subject.ICE - one of the most ineffective ways to judge knowledge of class material. The questions did not necessarily reflect classroom topics, often worded in vague wording and having points taken off for each additional sentence that was not exactly what the answer key is looking for (EVEN IF the supplemental information is correct). Yes. Penalize students for demonstrating complete understanding of material.Poster presentations - I am truly amazed at how these projects ruined my interest in the class. They were graded in such arbitrary terms. There was absolutely no rubric provided beforehand not counting the brief "description" of what we were supposed to do. And of course our favorite part! Taking off points if we didn't meet the exact requirements they had before hand. Because surprise! We were supposed to know exactly what they had wanted.Congratulations MCB 64. You somehow combined one of the most interesting biological narratives with the worst academic experience and frustration at being told that you were wrong for demonstrating "mastery of the material". It takes skill and somehow this course accomplishes all that in one lovely semester.
This course is definitely easy and doesn't require much time at all, and you learn a lot of different biological concepts as well as how they relate on a social level. It's taught in an interesting way as well. The only setback is that it doesn't seem as biologically rigorous as I would've preferred.
Most people take this because it is an MCB requirement. Rob Lue is an engaging lecturer and interesting person but the course is not very exciting. There are a lot of gimmicks (arts'n'crafts posters, snacks, videos, "avatar" narratives) that try to make the course fun, the workload is pretty light, the material is pretty easy.
This class is very interesting and rewarding to go to in class. The projects are super interesting and a different way to both learn and be evaluated in the class. Warning: the ICEs are challenging and require studying. Don't expect this class to be no work. It is very manageable but just be warned that you need to study and understand the material to be able to apply it to the ICEs.
If you don't care about your grade, take this course. But odds are, you do, so steer clear if you can. Rob Lue is an amazing lecturer and this class gives him a chance to talk about topics that interest him. The lectures were a great experience and I really feel like I learned a lot from him. BUT. The grading is absolutely arbitrary. The directions for assignments and projects were vague, and the grading is so strict to the point that it doesn't make sense. The ICE questions don't test your understanding; they test your ability to "keep your answer to 3-5 sentences" and your knack for divining what the answer key says because there's no way you can argue that your answer was conceptually correct unless it fits the answer key word for word. Take this class if you really enjoy learning and want to become enriched and if you don't care about what grade you get. Don't take this class your GPA actually matters. I wish we didn't have to make this decision between taking a good class, and keeping a good GPA, but hey; that's life.
The focus of the class is to look at relationships between biology and society. The course is low stress and well-run. Overall, a different perspective than what life science concentrators typically see in the classroom.
Rob Lue is a great teacher, but the class itself is a little all over the place. The projects are a bit tedious, and the weekly ICE's are nitpicky in terms of specific information they look for. Overall, a fine course. No lab is definitely a plus.
If you're concentrating in MCB, this is the easiest option between 64, 65, and 68 to fulfill the intermediate biology requirement. It has no laboratory component, which is really nice. This class was different than any other science course I've taken at Harvard- there's a nice intersection between the life sciences and humanities. As part of the course you write narratives on fictional avatars that tie diseases and biological concepts from the course with real human experience. If you're creative and like art, there are poster project presentations for the first two phases of the course. You also learn about a lot of really cool diseases- HIV, muscular dystrophy, Alzheimer's disease, etc. For this year they had the ICEs online. There were 8 of them, lowest one got dropped, and you were allowed to start them within a 48 hour period, with a limit of 45 minutes to actually work on it. They were really fair. Overall, an enjoyable class.
ICEs are tricky! Start the posters, reflections, and presentation early. Very inter-disciplinary course.
This is a great class and Rob is an amazing lecturer. This class is not just about hard science as you are not just fed pure science. You also learn about disease in different cultures and societal implications of biology so it makes the biological concepts more relevant and interesting. Instead of learning hard science, you are learning science and applying it to society. So if you're into that go for it. Also, you have ICEs/online quizzes mostly every week rather than midterms, and I think ICEs are relatively less stressful. The different phases are also extremely interesting. You do your own research to build on topics you learn in class, and part of it, you have to write a short story concerning the characters. The final presentation is just an extension of this. Overall, this class is great.
Interesting class, and very easy. Take it if you want to learn about cell biology without much stress. Also Rob Lue is fantastic.
Definitely take this course! It touches on the biology of human life from birth to aging, and Rob includes public health implications at many stages on the way. The teaching staff are incredible and devoted to helping you learn concepts. They really make learning fun!
It was a great course that incorporated many different subjects. Rob is a great teacher who cares about his students, and while there may seem to be a lot of assignments, the multitude lowers the stakes of the final weeks of the class.
I overall enjoyed this class! In lecture we learned very interesting material, and in section we learned about reading and understanding scientific papers (related to that week's material). However, this course was a lot of constant work, and the weekly ICEs were sometimes poorly worded.
I did not  enjoy this course as much as I thought I would. For me there was just too little of hard biology and I think this made assessments hard because there were just no hard facts to test.
Of course, Rob Lue is an awesome lecturer, and you probably won't be falling asleep in this class like you did in some other premed classes.  But the coolest part of this class was really the subject matter and how it was presented.  Approaching science from a global, social, and economic perspective, this class definitely made me more excited to go into medicine. ICEs definitely do require studying however and this class is a fair amount of work every week to study for them (unless you're gifted at biology, which I'm not). The main thing is that the ICEs require you to apply the information you learn in class, which actually makes it more interesting but a little stressful at the time. The other assignments are very chill - the TFs/preceptors really try to give you as many points as they can as long as you've completed all of the requirements on the other assignments.  As a senior taking this as an elective, I enjoyed it immensely!
This class is pretty good and is worth taking. Rob Lue is a great lecturer and friendly guy. Much less stress each week than other bio classes since there are no problem sets. ICEs are nice and better than exams but the questions/wording can be a little tricky. Final presentation is SOOOO much nicer than a final exam, take advantage of it
A phenomenal class that's truly interdisciplinary. Definitely not an easy course, but fair and has an assessment system (like the LS1a ICEs) that makes you actually learn the material--not just cram for the midterm. Absolutely worth taking, whether its for concentration credit or as an elective.
This is a class that's fairly easy if you pay attention and is pretty interesting.
Don't underestimate the ICEs
The material is great and the lectures are interesting and engaging, but the course is not run well, assignments are too difficult and unfair, and section is not helpful. Hopefully they will improve the structure of the course in the future.
This was a great class! Rob Lue's teaching methods were innovative and fun, easy to follow and be engaged in.
This is an amazing mcb course and it makes you see illness and human health through both a scientific and social science lens.
I really enjoyed this class. It's a great way to look further into different biological concepts, while being able to relate them to human life on a broader scale. The ICEs were a lot less stressful than traditional exams, and I enjoyed having a final project to focus on a specific avatar of my own creation. The professor is really great!
Make sure you study well for the weekly ICE's.
This class was great! Different than any biology class you have ever taken!
This class is well-organized. You learn a lot. I found the ICE system more stressful than anticipated. Having to prepare for a 50-point test every week in the semester is more work than one may realize. Nevertheless, you learn a lot, and you are provided with an opportunity to engage with material in biology not only from a scientific perspective, but also to consider the socioeconomic implications of some of the material. This class is creative and mostly fun! It can be a challenging journey but it is overall a worthwhile class.
definitely need to put aside a large amount of time per week for the weekly quizzes, but the material was very interesting and class was good overall.
This was a good and relatively easy class! Rob is enthusiastic as always and also sometimes brings food to class (coffee, Flour sticky buns, donuts, etc.) The class tied topics on both the biological and socioeconomic determinants to the stories of "avatars", or fictional people whose lives had been impacted by these phenomenon in some way. If you're looking for a pretty chill class, this is a good one! I can't say I learned the most in it, but the topics that I did learn were pretty interesting.
This course is wonderful in that it is low-stress, delves into interesting material, and has a solid course trio (Rob, Jessica, Sven). However, it is a bit unsatisfying in its lack of depth as a survey course with socioeconomic and cultural components.
I really enjoyed this class, even though I was completely unable to explain what it was to people that weren't taking it. It was very different from the other biology classes that I've taken, and I loved the social and human aspect of the course. It was so interesting to learn about the intersections between people's daily lives and the molecular biology of their health.
this class has its issues, predominantly the ICEs and how if you get one question wrong you're already down to a B. however, the material is interesting and i took it to fulfill the intermediary bio requirement for neurobio and its probably the most innocuous of the choices available.
This course is a really nice contrast to the typical science class. Prof Lue places cell biology in a globally-conscious, human-focused context, which is refreshing and very applicable. However, it's not super in-depth on the science, especially compared to MCB 60. The teaching staff was great this past year, too!
This was a really interesting class! Professor Lue is one of the best lecturers on this campus, and everyone should take a class with him. There are ICEs almost every week, so be prepared to put in work for this class consistently throughout the semester. The final project was the highlight of the class for me, and I loved having the opportunity to integrate a personal narrative with biology throughout the course.
Be ready to study very detailed microbiology
This class is really great because it teaches you cell biology alongside how to apply this knowledge to understanding individuals' health. It also discusses some prevalent diseases in the world, such as HIV. It does take a lot of time and effort to do well on the weekly ICEs, though if you study well the ICEs are fair. The presentations and write-ups are a great chance for you to delve into a topic you're interested in, though these also take a lot of time. Overall a great intermediate MCB class.
Very manageable especially if you feel comfortable with biology and chemistry. This class also presents some really cool information. Also, it really isn't a traditional global health class.
MCB64 is a great course that explores how biology is intertwined with its social and politicla context; seldom have any of the science classes I've taken at Harvard explored this interaction. The class is therefore very unique and extremely important.
Overall, it's a good course. The material is very interesting and the class is very unique because it's objective is to place biological phenomena in the context of the human world. There is a good balance of biology as well as social and historical context. Take the course. you'll learn a lot.
This course is great! Professor Lue's lectures are awesome and I learned a lot through the assignments.
MCB 64 is full of creativity and imagination, which is rare for a science course at Harvard. The course is framed by fictional patient narratives, which make the science come alive -- such that while learning intricate molecular details of diseases like HIV and Alzheimer's, you never lose sight of their human and societal implications. At the end of the course, we had a chance to write, create, and present our own patient narratives (with the goal of emphasizing the connections between biology, society, and culture). This was an incredible learning experience and one I think I will remember for a very long time. In short, this course is amazing! But there are also a few things to keep in mind before you enroll... First, while we do talk about epigenetics, mitochondrial disease, Alzheimer's, and prion diseases as well, MCB 64 predominantly focuses on HIV, so make sure that's something you're interested in. Also, even though this course is not a traditional biology course in terms of assessments (i.e. it has quizzes, essays, and projects instead of a midterm, p-sets and final exams), it is actually difficult and consumes many hours each week. The weekly quizzes are graded strictly, and the projects -- case reflections, posters, etc -- are quite involved.
If you liked Lue in LS1a, definitely shop this class. He brings all of his charismatic nature and honest interest in teaching, which makes the class good. If you'd prefer to have a more traditional class, though, and don't really want a social sciencey/global healthy spin, I'd definitely think twice before diving into this. It might not be what you want.
This is a great class. But, unfortunately they're still troubleshooting and fiddling with the curricula. Toward the second half of the class, we were learning different material than last year, so we didn't have any practice ICEs before taking our ICEs. So that was kind of a rough time.But, that shouldn't preclude you from taking the class. If you enjoyed LS1a with Rob or you want to get to learn what it's like taking a class taught by Rob, take this class! It's a good course to engage you with biology and societal issues.
Great class with low courseload. It'll be quite easy if you have a science background.
it's a great class! it connects science and culture which doesn't usually have a presence. ICEs can be tricky so make sure to go to office hours.
Great class!! Would highly highly recommend. Bear in mind that this class is not heavy on the cell biology and often dips into the social sciences, so sometimes it doesn't feel all that rigorous.  The best thing about this class is obviously Professor Lue - this course was great because Professor Lue is such a great lecturer and a great professor overall - the way he engages us in class using breakouts that are often actually discussion questions (rare in a biology course), the entire choice of subject matter, ICEs instead of exams, doing presentations, the use of avatars - all of it was incredible. I also really really liked how we engaged with scientific papers in section - you learn a lot about how to read papers critically and how to actually dissect their results and draw your own conclusions. This isn't something I've seen done successfully in any other science class I've taken, so that part was great.
This is overall a relatively painless way to do the intermediate MCB requirement, even though there are a lot of small assignments each week
ICE structure is good. Interesting course. Moderate to low difficulty. Rob is great. Wish there was more in-depth look at more important global health topics other than HIV.
This is not your average MCB course, as it will mix both culture and biology.
I highly recommend this class! It's a great blend of global health and cellular biology, and the avatars are a really cool way to tie the course together.
They'll say that no pre-reqs are needed. This is true, but be honest with how much biology you know. If you still want to take it, make sure that you can handle it. As a non-science concentrator, I found the course pretty difficult, but there are some fun aspects that make it worthwhile. It's cool science of today so that may interest you. At the end of the day, I do recommend it! However, understand that this is still an MCB class.
Fantastic course! I loved how interdisciplinary it was and we'd spend one day learning about biology and the next about government policy or presenting our own ideas. SUCH A GOOD CLASS, TAKE IT! Even if you are not MCB (I'm not) or a Bio major in general, STILL TAKE IT.
Take this class even if you have no background in biology! It's fairly easy and especially great if you're good at taking fast-paced short-answer quizzes.
This is a pretty open-and-shut course. Study for an hour for the ICEs or make a notecard and you'll make your A. The course topics are fairly interesting, but they're not tied together very well. If I had to title this course I would probably call it "Mostly random facts that Rob finds interesting" but that's not to say class wasn't interesting or worth my time. The course gave me a taste of the social impacts of biology- a huge field that is difficult to study with small snapshots.
MCB 64 is a great class to take if you are looking for a fun, interesting, relevant, and not too crazy-hard bio class.  If you try hard you can do well and you actually end up learning and retaining the information much more than in other bio classes.  Rob, as always, is amazing!  Lectures are fun and the class makes sure to have constant work but never be stressful.
This is a great course! Rob Lue is such an enthusiastic lecturer and is committed to engaging his students in meaning conversations about global health issues. If you want to learn about HIV/AIDS, from both a social and biological perspective, this is a course for you!
Two points:1: Great class that covers really, really interesting material.2: You need to study a lot to do well on the ICEs. This is not an easy class, so plan accordingly.
Absolutely amazing class!
This class is great - especially Rob Lue Lectures, the teacher staff, the organization of the class, and the class material. I sometimes thought then ICEs had then goal of trying to trip you up or be very specific. Overall great course.
A must-take. Professor Lue is great and so are all the TFs. It's definitely a consistent workload, which is a good and bad thing because you know that it never really gets worse but it also never really gets better. The material was always so interesting though, so that made it way better. Definitely a new way to look at cell biology.
It's harder than you think it is going to be, but the subject matter is really interesting.
Rob Lue is an amazing professor! I feel like I learned a lot about the intersection of global health and biology in this course, and I was never bored!
