A great treatment of a variety of mathematical techniques useful for understanding data both statistically and analytically.
A difficult but ultimately rewarding class. Those without a solid linear algebra background should prepare to spend twice as much time understanding concepts.
This class was very challenging; however, I am much more comfortable with certain math concepts that are highly applicable to my area of research interest. I feel like it was definitely worth the effort.
This class will kick you ass, but you will learn quite a bit at the end. It's very worthwhile to try extra problems to get a better handle on the material. This will absolutely applicable to other areas of biology.
It's a lot of work especially if your math background isn't very strong but the TFs are very willing to help and Markus is an excellent teacher.  The lectures are very worthwhile even though problem sets are difficult.  It's really important to have a basic understanding of these math concepts because it'll provide an extra tool/advantage when venturing out into science.
a lot of work to learn the material
This is an interesting course, but a little painful for biology students without strong maths background.
While the class will be difficult, what you learn during the course will be useful going forward.
There is a point to taking this course.  It will be very helpful later.
Put together a study group and get on the good side of the TA, e-mail them with questions because the homework is very challenging
It's a great course for students who will use quantitative methods in research (that is, almost every graduate student). If you don't have any math background beyond calculus, this class will be very difficult.
If you're not required to take this course, there are probably better courses offered that cover a part of this material in greater depth.
This was a really difficult class, but I learned so much math; if you don't have to take it for a department requirement, consider auditing instead of taking for credit- it'll make the course a lot less stressful for you...
this course is absolutely required to obtain a mathematical or even a general quantitative understanding of biology. definitely helped me a lot to understand concepts better
That unless they are strong mathematicians, they should brace themselves for a semester long unrelenting quantitative shellacking.
Be prepared, and don't fall behind.
The class will fill in several gaps that most biology-oriented classes leave behind, and will provide a great survey of the current applications of math in biology
Class was lots of work, but was useful.
It is a very challenging class that will prepare you well to understand important math in your research, but only if you put the effort into learning the material.
Prepare for it. Be willing to put in the work.
it's a great class and certainly covers a lot of topics in mathematics. however, it is very difficult and will require you to spend countless hours on problem sets, often staying up late into the night.
prepare to work hard in a constant state of confusion; although everything will come together by the end of the course, it will remain unclear why you had to take it in the first place
The course is incredibly difficult and covers a vast amount of material that is incredibly difficult to assimilate on top of a rotation and other academic obligations. That being said, it provides a good survey of mathematical fields important to biology that is accessible AS LONG AS students have a strong aptitude for math. From my discussion with other students that are not as quantitatively focused it will proceed too quickly to assimilate anything.
I would recommend it because I think particularly in MCB, the incoming grad class isn't particularly prepared for the more quantitative aspects of biology. It's tough for people who have resisted math, but the material you learn is useful. You might not use it in your research, but it shows how to think about problems in a different way.
Look into what the prereqs are and take it if it sounds like you. The class covers really cool applications, and Michael is a great professor.
Don't skip the lectures.
It's very useful if you want to become a scientist, especially in molecular biology, but prepared to put in the time.
This class is as hard as everyone claims it is. It requires extensive time management, preparation and research.
Not the best for undergrads. You get a fast breadth of knowledge but questionable about whether you would be able to do this stuff after course is done. Possibly better ways to learn some of the material
I would tell them that it is not a very engaging class and this year at least the average attendance at lectures was likely around 50%.  The problem sets can be frustrating and I'm not sure I have a vastly stronger knowledge of how to apply math to my research now that I've taken this course.
This is a great introduction of math used in biology.
It's tough but you learn a lot and you'll get a PhD from Harvard at the end of everything so don't whine about it so much.
Good examples of how mathematics could be utilized but not always relevant for every research topic
Take good notes and don't be ashamed to bug your TF early and often. To be honest, this class breezes through ridiculous amounts of material and you cannot for even a week let yourself get behind. I think its a humbling experience to be lost in a class and you need to deal with it pro-actively rather than just being bitter/leaning on friends to help on assignments/etc. Also, I call this class the Harvard equivalent of "Defense Against the Dark Arts" for a reason. The professors tend to rotate in and out of the class each year, people dread the class in general, and there are alot of rumors/etc regarding the class. Try not to get too worried about the hype and be prepared for the fact that the class seems to pretty radically change each year.
This course is tough.  Be prepared to devote a lot of time to PSets.  Start them early and make use of the TFs.  The lectures go really fast so actually review the course notes and material after class and ask the TFs/Sharad for clarification.
It's not very difficult but sometimes you need to spend time on the problem sets. It's not like a general math course because many questions discussed were based on a biological topic. Some of the materials (especially linear algebra) are too simple and sometimes naive, because it's duplicative to basic college math. I thought most of the knowledge taught in this class should have appeared in the math placement test in MCB department. The problem sets and final exam are not only entertaining but also useful for you to comprehend the mathematic approaches used in biology.
Don't take this course unless you have to. Or you are a good enough mathematician that you can learn easily, and benefit from it.
This course requires a lot of work, and the matlab parts can take a long time. Rewarding psets but be prepared to put in a lot of effort.
Focus on learning the material yourself, it is useful and you can do it!
This class is amazing. Take it if Sharad is teaching the course!
This class is very difficult but by going through it, you learn about the potential of using math in your research to gain more information about what you are studying. You also gain an ability to appreciate papers that have more of a mathematical component.
You can learn concepts to build mathematical model given data for biological problems. Basic Matlab knowledge is required. Problem sets are time-consuming but worth to work through.
It will take a huge amount of time to do the work.
Class is challenging, but it is very rewarding at the end. A strong background in statistics and calculus could be useful. Try to learn basic Matlab before starting the class!
Our year, it was very difficult and time consuming. Make sure you are not taking other time-consuming classes at the same time if you want to do well.
This course is useful to get a survey of math techniques used in modern biology. In general, the course does not delve deeply into any particular topic, so if you are interested in using math in your research you may be better off taking a course geared specifically to your type of question or analysis. For students with less of a math background, or even who have some math skills but are not sure how they fit into the context of biology research, this course is a nice overview.
A worthwhile class if you put forth the effort.
Many interesting concepts, but will require a significant amount of effort on student's part to keep up.  Professors do not hand hold through the material.
Interesting course material with average to below average instruction.
The content is likely to be useful to me; so I'm glad I took it. My only reservation is that I'm not sure if it's the right class for everyone. I get a sense from a lot of my classmates that they don't think it will be useful to them. But maybe it will and they just don't know it yet. Even so, I think that getting into the mindset of applying math and programming to your research is likely to be useful for everyone.
Really try to own the material, don't try to just get by. It's comprehensible if you put the work in, and I don't think everyone does put in what they should.
It's going to be painful, but it will be good !
Problem sets are soul crushing, and while you learn a lot from them, it is at a significant cost to your morale and well-being.
Though it may make you hate your life sometimes, I came out of this class with a much greater confidence in myself to analyze my own scientific data.
If you are interested in asking quantitative questions about biology, particular those involving large data sets, or framing mathematical hypotheses / constructing mathematical models about biology, this course provides a very good introduction to a diverse set of mathematical tools that will likely be of use to you. In general this course is a good introduction to principled methods for identifying patterns in data and extracting meaning from experimental measurements.
This class is very time consuming. For graduate students, this course will sacrifice your research time. You should not plan to take more than one course along with this course.
Learn matlab beforehand.
This course seems to be different every year. Avoid it. Expectations are unclear and material is scattered.
This is a course designed for people with a very strong background in mathematics and an adequate background in computer science. Anyone else will spend 15-20 hours on assignments and most likely struggle. There is not much help for these people, and it seems like the course prefers to weed these people out rather than deal with them. The course really only offers moderate assistance to those who are already prepared, which does not make much sense because the course was designed for biologists to strengthen their quantitative background. Requiring them to have a very strong background in order to strengthen it is a bit of a contradiction.
This was an amazing class. I was the only undergrad in it, as it's a requirement for the MCO G1's, but I didn't feel like the class was too out of pace with what I could manage. I also learned coding/stats 6 months ago, so if you have more experience, the better this will feel for you. The class moved from basic probability theory, Bayes theorem/inference, Bayesian hypothesis testing, p-values, EM, PCA and k-means, then a bunch of stochastic processes at the end of the course. The course is meant to be very practical, and although there's a lot of math, you usually don't have to get stuck on the derivations to understand what's going on and also what the important results are to do the homework. Weekly pset and take-home final made the class pretty manageable with three other courses. In all, 10/10 I would recommend.
Make sure you have a background in calculus, but more importantly a background in computer programming is nearly essential. The problem sets can be time consuming and difficult at times.
Only take this class if you're required to. 80% of this class was not useful to me, and the other 20% should have been focused on much more. The MATLAB work was good, but it doesn't make up for the unnecessary nature of the material.
Good survey of mathematical methods used in biology. My ability to code and understanding of methods in the papers I read has greatly improved from this course.
Extremely useful course; it will change how you think about biology forever, and will also empower you to do sophisticated data analysis. If you do not take this course as a biologist you will be a dinosaur.
Brush up your integration and for god's sake learn the basics of MatLab. Prepare to struggle.
Dear future MCO graduate students: Do not take this course unless you absolutely have to. I would rather have taken the two undergraduate math courses. Although now that I am done, I have to say I learned a great deal. Probably as much as I would have learned in two undergraduate math courses. It was a huge amount of pain and suffering, which, as far as I can tell, are mostly absent from the undergraduate classes you can take in this class's stead.To math majors: Maybe you're into this sort of thing. But please don't ask obnoxious questions that make the biologists in the class feel really stupid all the time.
This class is extremely useful and extremely challenging. You're going to need to spend a large chunk of time outside of class working on problem sets. If you don't have a strong math background, try to review as much advanced calculus and linear algebra as you can before the class starts so the material doesn't slap you in the face every week. Specifically, know your integrals! Coding experience is also very helpful in the second half of the semester.
It is really difficult, but it is worth it because going forward, no biologist will be able to get away with not knowing basic coding
If you want to become a biologist, take this course. It is well taught and well structured, and the material you'll learn represents an indispensable inferential toolkit.It's a lot of work. I came into the course with possibly the bare minimum knowledge of math and programming necessary to be successful, so I would spend well over 10 hours a week on the course. However, it was worth the effort.
I would recommend this course to someone who wanted a more quantitative understanding of biology, although I would make the student aware that it is a larger time commitment that most other 4 credit courses.
If you're a biologist who wants some really legitimate math and programming experience under your belt, this is the course to take.
This course is tough, but extremely useful. You will learn a lot of readily applicable techniques. If you want to really succeed though, brush up on your integral rules and get a basic understanding of some linear algebra and matlab.
This class teaches you how to look at quantitative data. You will learn how to model, predict and explain complicated biological datasets that before would have been utterly confusing. It takes general familiarity with mathematics though.
You have to be a very self-directed learner to succeed in this class.
Take the class if you really enjoy math and would like to understand how it is applied to research and to biology.  The class is difficult.  I suggest it only be taken by seniors or juniors who are really interested in the material.
The class covers a very broad range of topics, but because there are so many topics we don't go into too much depth.  However, the topics presented are useful and it's nice to get exposure to them.
Only take this class if you have extensive knowledge in mathematics. Specifically: Differential Equations, Probability, Thermodynamics, Linear Algebra, Complex Analysis, etc.However, if you are unwilling to work non-stop the entire semester, then this class is a decent selection.
If you are willing to spend time engaging in the course material and know how to use MatLab then this is a great course
Some of the problem sets require a lot of time to complete, so start immediately. Learn MatLab as much as possible. Don't wait until having to learn how to use MatLab for a specific problem set question. Certainly acquire a textbook in mathematical techniques to accommodate the class notes in addition to the required textbook, "nonlinear dynamics and chaos".
