You can learn a lot from this course.
The topic was timely and extremely useful. Learning about genome editing techniques is necessary for any researcher interested in biology, and this course gives an excellent introduction to this field.
While this class is rigorous, it is extremely manageable on a week by week basis. The teaching is great and the reading was really fascinating. The midterm was very hard, and I would say it was the only stressful component of the course. While the final project is demanding and requires quite a bit of thinking and writing, I think it was overall a very enriching experience. I would highly recommend this course.
This is an awesome class!! Keith Joung is a great lecturer for the first half of the class, and the second half, given from a series of guest lecturers, is equally as interesting and ensures that the course is varied and broad. The main things I learnt in this class were how to critically examine and read molecular biology papers (especially how to do this at speed!). The section component of the class is an absolutely critical accompaniment to the lectures.
This course was a very exciting introduction to the field of genome engineering. Keith's lectures were very well thought out and gave not only a lot of background about the entire field (not just CRISPR/Cas9) but also about the people involved in the research and where they are now. The guest lecturers were really great, and the required reading was interesting and approachable the majority of the time.
This is a great course if you are interested in the field of genome editing. Keith is a pioneer in the field and very knowledgeable/enthusiastic about the subject. The teaching fellows are also extremely knowledgeable and enthusiastic. BUT, it is by no means an "easy" course. You must do the work, participate in section, and review the material outside of class. The midterm was a doozy, but it was written in a way that was fun to work through.
Terrific course that covers everything having to do with genome editing.  This course should be required for anyone seeking to work in this field or use related technologies.
It's a lot of work and it was challenging -- that's not always bad, but it was also difficult to find out how you were being assessed, and how you were doing in the class. I did learn a lot about genome editing and am very comfortable talking about any aspect of that field. It's geared more towards students who want to work in the field itself, and less at those who want to utilize the technology.
This course provides a comprehensive and effective overview of meganucleases, zinc finger nucleases, TALENs and CRISPR/Cas9. The midterm and final proposal may be challenging, but the material is engaging and there are no assignments other than the readings.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard in 4 years.  Provides an in depth review of genome editing history, current progress, and applications with a combination of lectures by Prof. Joung and guest lecturers (in the second half).  Perfect balance of breadth and depth.  The course is not incredibly demanding but you need to be very proficient in molecular biology.
This class is challenging but teaches a great deal about genome editing technologies that may allow us to change the way we think about biology and medicine.
Great course. Its pretty detailed in was was historically a fairly niche field but still very interesting in the context of its growing application. The sections were also really good, with great discussion of the primary literature.
I had no idea what genome editing entailed before taking this course and I now feel well versed in the genome editing field that is currently gaining an increasing amount of attention and importance. Specifically, I learned about the history and functionality of many genome editing tools that have been developed over the past couple of decades (zinc finger nucleases (ZFNs), TALENs, and CRISPR-Cas). You will learn about the advantages and drawbacks of all genome editing tools and will be challenged with advancing the technology through a research proposal. The class is incredibly well organized and the professor, Keith Joung (an expert in the field genome editing for many years), gives excellent lectures with a great backstory in most cases.
This is a phenomenal class! I think one of the best things is learning about the three main classes of genome editing tools from one of the top academics in the field! The section components is probably one of the best sections I have ever had at Harvard. The TFs make it very relaxed and they do a great job at facilitating participation from everyone. They do this thing called multiple choice madness at the beginning of class where you review the concepts taught in lecture in a very informal setting. The only thing you need to worry about is the midterm which is I have to say really difficult. The final proposal is time intensive but its a great experience at the end.
A great introduction for anyone considering research on the development of CRISPR/cas, and an interesting primer on what could be a revolution in molecular biology.
Harvard has a lot of great courses, but very few (if any) science courses engage primarily with a field that is currently booming. That is what is so unique (and great) about this class. Not only do you learn about the history of a fascinating field, but you also get to learn about what happened just yesterday. What's more, learning from and working with giants in the field like Professor Joung and his teaching staff is a huge privilege.
This course provides an opportunity to grapple with the literature of the genome editing field which is valuable to any individual intent on pursuing a career in the life sciences.
This class is great if you want to learn about genome editing and its application from one of the greats in the field, Keith Juong. The midterm is a little stressful, but overall the course is balanced very evenly.
It is a super intresting class but its also super hard. You get out what you put in but dont take it unless you are willing to do the work
Take this class. Don't hesitate. Keith is an absolutely phenomenal teacher/investigator, and the people he brings to talk are also foremost leaders in the field. You get a really really good historical and contemporary survey of the field of genome editing. In the first class, Keith will say that this is NOT just a CRISPR/Cas9 class, and he is most definitely right. You learn what genome editing has entailed in the past, which can inform the questions you ask with Cas9 today. You will NOT learn just facts. You read papers and develop both your scientific intuition (e.g. which questions are intelligent and amenable to experimentation and which are stupid) and you get to bulk up your knowledge of the questions you can ask with genome editing reagents. Take it. Trust me. Also Jamse Angstman is such a homie. The best TF at Harvard by far.
This class is really fantastic. I learned so much throughout the semester and I really liked the way the class was set up. Other MCB courses should take after this one. Keith is a great lecturer and the course flows really well from the early history of genome editing to new stuff that's happening literally as you're taking the course. I also like how the required content for the course was finished by the midterm, so the rest of the class was mostly discussions and interesting lecturers. The midterm is an experience, but if you spend time thinking about what you've learned and asking your TF questions, you'll do fine.
A really fantastic class.  The material is thoughtfully chosen and gives you a very in-depth understanding of the hottest topic in biology.  The teaching staff was also exceptional.  However, be prepared to do work.  You need to have a detailed grasp of the readings for each section, and the exam and paper both take a large amount of preparation.  It's more rigorous than 100-level MCB courses need to be but well worth it if you have the time.
Such a cool class about a topic super relevant to biotech today. Midterm is an absolute killer, but super light workload for the rest of the semester and no final (~3 relatively short papers/week).
interesting class on relevant and timely topic, will get comfortable with modern and historical genome editing technologies at fairly in depth level, will also be comfortable with molecular bio concepts and techniques in general at a high level; the midterm is  difficult because of length (it was something like 20 pages this year!) and grading scheme is a bit unforgiving so make sure to put in due effort into studying. overall good class--recommend to those interested in genome editing in any capacity.
You'll get a guided tour through the history of genome editing from a professor who has seen it all unfold.
You can learn all the material from reviews on genome editing.
If you are interested in the brand new tools of genome- and epigenome- editing, this class is for you. The guest lecturers are in general the big names in their fields and they present their newest research. The class overall is presented in a chronological way with quite a lot of history on how the tools and technologies are developed.
This class is extremely difficult - just be warned. The topic is super important and inteResting, Keith's lectures aRe great, and the papers we read were awesome. However the midterm was obscenely long (average was a 50%) and section requires a ton of preparation since you basically have understand the papers back to front. The final grant proposal is also super tough, especially for under grads because it had a ton of topic restrictions. Also the class was mostly grad students who rocked the midterm and write grant proposals all the time and will probably make the curve really tough but idk yet because haven't gotten our grades. Basically don't be fooled - just because this class has one midterm and one final paper it is NOT a gem. Really interesting but be ready to work. Maggie is an awesome TF but she won't be teaching next year.
This course offers an opportunity to learn the history of a very interesting and rapidly advancing field of biology.  Be aware that the course is almost exclusively focused on technological advancements of various genome editing platforms (especially zinc finger nucleases, which were covered in greater than necessary depth).  Once you get to CRISPR/Cas9, that's all you really talk about, but again the focus is mainly on technological improvements.  If you are more interested in applications of genome editing technologies, I would not recommend this course.The structure of the course was also disappointing.  The midterm is designed  to be all but impossible to finish.  The justification offered for this was that it allowed students to "show how much they've learned" about genome editing, but the failing average grade makes this seem pretty ridiculous.
